
    
      Background Pneumonia is the leading cause of death in children under five years of age
      worldwide.1 These deaths may be prevented by early detection and targeted antibiotic
      therapy.2 However, the diagnosis is not always clear on presentation to health care
      facilities. Missed diagnosis may lead to increased morbidity and mortality, while
      over-diagnosis may lead to unnecessary antibiotic use, which may further lead to increased
      antibiotic resistance, cause allergic reactions, and create unnecessary costs for patients.
      Therefore, using clinical tools and diagnostic capabilities to better improve diagnosis is
      critical.

      Many studies have evaluated clinical signs and symptoms that may predict pneumonia.3-6 A
      recent meta-analysis found that no singular physical exam finding predicted pneumonia.5 The
      World Health Organization (WHO) Criteria diagnose pneumonia based on fast breathing; however,
      tachypnea has not been shown to strongly predict pneumonia.7 Additionally, most children with
      fever have compensatory tachypnea as a result, making the criteria of fast breathing
      difficult to diagnose pneumonia alone.8 In Nepal, one study evaluating the WHO criteria for
      pneumonia found a sensitivity of only 69.6% and specificity of 59.6%.9 Despite this, many
      providers rely on clinical exam findings and the WHO criteria for diagnosing pneumonia.

      When available, diagnostic imaging is used regularly to confirm suspected pneumonia. Chest
      x-ray has been the standard for diagnosis in most facilities worldwide. However, remote
      facilities in resource-limited settings often lack radiographic imaging capabilities. Many
      facilities have bedside ultrasound available as it is easily portable, repeatable, and not
      associated with radiation. Ultrasound has been shown to be sensitive and specific for the
      diagnosis of pneumonia, yet few studies have evaluated the accuracy of lung ultrasound for
      pneumonia in pediatric patients in a resource-limited setting.10-14

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of clinical history,
      physical exam, laboratory findings, and lung ultrasound compared to chest x-ray for the
      diagnosis of pneumonia in pediatric patients in a resource-limited setting. Determining
      diagnostic accuracy of these findings may help derive a clinical decision rule that may more
      accurately predict which children have pneumonia than current WHO guidelines.

      Study Design

      A prospective observational cross-sectional study of pediatric patients presenting for fever
      or respiratory complaints to the emergency department and outpatient department at Patan
      Hospital in Lalitpur, Nepal will be done over one year. Ethical approval will be obtained
      from the Nepal Health Research Council Ethical Review Board.

      Study Setting and Population

      Located in the Kathmandu valley, Patan Hospital is a large urban hospital with a 35-bed
      emergency department. The emergency department has an annual volume of approximately 48,000
      patients, including approximately 8,000 pediatric visits. The admission rate is 20%.

      Inclusion Criteria: Patients presenting under age 5 years of age with fever, respiratory
      complaints, or concern for pneumonia and receiving chest x-ray imaging.

      Study Protocol

      Parents will be consented for inclusion of child in the study (See consent form). Data will
      be collected on pediatric patients meeting the above inclusion criteria. Data will include
      demographics (age, gender), duration of symptoms, symptoms (presence or absence of fever,
      cough, chest pain, difficulty breathing, or vomiting), vital signs (temperature, respiratory
      rate, oxygen saturation), other physical exam findings (grunting, nasal flaring, retractions
      or indrawing of chest, crepitations, wheezing, or diminished breath sounds). These will be
      collected on the data collection form (see Appendix 1). Additionally, white cell counts with
      neutrophil counts and c-reactive protein will be collected if ordered by the clinician.

      As a part of the evaluation, a bedside lung ultrasound will be performed by a clinician
      trained to perform lung ultrasounds. The bedside lung ultrasound is provided free for
      patients. Sonographers will be blinded to clinical information and results of any chest
      imaging. A Sonosite M Turbo (Fujifilm Sonosite, Inc.) ultrasound machine with a curvilinear
      probe will be used. In accordance with previous literature, the ultrasound examination will
      include ten views: two anterior views and two lateral views (one including the costophrenic
      angle), and one posterior view on each hemithorax. The physician will record ultrasound
      findings and interpretation directly after the ultrasound is complete. An ultrasound
      diagnosis of pneumonia is defined as the presence of unilateral B lines or subpleural lung
      consolidation. All ultrasounds will be reviewed for accuracy by a medical sonographer.

      All patients will have a single posterioranterior (PA) chest x-ray as a part of the standard
      evaluation. The chest x-ray will be read by a board-certified radiologist, who is blinded to
      the clinical presentation and the results of any other imaging. Chest x-ray readings will be
      recorded on the standardized data form.
    
  