
    
      African American and Latina women comprise about 80% of the approximately 300,000
      HIV-positive women in the United States. HIV/AIDS is one of the leading causes of death among
      African American and Latina women age 20 to 55 years. HIV-positive women of color are
      disproportionately impacted by poverty and other factors such as substance abuse and mental
      illness which increase vulnerability to HIV and risk of poor health outcomes (e.g.,
      progression to AIDS and death).

      The stages of HIV treatment cascade include linkage to and retention in HIV care,
      antiretroviral (ARV) utilization, and viral suppression. While all of these stages are
      important, what has ultimately lengthened life expectancy among HIV-positive persons has been
      achieving long-term viral suppression by optimizing ARV adherence. Suboptimal ARV adherence
      is associated with increased risk of progression to AIDS, mortality, and the development of
      ARV resistance. Recent studies indicate that significant racial and ethnic disparities in ARV
      adherence persist, with African Americans and Latinos having lower levels of adherence than
      whites. This disparity is also reflected among HIV+ women, with women of color, and in
      particular African American women, having significantly lower rates of ARV adherence than
      white women.

      Peer-based health interventions have been shown to affect behavior and improve patient
      outcomes. For HIV-positive persons, receiving care within a group of peers is associated with
      decreased levels of shame, HIV-related stigma, and risk behaviors, and increased levels of
      perceived social support. A group-based approach to care involving peers may be especially
      important for HIV-positive women of color as HIV-positive women of color may lack positive
      social support. Consequently, the peer-group dynamic may help not only to normalize living
      with HIV and provide social support but also to motivate healthy behaviors such as ARV
      adherence.

      Group clinical visits, in which the same group of patients who share a common medical
      condition receives care simultaneously from a health care provider over time, is a model of
      care that seeks to take advantage of the peer-group dynamic. This model often includes a
      clinical assessment, education, and self-management skills development, all in the group
      setting. It has been utilized in the care of patients with chronic conditions such as
      diabetes mellitus and Hepatitis C infection and improves health outcomes. Therefore, guided
      by an enhanced version of the Social Learning Theory, which posits that people learn not only
      from their own experiences but from the experiences and actions of others, the investigators
      will tailor the group clinical visit model to a model of group HIV treatment focused on
      optimizing ARV adherence.

      Use of social media, whereby people interact by creating, sharing, and exchanging content
      using internet-based technologies, transcends race/ethnicity and socioeconomic status. Within
      the arena of health care, its use is becoming increasingly popular. For example, social media
      is used by persons who may have a common medical condition, such as HIV, to communicate about
      coping with the disease or taking medications. Among HIV-positive persons, social media may
      be used to enhance communication and social support; hence, the investigators have
      incorporated social media as a component of Sisters-GPS.

      To begin to address disparities in ARV adherence and the limitations of current
      interventions, the investigators will test Sisters-GPS, an intervention for HIV-positive
      women of color with suboptimal ARV adherence that the investigators have developed.
      Sisters-GPS is an intervention adapted from the group clinical visit and which incorporated
      social media. If proven effective, this intervention has the potential to be a model of
      health care delivery for HIV care and treatment, more generally, and can be disseminated to
      diverse clinical settings.
    
  