
    
      Systemic lupus erythematosus SLE is an autoimmune disease that affects ∼5.5 per 100,000
      individuals worldwide . SLE is characterized by loss of tolerance against nuclear
      autoantigens, lymphoproliferation, polyclonal autoantibody production, immune complex
      disease, and multiorgan tissue inﬂammation. Up to 50% of SLE patients develop some degree of
      renal involvement, with up to 20% progressing to end-stage renal disease, depending on racial
      background . Lupus nephritis LN is characterized by anti-nuclear Ab production, immune
      complex deposition, and immune-mediated kidney damage. Development of LN remains a sign of
      poor prognosis and is a signiﬁcant cause of morbidity and mortality . Because 9 of 10 SLE
      patients are women, the role of the sex hormones estrogens in this disease is of key
      interest. Estrogens signal through two receptors: estrogen receptor a ERa and estrogen
      receptor b ERb. In contrast to estrogen receptor b, ERa is found in female reproductive
      organs, yet is robustly expressed in kidney, liver, heart, and lungs in males and females,as
      well as on most immune cells however the kidney is considered the most estrogenic
      nonreproductive organ. The overwhelming female predominance for SLE begins at puberty and
      extends to menopause , supporting the concept that estrogens or other reproductive factors
      stimulate lupus development. This concept is further evidenced by reports of menstrual cycle
      flares of SLE , disease exacerbations by oral contraceptives or estrogen administration , and
      induction of lupus by ovulation regimens . Ultraviolet rays has arole in the flarring up SLE.
      There is evidence that fibroblasts and blood lymphocytes from SLE patients are hypersensitive
      to the cytotoxic effects of UV light radiation

      . RNA and protein synthesis is also affected by UV light 18. A study from 1986 found that
      people were more likely to menstruate during a new moon, which occurs during the opposite
      half of the lunar cycle than the full moon . There are different evolutionary theories
      speculating why the human menstrual cycle length evolved to be so close to the lunar cycle in
      length. Stories and beliefs connecting the two are also found in various cultures and
      mythologies . The terms menstruation and menses even come from Latin and Greek words meaning
      month mensis and moon mene
    
  