
    
      Hearing loss is among the top three major health conditions in older adults and has been
      identified as a major modifiable risk factor for dementia. It is therefore imperative that
      older adults receive effective treatment for hearing loss in a timely manner to prevent
      losses in social, emotional, and cognitive function. The current hearing aid fitting is based
      on audiometric thresholds, but this approach does not account for large individual
      differences in auditory temporal perception and cognitive ability that may affect speech
      understanding in challenging listening environments. At present, there is a gap in knowledge
      of how best to fit hearing aids for individual listeners. The long-term goal is to improve
      the benefit of hearing aids for older adults so that they can maintain independence and
      quality of life. The overall objective of this proposal is to identify the neural temporal
      processing mechanisms associated with individual differences in hearing aid benefit in older
      adults with similar audiograms. The investigators will use the innovative approach of
      combining complementary neural and behavioral measures to assess the effects of hearing aid
      amplification on speech perception and effortful listening. The central hypothesis is that
      the neural representation of the temporal envelope of speech can be used to predict hearing
      aid benefit in older adults with hearing loss. The central hypothesis will be tested through
      the pursuit of three aims: (1) Measure the extent to which amplification distorts the neural
      and perceptual processing of temporal cues; (2) Quantify reductions in temporal envelope
      tracking and increases in cognitive effort associated with amplification algorithms that
      distort the temporal envelope of the speech signal; and (3) Investigate the use of objective
      physiological measures of temporal processing to predict hearing aid benefit. The expected
      outcome is the development of an objective, neurophysiological tool for use in the design and
      fitting of advanced algorithms to maximize speech perception in a variety of listening
      environments. This outcome is expected to have a positive impact on the treatment of hearing
      loss and its sequelae in older adults, because it will lead to a better understanding of the
      neural mechanisms contributing to successful use of hearing aids.
    
  