
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is a common disease that occurs more commonly amongst the elderly and is
      caused by the destruction of the joint cartilage. It is considered to be one of the most
      common joint disorders worldwide and a main cause of disability amongst older adults. After
      the knee, the hip is considered to be the second most commonly affected joint by OA.

      One of the functional capacities affected by OA is muscle strength with studies looking into
      knee OA documenting a decrement of this measure. The muscle strength of the quadriceps,
      hamstrings and other musculature around the hip is significantly impaired in patients with
      knee OA compared to age-matched controls.

      Evidence for quadriceps muscle weakness in knee OA is consistent and programs based on
      quadriceps strengthening exercises as a core component in the management of knee OA are now
      evidence-based. Lower extremity muscle weakness is also apparent in hip OA. However, compared
      to the knee, there is less literature on muscle strength in hip OA with guidelines for
      therapeutic exercise prescription being more expert rather than evidence-based. Therefore,
      one of the major questions that arises here is whether muscle weakness as observed in knee OA
      is evident in hip OA, and if so, which muscles are most affected.

      A concept which has been found to help diminish the effect of decreased muscle strength in
      the above mentioned muscle groups is optimal core stability. Core stability contributes to
      strength, endurance, flexibility and motor control all of which optimise the stability of the
      spine during both dynamic and static tasks in daily normal biomechanical function in patients
      with a diagnosis of OA knees. Despite such evidence, no studies to the knowledge of the
      researcher have looked into the effects of core stability on pain and functional levels in
      patients with a diagnosis of OA hip. Lack of literature in relation to this aspect is due to
      the unavailability of a gold standard for measuring core stability.

      Therefore, the objective of this study will be multifold with an investigation into which
      muscles in the lower limb are predominantly weaker, whether there is core muscle weakness in
      patients with hip OA, looking for any correlation between both these factors and whether an
      exercise programme leads to changes on functional activity and pain levels.

      All the patients who give consent to participate shall be randomly assigned to three groups
      being the control group who shall be awaiting surgery and not receiving a regular
      physiotherapy exercise intervention, the exercise group who shall be subject to a set of
      conventional exercises based and a core exercise group who shall be performing the
      conventional exercises plus exercises aimed at the activation of the core muscles. These
      exercises shall be carried out three times weekly for a period of three months. During the
      first four weeks, all sessions shall be supervised by a physiotherapist who shall monitor and
      increase the duration or difficulty of exercises according to patients' progression. From the
      5th to the 8th week, patients shall attend two supervised sessions and complete the third one
      at home. Between the 9th and the 12th week, patients shall then attend one supervised
      intervention and complete two exercise sessions at home. All patients shall be given a copy
      of the exercise sheet with instructions for use at home. Anonymisation shall be ensured with
      every patient through assignment of a random code for every individual. Patients assigned to
      the control group shall be given a chance to enrol into the program upon completion of the
      study if they wish to do so.
    
  