
    
      Inflammatory bowel diseases or IBD (Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis) are chronic
      inflammatory diseases involving the digestive tract, in particular the small bowel and/or the
      recto-colon. IBD represent a public health problem in Gastroenterology. The etiopathogeny of
      IBD is multifactorial involving immunological, genetic, infectious and environmental factors.
      An overarching hypothesis is that an unbalance of the autonomic nervous system, represented
      by the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system (e.g. the vagus nerve) is part of the
      mechanisms underlying the pathophysiology of IBD. A dysautonomia has been observed in IBD
      patients and we have recently demonstrated that this dysautonomia was linked to psychological
      coping, in particular in Crohn's disease. Classically, the vagus nerve, a mixed nerve, has an
      anti-inflammatory role through its central afferents which secondarily stimulate the
      hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal axis. Recent data have shown that the anti-inflammatory
      properties of the vagus nerve also involve peripheral efferents via an interaction of
      acetylcholine with nicotinic receptors leading to an inhibition of TNF release by
      macrophages. Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is currently used for the treatment of some forms
      of epilepsy in Human via a stimulation of vagal afferents. We have recently validated a model
      of chronic VNS (3h/d for 5 days) in freely moving rats by stimulating vagal efferents and we
      have studied the anti-inflammatory properties of VNS in an experimental model of colitis in
      rats. VNS significantly decreased body weight loss due to colitis and had an
      anti-inflammatory effect by decreasing a multivariate index of inflammation. To date, medical
      treatment of IBD (e.g. 5-aminosalicylates, corticosteroids, immunosuppressives or
      biotherapies i.e. anti-TNF) is only suspensive. The aim of our project is to propose another
      type of anti-inflammatory treatment based on neurostimulation of vagal efferents. For this
      purpose, we aim to perform a pilot study in 10 patients with moderate to severe Crohn's
      disease despite a reference treatment (corticosteroids and/or immunosuppressives) using the
      anti-inflammatory properties of VNS as an alternative to anti-TNF therapy. Central and
      peripheral effect of VNS will be also evaluated by electroencephalographic and sympatho-vagal
      (heart rate variability) recordings. The finality, at term, is to use VNS as an alternative
      to the conventional anti-TNF therapy not devoid of side effects, in particular infectious,
      with the advantage to use an intrinsic anti-inflammatory (anti-TNF) system and to take cover
      of problems of adherence to treatment which are frequently observed in the medical treatment
      of IBD.
    
  