
    
      Introduction:

      Subacromial injection is considered one of the best treatments for patients with subacromial
      impingement syndrome. The subacromial bursa is located between the deltoid muscle and the
      supraspinatus tendon. It facilitates the gliding of the humeral head through the undersurface
      of the acromion. If the bursa is thickened, the patient may experience pain when he/she tries
      to raise the arm. In patients with subacromial impingement due to a thickened subacromial
      bursa, the physician can precisely inject the medication into the bursa using ultrasound
      guidance. Use of ultrasound guidance has been proven to yield a better effect of pain relief
      than the technique using guidance. A previous study found that even using ultrasound guidance
      to deliver medication, there were still many patients suffering from initial treatment
      failure or recurrence after the first successful injection. Because the pathophysiological
      mechanism of subacromial impingement is complexed, the proximal biceps tendon may be involved
      but is often ignored. Recently, the investigators published a randomized controlled trial
      comparing the effect of dual-target injection (proximal biceps tendon and subacromial bursa)
      with the standard subacromial injection in patients with subacromial impingement syndrome,
      and found that the dual target approach was safe and had a longer effective duration than the
      standard subacromial injection. In this regard, the investigators will conduct a longitudinal
      follow-up study to examine the long-term effectiveness of the dual-target corticosteroid
      injection for subacromial impingement syndrome.

      Material and methods:

      Participants: adult patients (>20 year old) with shoulder impingement syndrome Inclusion
      criteria: shoulder pain>3 weeks; no contraindication for local injection; Visual analogue
      scale of pain>4 The healthy volunteers are defined as no shoulder pain, and are only for the
      assessment of the inter-rater and intra-rater reliability of the ultrasound evaluation,
      without intervention

      Participant number: 210 (150 with subacromial impingement, and 60 of healthy subjects)
      Exclusion criteria: systemic rheumatologic disease, Ankylosing spondylitis, malignancy, major
      trauma or recent injections on the affected shoulder

      Study design:

      The aims of this study is (1) set up the inter-rater and intra-rater reliability of the
      ultrasound evaluation in patients with subacromial impingement and healthy subjects (2)
      longitudinal follow up the therapeutic effect of dual-target injection to subacromial bursa
      and biceps tendon sheath only in patients with subacromial impingement

      Detail of the intervention Single arm experiment: ultrasound guided injection into the
      subacromial bursa and biceps tendon sheath in patients with subacromial impingements, with 40
      mg triamcinolone acetonide plus 3 mL of lidocaine

      Outcome measurement:

      physical examination(bicipital groove compression test, Speed's test, Yergason's test, empty
      can test, Neer's impingement test, Hawkins-Kennedy impingement test, painful arc test), range
      of motion as the baseline information. Visual analogue scale of pain, shoulder pain and
      disability index (SPADI), shoulder sonography (gray-scale/elastography)

      Statistical analysis:

      Continuous variables

        1. Student's t test: fit assumption of normal distribution

        2. Mann-Whitney test: does not fit the assumption of normal distribution

      Categorical variables

      (1) Chi-square test (2) Fisher exact test: sparse data

      Multivariate analysis:

        1. Linear regression

        2. Logistic regression

      Keywords: ultrasonography, corticosteroid, subacromial impingement syndrome, shoulder pain,
      longitudinal follow-up
    
  