
    
      The World Health Organization's (WHO) 2018 World Malaria Report estimates that in 2017, 219
      million cases of malaria occurred worldwide resulting in 435,000 deaths, 93% of which
      occurred in Africa (WHO 2018). While this represents a remarkable improvement in comparison
      with 2000, with malaria deaths having fallen by 40% in Africa, the downward trends in
      incidence and mortality stalled between 2015 and 2017. This recent failure to maintain the
      hard-won progress, let alone accelerate progress towards elimination, over the past three
      years has caused WHO to describe the global fight against malaria as being at a crossroads,
      calling for increased funding and highlighting the need to develop, optimize, and implement
      new tools to combat malaria.

      Universal coverage of populations at risk with malaria vector control interventions,
      primarily insecticide treated nets (ITNs) and indoor residual spraying (IRS), in
      malaria-endemic countries is a global and national priority because of its fundamental
      importance for malaria control and elimination. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of these
      tools is threatened by the emergence and spread of pyrethroid resistance in key mosquito
      populations, which is now reported in more than 85% of all malaria endemic countries and
      poses significant risk to the future impact of these tools. Emerging evidence suggests,
      however, that increasing mosquito mortality and thereby continuing to reduce malaria
      transmission is possible in areas with pyrethroid resistance by introducing new insecticide
      formulations for IRS and ITNs. For example, Protopopoff et al. showed in Tanzania that the
      distribution of LLINs with piperonyl butoxide (PBO) plus pyrethroid reduced malaria
      prevalence by 13% compared to standard pyrethroid-only LLIN distribution (42% vs. 29%;
      p=0.0011), and Tiono et al., working in Burkina Faso, showed that the distribution of a dual
      active-ingredient ITN reduced clinical malaria incidence by 22% (Incidence Rate Ratio = 0.88;
      p=0.04) and potentially infective mosquito bites by 51% (entomological inoculation rate ratio
      = 0.49; p<0.0001) compared to the distribution of a standard pyrethroid-only LLIN.

      While there is evidence that standard LLINs can continue to provide effective personal
      protection to regular net users in regions with resistant vector populations, new classes of
      ITNs developed to perform against pyrethroid-resistant mosquitoes have been developed, with
      early trials and modelling suggesting that they may provide superior protective efficacy
      against malaria in areas with pyrethroid-resistant vectors. Access to these new
      resistance-breaking ITNs is restricted by need for efficacy data for continuing policy
      recommendations, high prices, lack of evidence of cost effectiveness compared to
      pyrethroid-only LLINs, and consequent poor demand in an uncertain market. Two types of
      next-generation ITNs, each utilizing a different mixture of active ingredients from different
      insecticide classes, have recently received WHO prequalification listing demonstrating that
      they perform to the thresholds required of pyrethroid-only ITNs and have no known specific
      side effects: Interceptor G2® (IG2; by BASF SE) and Royal Guard®(RG; by Disease Control
      Technologies, LLC). The IG2 ITN contains a mixture of a pyrethroid (alpha-cypermethrin) and a
      pyrrole (chlorfenapyr), while the RG ITN contains a mixture of the same pyrethroid
      (alpha-cypermethrin) and an insect growth regulator (pyriproxyfen). While both net types have
      been subsequently registered and approved for use in Mozambique based on this WHO listing,
      the Roll Back Malaria Vector Control Advisory Group guidance indicates that dual active
      ingredient ITNs will require further epidemiological evidence before policy recommendations
      are made for their use in preference to pyrethroid-only ITNs in certain settings.

      The Global Fund and Unitaid have developed a market shaping program for next-generation ITNs
      with novel insecticide formulations. Evidence on the efficacy of IG2 and RG ITNs will be
      generated by the project through two randomized control trials taking place in Benin and
      Tanzania. In addition, through this program, these next-generation ITNs will be made
      available to countries for incorporation into their national distribution programs as pilot
      distributions with the aim of determining real-world effectiveness and cost-effectiveness in
      different contexts. In addition to the pilot distribution of IG2s taking place in Mozambique,
      three other countries will be piloting next-generation ITNs as part of the New Nets project:
      Burkina Faso, Nigeria, and Rwanda. This research will utilize these pilot distributions to
      understand the cost-effectiveness of the new ITNs in the chosen settings. The NMCP in
      Mozambique, in discussion with the Global Fund, chose to incorporate IG2, RG, and PBO ITNs
      into the 2020 mass distribution campaign. This study will collect information to determine
      the public health impact of the RG, PBO, and IG2 ITNs in Mozambique, in comparison to two
      sites that will receive standard pyrethroid-only ITNs. The aim of this research is to better
      understand the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of IG2 and RG ITNs in Mozambique and to
      collect data on community uptake of the ITNs.

      During the upcoming pilot implementation enhanced entomological, epidemiological, and net use
      data will be collected in up to six study districts: two districts receiving the dual-active
      ingredient ITN Interceptor® G2 (BASF: alphacypermethrin + chlorfenapyr); one district that
      will receive the dual-active ingredient ITN Royal Guard® (Disease Control Technologies:
      alphacypermethrin + pyriproxyfen); one district receiving an ITN containing an insecticide
      plus an insecticide synergist, Olyset®Plus (Sumitomo Chemical: permethrin + piperonyl
      butoxide); and two districts receiving the standard pyrethroid-only ITNs DuraNet® (Shobikaa
      Impex Private Limited: alphacypermethrin). Data will be analyzed and results disseminated to
      support the NMCP, donors, policymakers, and other national and regional stakeholders in their
      ITN decision-making and planning processes. Each component aims specifically to:

        -  Epidemiological component - measure the epidemiological impact of the new IG2 ITNs,
           Royal Guard ITNs, PBO ITNs, and standard ITNs in real deployment scenarios through
           observational studies. These studies will compare trends in (1) malaria case incidence
           rates passively reported to the national health system (passive case detection (PCD))
           and (2) malaria infection prevalence, measured through rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs), in
           children aged 6 months to 5 years of age from annual cross-sectional surveys during peak
           transmission periods.

        -  Entomological component - evaluate the impact of the different net types on vector
           populations and biting rates, compared to standard ITNs, through mosquito surveillance
           data that will measure trends in species-specific (1) adult vector densities (2) indoor
           and outdoor human landing rates (3) estimated entomological inoculation rates and (4)
           insecticide resistance patterns. These entomological surveillance activities are aligned
           with NMCP activities and are not part of the human subject research component of this
           study.

        -  Anthropological component - map patterns of ITN usage to determine transmission risk
           defined as the intersection between time at risk of mosquito blood feeding and human
           activities not under protection of an ITN, through gathering evidence on ITN uptake and
           usage. The collection of reliable data on such patterns, both indoors and outdoors,
           becomes thus an essential component of the evaluation of the ITN pilots for both
           modeling and contextual analysis of impact.

        -  Durability monitoring - monitoring of IG2, RG and PBO ITNs in one district each,
           prospectively measuring physical durability, attrition, and chemical durability.

        -  Costing and cost-effectiveness component - estimate the cost and cost-effectiveness of
           IG2, RG and PBO ITNs in Mozambique through data on the price of the product, delivery
           and deployment costs, and product effectiveness based on case incidence rates measured
           during the epidemiological component of this study. Additionally, mean costs per case
           averted that might occur in other contexts will be modeled and incorporated into the
           cost-effectiveness evaluations.
    
  