
    
      This study will test the prediction that residual effects of an acute dose of cannabis on
      driving-related skills will be observed in a group of young drivers 48 hours following a
      single dose of smoked cannabis, and will also examine the effects of an acute dose of
      cannabis on those skills using driving simulator technology.

      Study Objectives

        1. Examine the residual effects of a moderate dose of cannabis (12.5% THC) on driving
           simulator performance of young drivers. Simulated driving performance, tests of
           cognition, verbal memory, and mood will be measured concurrently with levels of
           cannabinoids in biological fluids at approximately 24 and 48 hours following acute drug
           exposure in male and female drivers aged 19 to 25. We will test the hypothesis that
           performance on a high-fidelity driving simulator task will be significantly impaired
           approximately 24 hours following a dose of cannabis in comparison to a placebo
           condition.

        2. Examine the acute effects of a moderate dose of cannabis (12.5% THC) on driving
           simulator performance of young drivers. Simulated driving performance, tests of
           cognition, verbal memory, and mood will be measured concurrently with levels of
           cannabinoids in biological fluids before and after drug administration. Cannabinoid
           levels in biological fluids will be measured over a 6 hour period following drug
           exposure. We will examine the relationship of cannabinoid levels to performance measures
           in this time frame.

        3. Explore the effects of driving history, driving attitudes, and individual difference
           measures (e.g., demographics, drug and alcohol use, etc.) on the acute and residual
           effects of cannabis on driving simulator performance of young drivers. Exploratory
           analyses will be undertaken to determine if the acute and residual effects of cannabis
           on the driving simulator task are influenced by these measures.

        4. Determine if a relationship exists between genetics and THC response. As an ancillary
           aim, blood samples may be collected for future research to determine if a relationship
           exists between genetic polymorphisms and pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic responses
           to cannabis.

      Study Design and Duration

      The study is a double-blind, placebo-controlled mixed-design study, including a randomized
      between-subjects comparison of the effects of smoked cannabis and both between- and
      within-subjects examination of its residual effects at 24 and 48 hours following one-time
      drug administration. Although a placebo condition is part of the study, this is not a
      treatment study.

      Initial contact with potential subjects will be made via telephone, and study personnel will
      conduct a telephone screen for eligibility. Upon eligibility confirmation by telephone,
      participants will be asked to attend CAMH for an eligibility assessment. The study will
      consist of 5 sessions for each subject (an eligibility assessment, a practice day, and three
      subsequent testing days). Participants will be asked not to use cannabis for 48 hours prior
      to attending the practice day (Session 2). Although Session 1 can be completed at any time
      prior to the remaining study sessions, Sessions 2 - 5 must be performed on consecutive days.

      In certain instances, the Qualified Investigator may ask a participant to return for
      re-screening, e.g. repeat of urine test or other assessments performed for eligibility
      assessment. Also, in case of unforeseen delays in scheduling study participation, the
      Qualified Investigator will determine if there is a need to ask a participant to repeat some
      assessments, e.g., physical examination.
    
  