
    
      A Case Record Form will be completed during the interview with the participant and/or their
      carer. The form will record data relating to sociodemographics along with a subjective
      appreciation of general health, oral health and mental health. Sociodemographic data will
      include age, gender, level of education (age on completion / highest level), occupation,
      income band and housing tenure (own house, parent's house, institution).

      An investigator will undertake the interviews. Before starting data collection, the procedure
      of the session will be explained and the aims of the study presented in lay terms. The
      investigator will state that the individual has the possibility to refuse or withdraw his/her
      participation at any time without consequences, and on simple request. Where possible, the
      interviews will take place face to face, but may be undertaken over the telephone or by
      video-conferencing if necessary. Audio recording will be undertaken during each interview.
      During the interview, field notes will be taken in order to record elements of non-verbal
      communication. The investigator will use a indicative topic guide covering six areas to
      initiate a discussion. The investigator will use a indicative topic guide covering six areas
      to initiate a discussion:

        -  How would you describe your health and your oral health?

        -  Do you have any health conditions which affect your mouth in any way?

        -  If so, which part of your mouth is affected and how?

        -  What is the impact of your oral health on your daily life?

        -  Do your living conditions or your social environment impact on your oral health in any
           way?

        -  If you had to describe the impact of your oral health on daily life to someone what
           would you say? Each question includes a series of prompts to assist participants in
           answering the question.

      It is anticipated that each interview will take around 60 minutes to complete.
    
  