
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for
      the combination of methoxyamine (TRC102) with pemetrexed (pemetrexed disodium) and cisplatin
      in patients with advanced solid tumors. (Arm A) II. To describe the toxicities of TRC102
      combined with pemetrexed and cisplatin at each dose studied. (Arm A) III. To describe
      responses to the drug combination at each dose level. (Arm A) IV. To detect activity of the
      combination of TRC102 and pemetrexed, as evidenced by tumor response in patients with
      advanced malignant mesothelioma previously treated with pemetrexed and cisplatin. (Arm B)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe pharmacokinetic parameters of TRC102 given concurrent with pemetrexed and
      cisplatin.

      II. To evaluate the pharmacodynamic parameters of TRC102 given concurrently with pemetrexed
      and cisplatin.

      III. To explore the feasibility of establishing pleural and peritoneal effluent-derived cell
      lines and to evaluate the response of cultured pleural and peritoneal mesothelioma cells to
      cisplatin, pemetrexed, and TRC102.

      IV. To document all objective clinical responses to TRC102 in combination with pemetrexed and
      cisplatin.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of methoxyamine, followed by a phase II
      study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive methoxyamine orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-4, pemetrexed
      disodium intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes, and cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients may continue methoxyamine and pemetrexed disodium beyond
      cycle 6 if the patient continues to benefit from treatment at the discretion of the treating
      physician.

      ARM B: Patients receive methoxyamine PO QD on days 1-4 and pemetrexed disodium IV over 10
      minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may continue methoxyamine and
      pemetrexed disodium beyond cycle 6 if the patient continues to benefit from treatment at the
      discretion of the treating physician.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 8 weeks.
    
  