
    
      Laryngopharyngeal reflux (LPR) has been repeatedly linked to upper respiratory symptoms in
      the pediatric population. Children with LPR may present with laryngomalacia, subglottic
      stenosis, laryngitis, and vocal cord nodules among other illnesses. Pharyngeal reflux has
      even been implicated in causing common childhood illnesses such as sinusitis and otitis
      media. Diagnosing LPR can be difficult, especially in children. Often otolaryngologists
      depend on a general gestalt to diagnosis LPR. In some cases, physicians rely on a Reflux
      Symptoms Index (RSI) questionnaire filled out by the caretaker and/or a Reflux Finding Score
      (RFS) filled out by the practitioner. Others have attempted to use a variety of tools to
      measure pH in the upper airway and proximal esophagus.

      Initial research focused on correlating gastroesophageal reflux (GER) with otolaryngologic
      illnesses. These studies relied mostly on esophageal pH probes placed at the lower esophageal
      sphincter. With the realization that extraesophageal reflux or LPR was a separate disease,
      new methods have developed to quantify it. The dual esophageal pH probe is the current gold
      standard for measuring LPR as it records pH just above the proximal esophageal sphincter.
      Conditions such as chronic pediatric sinusitis, otitis media, laryngitis and globus are
      believed to arise from laryngopharyngeal reflux. Unfortunately, this device fails to identify
      many patients with LPR who would benefit from treatment, and radiographic studies are limited
      by their short duration of evaluation and risk of radiation. In addition, the placement of
      the esophageal pH probe is relatively invasive requiring both sedation and x-rays to confirm
      placement. Finally, they are difficult to place and maintain in children, necessitating a
      hospital stay for 24 hours while data is collected. The alternative is empiric treatment with
      Histamine 2 blockers and/or Protein Pump Inhibitors for an extended course, which has been
      shown to improve symptoms in many of these patients but is not without risk.

      The new Dx-pH nasopharyngeal probe is the only tool available for directly measuring
      nasopharyngeal pH. It is an exempted class I medical device and is Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA)-approved for general use in the population. The device, manufactured by
      Respiratory Technology Corporation ISO (ResTech), measures the pH of both liquid and
      aerosolized droplets. It is positioned posterior to the soft palate and placement is
      confirmed by visualizing the light-emitting diode (LED) at the tip of the device. It is
      significantly less invasive than esophageal pH probes, does not require general anesthesia
      for placement, and can be used in an outpatient setting.

      The Dx-pH probe is currently being used clinically in adult and pediatric practices to
      diagnose and monitor laryngopharyngeal reflux with only limited research supporting its use.
      A literature review finds only 6 studies that address the Dx-pH probe, of which, only 1 pilot
      study has been performed in children. This study looked at changes in pH in the trachea of 3
      children with chronic tracheostomies. However, to date, no research has been published on the
      utility of the probe in diagnosing LPR in children. The probe, if effective, would be a
      valuable tool for diagnosing LPR in the pediatric population because of its limited risk and
      potential ability to replace more invasive and costly procedures.
    
  