
    
      This is a prospective interventional single-site research with a collection of biological
      samples ("Recherche Impliquant la Personne Humaine de type 2" according to French
      legislation).

      First, a cohort of 20 healthy volunteers (Group 0: Healthy volunteers included for the
      spike-in test) will be constituted for the spike-in-test.

      Then, recruitment of the three groups of 14 patients each (Group1: Metastatic HER2-positive
      breast cancer; Group 2: Advanced CA-125 positive ovarian cancer; Group 3: Metastatic
      PSA-positive castrate-resistant prostate cancer) and the control group of 14 healthy
      volunteers (Group 4: Healthy volunteers included as control) will be done in parallel.

      In each group, the percentage of cases with identified circulating tumor cells will be
      estimated. Success will be defined as follows: the new technique has isolated putative
      circulating cells that have been confirmed as tumor cells by the immuno-histochemistry
      approach.

      Circulating tumor cells (CTC) will be identified as followed:

        -  Group 1 - putative circulating cells isolated by the new technique must be tested as
           HER-2 positive using Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization (FISH) to be regarded as true
           CTC

        -  Group 2 - putative circulating cells isolated by the new technique must be tested as CA
           125-positive using immuno-histochemistry (IHC) to be regarded as true CTC

        -  Group 3 - putative circulating cells isolated by the new technique must be tested as
           PSA-positive using IHC to be regarded as true CTC For the healthy volunteers included as
           controls, if putative circulating cells are observed, these healthy volunteers will be
           tested against the three markers (HER2, CA-125 and PSA).

      Failure will be defined as follows: the technique failed to identify circulating tumor cells,
      either due to a technical issue, or because there was no cell identified by the new
      technique, or lastly because the identified cells were negative by the standard FISH or IHC
      technique.

      The different characteristics of these cells will be described: size, cytological
      characteristics, number, etc.

      Secondary collected samples will be frozen, and new technique for isolation of CTC will be
      applied a second time to describe the impact of freezing to the capacity for isolating the
      CTC.

      The primary objective of the trial is to assess the ability of the "new technology" to
      isolating circulating tumor cells (CTC) in selected cancer patients.
    
  