
    
      Dysfunction in the shoulder has been reported to affect up to 33% of the general population
      and generate up to 5% of all consultations from general practitioners. Shoulder problems have
      been reported as the second highest musculoskeletal complaint for those seeking care from a
      physical therapist in a deployed environment. Impingement syndromes occur in nearly anyone
      who repeatedly or forcefully uses their upper extremity in an elevated position, which is
      very common in the active duty population, and is often characterized by pain during this
      motion. Managed improperly, this can lead to disruption in work performance and prolonged
      disability.

      Corticosteroid and analgesic injections are some of the most common procedures for
      orthopedists, rheumatologists, and general practitioners to use in the management of shoulder
      pain. Conflicting reports from systematic reviews questions the efficacy of corticosteroid
      injections over other interventions, including oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
      (NSAIDs). Additionally they are not without potential risk such as infection or deleterious
      effects of prolonged corticosteroid use to include tissue degeneration reported in animal
      studies as well as other regions of the human body. Manual physical therapy offers a
      non-invasive approach with negligible risk in as few as three to six sessions and has been
      shown to improve strength and function in this patient population.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate and compare the effectiveness of two interventions
      that are commonly used in the management of shoulder impingement syndrome.

        1. Evaluate the effect that a subacromial corticosteroid injection has on a subject's
           function and pain as measured by the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI).

        2. Evaluate the effect that manual physical therapy has on a subject's function and pain as
           measured by the Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI).

        3. Compare the effect sizes of the two different interventions in a patient population with
           shoulder impingement syndrome.
    
  