
    
      24 subjects will be recruited. Exclusion criteria will be presence of known metabolic
      syndrome as well as history of coronary artery disease, hypertension, diabetes,
      cardiomyopathy and tobacco use. Study will be conducted as double blind placebo controlled
      crossover trial. Subjects will be randomized to 2 groups. 1st group will receive Ezetimibe
      for 2 weeks followed by washout (no medication) period for 4 weeks and followed by placebo
      for 2 weeks. 2nd group will receive Ezetimibe and placebo in reverse order with interspaced
      4-week washout period. Each subject will be evaluated during 2 visits at the ends of the
      intervention periods (Ezetimibe and placebo). Visits will occur after 2 and 8 weeks after
      enrollment. Subjects will be asked to fast 12 hrs before each visit. During each visit, a
      subject will undergo brachial artery reactivity study (BART) before consumption of
      standardized high cholesterol meal and at 3 and 6-hour points after the meal. The
      standardized high cholesterol meal will consist of 2 Egg McMuffin® sandwiches. This meal
      weighs 276 g and contains 34g of protein, 60g of carbohydrates, 22g of total fat and 470 mg
      of cholesterol and has 290 Calories. Subjects also will have blood draws for serum lipid
      measurement performed before each BART procedure (total of 3 BART and 3 blood sample
      collections per patient per visit).

      Brachial artery reactivity studies will be conducted per following protocol:

        -  Equipment - Echocardiography system w/vascular software for 2-D imaging, Doppler and
           high-frequency vascular transducer.

        -  Initial image - Subject will be placed in a temperature-controlled room (22Cº). With
           subject positioned supine, left brachial artery will be imaged 5 cm above antecubital
           crease in longitudinal plane twice. Blood pressure and heart rate will be also measured.

        -  FMD - 12.5 cm blood pressure cuff will be placed above the antecubital fossa on left
           arm, baseline flow velocity will be obtained by pulsed Doppler. Thereafter, artery will
           be occluded by cuff inflation to 50 mm Hg above systolic pressure for 5 minutes and
           subsequently deflated. The longitudinal image will be obtained 1 min after cuff release.

        -  FMD w/NTG - 10 min after baseline study, FMD with NTG will be obtained. 0.4 mg
           sublingual NTG tablet will be given to subject and 4 min later, FMD imaging will be
           repeated as described above.

        -  Analysis - Photographic images of end-diastolic frames will be obtained. Images will be
           analyzed by 2 independent investigators blinded to the subject's identity and temporal
           sequence of images. Arterial diameter of the brachial artery in longitudinal plane from
           images where there is clear visualization of anterior and posterior intimal/lumen
           interface will be determined by caliper measurement. FMD quantified as a percent
           diameter change of the post-occlusion arterial diameter measurement relative to the mean
           of the 2 corresponding baseline measurements. Similar analysis will be performed for FMD
           following administration of NTG.

      Lipid testing will be performed using the VAP® test and will include VLDL, LDL, HDL and IDL
      lipoprotein fractions as well as Triglycerides, Lipoprotein A, CRP and Homocysteine.
      Statistical analysis will be conducted as follows: group values for percent change in
      arterial diameter will be expressed as mean +/- SD. 2- tailed paired t-test will be used to
      compare changes in individual subjects. Two-tailed non-paired t-test will be used to compare
      values between groups. The analyses for FMD - lipid lowering correlation will be performed
      using a paired t test for parametrically distributed data and the Wilcoxon matched-pair
      signed rank test for nonparametrically distributed data to compare baseline data and changes
      in all variables at the end of the study within each group. The t test will used to compare
      the baseline characteristics between those receiving ezetimibe and those receiving placebo in
      all groups. Correlation between variables will be tested using both univariate and
      multitivariate analyses. The results will be presented as mean ± SD andmedian (25-75
      percentiles).
    
  