
    
      The prevalence of goiter in Taiwanese adults was found to be 19.4% in males, 33.6% in females
      and 25% in total about 20 years ago even though there was no iodine-deficient area reported
      in Taiwan. The result implied that goiter not only became a quite common disorder, but also
      deserved further investigation, particularly since 0.7% of goiter would be diagnosed as
      thyroid cancers by means of fine-needle aspiration (FNA). However, the recent research
      indicated 5-15% of results after fine-needle aspiration directly disclosed malignant
      cytology. On the other hand, about 80% of initial results of FNA would appear non-malignant
      cytology. The most common feature of them was found to be indeterminate cytology, which
      refers to 15-30% of FNA specimens. The indeterminate cytology included follicular or Hurthle
      cell neoplasm as well as atypia of undetermined significance (AUS). Based on the revised
      American Thyroid Association Management Guidelines for Patients with Thyroid Nodules, people
      would be referred to visit surgeons for surgical intervention if their reports of FNA
      demonstrated either Hurthle cell neoplasm or follicular neoplasm without autonomously
      functioning nodules; instead, population with AUS goiter only received observation for a
      period of time for following. Otherwise, they would be arranged to undergo surgical
      manipulations if any evidence of malignancy was suspected. There has been lack of sufficient
      studies to offer therapeutic options for the patient with AUS goiter around the world up to
      the present, especially in Taiwan. Therefore, in order to avoid unnecessary operation
      performed upon the patient with AUS goiter and provide another effective treatment for them,
      a well-designed, prospective clinical trial will be warranted on the patient with AUS goiter.

      To achieve the goal, the pathophysiology of goiter required to be understood at first.
      Although the actual etiology of goiter was uncertain, TSH (thyrotropin) has been regarded as
      a major factor to induce its formation up to now. To attenuate the growth-tropic effects of
      TSH, levothyroxine suppression therapy had been administered in the past to treat goiter,
      particularly about the goiter with colloid nodules. Successful reduction of goiter volume was
      found in some published papers while others did not verify the therapeutic effects of
      levothyroxine. However, the fact that goiter with size under thyroid sonogram more than 1cm
      required to be further examined indicated reduced volume of goiter may offer benefits
      including amelioration of previous malignant tendency especially in AUS goiter through TSH
      suppression therapy though some studies indicated routine suppression therapy of benign
      thyroid nodules in iodine sufficient populations is not recommended At first, patients who
      aged 20 to 70 with thyroid dysfunction related manifestations as goiter, palpitation or hand
      tremors would be recruited while they visited MET OPD (Out-Patient Department) and then they
      would be arranged to undergo thyroid sono as well as receive thyroid functional tests during
      screening periods before the study. The patients would be eligible for the interventional
      trial if their thyroid sonography demonstrated goiter and their thyroidal function revealed
      euthyroid status. After careful investigations of subjects' associated histories as family
      histories, drug histories and diet habits, the patients would be actually recruited for the
      clinical trial with the signed informed consent. Initially, the enrolled subjects would be
      classified into two major groups as solitary nodular goiter and multiple nodular goiter.
      Subsequently, two subgroups would be identified from each major group by presence of
      autoantibody of thyroglobulin or not. Thereafter, the patients would be asked to comply with
      the guidelines of ATA (American Thyroid Association) for advanced evaluation , fine needle
      aspiration and following if they indeed present with either goiter with more than 1 cm in
      size or less than 1 cm with regard to typical malignant characteristics under thyroid
      sonography, such as heterogeneous, hypoechoic, increased peri-vascularization, tall than
      wide. Furthermore, patients with history of family MTC (Medullary Thyroid Cancer) or contact
      of radiation or radiation therapy would be arranged to under FNA, too. The patients with
      first FNA disclosing AUS (atypia of undetermined significance) would be arranged to receive
      FNA again for confirmatory examination one month later and soon later those patients with
      positive findings of AUS twice would be allowed to take eltroxin for TSH suppression therapy.
      On the contrary, the patients would be assigned to the groups who will receive traditional
      observation and following of thyroid sonography as well as thyroid functional tests. These
      observed patients would receive surgical interventions if their FNA showed malignant
      potentials as NUCLEAR GROOVING， MICROFOLLICULAR FOCI，Hurthle cell, etc.

      As to the studied patients with consecutive FNA reports indicating AUS twice would be
      arranged to take levothyroxine (eltroxin, 0.1 mg) for therapy and its dosage would be
      adjusted carefully after 2 weeks per each OPD visiting. Optimal therapeutic goals would be
      regarded as subclinical hyperthyroidism and constant concentrations or dosages of eltroxin
      would be achieved in 2 months. Thereafter, the studied subjects would be arranged to receive
      thyroid sonography and FNA 3 months later and other necessary blood biochemistry studies for
      following. All following information would be recorded well and completely. The primary
      endpoint means: reduced goiter volume under sono >15% or cytology: benign*2 times; operation
      for thyroidectomy; CAD attack; refractory arrhythmia; newly DM. The pathology of all FNA
      during the clinical trial would be judged by the Bethesda System for Reporting Thyroid
      Cytopathology.
    
  