
    
      -  Participants will be randomized to either Arm A: erlotinib plus bevacizumab, or Arm B:
           erlotinib plus sulindac. Participants will have an equal chance of being placed in any
           group.

        -  Medication on Arm A: erlotinib plus bevacizumab: Participants will take erlotinib pills
           orally once a day. Bevacizumab will be given intravenously on day one of each treatment
           cycle (each treatment cycle will last three weeks). Urine tests will be performed once
           every three weeks to test kidney function.

        -  Medication on Arm B: erlotinib plus sulindac: Participants will take erlotinib pills
           orally once a day. Sulindac will be taken orally twice a day.

        -  Physical exams will be performed during each treatment cycle and will include vital
           signs and general health questions. We will take the participants blood pressure every 2
           weeks for the first 6 weeks. After that point, we will take it every 3 weeks or more
           often if necessary. Blood tests will be performed including chemistry and hematology.

        -  After every 2 cycles, a repeat CT scan, MRI, and/or PET scan will be performed along
           with either a chest x-ray or CT scan to ensure that there is no tumor in the
           participants lungs. We may also do a bone scan if there may be tumor in the participants
           bones, and abdominal CT scan if there may be tumor in the liver, and a head CT scan or
           MRI if there may be tumor in the brain.

        -  After the final treatment the participant will be seen in the clinic to see if they have
           had any side effects from the drugs within 30 days of stopping the drugs.

        -  Participants will be in this research study for as long as they are receiving clinical
           benefits from the study drugs, and do not develop excessive side effects or disease
           progression. After treatment is discontinued, we will follow the participant closely for
           30 days and every 1-2 months after that.
    
  