
    
      This is a 3-Stage, phase I/II, single-arm, open-label study. The first and second stage of
      the study will assess the safety and efficacy of lenalidomide, rituximab, Ifosfamide,
      etoposide, and carboplatin (RICER) for the treatment of DLBCL patients in first relapse. The
      third stage of the study will assess the safety and efficacy of post-ASCT lenalidomide
      maintenance in patients with DLBC.

      In stage I of the study, escalating doses of lenalidomide (10, 15, 20, and 25 mg daily x 7
      days on Days 1-7) along with RICE therapy will be given to cohorts of subjects in a standard
      3+3 design (see section 5.4.2 for dose escalation schema) until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) has been determined.

      In stage II, all subjects will be given RICE plus the MTD of lenalidomide. The starting dose
      of lenalidomide in Stage II will be modified for reduced renal function as outlined in
      Section 5.4.2.

      In both stage I and stage II, subjects who have stable disease or progression of disease
      after 2 cycles of RICER will be taken off study. Subjects who achieve > PR to 2 cycles of
      RICER will receive a third cycle followed by stem cell collection and ASCT.

      Each cycle is 14 days. Delays in initiating a new cycle are allowed up to 14 days for Stages
      I and II. The planned number of cycles is 3.

      After the second cycle, restaging with PET and CT scans is performed. Patients with
      progressive disease are removed from the study, chemosensitive patients (CR/Cru and PR)
      proceed with third cycle of RICER. Stem cell collection will be completed within 10-14 days
      after third cycle of RICER. HDCMT-autoSCT will be performed after patient recovers from stem
      cell collection toxicities. HDCMT (high dose chemotherapy) followed by autologous stem cell
      transplant involves administration of chemotherapy with BEAM (BCNU, Etoposide, Ara-C,
      Melphalan) followed by infusion of autologous stem cells. Involved-field radiation to the
      sites of bulky disease will be allowed prior to HDCMT-SCT.

      Stage III, after recovery from aSCT, but not to exceed 90 days all eligible subjects will
      receive lenalidomide maintenance therapy (po daily on Days 1-21 q28 days) for up to 1 year.
      Delays in initiating a new cycle up to 28 days are allowed in Stage III. Subjects will be
      followed for progression- free survival and overall survival for up to 2 years. The starting
      dose of lenalidomide maintenance treatment will be based on calculated creatinine clearance
      within 28 days prior to the start of lenalidomide maintenance
    
  