
    
      Glaucoma is a major public health issue worldwide and manifests clinically as a chronic
      progressive optic neuropathy with concomitant visual field (VF) loss. Glaucoma can cause
      significant visual disability and decreased quality of life (1). Based on WHO's report in
      2002, glaucoma is the second cause of blindness. The key to prevention of visual loss from
      glaucoma is early detection of the disease or its progression and timely treatment. Glaucoma
      can be quite advanced at the time of initial detection. The prevalence of advanced glaucoma
      at the time of diagnosis varies but can be quite high. For example, the average VF mean
      deviation (MD) in patients diagnosed with glaucoma in the Los Angeles Latino Eye Study was
      -9.6 dB (2), which represents moderately advanced to severe glaucoma. Detection of
      progression in advanced stages of glaucoma continues to be challenging. Visual field
      examination remains the gold standard for detection of progression in advanced glaucoma.
      However, long-term VF variability or noise in such eyes is significant, which could confound
      detection of change. The optic nerve head and peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL)
      demonstrate significant damage in such eyes and hence are not helpful for detection of
      change. About 50% of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are located within 4-5 mm of the macular
      center (3). Since the macular RGCs are the last ones to be affected in glaucoma, measurement
      of macular retinal thickness or retinal sublayers could provide significant information with
      regard to the course of advanced glaucoma.

      The macular retinal sublayers can now be measured with reasonable accuracy with SD- OCTs.
      There is some evidence that measurement of the macular ganglion cell complex (GCC, combined
      thickness of RNFL, RGC and inner plexiform layer or IPL), or macular retinal thickness or
      volume may detect early glaucoma with a performance that approximates that of circumpapillary
      RNFL thickness measurements (4,5). In addition, such macular measurements have proved to be
      very reproducible (4,6). Given this excellent reproducibility, macular outcome measures would
      be the main candidates for following glaucoma eyes with advanced damage, in which the macular
      region is essentially the only retinal area with residual RGCs.
    
  