
    
      Low physical activity, poor diet and obesity are risk factors for the development of
      endometrial cancer. A growing body of evidence suggests that they may be linked with quality
      of life after cancer treatment. However, only about 1% of endometrial cancer survivors seem
      to meet the current fruit and vegetable, physical activity, and non-smoking recommendations;
      while 57% meets only the non-smoking recommendations, and 22% meet none of the
      recommendations,

      These behaviours exist despite cancer diagnosis being perceived as a "teachable moment".
      Capitalising the "teachable moment" of cancer, behaviour change interventions in high-risk
      populations might be more effective than those targeting the general population.

      Theory-based behaviour change interventions suggest that improving diet and physical activity
      is safe, acceptable, and feasible and can help cancer survivors improve their quality of
      life. In contrast, there are only limited studies to support these data in the United Kingdom
      to allow generalisability of these results. However, the majority of these interventions were
      long-term and resource intensive which may render them inappropriate for wide dissemination.
      Therefore, feasible and effective interventions are needed to promote implementation of the
      nutrition and physical activity guidelines.

      The intervention is based on the Shape-Up eight-week weight management programme. This
      programme is based on "Social Cognitive Theory" and "Control Theory". A version of this
      program has been favourably evaluated in terms of acceptability, physical, and psychological
      outcomes. We have tailored this programme (Shape-Up following cancer treatment) to help
      endometrial cancer survivors improve their diet, and activity pattern. The focus of the
      programme lies on self-control, self-efficacy, and relapse prevention in terms of healthy
      eating and physical activity. Behavioural techniques will include self-monitoring of
      behaviour with the use of food and physical activity diaries, behavioural goal setting,
      action planning, graded tasks, problem solving, self-reward, and review of behavioural goals.
      It will also provide information about health consequences and emotional consequences, pros
      and cons, behavioural practice, habit formation, reducing exposure to cues for the behaviour,
      behaviour substitution, distraction, social support (unspecified), demonstration of behaviour
      (for resistance exercises), instructions on how to perform the behaviour (for resistance
      exercises), and reframing.

      The DEUS pilot trial is an eight-week, two-arm, individually randomised, controlled pilot
      trial comparing the use of the "Shape-Up following cancer treatment" programme to usual care.
      According to Medical Research Council guidance for complex interventions, this is a Phase 2
      feasibility study. Randomisation will be performed with minimisation using a 1:1 allocation.
    
  