
    
      The investigators are trying to understand the potential for low-dose magnetic stimulation to
      reduce unwanted symptoms including spasticity following a spinal cord injury. After an injury
      to the spinal cord the nerves within the spinal cord below the level of the injury reorganise
      themselves. This leads to unwanted connections producing a condition known as spasticity.
      Spasticity is experienced by patients as unwanted muscle stiffness. In patients with some
      sensation this can cause pain and can often lead to problems with bones and joints and
      difficulties with positioning for seating and standing. Along with spasticity, altered
      functioning in the nerves that control blood pressure, sweating, bowel and bladder can all
      create difficulties for someone who has had such an injury.

      It is now known that the nervous system reorganises itself on a continuous basis even after
      humans have finished growing. For example, it has to do this so that we can form memories and
      learn. This process is necessary in healthy life and is regulated by an army of cells that
      roam through the central nervous system including the spinal cord. These cells known as
      microglial cells act as gardeners, pruning connections that aren't needed and strengthening
      connections that are needed. From recent work in the field of biology it is now understood
      that a chemical called complement is used as a marker a bit like paint on a tree that is to
      be trimmed, to tell the microglial cells where to cut or where to strengthen. Very low level
      pulsed magnetic stimulation can mark connections that need to be trimmed so that the
      microglial cells can go about their job. The investigators want to identify whether by using
      a very low dose of magnetic stimulation we could reduce the abnormal connections in the
      spinal cord that cause spasticity. The investigators believe this is a very safe treatment
      because it is using magnetic stimulation on the spinal cord at a 10th of the level that is
      commonly used on the brain.
    
  