
    
      Human beings perceive stress differently and several bio-psycho-social factors, as well as
      personal and environmental factors influence how persons can manage and cope with stress.
      Concepts, such as resilience, facilitate positive attitudes towards self-management of
      stressful life situations. Phylogenetically, (positive) stress produced/s adequate reactions
      of humans in difficult or dangerous situations, like to fight or run away in the time when
      human beings were predominantly hunter-gatherers. However, persistent stress, as well as the
      inability to sufficiently cope with stress have several negative consequences for the
      physical and mental health of humans. Negative stress is a major contributor to chronic
      diseases, like cardiovascular diseases, cancer, respiratory disorders, mental diseases
      including depression, but also the occurrence of accidental injuries. Insufficient coping can
      result in a harmful health behaviour at first and in the long term to a higher overall
      morbidity and mortality. This means not only a personal, emotional and physical burden but
      also a financial burden for the society as a whole, as well as the health system of a
      country.

      On the other hand, satisfactory social relationships were found to have a stress buffering,
      positive effect on how people deal with stress and are beneficial for one's own health over
      the course of life. Satisfactory social relationships might even lead to longevity.

      The following research questions will be addressed in this study:

        1. Has a 1-year training program for social- and personal resources an influence on the
           perceived stress level, health behavior, health status, satisfaction with life, quality
           of social relationships, and wellbeing of the participants and the person they have a
           close relationship with compared to a matched control group in a quasi-experimental
           longitudinal study?

        2. Do the different items addressed during training (life goals, meaning in life, sense of
           coherence, social- and personal resources and transcendence) change in their perception
           by the participants or by persons the participants have a close relationship with
           compared to matched controls?

        3. Are the changes of these perceptions (concerning life goals, meaning in life, sense of
           coherence, social- and personal resources and transcendence) predictive for the changes
           of perceived stress level, health behavior, health status, satisfaction with life,
           quality of social relationships, and wellbeing and how much does each of them
           contribute?

        4. If any changes occur, how sustainable are they during the longer-term observational
           period of 6 months after the training? In case the concepts underlying the development
           of the training can be corroborated, this would indicate a potential for developing
           personal resources in adult stage, foster a new understanding of how health can be
           maintained and improved, and give insight into healthy functioning and the role of
           social relationships.
    
  