
    
      Objective

        1. To evaluate the success rate of iECG CVL tip confirmation by self-invented iECG
           connector wire.

        2. To compare quality of iECG tracing produced from both of self-invented iECG wire versus
           the Certodyn system.

      Materials, participants and study method

      Equipments required:

      1) Self-invented iECG wire (PS wire) 2) Commercial iECG system which consists of the Certodyn
      and the wire. 3) Standard ECG monitoring system which can display and printout the ECG
      tracing. 4) A digital ECG caliper which can measure P wave amplitude and noise segment in
      millimeter up to 2 decimal points. Study method

        1. Patient presented for PICC line from upper torso will be screened and assessed for
           eligibility.

        2. Exclusion criteria includes children younger than 18 yo, patient with atrial
           fibrillation or other rhythms not generated from intrinsic SA node i.e. pacer, unstable
           hemodynamic, patient with history arrhythmias, HR > 120 bpm, patients with
           hypercoagulable state, allergy to heparin or patients with known heparin induced
           thrombocytopenia, patients with known Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease

        3. Obtain informed consent.

        4. Patient will be monitored with standard 3-lead ECG, the baseline lead II ECG will be
           printed out and tagged with a serial number.

        5. Patient will undergo the standard PICC line placement using Seldinger or modified
           Seldinger technique. The catheter will be pre-flushed with 10 units/mL heparinized NSS.
           When catheter is inserted into the proximal SVC (guided by landmark measurement), the
           wire will be retracted to the marked location where the tip of the wire is at the end of
           the catheter. The iECG connection by Certodyn will be applied. The catheter and wire
           will be adjusted until the giant P wave (highest P) was detected on screen, this ECG
           tracing will be printed out and tagged with another non-sequential serial number. The
           iECG will then switched to the PS wire and the iECG tracing will be printed out again
           and tagged with another non-sequential serial number. All 3 ECG printouts will be
           stapled together for measurement by cardiologist who is blind to the intervention later.

        6. The intervention related to research study is considered ended at this point. The
           patient will have their CVL/PICC line adjusted to the proper position (mid to distal SVC
           for mid-long term and long term catheter). The CVL or PICC will be secured, flushed and
           locked per standard protocol.

        7. Portable CXR will be routinely obtained when patients arrived to the ward. The
           information of the tip of the catheter will be recorded as well.

      Data analysis

        1. Demographic data, type of catheter, depth of catheter where giant P wave obtained and
           final position of catheter will be recorded.

        2. Each study patient produce 3 ECG print outs which are -baseline surface lead II ECG

             -  iECG produced by Certodyn system

             -  iECG produced by PS wire Each ECG tracing will be evaluated and measured by a
                cardiologist who is blind to the intervention. The 2 measured parameters includes:

             -  The amplitude of P wave in mm from baseline surface ECG of each cardiac cycle. -The
                amplitude of giant P wave in mm from iECG from both Certodyn and PS wire.

        3. All 3 ECG print outs will be compared for quality and the length noisy ECG segment
           (determined as the ECG with interference artifact of baseline > 1 mm) will also be
           measured in mm.

      6) All measurement will be analyzed statistically to determine the differences between the 2
      systems.
    
  