
    
      Stress is an inherent part of the experience for the neonate who is critically ill and
      unstable during the initial days in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). Individualized
      developmentally appropriate nursing care is standard of care (SOC) and provides significant
      reduction in stressful stimulation. Developmentally appropriate, nurturing stimulation is
      often lacking. Touch is critical in development of neonatal self-regulation. Healing Touch
      (HT), a gentle touch and energy healing therapy, is proposed to ameliorate stress and enhance
      regulatory system development. This R21 feasibility study will involve 40 critically-ill
      neonates on admission to the NICU, in a parallel, randomized controlled trial, single blind
      design of 2 groups (N=20 each). In each day for a total of 7 days, each subject will have 2
      study conditions: a significant, routinely-occurring, specified stressor followed immediately
      by either HT+SOC or SOC alone. The treated group will have HT + SOC following a stressor for
      one study condition and SOC alone for the second study condition; the SOC group will have
      only SOC for both study conditions. This design allows the treated group to be paired to its
      own control on each day. During each study condition, markers of stress response will be
      collected: physiological [heart rate (HR), respiratory rate (RR), oxygen saturation (Sa02)
      and respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) for cardiac vagal tone (Vna)] and behavioral
      [Brazelton states 1-6 and cues (self-regulatory and stress) per Bigsby]. The primary
      hypotheses (all in comparison to SOC alone) are: a) HT will result in improved stress
      recovery within each study condition, reflected by HR, RR, and Sa02;.b) HT will result in an
      accumulative improvement in the stress response from day 1-7, reflected by HR, RR and Sa02;
      c) In infants > 30 weeks gestation, HT will result in + _ improved stress response within
      each study condition, reflected by increased amplitude of RSA and increased cardiac vagal
      tone (Vna), or stress reactivity; and d) In infants > 30 weeks gestation, HT will result in
      an accumulative + _ improvement in the stress response from day 1-7, reflected by increased
      amplitude of RSA and increased cardiac vagal tone (Vna) both in stress reactivity (measured
      during the stress response) and in stress vulnerability (measured during sleep). Secondary
      hypotheses are: a) HT will result in improved neonatal behavioral state and cues during
      stress recovery within each study condition, as compared with standard of care alone; b) HT
      will result in accumulative improvement in behavior from day 1-7, during the stress response,
      as reflected by decrease in stress cues, increased self-regulatory cues, more relaxed
      behavioral state or decreased frequency of state change. Data analysis will be done using
      comparison measures [paired, grouped and multiple T-tests]. To assess the data
      longitudinally, a general linear mixed model will be used; [repeated measures analysis of
      variance and GEE model]. This study will begin our research in enhancement of neonatal
      regulatory system development and response to stress and will lay a foundation for larger
      scale prospective effectiveness and mechanism studies.
    
  