
    
      From the entrance of the first diagnostic catheter into the sheath and until the completion
      of the diagnostic coronary angiography will be the measurement of the endpoints of the study.

      In case of failure to complete the coronary angiogram with the catheter study a crossover to
      the other catheter of the study will take place except in cases of severe spasm, where
      catheter choice will be at the discretion of the operator. In case of failure of the other
      study's catheter, next catheter's selection will be at operator's discretion. Patients
      included in the study, who do not process to adhoc PCI, will be monitored with baseline
      creatinine and creatinine value at day 2 or 3 after coronary angiography.

      In all angiography films will be conducted offline analysis by two experienced operators for
      scoring opacification grade and coronary ostium contact with the catheters used.

      DEFINITIONS Mild spasm Spasm causing well tolerated local pain Moderate spasm Spasm which
      causes severe pain but the handling of catheters remains satisfactory Severe spasm Spasm that
      leads to change diagnostic catheter or access site Duration of coronary angiogram Is defined
      as the time from the insertion of the first diagnostic coronary catheter in the sheath to the
      exit of the last diagnostic catheter from the sheath Radiation time Radiation time from the
      insertion of the first diagnostic coronary catheter in the right radial sheath to the exit of
      the last diagnostic catheter from the sheath Dose area product (DAP) DAP from the insertion
      of the first diagnostic coronary catheter in the sheath to the exit of the last diagnostic
      catheter from the sheath Contrast volume Contrast volume (ml) used from the insertion of the
      first diagnostic coronary catheter in the sheath to the exit of the last diagnostic catheter
      from the sheath Contrast induced nephropathy (CIN) Relative increase ≥25% from baseline or
      absolute increase ≥ 0.5mg/dl of serum creatinine within 48-72 hours of intravenous contrast
      administration Opacification grade 0=poor/non-diagnostic

        1. moderate opacification only in systole or diastole

        2. moderate opacification throughout cardiac cycle

        3. complete opacification but not throughout cardiac cycle

        4. complete opacification throughout cardiac cycle Catheter contact with coronary ostium

      0=none and non-diagnostic study

      1=none but diagnostic study 2=non-coaxial contact 3=coaxial contact Catheter stability within
      the coronary ostium 0=no catheter's steady engagement of the ostium throughout the
      angiographic view

      1=catheter's steady engagement of the ostium throughout the angiographic view Catheter
      failure Completion of coronary angiogram after study catheter crossover with or without right
      radial access site crossover Based on pilot data and previously published data we
      hypothesized that Tiger catheter use will lead to an absolute decrease of at least 5 ml in
      contrast volume compared with Judkins catheters (48 and 53 ml for Tiger και Judkins catheters
      respectively, with estimated standard deviation of 17 for both). With a 2-sided alpha of
      0.05, group sample sizes of 316 and 316 will achieve 95% power to detect this difference.
    
  