
    
      Increasing evidence from observational studies in hospitalized patients with and without
      diabetes indicates that hyperglycemia is a predictor of poor outcome. Blood glucose control
      with intensive insulin therapy in patients with acute critical illness reduces the risk of
      multiorgan failure and systemic infection, and decreases short- and long-term mortality.

      The use of intravenous insulin infusion is the preferred route of insulin administration for
      the management of diabetic subjects with diabetic ketoacidosis and nonketotic hyperosmolar
      state, intraoperative and postoperative care, the postoperative period following heart
      surgery and organ transplantation, acute myocardial infarction, stroke, and critical care
      illness. Some of these settings may be characterized by, or associated with, severe or
      rapidly changing insulin requirements, generalized patient edema, impaired perfusion of
      subcutaneous sites, requirement for pressor support, and/or use of total parenteral
      nutrition. In these settings, the intravenous route for insulin administration has been
      considered superior than the subcutaneous injection of split-mixed regimen of intermediate
      and regular insulin with respect to rapidity of effect in controlling hyperglycemia, overall
      ability to achieve glycemic control, and most importantly, preventing hypoglycemic episodes.
      Recently, several insulin infusion protocols have been reported in the literature; these
      algorithms and formulas, however, may be confusing and difficult to follow and may increase
      the risk of dosing errors. To facilitate patients care, insulin algorithms could be placed on
      a computer and used at the patient bedside to direct the nursing staff administering the
      intravenous insulin. The Glucommander is one of such computer-derived insulin infusion
      protocol which has been used successfully in over 5,802 patients with diabetes between 1984
      and 1998. The study hypothesizes that management of inpatient hyperglycemia with a
      computer-guided intravenous infusion protocol will facilitate smoother glycemic control with
      a lower rate of hypoglycemic events than treatment following a standard insulin infusion
      algorithm in critically ill patients in medical the ICU. The study also aims to determine
      differences in glycemic control between treatment with a computer-guided intravenous infusion
      protocol (Glucommander) and a standard insulin infusion algorithm in critically ill patients
      in the ICU.
    
  