
    
      The benefits of physical activity on managing chronic illnesses and multiple symptoms are
      well established. However, increasing the physical activity of persons living with Multiple
      Chronic Conditions (MCC), especially low -income cancer survivors with MCC, is challenging.
      Home-based exercise improves physical activity and symptoms among persons with the single
      chronic disease. One major challenge of the home-based exercise is the motivation and
      adherence. The mobile technologies (e.g., wearable device and smartphone application) have
      been used to improve motivation and monitor a person physical activity. Guided by the society
      to cells framework and previous preliminary findings, the investigators developed a
      technology-enhanced home-based exercise program using a combination of the integrated mobile
      technologies (wearable device and phone application) and tailored home-based exercise.
      Participants will choose one of the four home-based exercise options [National Institute of
      Aging (NIA) Go4Life, Iyengar-style yoga, walking, and modified Otago exercise] based on
      participants' preference and goals. The integrated mobile technologies system will allow the
      investigators to extract heart rate data directly from the wearable device to the research
      server. This data will be used to provide appropriate and personalized feedback on physical
      performance and trigger algorithms to send the survey and notification to the participants in
      real time. This pilot project will examine the feasibility of this technology-enhanced home
      exercise tailored to participants' goals and preferences. The intervention will leverage the
      cancer survivorship phase (post-treatment) to motivate self-care by combining tailored
      existing evidence-based physical activity programs and mobile technology for participants to
      engage in the resilience-enhancing physical activity. Identification of BDNF's role as one of
      the exercise outcomes provide a novel target for an intervention and increase the
      investigators' understanding of the underlying mechanism of symptoms and resilience. This
      study aims to examine the feasibility and acceptability of the iHBE program among low-income
      cancer survivors living with co-morbid conditions. Eight participants who have completed
      treatment for a solid tumor cancer with at least one comorbidity (e.g., diabetes and/or
      hypertension) will be assigned to an open-label trial of the idea. The investigators will
      gather feedback on goal setting, problem-solving strategies, exercise choices, and tracking
      mechanisms, program feasibility, and acceptability and modify the intervention as needed.
    
  