
    
      This proposal describes a community-based participatory research study to develop and pilot
      test a new behavioral intervention to promote mammography screening among Navajo women. From
      a public health perspective, the intervention has the potential to reach many Navajo women,
      as 80% of women scheduled for mammography appointments do not follow through. These women
      (over 1,500 each year) are referred to the Nation Breast and Cervical Cancer Prevention
      Program (NNBCCPP). A key barrier toward implementing cancer prevention and control efforts in
      the Navajo community is a lack of cancer literacy or cultural and conceptual knowledge
      regarding cancer. Other barriers to screening are fear of cancer, stigma of cancer (even
      talking about cancer) often experienced by the patient, family and community, and lack of
      knowledge about the etiology of cancer and importance of early detection. Therefore,
      communication about cancer is impeded within Navajo families and the community.

      This proposal builds on our successful partnership and collaboration with Diné College (the
      Navajo tribal college). The proposed study is designed to assess the feasibility and
      potential efficacy of a cancer-literacy focused, family-based intervention on completion of
      mammography screening for Navajo women. The intervention will include culturally and
      linguistically appropriate educational materials about cancer (e.g., the Navajo Cancer
      Glossary). The project will be implemented in two phases. During Phase 1, the investigators
      will develop the family cancer literacy intervention with feedback from our community
      advisory committee. In addition, the Cancer Literacy Measure will be adapted for Navajo women
      through focus groups and individual interviews. Phase 2 will consist of a formative
      evaluation of the intervention. The NNBCCPP patient and a female family member will be
      randomly assigned in pairs to the control condition (existing NNBCCPP health education
      services, N=40 pairs) or to receive these health education services plus the family cancer
      literacy intervention (N=40 pairs). The investigators will assess the intervention's
      feasibility and acceptability as indicated by the recruitment and retention rates and
      qualitative ratings of treatment acceptability. In addition, the investigators will examine
      the effect of the intervention compared with the control group on the proportion of women who
      complete mammography screening at 3-month follow-up documented by NNBCCPP records. The
      investigators will also examine changes in Cancer Literacy Measure scores from baseline to
      3-month follow-up among both patients and family members. The investigators expect that as a
      result of this project, the investigators will have developed a replicable, feasible, and
      acceptable intervention, the efficacy of which can be tested in future large-scale randomized
      clinical trials. In addition, the adapted Cancer Literacy Measure could be used in future
      cancer prevention and control projects within the Navajo Nation. The overall objective is to
      reduce breast cancer morbidity and mortality among Navajo women.
    
  