
    
      Individuals dying from cancer often live out their lives at home with a host of poorly
      controlled symptoms. Ineffective symptom management results, in part, from inadequate
      monitoring of patients once they leave the treatment-focused arena of the clinical setting.
      The changing pattern of symptoms is challenging as care strategies and recommendations from
      previous encounters with healthcare providers become quickly outdated. The burden of
      end-of-life care largely falls to family caregivers, usually a spouse or partner, who feel
      enormous pressure to provide physical and supportive care but often lacks the knowledge and
      skill resulting in significant caregiver burden and distress that may extend into
      bereavement.

      This prospective, clinical trial proposes to develop and test a telecommunication system,
      Symptom Care by Phone- Hospice that has been designed to bridge the divide between home and
      palliative care support for patients at the end of life and their family caregiver.
      SCP-Hospice has three elements: 1) daily monitoring of symptoms common at end of life, 2)
      automated alerting of the hospice nurse case manager about symptoms that have exceeded a
      pre-set threshold for symptom severity or caregiver distress about symptoms, and 3)
      automated, just in time, tailored care management strategies for the caregiver to implement
      to address the patient's symptoms. Caregivers call the SCP-Hospice system daily to report
      patient symptoms and then are immediately provided automated, tailored care suggestions
      paired to the specific symptom profile.

      The specific aims of the study are to test whether the SCP-Hospice intervention reduces
      severity and distress from 12 different symptoms and whether it decreases caregiver burden,
      anxiety, depressed mood and distress about the patient's symptoms and improves caregiver
      sleep when compared with usual care. The mechanisms that explain how SCP-Hospice affect these
      outcomes also will be explored. Other aims will compare patient care strategies utilized by
      caregivers and evaluate caregiver and Hospice nurse satisfaction with the SCP system.
    
  