
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is the fourth most common psychiatric disorder and is
      estimated to affect more than ten million American children and adults at some point in their
      lives. Although a number of pre-, peri-, and acute phase post-trauma variables (e.g., prior
      trauma history, subjective life threat, injury) have been shown to increase one's risk of
      developing PTSD, initial psychological reaction to a traumatic event is an imperfect
      predictor of subsequent diagnosis. In addition, early psychological interventions have
      generally proven ineffective, and in some cases, detrimental with regards to subsequent
      symptomatology. In light of this, researchers have recently begun to examine possible
      pharmacological interventions that could be administered in the acute phase of responding to
      trauma to prevent or reduce the severity of subsequent post-traumatic stress.

      Biopsychological research has frequently (but not always) indicated that patients with PTSD
      excrete lower levels of cortisol than similarly-exposed trauma victims who do not develop
      PTSD. Further, recent research has shown that lower cortisol levels present soon after a
      trauma are associated with increased risk for developing PTSD symptoms. These results suggest
      that higher levels of cortisol during and immediately after a traumatic event may buffer the
      development of PTSD symptoms. In addition, preliminary findings have suggested that
      exogenously elevating patients' levels of cortisol during and immediately following trauma
      results in decreased incidence of PTSD. However, these data were collected on relatively
      small samples of trauma patients with confounding medical conditions (e.g., shock, cardiac
      surgery, or paralysis). A randomized controlled trial (RCT) is necessary to determine the
      efficacy of early cortisol administration at buffering the development of post-traumatic
      stress in a heterogeneous trauma sample.

      Prior to conducting a large-scale RCT, it is necessary to pilot test the efficacy of early
      cortisol treatment at reducing or preventing PTSD symptoms in a representative sample of
      heterogeneous trauma victims. The proposed research is designed to examine the efficacy of
      hydrocortisone (commercially-available cortisol) in preventing post-traumatic stress in a
      small-scale, randomized, double-blind trial. More specifically, incidence of PTSD and
      comorbid disorders (i.e., mood, anxiety and substance abuse/dependence disorders), severity
      of symptoms, health-related quality of life, and hormonal correlates of distress will be
      prospectively examined in trauma victims who are randomly assigned to receive either a course
      of hydrocortisone or placebo within 12 hours of the traumatic event. As psychological and
      physiological reactions to trauma may develop over a number of months post-trauma,
      prospective follow-up will allow us to examine the efficacy of cortisol administration at
      reducing both early as well as delayed development of symptoms. The proposed research will
      provide pilot data and effect size estimates for a subsequent large-scale trial, should pilot
      results be promising.

      Specific objectives of the proposed research include:

        1. Examination of the effects of early (within 12 hours of trauma) cortisol administration
           on subsequent symptoms of PTSD in trauma victims. Specifically, victims admitted to the
           Level 1 trauma unit of a local hospital will be randomly assigned to receive
           double-blind, low-dose cortisol (20mg, twice daily: bid) or placebo for ten days plus a
           6-day taper period. Symptoms of psychopathology will be measured at 1- and 3-months
           post-trauma. Secondary analyses will examine the effects of cortisol on disorders
           commonly comorbid with PTSD (i.e., anxiety, mood, and substance abuse/dependence
           disorders) and on health-related quality of life.

        2. Examination of the extent to which early cortisol administration influences the
           relationship between preexisting and trauma-related factors and psychophysiological
           responses to trauma. In particular, as lifetime incidence of psychopathology, prior
           trauma exposure, and injury severity have been associated with increased risk for PTSD,
           we will examine whether this relationship is weakened in patients receiving the cortisol
           regimen. Due to budgetary constraints of the R34 mechanism and the exploratory nature of
           the proposed research, we will not be able to recruit enough participants to
           sufficiently examine this objective, and it is thus considered a secondary aim. However,
           results will be used to strengthen and guide the design of a subsequent R01 proposal.
    
  