
    
      After approval by the Institutional Review Board and patient consent, term pregnant patients
      (>37 week gestation) admitted to the obstetric service of Augusta University Medical Center,
      who require administration of neuraxial analgesia for labor or regional anesthesia for
      cesarean section, will be included in the study. The consent will be obtained by the
      attending, resident or medical student in which the investigators will explain to the patient
      the procedure, benefit, risk, cost and, confidentiality. The investigators plan to get the
      consent immediately after the patient arrived at the unit to avoid any interference with the
      delivery process. If the patient needs to go to an emergency cesarean section. This patient
      is not going to be included in the study. Demographic variables (age, BMI, Gravity, parity
      and gestation weeks) and hemodynamic variables (MAP and HR) will be recorded. All patients
      will be lying in supine position, breathing spontaneously. The ultrasound examination will be
      performed before commencement of the neuraxial procedure and will be repeated two minutes
      after administration of the neuraxial anesthetic. Ultrasound measurements will be made with a
      Sonosite Edge (Sonosite Inc. USA) machine and a C60X curved linear phased array transducer
      (Sonosite Inc.) set to abdominal mode. All measurements will be made by two attending
      anesthesiologists (ERP and AR) who have experience in transthoracic echocardiography, and a
      resident who receives the basic instruction to measure IVC diameter. The medical student will
      be present during the procedure and will ensure that the study echocardiographic views are
      taken.

      The IVC will be visualized using a paramedian long-axis view via a subcostal approach
      according to guidelines of the American Society of Echocardiography. A two-dimensional image
      of the IVC will be obtained and pulsed wave Doppler will be used to differentiate from the
      aorta. Variations in IVC diameters will be assessed with M-mode applied 2 cm. distal to the
      right atrium. To ensure consistent measurements, each operator will take three images. The
      best quality images are chosen. Maximum and minimum IVC diameters during a single respiratory
      cycle will be measured.
    
  