
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is one of the leading causes of death, disability and medical
      resources use worldwide. Atherosclerosis remains the basic pathology found in CVD. Based on
      theoretical knowledge and animal experimental models it can be hypothesized that allergic
      inflammation affects atherosclerotic plaque formation/disruption. The exact nature of such
      interaction remains unknown.

      The process most probably takes place at the molecular level and involves both: specific
      interleukin formation and mast cells recruitment. On the one hand some pro-allergic
      interleukins have been found to inhibit atherosclerotic plaque formation in experimental
      animal models. However, other hypothesis conclude that mediators released by mast cells might
      encourage hypoxemia of the heart muscle cells and thus promote their necrosis. Mast cells and
      eosinophils -typically associated with allergy - are both found in human heart muscle, cross
      sections of coronary arteries and atherosclerotic plaques.

      Atopic patients who are prone to IgE-mediated mast cell activation seem to run a lower risk
      of sudden cardiac death after myocardial infarction. It may be associated with the fact that
      atopy produces a mild haemostatic imbalance similar to that typical of aspirin - moderately
      long bleeding time, depressed platelet aggregability and delayed generation of thrombin in
      clotting blood. Tryptase, one of the mediators released from mast cells widely used marker of
      anaphylaxis, has recently been shown to be increased in sera of patients with
      angiographically significant narrowings in coronary arteries. These results are in accordance
      with the previous finding of increased total IgE (antibody involved in type I allergic
      reaction) post myocardial infarction. Allergic myocardial infarction (also known as Kounis
      syndrome) - a condition in which heart muscle ischemia results from allergic insult sometimes
      even in the absence of permanent coronary artery lesions - is another hint supporting the
      hypothesis of possible interaction between allergy and cardiovascular diseases.

      Despite relatively many reports studying the association at molecular, in vitro and clinical
      level, the research investigating the problem as a whole, connecting laboratory data with
      clinical picture, is scarce. Our research aims at providing epidemiological evidence on the
      prevalence of allergy and atopy as well as serum allergy markers profile in subjects with
      coronary artery disease.

      Our study is dedicated to post-coronary angiography subjects willing to express informed
      consent for study participation.

      Coronarography has been chosen as a verification tool for several reasons:

        -  it gives more accurate diagnosis of clinically relevant coronary narrowings than basic
           ECG, ECG exercise test or coronary angioCT

        -  it enables the distinction between typical angina pectoris and Prinzmetal's angina

        -  it has become a common procedure in Poland giving a relatively large and diverse cohort
           of patients undergoing the procedure whom we could address
    
  