
    
      In this research study, Investigators are exploring the combination of acalabrutinib,
      umbralisib, and ublituximab and hoping to determine if the combination is effective at
      controlling cancer growth in participants with CLL.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including
      evaluations and follow up visits.

      Participants will receive the study drugs for a maximum of 24 cycles (2 years) and will be
      followed for a maximum of 5 years after discontinuing the study drugs.

      The names of the study drugs involved in this study are/is:

        -  Acalabrutinib (CALQUENCE®, ACP-196)

        -  Umbralisib (TGR-1202)

        -  Ublituximab (TG-1101)

      It is expected that about 60 people will take part in this research study.

      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational drugs to learn whether the drugs work in treating a
      specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drugs are being studied.

        -  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved umbralisib or ublituximab
           as a treatment for any disease.

        -  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved acalabrutinib for CLL, but not
           in this combination.

             -  Acalabrutinib is a type of drug called a kinase inhibitor. It blocks a type of
                protein called Bruton Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) that helps CLL cells live and grow. By
                blocking BTK, acalabrutinib may kill cancer cells or stop them from growing.

             -  Umbralisib is an investigational drug which blocks a protein called PI3K. PI3K is a
                protein that helps CLL cells grow.

             -  Ublituximab is a type of investigational drug called a monoclonal antibody. A
                monoclonal antibody is a type of protein made in the laboratory that can locate and
                bind to substances in the body, including tumor cells. By binding to the tumor
                cells, the antibody might prevent the tumor cell from growing and spreading.
    
  