
    
      The intent of this study is to define more precisely the natural history and
      immunopathogenesis of MAC disease in the HIV-infected population. It is suggested that MAC
      disease in AIDS patients results both from specific immunologic deficiencies caused by HIV
      infection of the host and as a result of specific mycobacterial virulence properties.
      Therefore, aggressive antiretroviral drug treatment of HIV-infected patients at risk for DMAC
      due to specific immune deficiencies will improve these immune functions in such a manner as
      to resist DMAC.

      A total of 85 patients will be stratified at baseline into one of three groups:

      Group I - 40 patients at high risk for MAC infection are neither followed beyond baseline nor
      receive study treatment.

      Group II - 15 patients with DMAC, i.e., newly diagnosed MAC-bacteremic patients with no more
      than 72 hours prior treatment for MAC, receive individualized regimen of HAART for 48 weeks:
      nelfinavir (NEV), nevirapine (NVP), and nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor(s) as per
      primary physician. Patients are evaluated through clinical, microbiologic, and virologic
      assessments, and intensive immunologic evaluations at Weeks 12, 24, and 48.

      Group III - 30 asymptomatic HIV-infected patients are further stratified (15
      patients/stratum) by CD4 count (less than or equal to 50 cells/mm3 or 100-250 cells/mm3).
      Patients in Group III follow the same HAART regimen and evaluations as Group II patients and
      continue evaluations for up to 48 weeks, if an acceptable response is found within 12 weeks
      of entry. Patients in Stratum 1 of Group III receive MAC prophylaxis with azithromycin once
      weekly with follow-up evaluations as in Group II. Patients in Group III that have a positive
      MAC blood or bone marrow culture at any time during the study will, from that point on,
      follow the same schedule of evaluations as patients in Group II.

      [AS PER AMENDMENT 11/3/98: Up to 100 evaluable patients will now be studied. Group 2 is now
      modified to include up to an additional 15 evaluable patients with known MAC bacteremia and
      less than or equal to 7 days prior MAC treatment who are unable to commit to long-term
      follow-up (Group 2b); these patients will undergo only baseline evaluations. Group 2a
      consists of 15 evaluable patients with known MAC bacteremia and less than or equal to 7 days
      of prior MAC treatment who are willing and able to enter the follow-up phase.]
    
  