
    
      Breast Cancer treatment is expected to have the best outcome when adapted to the patients'
      health, and physical condition. The investigators aim at contributing to produce an improved
      algorithm to evaluate breast cancer patients.

      The semiologic evaluation of patients is changing, as a result of scientific advances, easier
      and rapid access to information, the incorporation of ICT (information and communication
      technologies) etc. Profound changes are expected, namely in incorporating new technologies to
      improve patient's evaluation.

      Medicine is also called to give better support to cancer patients, which disease is not
      active but may evolve in the future. Cancer is more and more regarded as a chronic ailment,
      as the acute life-threatening conditions are fortunately becoming less and less frequent. In
      these cases, medicine is requested to provide ways of improving longevity with quality of
      life. Physical activity may play an important role in achieving such a goal. The
      investigators think that possibly the same kind of approach, i.e. considering physical
      activity, although to a different extent, should also be considered in the case of some
      patients with active disease. Human relationships play a very important role in supporting
      the patients' wellness, in impacting their quality of life, and in ensuring that the patients
      have the most adequate treatment, taking into account their true health conditions.

      This change of paradigm in Medicine is very important in areas as Oncology. Clinicians need
      new tools to give the best treatment to patients. These new tools will certainly soon
      incorporate new technologies that will call for different patterns of patients' validation.

      The question to be answered is if whether or not the introduction of new variables for the
      assessment of disease progression/quality of life of breast cancer patients and survivors
      will help improve medical reasoning of the general condition of the patient.

      As future goals, subsequently to the present observational study, the investigators look
      forward to provide answers to:

        -  what kind of physical and cognitive evaluation should be offered to Breast Cancer
           Patients?

        -  How can existing knowledge on physical motility be incorporated in the clinical
           practice? Namely in physical, and cognitive evaluation? (and finally assessing if such
           evaluation has practical impact) Moreover, the extended data set, expected to be
           obtained in the current study, is likely to be useful in developing strategies to
           motivate patients to follow an active lifestyle and balanced diet, as well as in helping
           adapt interventions that aim at improving survival rates and the quality of life.

      The relevant observations, summarized in this study, are expected to positively act on
      semiology evaluation of the breast cancer patients on daily medical practice, through an
      improved algorithm. Such algorithm should be suitable for the clinical practice and
      compatible with artificial intelligence tools.
    
  