
    
      Introduction:

      This is a phase II study evaluating the treatment adherence rate, efficacy and safety of
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy with capecitabine, oxaliplatin and irinotecan (CAPOXIRI) in patients
      with resectable (able to be cut out), borderline resectable and locally advanced pancreatic
      adenocarcinoma. Neoadjuvant CAPOXIRI chemotherapy is an innovative strategy that builds on
      the advancement associated with oxaliplatin, irinotecan, fluorouracil, and folinate
      (FOLFIRINOX regimen) chemotherapy in patients with metastatic disease. Building on the
      FOLFIRINOX regimen the use of CAPOXIRI is among the most clinically relevant projects for
      patients diagnosed with earlier stage pancreatic adenocarcinoma with the goal of improving
      patient outcomes and advancing our knowledge and understanding of this devastating disease.

      The primary end point is the treatment adherence rate (TAR) which is the percentage of
      patients who complete 75% of the planned treatment (dose) for their diagnostic strata
      (resectable disease and borderline resectable/locally advanced disease).

      Secondary end points are: Overall survival (OS), Disease-free survival (DFS; for those
      patients who are rendered disease-free by surgical resection), Progression Free Survival
      (PFS), Response Rate (RR), toxicity, and R0 resection rate (for patients stratified as having
      resectable disease and borderline resectable disease).

      Background and Study Rationale:

      It is estimated that 36,800 people will die of pancreatic cancer in the United States in
      2010. Surgical resection offers the only chance of cure, but only 15-20% of cases are
      potentially resectable at present. Furthermore, prognosis is poor, even for those undergoing
      complete resection. Reported five-year survival rates following pancreatic-duodenectomy
      (surgery of the small intestine and pancreas) for node-negative disease is 25-30% and for
      node-positive disease is 10%.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of the combination of capecitabine,
      oxaliplatin, and irinotecan (CAPOXIRI) on the disease. This research is being done because we
      think that this combination, CAPOXIRI, may be better than other combinations used to treat
      your stage of pancreatic cancer.

      A research study like this one has been done which shows that a similar combination of drugs
      including oxaliplatin, irinotecan and 5-fluorouracil (which is in the same class as
      capecitabine) can be effective in treating patients with pancreatic cancer who have more
      advanced disease than you. All of the drugs that are being used in this study have been
      approved by the FDA (Food and Drug Administration).
    
  