
    
      The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) has been successful in reducing the incidence of type 2
      diabetes mellitus (T2DM) through moderate weight loss and increased physical activity, and
      evidence from the original DPP suggests that adoption of increased physical activity (PA)
      habits are maintained up to 10 years among intervention participants when compared to
      control. Hispanic males are difficult to engage in traditional lifestyle or non-communicable
      chronic disease (NCDs) prevention interventions, yet, they have high rates of obesity and are
      at high risk for NCDs, particularly T2DM. Small-sided recreational soccer (RS) 6-12 month
      interventions have shown to be effective to achieve 5% weight loss and reduce
      cardio-metabolic risk, stemming from its varied movement patterns and highly functional
      training. Although proven cost-effectiveness and currently expanding in Europe, RS
      cardio-metabolic preventive interventions have not been tested in U.S. populations.

      To fill this gap in health promotion, the goal for this proposal is to utilize the local
      Hispanic community's interest in soccer as a vehicle to deliver an adapted DPP among male,
      overweight, Latino adults at high T2DM risk. The researchers will test the following central
      hypothesis: A soccer-based adaptation to the DPP, can be feasibly implemented in a middle-age
      Latino men population at high risk for T2DM. In lieu of the traditional walking or exercise
      program, participants will be enrolled in 12 weeks of soccer conditioning followed by 12
      weeks of small-sided soccer league play. National Diabetes Prevention Program (NDPP) online
      core and maintenance modules will also be facilitated by trained coaches during soccer
      practice for the first 12 weeks and through monthly in-person meetings the last 12 weeks.
      Physical activity volume, sleep and sedentary time will be tracked objectively with wearable
      devices linked to an innovative research smartphone app that provides data to the researchers
      and tailored in-app notifications and surveys to the participant. Additionally, the study
      will assess implementation feasibility and explore preliminary signals for improvements in
      objectively-measured PA, dietary behaviors, physical fitness and body composition and quality
      of life outcomes with the soccer-based DPP adaptation.
    
  