
    
      Background

      IUA is a consequence of trauma to the endometrium, producing partial or complete obliteration
      in the uterine cavity and/or the cervical canal, resulting in conditions such as menstrual
      abnormalities, infertility, and recurrent pregnancy loss. The outcome of hysteroscopic
      adhesiolysis for IUA is significantly affected by recurrence of intrauterine adhesions. The
      IUA research should be directed toward reduction of adhesion reformation with a view to
      improve outcome.

      The reformation of intrauterine adhesions appears to be directly related to the severity of
      the adhesions. It has been reported that the recurrence rate for intrauterine adhesions
      ranges from 3.1% to 23.5% among all cases of intrauterine adhesions and from 20% to 62.5% in
      those with severe adhesions.

      In this study, considering the high recurrent rate in severe IUA, investigator will focus on
      severe IUA cases.

      Up to now several strategies are commonly employed by various investigators after division of
      intrauterine adhesions:

        1. Physical barriers have been used to promote regeneration of the endometrium and
           prevention of adhesions. The physical barriers include an intrauterine device (IUD), a
           Foley catheter, a number of modifications of hyaluronic acid and Auto-cross-linked
           hyaluronic acid gel.

        2. Hormonal treatment has been used to promote regeneration of the endometrium.

        3. Antibiotic therapy has been used to prevent infection which is a potent trigger for
           adhesion formation/reformation.

        4. Various medications have been described to increase vascular flow to endometrium, such
           as asprin, nitroglycerine and sildenafil citrate.

      There is published data (Amer et al, 2010), which based on a plot prospective, randomised,
      comparative study that grafting of either fresh or dried amnion is a promising adjunctive
      procedure for decreasing recurrence of adhesions and encouraging endometrial regeneration
      after hysteroscopic lysis of severe intrauterine adhesions. However, the study had a small
      number of patients, the valid conclusion can not be drawn.

      In this study, the aim is to compare the safety and the efficacy of insertion of intrauterine
      balloon + hormonal treatment with or without grafting amnion to prevent intrauterine adhesion
      formation/reformation following division of intrauterine adhesions.

      Study Design

      Patients with severe IUA are enrolled according to the classification of intrauterine
      adhesion by American Fertility Society.

      208 patients with severe IUA were chosen at random and divided equally into those who
      received amnion graft, following hysteroscopic adhesiolysis (treatment groups) and to those
      who did not receive the amnion graft (control groups).

      Intervention

      Following hysteroscopic adhesiolysis, patients will be randomised to have a Foley balloon
      with or without amnion graft into the uterine cavity. Hormones therapy has been used after
      surgical treatment both in treatment groups and control groups. A second look and a third
      look hysteroscopy will be performed about 4 and 12 weeks after the initial operative
      hysteroscopy. The amount of adhesions, if any, during the initial and reexamine
      hysteroscopies will be scored.

      Power calculation

      The investigators' retrospective pilot study data showed that the recurrent rate of severe
      IUA is around 30% in amnion treatment groups, and around 47.5% in control groups. According
      to these data, investigators calculated the sample sizes of this study by using
      Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test with software PASS 11. Investigators will recruit 104 patients
      in each group.

      Group sample sizes of 104 in group one and 104 in group two achieve 85% power to detect a
      difference between the group proportions of -0.2000. The group two proportion is 0.5000. The
      group one proportion is assumed to be 0.5000 under the null hypothesis and 0.3000 under the
      alternative hypothesis. The test statistic used is the two-sided Z test (unpooled). The
      significance level of the test was targeted at 0.0500. The significance level actually
      achieved by this design is not available.

      Statistics

      Safety and efficacy were evaluated by software NCSS-PASS, using Two Independent Proportions
      (Non-Null Case) Power Analysis.
    
  