
    
      This trial is a phase III, multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled superiority trial,
      with two parallel groups (placebo vs. SDF applied to cavitated lesions) involving a total of
      1060 children with the primary outcome assessed at 6 months after initial treatment.

      One thousand sixty children, 23-61 months of age, from early childhood education programs,
      such as Head Start centers, Early Head Start centers, and equivalent city/state subsidized
      preschool programs, or children attending dental clinics associated with the clinical trial
      sites, will be randomized, in two cohorts. The plan to enroll in two cohorts, one at the
      beginning of each school year, is intended to address the feasibility and ability to recruit
      the total number of participants required. Each cohort will be followed for 8 months. Trial
      enrollment will occur over a course of 2 ½ years. Trial visits will occur at baseline, 3
      months, 6 months, and 8 months. SDF/placebo will be applied at baseline and 6 months.
      Parents/legal guardians will be called 24 to 48 hours after the SDF/placebo application to
      assess adverse events and unanticipated problems and in-person visits for safety exams will
      be available for all child participants approximately 24 to 48 hours after SDF/placebo
      application. This visit could happen before or after the 24- to 48-hour call with the parent
      or legal guardian, but every attempt will be made so that the call occurs prior to the 24- to
      48-hour visit. Additionally, intermediate contacts at 1.5 months, 4.5 months, and 7 months
      will occur to determine if the child needs an additional visit to assess pain, lesion
      progression, etc. and to maintain contact with the participant.

      Randomization to SDF application (treatment) or placebo (control) will be at the
      participant-level; all teeth within a participant that meet the inclusion criteria will
      receive the same trial product. Both treatment and control will be dispensed from identical
      unit-dose ampules coded and labeled to ensure masking of all trial personnel. The number of
      ampules required to treat all carious lesions in the participant's mouth will be recorded. No
      caries removal will be performed. Teeth will be cleaned with a toothbrush and will be dried
      with cotton/gauze, and the solution will be painted on the dentin of each targeted cavitated
      lesion using a standardized applicator. Following application, the tooth will be blotted dry
      with gauze.

      At each clinical visit International Caries Detection and Assessment System (ICDAS)
      examinations, including cavitated lesion hardness assessments, soft tissue assessments and
      questionnaires on dental discomfort, family impact and treatment satisfaction and
      acceptability will be collected.
    
  