
    
      Postpartum depression (PPD) affects up to 20% of women and has profound effects on mothers
      and their infants. Indeed, the cost of one case of PPD is estimated to exceed $150,000.
      Unfortunately, fewer than 15% of women with PPD receive evidence-based care and this is at
      least partly due to difficulties accessing treatment, particularly those that are most
      preferred (e.g., psychotherapy).

      Clinical practice guidelines recommend that the majority of women with PPD receive
      psychotherapy (e.g., cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT)) as a 1st-line treatment and that
      screening only occur in settings where CBT is readily available. In order to increase access
      to treatment, screening efforts have been undertaken by public health units province-wide.
      This is despite recommendations that this only be conducted in the setting of timely access
      to evidence-based psychotherapies (e.g., CBT). The purpose of this study is to apply task
      shifting to the treatment of PPD by determining if women with a past history of PPD (i.e.,
      lay peers) living in the community can be trained to deliver effective group CBT to women
      with current PPD.

      A group CBT intervention for PPD has been developed and validated as well as a training
      program that pilot data suggests is capable of successfully training public health nurses
      with little background psychiatric training. This intervention is brief, effective, and
      generalizable to women with PPD in community. Peer administered interventions (PAIs), those
      delivered by recovered former patients are increasingly recognized as potentially effective
      alternatives to traditional mental health care services. Eight lay peers will be trained to
      deliver our 9-week group CBT treatment. 74 women will be recruited and using a randomized
      controlled trial design (with wait list controls), it will be determined if lay peers can
      deliver effective group CBT for PPD.

      If peers can be trained to provide effective CBT, more women would receive treatment and the
      burden of PPD on women, families, and the healthcare system would be significantly reduced.
      Providing women with PPD with CBT skills at this crucial stage in life also has the capacity
      to prevent future depressive relapse with significant benefits for patients, families,
      employers, and the healthcare system.
    
  