
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the invasive disease-free survival (IDFS) in triple-negative breast cancer
      (TNBC) patients with residual basal-like disease after neoadjuvant chemotherapy who are
      randomized to post-preoperative platinum based chemotherapy with those who are randomized to
      capecitabine.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate overall survival (OS) and response-free survival (RFS) in the two arms in
      patients with TNBC with residual basal-like disease after neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      II. To characterize the side effects and tolerability of each platinum agent (cisplatin and
      carboplatin) as well as capecitabine in patients with TNBC with residual disease after
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      III. To identify the rate of basal-like gene expression using prediction analysis of
      microarray 50 (PAM50) analysis by digital messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) quantitation
      amongst drug-resistant residual TNBC after neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      IV. To compare the IDFS in TNBC patients with residual non-basal-like disease after
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy who are randomized to post-preoperative platinum based chemotherapy
      with those who are randomized to capecitabine (exploratory analysis).

      V. To assess the difference in health-related quality of life (HRQL) between the platinum
      based and capecitabine chemotherapy arms.

      VI. To describe the rate of neurotoxicity over time in the platinum arm, the rate of
      medication adherence in the capecitabine arm and the rates of amenorrhea in both arms
      (exploratory).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM A (closed to accrual 05/16/2016): Patients undergo observation.

      ARM B: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) or carboplatin IV on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Treatment
      repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 10 years.
    
  