
    
      Breast reconstruction surgery using tissue expander and implant technique is the most common
      breast reconstruction surgery. During this procedure, the surgeon will insert a silicone
      expander under the Pectoralis Major muscle. In order to fully cover the expander, the surgeon
      will detach the Serratus Anterior [SA] muscle from its natural attachments in the rib cage
      and will attach the free edges to the lateral edge of the Pectoralis Major muscle. After the
      wound is healed, a gradual inflation of the expander with a physiological fluid will be done
      by injecting the fluid into a subcutaneous filling port connected to the expander by silicone
      tubing. When the tissues around the expander will reach the required size, the tissue
      expander can be replaced by a permanent silicone implant.

      The SA attachments are to the superior angle, medial border and inferior angle of the scapula
      and to the first to eighth ribs. Its main functions are stabilization and protraction of the
      scapula and turning the glenoid cavity superiorly in abduction of arms. In addition, the SA
      is an accessory respiratory muscle: when the scapula is stabilized, its contraction will lift
      the rib cage in order to help breathing. The importance of the SA in breathing has been
      examined since the late 19th century and until this day it is not fully agreed upon. Most
      studies agree that the SA major role in breathing is in deep breaths and is that the muscle
      is most effective for this purpose when arms are lifted.

      Since breast reconstruction procedure includes detachment of the SA from the rib cage and
      there by canceling its respiratory function, an examination of the respiratory functions
      before and after the procedure is in order to determine whether or not the overall
      respiratory functions had been effected.

      45 patients elected for unilateral or bilateral breast reconstruction surgery will go through
      respiratory function examinations a month prior to the surgery, one month after surgery and
      three months after surgery. The examinations will include the following tests: Spirometry:
      FVC, FEV1, MVV. Lung capacities: FRC, RV, TLC. Breathing muscle strength: MIP, MEP.
    
  