
    
      The Stroke Team Remote Evaluation Using a Digital Observation Camera (STRokE DOC) system is a
      digital video camera system that can transfer video and audio images from the clinic or
      emergency room to a distant (remote) place where a stroke specialist can review the images in
      real time (as they happen). This system uses site independent software to access the camera
      system from multiple locations. The study will determine if video consultation is superior to
      telephone consultation for remote evaluation or treatment of stroke patients, and the
      usefulness of this system in evaluating patients with suspected stroke symptoms. However,
      this method is being used in other fields of medicine for assistance in medical evaluations.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to receive evaluation by either the video camera
      system or by telephone alone. For those assigned to the video camera system, the system will
      be activated and will record and transmit video and audio images to a stroke specialist
      located at a remote location. He/she may ask the participants questions relating to medical
      illnesses and current symptoms, and may also review laboratory tests and x-ray images using a
      computer, if available. The stroke specialist will also perform general physical and
      neurological examinations, which will take place by video camera with the assistance of a
      bedside physician who will perform the actual examinations.

      For those participants assigned to the telephone-only consultation, the video system will not
      be activated, but the same procedure as above will be followed except the stroke specialist
      will not be able to see the participants or examine them using the video camera system.
      Participation in the study will last for the entire time the participants are in the
      hospital. Participants will be contacted by telephone by a study nurse 3 months post-stroke
      for a 10-minute interview regarding their current health. The total duration for individual
      participation is 3 months.

      The study is part of the Specialized Program of Translational Research in Acute Stroke
      (SPOTRIAS), which allows researchers to enhance and initiate translational research that
      ultimately will benefit stroke patients.
    
  