
    
      The study is a double-blind, randomized, controlled, dose-escalation and safety study of the
      investigational product, autologous MSCs, to be assessed for inducing immune suppression in
      living donor kidney transplant recipients as compared to saline, the placebo infusion. The
      investigator will obtain exploratory immune response markers to estimate the effect of
      autologous MSCs on the T- and B-cell response following living donor kidney transplantation.
      The usual routine care supportive drugs will be given to all: corticosteroids during
      induction, the calcineurin inhibitor tacrolimus (Prograf®, Astellas Pharma), and
      mycophenolate mofetil (Cellcept®, Genentech) for maintenance therapy. All subjects will
      receive basiliximab (Simulect®, Novartis), a standard drug used to induce immune suppression.

      Up to 24 patients will be enrolled at the Houston Methodist Hospital. Safety analyses will be
      conducted after the first 4 subjects have been enrolled and completed the first 30-90 days
      posttransplant, with subject 2 enrolled 30 days after subject 1 and subject 3 enrolled 30
      days after subject 2 (eg, a 30-day window between subject enrollment days). If no safety
      signal has been detected, the next group of 4 subjects will be enrolled using no less than a
      2-week enrollment window from subject 5, 2 weeks from subject 6, and so on. Subjects will be
      evaluated in the same manner until 8 subjects in the final dosing group have completed 90
      days or a decision to stop the study has occurred, whichever comes first. Each subsequent
      dosing group will begin with a 30-day window of evaluation between subjects enrolled for the
      first 4 subjects enrolled in the group. If no adverse safety signal has been detected in the
      first 4 cases in that dosing group, the next 4 subjects enrolled will have a 2-week
      evaluation window between enrollments. This early evaluation approach will allow for the
      assessment of the inflammatory period occurring after transplantation. A final safety review
      will occur at the end of the study and a report will be written.

      The study will provide information needed to select a MSC dose level to be used in subsequent
      clinical trials and to inform the design of subsequent trials.
    
  