
    
      During a baseline period, all subjects will remain on their current prescription for
      administration of PS. Between Days -7 to -5 patients who have met initial screening criteria
      will return to the clinic and be enrolled into the study. Patients will be trained on diary
      usage and patients receiving the SBS meds will be instructed to discontinue use of their
      medications; Imodium, lomotil, and opium tincture.

      On Day -4, subjects will begin diary entries. For 48 hours, on Days -1 and 0, patients will
      record in their diaries total urine output, PS usage, stool output and oral liquid intake.

      On Study Day -1, patients will visit the clinic for baseline safety assessment, and review of
      symptoms of malabsorption and PS usage. Baseline SF36 and Bowel Symptom questionnaires will
      be administered.

      On Day 1 of treatment, patients will return to the clinic with a sample of urine collected
      during the baseline run-in for urinalysis. They will have blood samples drawn for clinical
      laboratory assessment and for pre-dose PK levels, anti-drug antibody, and AE assessments.
      Following administration of study drug on Day 1, subjects will undergo additional serial PK
      blood draws.

      Serial blood samples for the pharmacokinetic evaluation of NM-002 will be drawn on Days 1 and
      15, with single samples obtained on 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 16, 17, 18, 19, 22 and 29. Additional
      blood samples will be taken for clinical laboratory evaluations.

      Blood glucose meters will be provided to patients to record their daily blood glucose levels,
      and to check their blood glucose should any symptoms related to hypoglycemia occur. Patients
      will receive written instructions regarding the symptoms of hypoglycemia and how to manage
      them at home. They will be provided with glucose gel tubes and instructed in their use.

      At any time on Days 6 through 24, the investigator may call for a reduction or increase in
      PS, based on patient diary data and his/her clinical judgment. If a change in PS occurs,
      serum electrolytes will be assessed within 48 hours of implementing the change in PS.

      If patients have experienced a reduction in PS administration during the study, on Day 25
      they will be returned to their pre-study, standard PS regimen. On Day 27, patients will be
      asked to return to their individual oral liquid intake established during the baseline run-in
      period, and they will record their urine output volume for 48 hours (on Days 27 and 28).

      Any patients who experience an increase in PS administration over the original baseline level
      will remain on the new level of PS on Days 27 and 28.

      Patients will return to the clinic on Day 29. Blood samples will be drawn for clinical
      laboratory analysis and for PK. Patients will continue to make daily diary entries through
      Day 55. Telephone follow-ups will be conducted by the investigational site on Days 35±1 and
      42±1 to assess any requirement for PS adjustment.

      Patients will return to the clinic on Day 56 ± 2 for a final safety assessment.
    
  