
    
      Post-mastectomy radiotherapy (PMRT) substantially reduces the risk of loco- regional failure
      as shown in several studies and meta-analyses. Two large trials for pre-menopausal
      node-positive breast cancer patients treated with mastectomy and chemotherapy showed that
      PMRT not only reduced loco- regional failure rates but also improved disease-free and overall
      survival rates.

      Although the benefit of PMRT is clear, the optimal volume of tissues to be covered by the
      radiotherapy fields is controversial. Since the chest wall is the most likely location of
      recurrence, there is uniform consensus that the chest wall should be irradiated. However,
      areas of controversy exist regarding irradiation of the regional lymph nodes (axillary,
      supraclavicular and internal mammary lymph nodes), optimal radiation dose, and
      dose-fractionation.

      If equivalent results could be achieved by omitting irradiation of the supraclavicular region
      in patients receiving adjuvant systemic therapy, this will simplify and expedite treatment in
      this patient population. Furthermore, the use of a shortened fractionation schedule of 40 Gy
      in 15 fractions (2.67 Gy per fraction) over 3 weeks which has been used in the UK and Canada
      for post-mastectomy patients for several decades will shorten the duration of treatment by
      reducing the number of patient visits for radiotherapy and increase the number of patients
      who can be treated. Treatment will be more convenient for patients and a reduction in the
      number of treatments could result in savings for strained health care systems.

      This is a randomized comparison of two different radiotherapy field set-ups for
      post-mastectomy treatment of locally advanced breast cancer. Patients who have undergone
      modified radical mastectomy including axillary lymph node dissection will be randomized to
      receive one of two radiotherapy treatment arms, A and B following the completion of adjuvant
      chemotherapy. The radiotherapy for treatment Arm A consists of irradiation of the chest wall
      only while Treatment Arm B includes irradiation of the chest wall and the ipsilateral
      supraclavicular field. Patients on both treatment arms will receive radiation with a
      shortened fractionation schedule. Patients will be evaluated for local control, regional
      control, survival and treatment toxicity.
    
  