
    
      Sacrococcygeal pilonidal sinus disease is a chronic subcutaneous tissue inflammation that
      most commonly affects the male sex between the ages of 20 and 30, characterized by burning,
      itching and discharge in the internal gluteal cleft. It affects the young working population,
      short return to work after treatment and early return to daily normal activity is
      socioeconomically important. Although approximately 15 different surgical techniques have
      been described in the literature in the treatment of pilonidal sinus, a gold standard
      approach has not been determined. Since it is seen in the young working population, it is
      important that the ideal treatment has an easy-to-apply, low cost and fast recovery process.
      The effectiveness of phenol administration as a minimally invasive procedure has been
      demonstrated with acceptable complication and success rates in prospective and retrospective
      studies.

      Silver nitrate is a caustic and sclerosing substance that impairs tract integrity, such as
      phenol. It supports the closure of the sinus tract by cauterizing the granulation and
      epithelialized tissue throughout the sinus. It also has antimicrobial properties to reduce
      microbial load throughout the tract. Although the effective use and successful results of
      silver nitrate in the treatment of perianal fistula have been shown, a prospective study has
      not been conducted yet on the use of pilonidal sinus.

      The main purpose of the study is to compare return to normal daily activity between the two
      groups. This period will be measured in days from the intervention. Participants will not be
      offered any restrictions after the intervention, and the period of returning to normal daily
      activities such as starting work at work or doing the housework will be determined by filling
      out a two-week daily questionnaire. Secondary goals; quality of life, complaints related to
      pilonidal sinus (itching, burning, discharge), wound infection, closure of pilonidal sinus
      mouth, recurrence rate and VAS (visual analog scale) scoring.
    
  