
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) afflicts nearly one-third of the adult population with all races
      and ethnicities represented in CVD prevalence. Unfortunately, a disparity exists such that
      the black population (BL) is disproportionately affected compared to other groups, including
      the white population (WH). While the underlying cause of this disparity is multifactorial,
      vascular dysfunction (i.e., impaired vasodilation and/or augmented vasoconstriction) is a key
      contributor. Across a series of studies conducted in our laboratory we have consistently
      observed impaired microvascular function in the small blood vessels in the skin (the
      cutaneous microvasculature) in AA relative to age, sex, and body mass index Caucasian
      Americans (CA). From a research design perspective this offers the opportunity to conduct
      minimally invasive studies while investigating research questions in a systematic and
      mechanistic manner. Furthermore, the cutaneous circulation is recognized as surrogate
      vascular bed for assessment of mechanisms underlying systemic vascular disease and
      microvascular dysfunction is emerging as a critical step in the artherosclerotic process and
      a variety of conditions including hypertension, exercise intolerance, and insulin resistance.
      And, impaired cutaneous microvascular function mirrors impaired responses in other vascular
      beds. A primary advantage to utilizing the cutaneous circulation is that it provides an
      accessible vascular bed through which processes of endothelial function can be investigated,
      with virtually no risk, through thermal stimuli and local intra-dermal drug infusions.

      In terms of the AA population our group and others have documented that impaired vascular
      function and elevated disease risk is related, in part, to reductions in bioavailability of
      the potent vasodilator Nitric oxide (NO). While, this has become fairly common knowledge what
      remains less well defined is the mechanisms of this reduced NO bioavailability. We have
      recently identified a role for oxidative stress in this process. However, oxidative stress is
      a complex process and likely does not explain all of the observed impairment. 2 other
      possibilities that are attractive candidate targets for mechanistic studies are the
      endothelin pathway as well as bioavailability of L-Arginine. Endothelin is a hormone that has
      been implicated in many populations with elevated CVD risk as it is a potent vasoconstrictor
      which also can reduce NO bioavailability. Interestingly, there are reports of elevated
      endothelin circulating concentration and/or increased sensitivity and thus vasoconstriction
      to endothelin in AA. L-Arginine is a naturally occurring amino acid that is required for the
      full endogenous production of NO. In other words reduced L-Arginine bioavailability is
      present in many disease conditions and contributes to vascular dysfunction. In regards to AA
      it is reported that they have reduced natural production of L-arginine and also respond more
      positively to intra coronary infusion of L-arginine relative to other populations. However,
      to our knowledge the role of the endothelin system as well as L-arginine in microvascular
      dysfunction in AA has never been investigated.
    
  