
    
      The study will enroll patients with Her2 negative (negative on immunohistochemistry or
      nonamplified by immunofluorescence in situ hybridization) metastatic breast cancer. Cohorts
      will enroll according to patient hormone receptor status as hormone receptor-positive or
      triple-negative. In Part 2, the trial will enroll six patients with triple-negative breast
      cancer and six patients with ER and/or PR receptor-positive breast cancer. Patients diagnosed
      with metastatic disease upfront or after a variable interval from completion of definitive
      therapy for local or locally advanced breast cancer will be eligible.

      Patients with triple-negative metastatic breast cancer will be offered to participate in the
      trial at the time of diagnosis. Patients with hormone receptor-positive disease will be
      offered the option to participate in the study when they have exhausted endocrine monotherapy
      or endocrine therapeutic combinatorial options. Blood will be collected, and a biopsy will be
      performed prior to starting the first systemic therapy (triple-negative) or first
      chemotherapy (hormone receptor-positive). If enough tumor is collected, the patient will be
      deemed eligible for the trial. Malignant tissue collected from this biopsy will be used for
      genomic sequencing and for the development of organoid models for drug screening. Drugs
      selected for sensitivity testing will be guided by the results of the genome analysis and
      NCCN guidelines. Following tissue acquisition, the patient will begin therapy as selected by
      the treating physician. This first-line of on study therapy, either standard-of-care or
      investigational in the context of another existing active clinical trial, will be defined as
      the first "uninformed" line of therapy.

      The results from the drug screening and mutation testing will be summarized and returned to
      the treating physicianbefore the assignment of on study, second-line therapy. Before and
      after returning results, the treating physician will be administered a survey to assess the
      potential effect that the precision medicine results have on the selection of the following
      line of therapy. If a patient begins a therapy that was recommended by the precision medicine
      results, the therapy will be defined as the "informed" line of therapy.

      Patient response will be tracked for up to two uninformed lines of therapy. The first line of
      therapy started after the biopsy will count as the first uniformed line. If a patient does
      not begin an informed line of therapy after two lines of uninformed therapy they will be
      taken off study. Response and time of progression will be recorded on both informed and
      uninformed lines of therapy.

      The trial will open to enrollment in two stages. Stage One will enroll three patients to
      assess preliminary program feasibility and to optimize the genomics pipeline and time frames.
      After enrollment of the first three patients, enrollment will be put on hold. Upon return of
      results to the treating physicians, the genomics pipeline and time frames will be evaluated.
      If necessary, the process will be amended to maximize pipeline efficiency and decrease the
      interval of time between tumor tissue acquisition and the return of results.

      Stage Two will enroll 12 additional patients to further evaluate on a larger scale our
      functional precision oncology program in metastatic breast cancer.
    
  