
    
      Anaphylaxis is an acute serious allergic reaction, with multi-organ system manifestations
      caused by the release of chemical mediators . It requires immediate recognition and
      intervention.

      The estimated rate of anaphylaxis in children was 10.5 per 100,000 persons-years . Although
      the Rochester Epidemiology Project showed a rate of 75.1 per 100,000 person-years in children
      aged 9 years and 65.2 per 100,000 person-years in children aged 10-19-years old.

      In the state of Qatar with approximately 280,000 visits annually to Pediatric Emergency
      Center (PEC), there were 171 cases of anaphylaxis seen at the facility from September 2015 to
      September 2016.

      Anaphylaxis is a clinical diagnosis based on typical systemic manifestations, due to exposure
      to a causative agent. There are many possible triggers, including food, medication, insect
      venoms, rubber latex and vaccines . In some individuals, anaphylaxis is idiopathic. Both IgE
      and non-IgE activation of mast cells and basophils that results in the release and production
      of several inflammatory and vasoactive substances, these substances most commonly involve the
      skin, respiratory, cardiovascular, and gastrointestinal systems. As a result, urticarial,
      angioedema, bronchospasm, laryngospasm, increased vascular permeability and decreased
      vascular tone.

      Anaphylaxis involves a range of signs and symptoms from hives, wheezing and angioedema to
      cardiovascular collapse and death [9,10]. More than 80% of the patients will present with
      flushing, itching, hives, angioedema, or other skin or mucosal symptoms. Generally up to 70%,
      at least 2 organ systems (skin, respiratory, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal systems) are
      involved; however, only 10-45% have cardiovascular symptoms, including chest pain,
      hypotension, or shock . Between 5% and 14% of patients may experience a recurrence of
      anaphlactoid reaction 8-12 hours after the initial presentation, called Biphasic (late-phase)
      . Most of these reactions are mild or moderate . Risk factors for biphasic reactions include
      a severe initial reaction; presence of laryngeal edema or hypotension; delay in the
      administration of adrenaline (epinephrine); too small a dose of adrenaline; and a history of
      a previous biphasic reaction . Delayed symptoms can develop despite treatment .

      The mainstay of treatment for children experiencing anaphylaxis remains adrenaline 1:1000
      intramuscularly (IM) . H1-antihistamines are also commonly administered in anaphylaxis. The
      combination of H1 and H2 antihistamines appears to be more effective, especially for
      cutaneous symptoms . The onset of activity of these agents is slower than epinephrine and is
      considered next-in-line treatment.

      International guidelines consider antihistamines and glucocorticoids as second-line .
      Corticosteroids are not life-saving and do not have an immediate effect on the symptoms of
      anaphylaxis, since it takes 4-6 hours to work.

      Glucocorticoids are administered to 50% of individuals with anaphylaxis, despite a lack of
      compelling evidence supporting their use.

      Recent retrospective study in emergency department, evaluated the association between
      glucocorticoids administration and prolonged length of stay. In 4years retrospective chart
      review study on anaphylaxis patient, 70% of study patients received glucocorticoids as part
      of their treatment. Glucocorticoids were not found to reduce follow up revisit in the three
      days post discharge. And it didn't decrease the likelihood of extra epinephrine need for
      flare of symptoms, and only found to decrease length of stay in severe anaphylaxis.

      The existing evidence for the use of glucocorticoids appears to consist mainly of
      retrospective studies, case reports, and other descriptive literature. The need exists,
      however, for a prospective study on the use of glucocorticoids in the treatment of
      anaphylaxis and its effectiveness in prevention of biphasic reaction. The objective of the
      current study, therefore, is to complement the current research on anaphylaxis and to
      investigate if glucocorticoids are effective in the treatment of anaphylaxis and if it can
      prevent or limit biphasic reaction.

      This will be the first randomized controlled trial to look at steroid use in anaphylaxis and
      its impact on anaphylaxis treatment on a prospective fashion which will be used to help
      standardize care in the use of steroid for this common condition.
    
  