
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine, using fluorescence measurements, the protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) accumulation
           in thin actinic keratoses (AK) and actinically damaged skin on the face, scalp, and
           upper torso (stratum 1) and the PpIX accumulation in thick AK and actinically damaged
           skin on the arms and legs (stratum 2) as a function of skin preparation, aminolevulinic
           acid (ALA) application time, and body site.

        -  To determine the extent that the PpIX is photobleached by the treatment light.

      Secondary

        -  To assess the effects of different treatment conditions on acute reactions of AK and sun
           damaged skin to ALA-photodynamic therapy (PDT) occurring 24-48 hours after PDT.

        -  To assess the effects of different treatment conditions on the efficacy of ALA-PDT.

        -  To examine the histological response to ALA-PDT.

        -  To determine, using fluorescence measurements, the PpIX accumulation in incidental thick
           AK that may occur in stratum 1, and the PpIX accumulation in incidental thin AK that may
           occur in stratum 2 as a function of skin preparation, ALA application time and body
           site.

        -  To determine the extent that the PpIX in these incidental lesions is photobleached by
           treatment light.

      OUTLINE: The randomization is a two-step restricted block process for application time and
      skin preparation, followed by randomization for light dose (1 vs 2 pulses) within the
      anatomic site. Within each stratum (stratum 1 or 2), lesions in each separate anatomic area
      (face and neck, scalp, upper torso; arms, legs) are randomized to receive 1 of 3 pretreatment
      skin preparation before receiving topical aminolevulinic acid (ALA): pretreatment with
      acetone, gentle abrading, or no pretreatment. Patients are randomized to receive ALA at
      different times before the photodynamic therapy (PDT).

        -  Arm I: Patients receive topical ALA 2 hours before PDT.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive topical ALA 4 hours before PDT.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive topical ALA 24 hours before PDT. Each anatomic area is divided
           into subunits (e.g., right and left arm, right and left side of the face). The subunits
           are randomized to receive 1 or 2 pulses of the laser treatment.

        -  Arm IV: 1 Vbeam laser pulse (photodynamic therapy) is applied to the subunit.

        -  Arm V: 2 Vbeam laser pulses (photodynamic therapy) are applied to the subunit. Patients
           may receive up to 3 treatments (including pretreatment, ALA, and PDT) at least 1 month
           apart. Patients with progressive lesions or lesions that have not responded after 3
           treatments may receive diagnostic biopsy to check for invasive squamous cell carcinoma
           and referred to treatment off study.

      Patients undergo biopsies at baseline, before and after ALA application prior to light
      treatment, and up to 24 hours after light treatment to analyze cytokines and genes specific
      to actinic keratoses.
    
  