
    
      This is a research study looking at the biology of mood disorders in youth. The investigator
      ask participants to come in for three visits. The first visit includes a diagnostic
      interview, some questionnaires, and a blood draw. The blood draw will take place at the
      Fairview Outpatient Lab. A trained technician will take about 4 teaspoons of blood from the
      participant's arm. This sample will be sent to Dr. Andreazza in Toronto, Ontario for further
      analysis. No results will be shared with the participant.

      The second visit would take place at the Fairview Riverside Ambulatory Research Center (ARC).
      This appointment will include the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST). For this, participants
      will be asked to prepare a short speech for 5 minutes and deliver that speech for in front of
      an audience with another task to follow. This task will be videotaped. After the participant
      has completed the speech task, the participant will be asked to complete a number of laptop
      games which will test for things like attention and memory. Participants will be asked to
      provide 5 saliva samples throughout the course of this visit so the investigators can look at
      Cortisol which is a hormone naturally found in saliva. The investigators will also ask
      participants to complete an additional set of 5 spit samples at home during the course of a
      normal day and bring those back to their next appointment.

      The third visit would take place at the Center for Magnetic Resonance Research (CMRR) and
      would include a brain MRI. The MRI scan is noninvasive and takes about 2 hours. Participants
      will be asked to provide a urine sample and complete a urine toxicology screen (drug test)
      and pregnancy test (if female) prior to the MRI scan. Participants may not participate if
      drug or pregnancy testing is positive. The MRI involves taking pictures of the brain, from
      which measures of the integrity of certain brain tissues can be derived. For the scan,
      participants will be asked to lie down quietly on a scanner bed. Once they are inside the
      scanner, it will start to take pictures. While in the scanner, participants will be doing
      things like resting, or listening to music.
    
  