
    
      Colorectal cancer is one of the most common forms of cancer. Lifestyle modification and
      development of self-regulatory and self-care skills for maintaining psychological and
      physical well-being are especially important for recurrence prevention and long-term illness
      management. Mind-body practices are popular among cancer patients for being
      non-pharmacological, holistically beneficial, in addition to its feasibility for sustainable
      self-practice and self-care. Despite the popularity of practising qigong and mindfulness
      meditation among local patients, a systematic study on their effectiveness for cancer
      patients has yet to be conducted.

      Qigong and mindfulness meditation represent two distinct forms of mind-body practices:
      dynamic and static. With both approaches attending to the breath, Qigong relies on physical
      exertion to arrive at mental and psychological changes while mindfulness meditation begins at
      mental level but can also impact physical health. Yet current knowledge on mind-body
      practices tells little about these contrasting approaches. Hence, this study not only aims to
      provide evidence for the psychophysiological effectiveness of qigong and mindfulness
      meditation for colorectal cancer patients, but also elucidate how these two fundamentally
      contrasting approaches differ in psychophysiological outcomes, rebalancing of dysfunctional
      cortisol rhythm, and affect long-term practice compliance.

      Adopting a 3-arm randomized controlled trial design, this study will first independently
      study the effectiveness of Baduanjin qigong and Mindfulness meditation for Chinese colorectal
      cancer patients compared to controls on cancer-related symptoms and symptom distress, mental
      health, quality of life, biomarkers and mindfulness level. Another main objective is to
      examine the commonalities and differential effectiveness between a movement-based (Baduanjin
      qigong) and a mind-based (Mindfulness meditation) practice on the above outcomes, magnitude
      and pace of change, and the extended compliance throughout the 8-month study. A final
      objective is to examine the relationships among physical, psychological, and psychophysical
      variables and how these interactions between the mind and body. This study envisions
      advancing relationships change across the time.

      189 Chinese-speaking patients with colorectal cancer will be recruited from local hospital
      and community organizations, then randomized into an 8-week (90-min/week) (i) Baduanjin
      qigong intervention, (ii) Mindfulness meditation intervention and (iii) No-intervention
      waitlist control. Participants will be assessed on 4 time points at (i) baseline prior
      randomization, (ii) mid-intervention (4th week), (iii) post-intervention (8th week) and (iv)
      6 months post-intervention.

      The measurement of both physiological and psychological outcomes will offer a comprehensive
      understanding on the mental and bodily changes after each intervention and their maintenance.
      Results will further support the reciprocal evidence-based mind-body practices which can be
      easily learned, self-practiced and incorporated into patients' lifestyles.
    
  