
    
      Patients with melanoma of the trunk or extremities were prospectively enrolled in this trial.
      Patients with head and neck melanoma were excluded from this study based on our pilot
      experience. ICG is poorly visualized through muscle, and there seems to be high background
      uptake in the parotid gland; both of these features limit the utility of ICG and fluorescence
      imaging. All subjects had T1b or greater melanoma, and met current National Comprehensive
      Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines for sentinel node biopsy. All subjects had injection of
      tech99 and lymphangiography prior to surgery, and injection of indocyanine green (ICG) and
      methylene blue dye (MB) in the operating room. We utilized methylene blue dye for all
      subjects due to poor availability of isosulfan blue for a period of time, and to maintain
      consistency in the trial. Up to 1ml of MB was injected, and 0.9ml ICG (2.5 mg/ml). The ICG
      and MB were injected into the dermis separately, after induction of anesthesia and prior to
      prepping the patient.

      Each lymph node basin was examined with the gamma probe and imaged with the SPY Elite
      (Novadaq) prior to making skin incision, with assessment of the visibility of ICG through the
      skin (yes or no). Once incision was made, the basin was periodically imaged with SPY, or
      dissection was carried out with real time lymphangiography until the sentinel node was
      identified. The camera of the SPY machine is positioned over the basin, with the image
      projected onto a monitor. Similar to laparoscopy, the surgeon can watch the image and operate
      at the same time. Each sentinel node was assessed for the presence of each dye. A lymph node
      with any one of the dyes present was considered a sentinel node, and was resected.
      Fluorescence and blue dye were measured as yes or no, and not quantitated. Additional data
      collected includes demographic data, the dose of ICG and MB given, adverse effects from any
      dye, the total number of sentinel nodes identified and the number of malignant sentinel
      nodes. Pair-wise comparisons were made between the three dyes regarding the number of
      detected sentinel nodes, and the number of detected metastatic nodes.
    
  