
    
      At the Essex Cardiothoracic Centre (CTC) the follow up of patients surviving cardiac arrest
      demonstrated that standard psychological support arrangements for patients and their
      families/relatives were inadequate.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate simple psychological interventions can be
      implemented here at the Essex CTC with a view to supporting the psychological wellbeing of
      survivors of cardiac arrest during their recovery.

      The investigators propose to recruit 2 groups of patients. The first group will be chosen
      from patients who have already survived a cardiac arrest > 3 months prior to the start of the
      study. Participants in this group (patient and a relative/friend) will be invited to attend
      an outpatient clinic at the Essex CTC with members of the research team. The investigators
      will record general physical health condition and psychological wellbeing, using recommended
      questionnaires. A referral to onsite consultant psychiatrist will be offered to anyone
      expressing signs of severe depression.

      The second group will be recruited from patients who survive cardiac arrest from the start of
      study date. Participants in this group (patient and a relative/friend) will be approached by
      a member of the research team whilst in hospital and an informed consent will be obtained.
      Baseline data will be acquired using the recommended questionnaires and a supportive
      psychological intervention will be offered in the form of a dedicated telephone helpline,
      attendance at a cardiac arrest clinic and early referral to clinical psychiatrist if
      appropriate for psychological help. At around 6 months from the date of cardiac arrest,
      participants will be invited to attend a clinic to reevaluate post cardiac arrest care using
      the same recommended questionnaires. At the end of the study, the data between the 2 groups
      will be analysed.
    
  