
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine immunomodulatory effects of aerosolized sargramostim (GM-CSF) in patients with
           metastatic melanoma to the lung (part A).

        -  Determine toxicity profile of this therapy, in terms of pulmonary and hematologic
           toxicity, in these patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the therapeutic effects of this therapy, in terms of
           progression-free survival, overall survival, and objective response rate, in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of GM-CSF in these patients (part B).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

      Patients receive aerosolized sargramostim (GM-CSF) twice a day on days 1-7 and 15-21.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses. Patients with no disease progression after
      completion of course 2 may continue on treatment until disease progression. Patients are
      grouped to 1 of 2 dose-escalation regimens (part A vs B).

        -  Part A: Cohorts of 5-10 patients receive escalating doses of GM-CSF until the optimal
           immunostimulatory dose (ISD) is determined. The optimal ISD is defined as the dose at
           which at least 7 of 10 patients experience immunostimulation. Once the optimal ISD is
           determined, 10 patients receive aerosolized GM-CSF at a dose halfway between the optimal
           ISD and the preceding dose. Dose escalation is discontinued if at least 2 of 5 or at
           least 4 of 10 patients on a particular dose level experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Part B: Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of GM-CSF until the maximum
           tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at
           which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients
           are treated at the MTD.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 3 months, every 2 months for 1
      year, and then every 3-4 months for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 85 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  