
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate if the provision of a digital disease management
      tool in addition to standard care for T2DM, will improve glycaemic control. This is an open
      design study, in which the patients will be aware of the guidance they are receiving via the
      provided support tool. Study duration of 6 months has been chosen, as a reasonable amount of
      time to evaluate the tool. Glycaemic control is considered to be the goal of a T2DM disease
      management plan. In T2DM, long-term goals may not be achieved because participants fail to
      adhere to their management plan after an initial period of compliance. The study will compare
      the group receiving the digital disease management tool added to standard care for T2DM to a
      concurrent control group receiving standard care. Standard of Care cohort: Participants will
      have standard care with no access to the digital disease management tool. Clinical
      assessments for this study will be conducted as part of normal, standard care. Participants
      in the Standard of Care + digital disease management cohort will be taken through their
      standard T2DM management plan by their HCP (Health Care Provider) and trained in the use of
      the digital disease management tool. All participants will complete the PRO assessments. This
      study also aims at helping the health care practitioners and managed care providers to make
      evidence-based decisions about how to improve patient self-management of their diabetes.
      Participants diagnosed with T2DM and on one or more non-insulin antihyperglycaemic
      medications will be offered participation in the study at their point of care. Participants
      in the Standard of Care cohort will be taken through their T2DM management plan with their
      HCP per standard care. It is not anticipated that the use of this patient tool will be
      associated with any increase in risk to participating patients. The study will be performed
      in accordance with ethical principles that are consistent with International Conference on
      Harmonisation (ICH)/Good Clinical Practice (GCP), applicable regulatory requirements, and the
      AZ policy of bioethics.
    
  