
    
      Although modern therapeutics is targeting at prolongation of survival, despite the underlying
      illness, it also aims at the improvement of the quality of life. Two major symptoms affect
      considerably quality of life, fever and pain. Both symptoms are common denominators of a vast
      number of clinical situations some of which have good prognosis and some of which do not
      have. Among them situations like infectious diseases, hematologic malignancies, solid tumor
      malignancies, connective tissue disorders and factors connected to surgical operations
      predominate. Post-operative pain extents too long and imposes severely on the post-operative
      course of the patient.

      A variety of compounds have been developed for the management of fever and pain, the most
      successful being non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. They exist in a variety of forms for
      various types of administration. Those administered parenterally are considered more
      efficacious than those administered orally in terms of the rate of the achieved clinical
      effect. Furthermore, several conditions necessitate parenteral administration.

      Paracetamol is a well-known antipyretic and analgesic compound available for many years for
      oral administration since intravenous infusion was hampered by water insolubility. Its
      pro-drug, namely, pro-paracetamol, was applied for intravenous infusion where an amount of 2g
      was equally potent to 1 g of paracetamol. Pro-paracetamol has been given with success as
      analgesic medication in women undergoing laparoscopic operation, as antipyretic in patients
      with hematologic malignancies, as antipyretic in children bearing infectious diseases and as
      antipyretic in critically ill patients.

      Ready-made paracetamol for intravenous infusion has been in the market in some European
      countries. It has been tested in four clinical trials. In the first trial it was given as
      post-operative analgesia at a dose of 1g x 4 in 80 patients undergoing laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy. Clinical efficacy was comparable to parecoxib and valdecoxib. In three other
      studies, it was given as post-operative analgesia after spinal body ectomy and after
      resection of the third mole providing conflicting results. However, in all the three latter
      studies, the number of patients given paracetamol was limited.

      In Greece, paracetamol for intravenous infusion at vials of 1g/6.7ml is manufactured by the
      company Uni-Pharma (ΑPOTEL®). Based on: a) the limited number of patients enrolled in the
      studies mentioned earlier, and b) the application of that form only after laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy and spinal body ectomy, the present study is aiming to unravel the clinical
      efficacy of the above formula of 1g intravenous paracetamol as antipyretic and analgesic
      medication in various medical conditions.
    
  