
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, controlled, open-label clinical trial with a 1:1
      randomization of patients with diabetes who have been on insulin less than 5 years to receive
      either Functional Medicine care in addition to usual care or to continue usual care delivered
      by an endocrinologist. The total number of patients planned for enrollment is 90, 45 in each
      arm. Patient recruitment will begin in the Cleveland Clinic main campus Endocrinology clinics
      and may later include Endocrinology practices at other Cleveland Clinic Health System sites.

      Following voluntary informed consent, study subjects will complete a screening/baseline
      visit. After this visit, patients will be randomized to continuing usual care delivered by
      endocrinologists or to FM plus usual care. Once randomization occurs, the patient will
      continue to remain under the care of their endocrinologist and any other usual physicians. If
      randomized to the FM plus usual care group, subjects will receive additional care through a
      functional medicine physician.

      A stratified randomization procedure will be used to allocate patients into the two groups
      according to the strata: Total Daily Insulin dose < = 50 units vs. > 50 units.

      All subjects: In addition to usual care provided by the endocrinologist, study visits will
      occur at screening/baseline, 6 months, 12 months and 24 months. Lab data/Biometrics (if not
      recorded within 1 month time frame) will be obtained at this time. Quality of life
      instruments (Diabetes Distress Scale, SPADE, PHQ-9 and MSQ; Appendices D, E, F and G) will
      also be administered. At baseline, the 12 month visit, and the 24 month visit, a Body Fat
      Analysis by Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) will be performed. There will also be 10
      cc of blood collected for plasma and serum samples as well as 10 cc of urine and
      approximately 1 gram of stool for the bio repository if patient agrees to provide the
      samples.

      Usual care subjects only: Subjects randomized to the usual care arm will receive a
      nutritional education session.

      FM plus usual care subjects only: Subjects randomized to the FM plus usual care arm will be
      evaluated using the functional medicine approach to diabetes outlined in the Functional
      Medicine Diagnostic and Treatment Approach to Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus and Cardio-Metabolic
      Syndrome. Subjects randomized to the FM plus usual care arm will also receive nutrition
      therapy and dietary supplements. These will be prescribed and monitored at all Functional
      Medicine study visits. An estimated total of 50ml of blood will be collected from those
      subjects in this arm of the study at each designated visit. In addition, subjects may be
      asked to provide a urine and stool sample. Functional Medicine labs will be used in part to
      determine which supplements will be recommended.
    
  