
    
      Cervical cancer is caused by oncogenic HPV, and is the main cause of cancer-related death
      among Kenyan women [1-3]. This malignancy is preventable through a combination of screening
      of adult women and vaccination of children and adolescents against HPV infection. However,
      only 5% of Kenyan women are regularly screened, and only 14% have ever been screened, which
      in Kenya is done by a method known as Visual Inspection with Acetic Acid (VIA) [3, 4].
      Obstacles to screening include travel to clinics, costs, poor specificity of VIA, lack of
      trained personnel, and others. In addition, while safe and effective HPV vaccines have been
      available for 15 years, very few (<1%) Kenyan children and adolescents have been vaccinated
      [5, 6]. Obstacles to vaccination include costs, delivery infrastructure, lack of education,
      travel to clinics, and others. In addition, there are few studies of HPV vaccination in
      African children, and two-dose regimens may not provide adequate protective antibody levels
      among children chronically exposed to aflatoxin, a potent immunosuppressive agent found in
      contaminated corn. We propose a study of a strategy designed to 1) increase cervical cancer
      screening using a community-based approach, and 2) determine the efficacy of HPV vaccination
      in a region of Kenya where half of all children are chronically exposed to aflatoxin.

      Objective 1 (Cervical cancer screening): Evaluate High-Risk (HR)-HPV DNA testing of
      self-collected vaginal swabs as a triage step for VIA among rural Kenyan women.

      Hypothesis: All women with negative HR-HPV DNA tests will have normal VIA examinations or
      falsely-abnormal VIA examinations based on cervical biopsy results. Our rationale is that if
      this hypothesis is correctly proven, it will suggest that VIA is unnecessary for women with
      negative HR-HPV DNA tests in self-collected vaginal swabs.

      Objective 2 (HPV vaccination): Determine the effects of chronic aflatoxin exposure among
      Kenyan children/adolescents on the likelihood of seroconversion to HPV types represented in
      the HPV vaccine.

      Hypothesis: Compared to children/adolescents without detectable plasma aflatoxin,
      children/adolescents with evidence of chronic aflatoxin exposure will have a reduced
      likelihood of seroconversion to HPV types represented in the HPV vaccine. Our rationale is
      that if this hypothesis is correctly proven, it will suggest that adjustments in vaccination
      doses/schedules may be needed for children with chronic exposure to aflatoxin to assure
      adequate protection against HPV infection.
    
  