
    
      Group 1: 3 months after ARP-SG, a dental implant will be placed using Azento® with an
      AstraTech Implant System EV and an immediate implant temporary crown using Azento®. After 3
      months with the temporary crown, a definitive all-ceramic crown, made using a digital
      workflow will be placed.

      Group 2: 6 months after ARP-SG, a dental implant will be placed using Azento® with an
      AstraTech Implant System EV and an immediate temporary crown using Azento®. After 3 months
      with the temporary crown, a definitive all-ceramic crown, made using a digital workflow will
      be placed.

      Group 3: 9 months after ARP-SG, a dental implant will be placed using Azento® with an
      AstraTech Implant System EV and an immediate temporary crown using Azento®. After 3 months
      with the temporary crown, a definitive all-ceramic crown, made using a digital workflow will
      be placed.

      SCREENING - Visit 1 After reading and signing the informed consent form, participants will
      complete a detailed medical and dental history form. The investigators will review the form
      with the participant to ensure they can safely participate in the study. Participants will
      also have an oral exam to determine if the participant qualifies for the study

      VISIT 2: Abutment & Crown Placement Group 1 (TE + 14 weeks) Group 2 (TE + 26 weeks) Group 3
      (TE + 38 weeks)

      Intra-oral photographs of the sites of interest will be obtained. Participants will have had
      their implant and bone core biopsy completed as part of their participation in IRB 201806050,
      Clinical, radiographic and histomorphotmetric analysis of healing dynamics in human
      extraction sockets grafted with Bio-Oss Collagen®: A prospective 3-year post-loading study or
      the participants routine clinical care. At the same visit when the implant is surgically
      installed, the investigators will then place a prosthetic abutment and temporary crown.
      Participants will also receive home care instructions before they leave. This visit will last
      about between 1.5 to 2 hours.

      VISIT 3, 4, 5: Postop (2, 6, 12 week follow-ups after implant placement) Participants will
      return to the clinic at 2, 6 and 12 weeks which is standard of care in many cases for implant
      follow-up and restoration. At this time the investigators will update medical and dental
      histories. Photographs and intra-oral scans (multiple digital photographs) will be taken. The
      investigators will review any xrays on file to assess bone levels around the implant. Sutures
      will be removed. Participants will be asked some questions regarding their pain and level of
      satisfaction in addition to the healing status of their wound. The sites will be debrided
      (cleaned) and oral hygiene instructions will be reviewed. At visit 4 the shade of their new
      permanent crown will be selected. These visits will last approximately 30-60 minutes.

      VISIT 6: Final Restoration Delivery (Implant Placement + 16 weeks) The investigators will
      update medical and dental histories. The abutment and crown will be examined. The temporary
      crown will be replaced with a permanent crown. Photographs and intra-oral scans (multiple
      digital photographs) will be taken. The participant will be asked some questions regarding
      pain and level of satisfaction in addition to the healing status of their wound. This visit
      will last approximately 60-90 minutes.

      VISIT 7, 8 & 9: Implant Follow-ups #1, 2 & 3 (1, 2 & 3 years after delivery of final
      restoration) The participant will return to the clinic at 1, 2 and 3 years after delivery of
      the final restoration which is standard of care in many cases for implant restoration. At
      these times the investigators will update medical and dental histories . Photographs and
      intra-oral scans (multiple digital photographs) will be taken. An oral exam will be
      completed. Plaque will be removed if necessary, and oral hygiene instructions will be
      reviewed. Clinical measurements will be recorded. The investigators will review any xrays on
      file to assess bone levels around the implant. These visits will last approximately 60
      minutes. Visit 9 will be the last visit.
    
  