
    
      The study compared 12 weeks of explosive high-speed power training with traditional
      slow-speed strength training. Outcome measures included muscle performance: leg press (LP)
      and knee extension (KE) one-repetition maximum (1RM) and LP peak power (PP), velocity at peak
      power (PPV) and force at peak power (PPF) from 40%-90% of the 1RM. Measures of function
      consisted of habitual and maximal gait velocity, the short physical performance battery
      (SPPB), forward tandem walk, and lower limb movement time (braking speed) on an automobile
      driving simulator.

      Participants reported to the laboratory for 2 weeks of baseline measurements. On visit 1,
      subjects were explained the study and completed an informed consent document. On visit 2 and
      3, muscle performance and functional measures were obtained. The following week, all muscle
      performance and functional measures were repeated to establish reliability. At the end of
      baseline testing, participants were randomized to treatment. Following the 12-week RT
      intervention, post-training muscle performance and functional measures were obtained.

      Resistance Training Protocol. Volunteers randomized into high-speed power training (HSPT) and
      slow-speed strength training (SSST) exercised 3 times per week for 12 weeks using
      computer-interfaced Keiser a420 pneumatic leg press and knee extension RT equipment (Fresno,
      CA). For HSPT, each training session consisted of 3 sets of 12-14 repetitions at 40%1RM.
      Participants performed an explosive movement at high speed during the concentric phase of
      each repetition, paused for one-second, and performed the eccentric portion of the
      contraction over 2 seconds. Volunteers randomized into SSST also exercised 3 times per week
      for 12 weeks with each training session consisting of 3 sets of 8-10 repetitions at 80%1RM.
      The participants performed each movement at a slow velocity (2 s for concentric phase of the
      repetition), paused for one second, and performed the eccentric portion of the contraction
      over 2 seconds. CON met three times a week for warm-up and stretching exercises, but
      performed no RT. HSPT and SSST participated in the same warm-up and stretching exercises as
      CON.

      Measures Maximal strength and power. Leg press and seated knee extension 1RM were obtained
      using Keiser pneumatic RT equipment fitted with a420 electronics. The seat of both the
      recumbent LP and KE apparatus was positioned to place the hip and knee joints between 90 and
      100 degrees of flexion. The 1RM was obtained by progressively increasing resistance until the
      subject was no longer able to push out one repetition successfully. The Borg Scale was used
      to assist in evaluating when 1RM (combined with perceived maximal effort) was reached. Peak
      muscle power was obtained at 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% and 90% of the 1RM approximately 30
      minutes after 1RM testing (8,9). Participants were instructed to exert "as fast as possible"
      at each relative percentage of the 1RM. Three attempts were made at each resistance and the
      greatest PP output obtained at each resistance was used in the analysis. The corresponding
      PPV and PPF were obtained for each external resistance from 40%-90% 1RM. The 1RM was measured
      bi-weekly in HSPT and SSST only and relative training intensity was adjusted accordingly to
      ensure adequate overload during training. Post-training muscle performance measures were
      obtained using loads relative to the initial baseline 1RM as well as the post-training 1RM.
    
  