
    
      Symptom Questionnaires:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete questionnaires about symptoms you
      are having. You will be asked to fill these out 1 time a week during the first 2 months after
      surgery, 1 time a week during the first 3 months of a new therapy, and every 2 weeks at other
      times. The questionnaire will ask you to rate how severe your symptoms are and how the
      symptoms effect the activities of your daily life. The symptom questionnaire should take
      about 5 minutes to complete. You will complete the questionnaire during the first study visit
      and at your regular clinic visits.

      Between clinic visits, you will be called every 1-2 weeks to complete the questionnaire using
      an automated telephone system. You can decide what time is most convenient for the automated
      phone system to call you. If you are not available when the automated system calls, it will
      call you again at a later time. If you are not reached by the automated phone system after
      several tries, the study staff will call you. You will be given a secure user name and
      identification number to use with the automated phone system. The study staff will teach you
      how to use the automated phone system.

      At the clinic visit closest to 3 months after you start the study, you may be seen by a
      research staff member a second time 1 to 3 days after you completed the symptom questionnaire
      and asked to fill out the symptom questionnaire again. The research staff member may contact
      you by phone prior to this clinic visit to arrange times to meet you for the 2 assessments.

      Quality-of-Life/Demographic Questionnaires:

      At the first visit and the regular clinic visits, you will also rate your overall
      quality-of-life. This should take about 1 minute to complete.

      At the first visit, you will also be asked some demographic questions (such as your age and
      marital status). Answering these questions should take about 1 minute.

      Opinion Questionnaire:

      If you are 1 of the first 40 patients enrolled in the study, you will be asked questions
      about your opinion of the symptom questionnaire at the clinic visit closest to 3 months after
      you start the study. For example, you will be asked if the symptom questionnaire was easy to
      understand and complete, and if there were any other questions that should be included. The
      study staff will use your opinion to decide if changes should be made to the questionnaire or
      if important symptom questions are missing from the questionnaire. This questionnaire should
      take about 5 minutes to complete.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for 1 year. You will be off study after you complete the last symptom
      questionnaire.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 188 participants will take part in this study. Up to 150 participants will be enrolled
      in Part 3 of this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  