
    
      Administration of subcutaneous UFH for antithrombotic prophylaxis is standard therapy in the
      postoperative setting. Often, a dosage of 5000 U twice a day has been used, with a
      demonstrated antithrombotic efficacy and an acceptable hemorrhagic complication profile.
      However, recent surgery guidelines regarding antithrombotic prophylaxis with UFH 5000 U
      suggest that a thrice daily regimen should be used following major oncologic surgeries. These
      new guidelines have raised some concerns in anesthesiology, particularly regarding the safety
      of epidural catheters combined with thrice daily heparin. Optimal analgesia during the early
      postoperative period following some types of major oncologic surgery involves the placement
      of epidural catheters. Epidural analgesia provides the best relief of the significant pain
      which may be present after thoracotomy or supraumbilical laparotomy during the early
      postoperative period, improving ambulation, coughing, pulmonary function, bowel function as
      well as short and long-term quality of life. However, the benefits of epidural catheters must
      outweigh the risk of complications, the most feared being spinal hematoma. Recent guidelines
      in anesthesiology support the placement of epidural catheters with the concomitant
      administration of UFH 5000 U two times a day. However, these guidelines do not clearly
      support the placement of an epidural catheter if a three times a day regimen is used, very
      little data being available to assess the risk of this practice. Older studies (1973) suggest
      that a significant proportion of patients (15%) will develop abnormal partial thromboplastin
      times using a three times a day regimen. However, it is not known if these results are still
      consistent with more recent laboratory technologies, or how they compare to twice daily
      heparin. In the absence of even basic data regarding systemic effect on coagulation, it is
      difficult at this time to begin to determine safe practice regarding the placement of an
      epidural catheter in presence of a three times a day UFH 5000 U regimen. A recent pilot study
      conducted in our center showed that 20% (4/20) of patients receiving the thrice daily regimen
      will develop abnormal partial thromboplastin times at 72 hours following the first dose
      compared to 5% (1/20) in patients receiving the twice a day regimen. This larger scale study
      is designed to establish the incidence of abnormalities in partial thromboplastin times 72
      hours following the administration of the first dose of heparin for both regimens.

      Methods: 130 patients will be enrolled and divided in two equal groups (Group 1: to receive
      UFH 5000 U subcutaneous two times a day or Group 2: to receive UFH 5000 U subcutaneous three
      times a day)

      As needed for standard anesthesia, surgical and post-operative care, an arterial line will be
      placed. Immediately prior the first UFH dose, a blood sample for partial thromboplastin time
      will collected through the arterial line. Since nutritional status may affect the patient's
      coagulation a blood sample to measure albumin and transthyretin will be collected
      simultaneously. The first dose of UFH will be given in the operating room by the
      anesthesiologist.

      A second blood sample will be collected by venipuncture at 72 hours following the
      administration of the first dose of heparin.
    
  