
    
      Clinical events in atherosclerosis are largely driven by inflammation. Molecular imaging of
      atherosclerosis can potentially identify high-risk lesions, help guide treatment and
      illuminate the underlying biology of the disease. 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) PET is the
      gold-standard nuclear molecular imaging technique with well-established roles in
      atherosclerosis imaging. However, the arterial 18F-FDG signal is non-specific, although it is
      related to increased macrophage activity with contributions from hypoxia and angiogenesis.
      Coronary artery imaging with 18F-FDG is particularly difficult, mainly due to high background
      myocardial cell 18F-FDG uptake, which obscures interpretation of the coronary signal. Efforts
      to suppress myocardial 18F-FDG uptake with dietary manipulation are challenging for patients
      and have limited efficacy.

      PET tracers currently used in cancer imaging, such as 68Ga-DOTATATE, are potentially more
      specific for inflammation and also lack myocardial muscle uptake. 68Ga-DOTATATE might
      therefore be better suited than 18F-FDG for imaging inflammation, particularly within the
      coronary arteries. The VISION study is a prospective, observational study designed to
      investigate the biology of plaque inflammation in atherosclerosis, using PET imaging with the
      somatostatin receptor ligand 68Ga-DOTATATE. 50 subjects with atherosclerosis will undergo
      sequential PET/CT imaging with 68Ga-DOTATATE and 18F-FDG, along with contrast angiography of
      the carotid and coronary arteries. Autoradiography and immunohistochemistry of excised
      carotid plaques will be used to validate the imaging data. If successful, 68Ga-DOTATATE
      imaging will offer a cheaper, more specific non-invasive measure of inflammation than 18F-
      FDG, particularly in the coronary arteries. This opens up the possibility of better risk
      stratification for patients with atherosclerosis and could provide a non-invasive platform to
      test the effects of novel anti-atherosclerosis drugs.
    
  