
    
      The importance of sleep is widely appreciated, but the actual function of sleep remains
      unknown. Sleep occurs in much of the animal kingdom, in all mammals and birds and even in
      some lower forms. Sleep deprivation impairs brain function, and in rats, total sleep
      deprivation for 2-3 weeks results in death. One hypothesized role of sleep is for restoration
      and reorganization of neuronal circuits. There is some indirect evidence that during sleep,
      when cerebral energy requirements are reduced, cell resources are diverted to protein
      synthesis for the restoration of structure and function. The objectives of the present study
      are: 1) to further define the relationship between regional rates of cerebral protein
      synthesis (rCPS) and sleep and 2) to ascertain whether sleep-dependent visual learning during
      slow wave sleep (SWS) results in increases in rCPS in the primary visual cortex. We propose
      to use a novel positron emission tomography (PET)-based technique to quantify regional rates
      of cerebral protein synthesis (rCPS) in young, adult, healthy volunteers. The first objective
      will be addressed in Part I in which we will study each subject under the following three
      conditions: 1) awake and sleep-sated, 2) awake and sleep-deprived, and 3) during SWS after
      sleep-deprivation. Our aim is to complete fully successful studies in 15 subjects. The second
      objective will be addressed in Part II in which we will assess the relationship between rCPS
      and sleep-dependent visual learning on a retinotopically specific task. Each participant will
      serve as his own control by comparing the trained primary visual cortex hemisphere with the
      untrained hemisphere to which comparable visual information is presented but without
      learning. In Part II we will study two groups of subjects: 1) One group will be studied
      during SWS following the training session; 2) The second group will be studied at the same
      interval following the training session but awake. Subjects will be monitored with
      polysomnography to identify the stages of sleep. Our aim in part II is to complete fully
      successful studies in 15 subjects in each of the two groups. We anticipate that the results
      of Part I will identify changes in rCPS in specific brain regions which are characteristic of
      SWS and results of Part II may reveal relationships between rCPS and memory consolidation
      during SWS.
    
  