
    
      -Background and study aims

      ABO-incompatible living donor kidney transplantation offers the possibility to expand the
      donor pool by approximately 30%. A variety of different desensitization protocols were shown
      to enable successful transplantation across major ABO barriers. In this context, apheresis
      for antibody depletion represents the therapeutic mainstay. Two distinct technical
      principles, plasmapheresis and ABO antigen-specific immunoadsorption, were shown to allow for
      excellent short- and intermediate-term outcomes. A particular technical advantage of
      immunoadsorption may be its high selectivity regarding antibody depletion, which precludes
      major losses of essential plasma constituents, including coagulation factors and albumin,
      even after treatment of large plasma volumes. Nevertheless, high treatment costs associated
      with the use of ABO-specific columns (that are not approved for reuse) may limit their
      widespread clinical application.

      The efficiency of semi-selective immunoadsorption technologies regarding ABO antibody
      depletion and recipient desensitization is less well established. Theoretically,
      non-antigen-specific immunoglobulin depletion using protein A-, GAM peptide-, or anti-Ig
      antibody-based adsorbers, could bring about several advantages, such as lower treatment costs
      associated with the use of reusable twin columns, and the potential to simultaneously deplete
      antibodies also against HLA antigens. A critical drawback, however, may be an evident
      inefficiency regarding (ABO-specific) IgM depletion, and this could pose a considerable risk
      of rejection.

      One strategy to overcome the drawback of incomplete IgM depletion could be the use of
      semiselective immunoadsorption combined with other antibody depletion technologies. In this
      context, one attractive option could be an enhancement of antibody elimination by connecting
      a membrane filter (cascade filter) to the immunoadsorption device. We propose to conduct an
      open randomized crossover study that is designed to see if membrane filtration when applied
      as an adjunct to semiselective immunoadsorption (GAM peptide adsorbers) is able to enhance
      anti-ABO IgM elimination to an extent comparable to ABO antigen-specific immunoadsorption.
      The results of this study, which will enrol 14 patients receiving IA treatment for clinical
      indications outside the transplantation field, are expected to provide a valuable basis for
      the use of combined apheresis approaches in the context of ABO-incompatible kidney
      transplantation.

      -Who can participate?

      We are planning to recruit 14 adult patients (>18 years, both genders eligible, healthy
      volunteers not accepted) that are subject to regular routine IA therapy at >1 weekly
      intervals for clinical indications that are not related to ABO-incompatible transplantation
      (antibody-mediated autoimmune disorders, such as systemic lupus erythematosus or myasthenia
      gravis).

      -What does the study involve?

      For membrane filtration, we will use a membrane filter with documented capacity to eliminate
      plasma IgM. The study will be conducted in a randomized crossover design (AB vs. BA design;
      stratified randomization). Treatment consists in IA plus membrane filtration (A) or IA as the
      sole treatment (B), respectively. The primary study endpoint is the percent reduction of ABO
      blood group specific IgM. The study is powered to detect a 30% increase in IgM elimination.

      -What are the possible benefits and risks of participating?

      We do not expect any direct benefits for the study subjects. This pilot study, however, may
      provide a valuable basis for a future trial evaluating the clinical impact of combined IA
      plus membrane filtration in ABO incompatible transplantation. Potential risks include:
      adverse reactions upon exposure to polysulfone (rash, pruritus, fever), reduction in
      fibrinogen levels and eventually a transient increase in the risk of bleeding.
    
  