
    
      Background Nosocomial infection Nosocomial infection, especially those caused by bacteria
      resistant to antibiotics, is a major threat to critical care medicine. A systemic review
      revealed that 10-20% of patients receiving mechanical ventilation (MV) more than 48 hours
      will develop ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP), patients who develop VAP are twice as
      likely to die compared with the similar patients without VAP, and patients who develop VAP
      have in additional hospital costs more than $ 10,019 [1].

      The same problem occurs in Respiratory Care Centers (RCCs) which are designed to care the
      patients with prolonged mechanical ventilation (PMV), MV for more than 21 days, in Taiwan.
      One report from Taiwan showed that nosocomial infection rate in RCC is about 40% and the
      patients develop nosocomial infection have lower weaning rate and higher mortality compared
      with the patients without infection [2]. It has been estimated that 50% to 60% the nosocomial
      infection occurring each year in the United Sates are caused by antibiotic-resistant
      bacterial strains [3]. This high rate of resistant strains increases the morbidity, mortality
      and medical costs of infection. Preventing infection and limiting the emergence of
      antibiotic-resistant strains are two important issues in critical care medicine.

      Selective Decontamination of Digestive Tract (SDD) One of the current hypotheses of
      nosocomial infection is that colonization of the nasopharynx and oropharynx predisposes
      patients to the development of nosocomial pneumonia, and the bacterial overgrowth in the
      intestinal tract increases gut wall permeability, leading to bacterial translocation and
      sepsis. Selective decontamination of the digestive tract (SDD), which aims to eradicate
      colonization of potential pathogens from the oropharynx and gastrointestinal tract, is one of
      the strategies to reduce ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) and sepsis in critically ill
      patients. Controversy exists about the effectiveness of SDD in reducing mortality and
      preventing antibiotic resistance [4-6]. The present SDD regimens may create selective
      pressure and induce the emergence of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA),
      Gram-negative bacilli harboring extended-spectrum β-lactamases (ESBL), and even Candida [7,
      8]. Therefore, SDD research must aim to find an ideal regimen effective on most pathogens
      while leaving the anaerobic flora undisturbed.

      Lactoferrin Lactoferrin (LF) is an iron-binding glycoprotein found in milk and various
      external secretions such as saliva, tears, airway secretion, and the granules of neutrophils,
      implying a important role in innate immunity. This protein has a number of biological
      functions, including antimicrobial, anti-tumor, antioxidant, and immunomodulatory effects.
      Partial degradation of LF by pepsin in stomach, may give rise to peptides termed
      lactoferricin with more potent antimicrobial activity. LF and lactoferricin have been shown
      to inhibit the growth of a number of pathogenic bacteria including antibiotic-resistant
      strains, fungi and even viruses in both in vitro and in vivo studies [9,10]. In mouse
      experiments, oral administration of bovine LF reduced bacterial infections in the
      gastrointestinal tract [9] while promoting the growth of bacteria with low iron requirements
      such as Lactobacillus and Bifidobacteria, which are generally believed to be beneficial to
      the host [11].

      Bovine lactoferrin (bLF) and human lactoferrin (hLF) have high (77%) amino acid homology,
      with bLF exhibiting even higher in vitro antimicrobial activity than hLF.5 Bovine lactoferrin
      has been granted GRAS (generally recognized as safe) status by the US Food and Drug
      Administration [12] and on this basis is added to infant formula by many manufacturers with
      no reported adverse effects. Despite many promising in vitro and animal experimental data,
      clinical information on bLF is scarce, with no studies investigating the effects of bLF
      supplementation in patients with prolonged mechanical ventilation.

      Our previous studies We previously demonstrated that both recombinant porcine LF (pLF)
      produced from yeast [13] and a synthetic 20-residue porcine lactoferricin peptide [11]
      exhibit antimicrobial activity in vitro. Its bactericidal activity was four times more
      effective than that of human lactoferricin [14].

      In our recent report [15], we performed pathogen challenges of the digestive tract of a
      transgenic milk-fed animal model to test if porcine LF (pLF) is an effective SDD regimen.
      Transgenic mice expressed recombinant LF in their milk at 120 ± 13.6 mg/L during the
      lactation stage and fed normal CD-1 mice pups for 4 weeks. The pups were subsequently
      challenged with pathogenic Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus and Candida albicans. The
      groups that were fed pLF transgenic milk demonstrated statistically significant improvements
      in weight gain, lower bacterial numbers in intestinal fluid, blood and liver, and healthier
      microvilli in the small intestinal tissue, lower proinflammatory cytokines when compared to
      the control groups that were fed normal milk. Results showed that recombinant pLF expressed
      in the milk of transgenic mice and fed to mice pups led to broad spectrum antimicrobial
      activity in the digestive tract and protected the mucosa of the small intestine from injury,
      implying that porcine LF can be used as an effective selective decontaminant of the digestive
      tract.

      Aim of this study This study is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      clinical trial examining whether oral supplementation with bLF reduces nosocomial infection,
      sepsis and even mortality in patients with prolonged mechanical ventilation.

      Methods Patients Between July 1, 2010, and June 30, 2012, we will enroll about 280 patients
      with mechanical ventilation for more than 21 days and no evident signs of infection on
      admission to our Respiratory Care Centers (RCCs) for clinical study. The study has been sent
      to the Ethics Committees of China Medical University Hospital for approval. Patients or
      guardians provide written informed consent after our explanation. Exclusion criteria were
      informed consent lacking/refused, ongoing antibiotics treatment for infection, predicted
      mortality in 7 days. All patients will be followed up until death or discharge from our
      hospital.

      Objectives The primary objective is to evaluate the effectiveness of bLF in the prevention of
      the first episode of nosocomial infection and sepsis of bacterial or fungal origin after
      admission to RCC. Secondary objectives are assessments of the incidence of pneumonia, urinary
      tract infection and sepsis, mortality prior to discharge (overall and sepsis-attributable),
      weaning rate from MV, total days of MV, alteration of immune system, cytokines and liver
      function, and adverse effects or intolerance.

      Study design Lactoferrin and placebo will be masked as drug A and B in the factory.
      Randomization will be stratified by center and patients will be randomized into A or B groups
      by a random-number table sequence after informed consents are obtained. No patients, research
      nurses, investigators, or other medical staffs in RCC will be aware of the assignment during
      the study period.

      Patients will receive either bLF (10 mg/Kg/day) (Westland Co-operative Dairy Company, New
      Zealand) or placebo (starch) as control. The dosage of bLF is based on the mean hLF intake
      that very low body weight neonates ingest with mother's fresh milk in the first 2 weeks of
      life (30-150 mg/d) [16] and bLF 200 mg bid is found to be effective to suppress Helicobacter
      pylori [17]. Drug administration will begin within 24 hours after RCC admission and will last
      for 6 weeks or until discharge. Medication and nutritional support will be prescribed as the
      medical routine.

      Systematic surveillance of adverse events (eg, vomiting, feeding intolerance, skin rashes)
      will be performed through daily examination. Weekly surveillance of liver function, complete
      blood counts, CD4/CD8, cytokines (TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, IL-1, IL-2, IL-12, IL-18) will be
      performed [18,19].

      Definition of outcomes The diagnosis of sepsis is based on the detection of clinical signs
      and symptoms by the physicians in charge, presence of laboratory findings consistent with
      sepsis, and isolation of a causative organism from blood or body fluids. Patients with an
      episode of sepsis continue to receive follow-up until death or discharge from RCC for
      secondary outcomes [16]. VAP is characterized by the presence of signs of respiratory
      infection (fever, leukocytosis and purulent respiratory secretions), and a new and persistent
      infiltrate on chest X-ray in patients undergoing MV [20]. Urinary tract infections is
      diagnosed by isolation of a pathogen from urine collected by suprapubic puncture or bladder
      catheterization, with growth of more than 100 000 bacteria/mL or more than 10 000 fungi/mL.
      Success of weaning from MV is defined as no need of MV for more than 5 days.

      Statistical Analysis Sample size analysis predicted that a total of 131 MV patients in each
      group would be needed to detect a relative difference between treated and non-treated
      patients of at least 60% (decrease from 20% to 6%) for mortality rate based on two-sided test
      with type I error of 0.05 or less and 80% power of 80%. Quantitative variables will be
      expressed as mean and standard deviation. Categorical variables will be represented by
      percentages. Univariate analyses exploring associations between individual risk factors and
      primary/secondary outcomes were performed using Fisher's exact test for dichotomous variables
      and Student's t test for continuous variables. A multivariate logistic regression model is
      performed to investigate the effect of relevant risk factors and relative contributions of
      the various risk factors. Goodness of fit is evaluated through the log-likelihood of the
      fitted model. Odds ratios and their 95% confidence interval are calculated in the logistic
      regression model to describe the strength of the relationship between the categorical risk
      factors and outcomes. All tests are two-sided, and a p-value of 0.05 is considered to be
      statistically significant. All analysis is carried out using SAS software version 6.12 (SAS
      Institute Inc, Cary, NC).

      EXPECTED FINDINGS

      Our findings can be expected to answer the following questions as follows:

        1. Can oral supplement of bLF prevent nosocomial infection in patients with PMV?

        2. Can oral supplement of bLF reduce the incidence of nosocomial infection and reduce the
           use of antibiotics in patient with PMV?

        3. Can oral supplement of bLF reduce mortality of the patients with PMV?

        4. Can oral supplement of bLF increase the weaning rate from MV in patients with PMV?

        5. What are the changes of immune system after oral supplement of bLF in patients of PMV?

      EXPECTED CONTRIBUTION FROM CURRENT PROJECT Preventing infection and limiting the emergence of
      antibiotic-resistant strains are two important issues in critical care medicine. To find a
      natural antimicrobial peptide as an adjuvant therapy for antimicrobial agents in treatment of
      the antibiotic-resistant strains, or as a regimen to increase immunity and to prevent
      infection is one of the directions of researches. LF is one of the promising agents in many
      vitro and animal studies. The study is trying to examine if LF is an ideal natural SDD
      regimen for the prevention of nosocomial pneumonia or sepsis in patients with PMV. If the
      result is positive, LF can be used clinically to increase the survival of the critically ill
      patients, increase weaning rate from MV, reduce the prescription of antibiotics and finally
      medical cost.

      REFERENCES (List without PMID No)

      12. CFSAN/Office of Food Additive Safety. Agency response letter: GRAS notice No. GRN 000077.
      US Food and Drug Administration Web site. http://
      www.fda.gov/Food/FoodIngredientsPackaging/GenerallyRecognizedasSafeGRAS/GRASListings/ucm15418
      8.htm. August 14, 2001. Accessed May 21, 2009.
    
  