
    
      Influenza is a common respiratory infection caused by several related viruses. Epidemics of
      influenza occur each winter and are responsible for an average of about 36,000 deaths each
      year in the United States. Most of these deaths occur among elderly persons and among people
      of all ages who suffer from chronic diseases, particularly of the lungs and the heart.
      Current influenza virus vaccines protect elderly persons against influenza, but not as well
      as desired. One consideration for trying to increase protection is to increase the vaccine
      dose, but there is some concern that increasing the dose may increase reactions to the
      vaccine (such as sore arm, aches, or fever). One of the vaccine manufacturers has prepared an
      experimental influenza virus vaccine with a dose that is higher than the currently used dose.
      A previous study with the same high dose of the vaccine showed that it was well tolerated
      with only increased reactions at the injection site compared to the usual vaccine. Since the
      study, the high-dose vaccine has also been made without preservative (thimerosal) and
      gelatin, which are in the standard vaccine. It is expected that this vaccine can be given
      with little reaction, but this needs to be determined. It also needs to be shown whether such
      a vaccine stimulates higher levels of infection-fighting proteins (or antibodies) in the
      blood than standard doses of influenza vaccine. The purpose of this research is to compare
      reactions and antibody responses following standard flu vaccine to those following the
      experimental vaccine. Up to 410 people ages 65 years and older will be recruited from the
      community and from existing volunteer populations. Participants will receive either the high
      or standard dose injected in the muscle, remain in the clinic for 20 minutes afterward, and
      maintain a daily memory aid for 7 days. The memory aid will be reviewed by telephone 8-12
      days after the injection and return to the clinic or contacted by telephone 6 months after
      the injection. This study is linked to DMID protocol 05-0028.
    
  