
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Two demographically similar rural counties in central Virginia were compared, one
      intervention and one control site. In each country, two cohorts were assembled, a random
      sample of all Black smokers (the community cohort), and all members of randomly sampled Black
      churches (the church cohort). The descriptive component of the study elicited the knowledge,
      beliefs, attitudes, and behavior concerning smoking from these cohorts. Cardiovascular risk
      factors, including blood pressure and cholesterol levels, were also determined in the
      community cohort. For the experimental component, a variety of interventions which have
      proven to be efficacious in other settings were implemented through Black churches. These
      included fostering a supportive environment, distributing self-help materials, and providing
      individual support and counselling through the use of peer facilitators. The results of the
      baseline psychosocial survey were used to modify these methods for local use. They were then
      implemented in a culturally appropriate fashion at the intervention sites. Baseline smoking
      rates were determined using the initial surveys in both counties. Smokers were surveyed again
      at the end of the interventions and one year later to establish one-year abstinence rates.
      These were used as the primary outcome variables for the analysis of effect. The principal
      effect of the interventions were measured by comparing smoking abstinence rates between the
      church cohorts in the intervention and control counties. Due to the extended nature of the
      social networks associated with the churches, the interventions may also have had an effect
      on individuals not directly exposed, and this was determined by comparing the outcomes in the
      community cohorts. Finally, the associations between the baseline psychosocial and
      physiologic variables, exposure to the interventions, and smoking cessation behavior were
      also analyzed, to characterize on a population basis those who were and were not influenced
      by these church-based programs.
    
  