
    
      In 2010, ONC launched a Challenge Grant program that called for proposals for "enabling
      enhanced query for patient care." Under this program, the Regenstrief Institute and Indiana
      University developed a Web-based program for patients' to express their preferences for who
      can access data in their electronic health records (EHR). It then applied these preferences
      by modifying an existing EHR viewer called Careweb® that is used by the Indiana Network for
      Patient Care and Eskenazi Health, an urban public health system in Indianapolis.

      This study:

        1. Produced a bioethical report on "points to consider" to inform electronic health record
           designers concerning giving patients granular control over access to their health data.

        2. Interviewed patients to assess their desires for granular level of control over which
           personal health information should be shared, with whom, and for what purpose, and
           whether those preferences vary depending on the sensitivity of patients' health
           information.

        3. Developed a Web-based patient-centered user interface that allows them to choose whether
           to provide or restrict access to their health information, focusing on who (health care
           providers and non-providers), what information (all, none, sensitive information only),
           and when (periods of time in their lives during which they desire restricting access to
           their health information) .

        4. Reprogrammed the user interface of Careweb®, a data viewing system used by clinicians in
           Eskenazi Health, the third largest safety net health system in the U.S., and the Indiana
           Network for Patient Care, the oldest, largest, and most comprehensive health information
           exchange in the country. The reprogrammed viewer interface allows patients' preferences
           to control who sees what information in a patient's electronic health record.

        5. Performed a demonstration study among 32 health care providers (9 physicians and 23
           clinical staff) and 105 patients in an inner city primary care practice where patients
           recorded their preferences concerning who could access what information in their
           electronic health records, and then implemented those preferences during a 6-month
           real-world study in Eskenazi Health.
    
  