
    
      This is a single-blinded study of 100 patients randomized to a strategy of His-Purkinje
      conduction system pacing Optimized Trial of Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (HOT-CRT)
      versus biventricular pacing using coronary sinus (CS) lead (BVP). Both treatment options use
      standard-of-care, FDA-approved devices. The distinction is only in the allocation toward
      HOT-CRT and BVP. Treating physicians will be aware of assignment in order to facilitate
      routine device follow-up. Echocardiographic and electrocardiographic evaluation will also be
      performed in a blinded manner.

      Cross-over is permitted between treatment group allocation if:

      CS lead cannot be placed due to difficult cannulation of the CS, limited branches at the
      posterolateral or lateral wall, or phrenic nerve capture. These subjects may then cross-over
      to HOT-CRT.

      HOT-CRT subjects may cross-over if His or left bundle pacing lead cannot be positioned with
      adequate stability and reasonable pacing output, or if optimal QRS narrowing cannot be
      achieved.

      Implant procedure will be per routine percutaneous access, as is standard for pacemaker and
      Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillators (ICDs). . All subjects will receive an FDA-approved
      cardiac resynchronization therapy pacemaker or defibrillator device, as per standard of care
      outlined for the subject.

      Follow-up will be performed at 2 weeks post-implant for incision check and device
      interrogation as is standard of care. In addition, routine device and clinical follow-up will
      be scheduled at 3 and 6 months. Electrocardiography (ECG) will be performed pre-implant,
      prior to hospital discharge, at 3 months, and 6 months. Echocardiography will be performed
      pre-implant and 6 months to evaluate for change in Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF),
      chamber dimensions, volumes, and change in Left Ventricular (LV) end systolic volume index as
      is standard of care in the treatment of patients with advanced heart failure. New York Heart
      Association (NYHA) functional class and quality of life (utilizing the Kansas City
      Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ) and EQ 5D) will be assessed pre-implant and at 6 months.
    
  