
    
      Problem Statement

      To date, Colombia has more than 2,800 infected cases and a hundred deaths as a result of
      COVID-19, with Antioquia being the third department with the highest number of cases (1).
      Official records indicate that, in Colombia, the first case was diagnosed on March 6, 2020,
      corresponding to a patient from Italy. However, in conversations with several infectologists
      and intensivists from Medellín, it was agreed that clinical cases similar to the clinical
      presentation that is now recognized as COVID-19 had arisen since the end of 2019 when it was
      still unknown to everyone. The previous suggests that the virus was already circulating in
      the country since before March 6, 2020. But at that moment, there were no tools to make a
      clinical identification, nor to diagnose it from the laboratory's point of view. This theory
      has been gathering momentum in other latitudes, demonstrating how the asymptomatic infected
      individuals are responsible for spreading the infection .

      Considering as real the hypothesis that the infection has been circulating in the country
      since before the first official diagnosis, the question arises: Why does not the country
      still has the same healthcare and humanitarian chaos that countries such as Italy and Spain
      are suffering at this time? To answer this question, an extensive literature search of
      factors that differentiate Europeans from Latin Americans was carried out. Finding, in
      addition to genetic factors specific to race, differences in the number of ACEI receptors
      (binding site of the coronavirus to the alveolus), and differences in vaccination rates with
      BCG (Bacille Calmette-Guérin or tuberculosis vaccine), which is significantly higher in Latin
      America compared to those in Europe (3). This last finding could explain to some extent the
      situation in the country, since previous studies have shown the influence that this vaccine
      can have on the immune response against various other pathogens, including viruses (4,5).

      Among the population at risk of infection, health-care workers due to their permanent contact
      with patients are the population group with the highest risk of contracting SARS-Cov-2 and
      developing COVID-19 in any of its clinical manifestations.

      Currently, there are no vaccines or proven preventive interventions available to protect
      health-care workers. However, researchers from Germany, the Netherlands, Australia, and
      France are working on a clinical trial with an unorthodox approach to combat this new virus.
      This research study aims to demonstrate whether the centennial vaccine against tuberculosis
      (BCG), a bacterial disease, can activate the human immune system in a broad way, allowing it
      to better combat the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 and, perhaps, prevents the
      complications that lead the patient to the intensive care unit and death. Initially, studies
      in these four countries will be carried out on doctors and nurses, since they are the ones
      with a higher risk of becoming infected compared to the general population.

      Currently, the available evidence supports the hypothesis that BCG vaccination has beneficial
      heterologous effects against viral, bacterial, and fungal infections. The basis of these
      effects has been little explored in humans; however, this knowledge opens the door to future
      research to explore the effect of "trained immunity" associated with this vaccine, both for
      diseases in hosts with immunological disorders, and for autoinflammatory diseases, in which
      there is an inappropriate activation of inflammation (21). All of the findings described have
      considerable potential to aid in the design of new therapeutic strategies, such as the use of
      old and new vaccines that combine classical immune memory, and the activation of innate
      immunity by "trained immunity," for prevention and treatment of infections, and modulation of
      exaggerated inflammation in autoinflammatory diseases.

      A multicenter, double-blind, randomized, phase III clinical trial will be carried out. 1000
      healthy healthcare workers (doctors, nurses, and nursing assistants) with a negative test for
      COVID-19 and asymptomatic for the disease will be randomly assigned to receive one dose of
      BGC vaccine or placebo (saline solution). Volunteers will be followed for one year.

      Hypothesis Healthcare workers who have negative SARS-Cov-2 serology and who receive the BCG
      vaccine, have a better clinical outcome if they become infected with COVID-19, in terms of
      not getting sick, requiring hospitalization or dying, than those who do not receive the
      vaccine.

      Objectives

      Overall Objective

      Evaluate the performance of BCG vaccination in reducing the severity of SARS-COV-2 infection
      compared to the placebo, in healthcare personnel from Medellín, Colombia.

      . Specific Objectives

        -  Determine if there are differences in the clinical outcome in terms of not getting sick,
           requiring hospitalization, or dying in both treatment groups.

        -  Estimate previous exposure of healthcare personnel to SARS-Cov-2 by conducting rapid
           tests that measure IgG and IgM immunity.

        -  Assess the safety (frequency, seriousness, and severity of adverse events) of BCG
           vaccination in an adult population.

        -  Estimate SARS-Cov-2 infection in healthcare personnel at the end of the study, by
           performing rapid tests that measure IgG and IgM immunity.
    
  