
    
      Evaluation of a nonopioid recovery pathway after percutaneous nephrolithotomy is a pragmatic
      pilot study which will prospectively compare a cohort undergoing PCNL prior to implementation
      of the novel nonopioid pathway undergoing the same procedure utilizing the novel nonopioid
      pathway. Current standard of care following PCNL remains the routine prescription of opioid
      medications for pain control.

      Evaluation of a nonopioid recovery pathway after percutaneous nephrolithotomy has three
      specific aims:

        1. Demonstrate feasibility and acceptability of the novel nonopioid protocol and describe
           the barriers to enrollment and reasons for drop out. The feasibility of the protocol
           will be measured by dropout of enrolled patients and the acceptability of protocol will
           be measured by number of enrolled patients / patients approached and patient
           satisfaction via a validated questionnaire.

        2. Describe what adverse events occur to those on the nonopioid protocol as compared to the
           standard of care. Adverse events occurring as an inpatient will be measured by nursing
           and physician reporting, and as an outpatient via patient self-reporting, electronic
           medical records of emergency department visits and telephone calls to clinic.

        3. Begin to reduce overall opioid prescription writing for patients undergoing PCNL at the
           academic institution. The electronic medical records will be queried for prescriptions
           written at discharge. The state Opioid Prescription Monitoring Program (PMP) will be
           queried for a 30-day period following surgery.

      After written consent and enrollment, patients will undergo preoperative counseling regarding
      pain after PCNL in the preoperative holding area prior to surgery. The patient will then
      undergo percutaneous nephrolithotomy. No procedural changes will be made for study
      participants. Postoperatively, patients will be admitted to the post-anesthesia care unit and
      standard of care adjunctive and analgesic medications will be administered. The patient will
      be admitted to the floor following surgery and postoperative specialized nonopioid PCNL
      pathway orders will be communicated to nursing staff. The patient's pain will be treated with
      multimodal nonopioid analgesic agents. Opioid medications will not be withheld for patients
      with severe pain. On postoperative day one, the patient will be assessed for discharge as in
      standard of care. They will be asked about their perceived need for a prescription for
      opioids. If requested, the patient will be given a prescription for a limited quantity of
      opioids. Nursing staff will complete specialized discharge instructions and patients will be
      given written instructions regarding medications and activity. Patients will be seen in 7-10
      days for stent removal in the office per standard of care, and will complete a validated
      quality of life survey for pain after kidney stone surgery.
    
  