
    
      Medication Management (MTM)

      Medication management is defined as the standard of care that ensures each patient's
      medications, including prescription, over-the-counter, herbal products, vitamins, and
      supplements, are individually assessed to determine the following:

        -  Appropriateness of each medication for the patient

        -  Effectiveness for the patient's medical conditions

        -  Safety given the patient's co-morbidities and other medications

        -  Convenience to be taken by the patient as intended

      Medication management services are delivered to an individual patient and are fully
      integrated with the health care team to achieve coordinated and consistent patient care.
      Pharmacists provide this service using a standardized method to comprehensively review each
      patient's medications. This systematic process is designed to identify, prevent, and resolve
      drug therapy problems and to aid in attainment of a patient's therapy goals. Medication
      management services include an individualized care plan that tracks progress on the intended
      goals of therapy with appropriate follow-up to determine actual patient outcomes. Pharmacists
      aim to emphasize the care experience for patients, achieve better medication-related quality
      measures, and reduce the cost of care.

      Patients who are enrolled in the MTM group will have an initial MTM visit, which will last
      approximately 60 minutes. In this visit, the patient and the pharmacist will discuss all
      medications (prescription, over-the-counter, and herbal) that the patient is taking.
      Medications will be evaluated for indication, efficacy, safety and convenience. The
      pharmacist and patient and other care team members will participate in shared decision in an
      effort to optimize patient clinical outcomes and medication experience. Patients will
      continue to work with their primary care provider and other care team members. Patients will
      continue to meet with the pharmacist on an individualized basis for 1 year to optimize the
      patients' medications based on individual needs.

      Patients enrolled in the control group will not experience any change in their medical care
      on account of being enrolled in the control group. They will continue to work with their
      primary care provider and other care team members.
    
  