
    
      The investigators recruited both male and female sedentary individuals between 40 to 65 years
      from sleep laboratory that had recently performed sleep study. All non-menopause women were
      studied between the first and the fifth day after the onset of menstruation, since hormonal
      variability during the regular menstrual cycle may affect blood pressure (BP) or stress
      perception. Hypertension was carefully excluded in the groups. All subjects had at least
      three office BP measurements made by one of the study investigators, in addition three out of
      office BP measurements. Study subjects who had a body mass index (BMI) > 30 kg/m2,
      cardiopulmonary disease, chronic renal disease, diabetes mellitus, atrial fibrillation,
      pacemaker, hypertension, renal failure, echocardiographic evidence of impaired left
      ventricular function (ejection fraction >45%), history of psychiatric disorders, dementia or
      other neurodegenerative disorders, a history of smoking or alcohol abuse (2 or more drinks
      per day), any sleep apnea treatment, story of circadian desynchrony (e.g. shift workers),
      incomplete 2 years of formal education, resting blood pressure lower than 140/90 mmHg, body
      mass index (BMI) greater than 30 kg/m2. The study was approved by the institutional committee
      on human research and all subjects gave written, informed consent.

      Daytime sleepiness. The chance of falling asleep in different situations was assessed by
      means of Epworth Sleepiness Scale.

      Screening of Cognitive Functions. Brief cognitive functions were assessed by means of Mini
      Mental State Examination test (Folstein et al., 1975).

      Intelligence Quotient. Intelligence was estimated by means of Kaufman Brief Intelligence Test
      using vocabulary and matrices subtests (Wagner et al., 2010).

      Depression. Symptoms and depressive attitudes were assessed by means of Beck Depression
      Inventory that consists of 21 items, whose intensity varies from 0 to 3. Individuals with
      cutoffs < 10 (no or minimal depression) were included in the protocol (Beck et al., 1961).

      Perception of Anxiety. Self-evaluation on the perception of anxiety was assessed by means of
      Beck Depression Anxiety Inventory (Beck et al., 1988).

      Psychiatric Mental State. Current mental state was assessed by means of Self Reporting
      Questionnaire (SRQ-20). Individuals with cutoffs < 8 were included of the protocol.

      Experimental Design. All subjects were healthy as confirmed by medical history and physical
      examinations, blood profile, echocardiographic evaluation and were not taking medications.
      All subjects abstained from caffeine for 24 hours before the study. All studies were
      performed in the post-absorptive state with exception of blood sample collection.
      Microneurography was performed in a quiet, temperature-controlled room on morning at
      approximately the same time of day. The right leg was positioned for microneurography. After
      an adequate nerve recording site was obtained, the subject rested quietly for 10 minutes.
      Baseline muscle sympathetic nerve activity, blood pressure, and heart rate were then recorded
      continuously for 4 minutes. Acute Color Word Stroop Test was then performed for 3 minutes.
      After 10 minutes of recovery all patients completed 30% hand grip isometric contraction
      followed by 2 minutes of brachial occlusion.

      Sleep Study. All participants underwent overnight polysomnography as previously described
      (Ueno et al., 2009; Drager et al., 2009; Garcia et al., 2013). Sleep stages, apneas,
      hypopneas and arousals was defined and scored as previously described (Drager et al., 2009;
      Garcia et al., 2013).

      The apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) was calculated by total number of respiratory events (apneas
      and hypopneas) per hour of sleep. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) was defined as a cessation of
      respiratory airflow for 10 seconds with thoracoabdominal effort, which was detected by Piezo
      respiratory effort sensor. Individuals with >70% of obstructive events were defined as
      individuals with OSA.

      Muscle Sympathetic Nerve Activity. Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) was directly
      recorded from the peroneal nerve using the technique of microneurography (Roveda et al.,
      2003; Ueno et al., 2009). Muscle sympathetic bursts were identified by visual inspection by a
      single investigator, blinded to the study protocol, and were expressed as burst frequency
      (bursts per min) and burst per 100 heart beats.

      Heart rate and blood pressure. Heart rate (HR) was beat-by-beat continuously measured during
      the test obtained in a computer-recorded electrocardiographic tracing. Blood pressure (BP)
      was monitored noninvasively from an automatic leg blood pressure cuff (nondominant leg) using
      automated oscillometric device (Dixtal Biomedics, DX 2022). The systolic, diastolic and mean
      blood pressures were registered every minute of protocol.

      Mental stress. Mental stress was elicited using modified version of CWST (During this test,
      subjects were shown a series of names of colors written in a different color ink from the
      color specified. Subjects were asked to identify the color of the ink, not read the word.
      Throughout each mental stress test, subjects were urged to work more quickly and gently
      chastised for incorrect answers.

      Cardiopulmonary Exercise Test. Maximal exercise capacity was determined by means of a maximal
      progressive cardiopulmonary exercise test (SensorMedics - Vmax Analyzes Assembly, Encore 29S)
      on an electromagnetically braked cycle ergometer (Ergoline - Via Sprint 150 P), with
      work-rate constant increment (5 to 20W/min) at 60 to 70 rpm until exhaustion as previously
      described (Ueno et al., 2009). Peak VO2 was defined as the maximum attained VO2 at the end of
      the exercise period in which the subject could no longer maintain the cycle ergometer
      velocity at 60 rpm.
    
  