
    
      Two sites (UAB and MCI) will conduct the RCT of 140 patients with MBC and 140 patients with
      EBC comparing use of SDM TPs delivered during decision-making visits compared to TPs
      delivered post-decision-making. The Carevive Care Planning System (CPS) treatment planning
      software will be used at all clinical sites to provide treatment care plans to patients with
      breast cancer. This software platform, which is currently utilized after decision-making,
      will be modified within this project to facilitate SDM through the creation of a SDM TP
      utilized during decision-making. Together, the patients and physician will be able to review
      the patient's decision-making style, patient's desire for prognostic information treatments,
      and patient preferences about decision-making.

      Participants will be compensated in the form of a $20 gift card at the time of consent. After
      the patient provides consent, the research coordinator will evaluate the electronic medical
      record (EMR) for completion of standard of care elements necessary for the generation of TPs.
      At UAB, an embedded form with the necessary information for TP generation is completed in the
      EMR as part of standard of care by clinical providers. If this form has not been completed,
      the research coordinator may either notify the provider to initiate form completion or
      complete this form within the EMR to ensure availability at the time of the treatment
      decision. If the research coordinator completes this form, it will be reviewed by a clinical
      provider. The completion of the form prior to consent for patients approached by telephone
      will be necessary to allow new patients to receive TPs if a decision is made at their initial
      visit. For other sites who do not use EMR forms, the clinical information will be entered
      directly into the Carevive platform by either the research coordinators or clinical staff.

      We will survey patients as described above on an iPad using the Carevive platform at baseline
      and every 6 months until a treatment decision is made (intervention or standard-of-care).
      Post-treatment surveys will be administered using a REDCap survey. To minimize participant
      burden, we will allow patients to complete surveys in-person during routine clinic visits, by
      telephone, or at home using an e-mailed link to the survey based on patient preference. To
      accommodate patients who would like to complete surveys in-person, we will allow for a
      1-month window around the initial 6-month survey (for those without a treatment decision
      within 6 months) and a 2-week window around post-treatment survey. We will record if surveys
      are completed by email, telephone, or in-person.After each decision-making encounter, the
      physician will be asked to complete a patient-specific survey in REDCap. For standard of care
      patients, this will include the Control Preferences Scale. For intervention patients, the
      survey will include both the Control Preferences Scale and three study-specific questions
      about use of TP during decision-making.
    
  