
    
      Participants in this study will be part of a pancreatic cancer genetic epidemiology
      consortium (herein referred to as "PACGENE"), which includes researchers at these
      institutions: Mayo Clinic; Johns Hopkins University; Creighton University; University of
      Toronto Mount Sinai Hospital; Dana Farber; and Karmanos Cancer Institute. Participants have
      either been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer or are family members of pancreatic cancer
      patients.

      Participants will be asked questions by a trained interviewer using an approved
      questionnaire. The topics will include demographic data (age, race, etc.), exposures, medical
      history data, family history of cancer and other conditions, and other lifestyle factors. It
      should take about 30-40 minutes to complete the questionnaire.

      Participants in this study will also have about one and a half tablespoons of blood drawn.
      Blood that is collected will only be used by researchers involved in this study. If obtaining
      a blood sample is not possible, the study staff will ask for a saliva sample using an ORAGENE
      kit. Neither participants nor their physicians will receive individual reports of this
      research. Results will not be placed in the participant's health records. All information
      will be kept confidential and used only for this research.

      There is a rare chance that a research team member could be accidentally exposed to your
      blood or body fluids. If that occurs, extra blood (about 2 teaspoons) may be drawn to test
      for infections such as hepatitis and HIV (the AIDS virus). An existing blood sample may be
      used for these tests instead. You will be told that your blood is being tested and the
      results of your test. Researchers will ask how you would like to receive the results, such as
      by phone or certified letter. The test results and your name, address, date of birth, and sex
      will be recorded in the confidential M. D. Anderson medical records.

      If you test positive for hepatitis or HIV, the test results and your name, address, date of
      birth, and sex will be shared with appropriate health authorities as required by law. You
      will also be given a list of places in your area so that you can receive further testing and
      treatment.

      For the protection of your privacy, the study staff has obtained a Certificate of
      Confidentiality from the National Institutes of Health. With this certificate, the
      researchers cannot be forced to disclose information that may identify you, even by a court
      subpoena, in any federal, state, or local civil, criminal, administrative, legislative, or
      other proceedings. The researchers will use the certificate to resist any demands for
      information that would identify you, except as explained below.

      The certificate cannot be used to resist a demand for information from personnel of the
      United State Government that is used for auditing or evaluation of Federally funded projects
      or for information that must be disclosed in order to meet the requirements of the federal
      Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

      You should understand that a Certificate of Confidentiality does not prevent you or a member
      of your family from voluntarily releasing information about yourself or your involvement in
      this research. If an insurer, employer, or other person obtains your written consent to
      receive research information, then the researchers may not use the certificate to withhold
      that information.

      This is an investigational study. This study will include a total of 1,000 participants
      recruited at M. D. Anderson.
    
  