
    
      The intersection of eating disorders and overweight/obesity reveals a large, and mostly
      underserved, population. Having overweight/obesity as a child is a risk factor for an ED, as
      many adolescents with overweight/obesity utilize disordered eating methods in order to lose
      weight. Conversely, binge-type EDs increase risk for overweight/obesity as binge episodes can
      lead to further weight gain. Additionally, treatment of overweight early is especially
      important as individuals with overweight have an increased likelihood of moving from
      overweight to obesity status. Despite this intertwined problem, few interventions exist that
      address ED pathology combined with a healthy weight loss (WL) intervention. A particular
      population in need of intervention for EDs with comorbid overweight/obesity is the college
      student population. Intervention at the college level is important as it is also prevention
      for future complications of EDs and overweight/obesity. Combined intervention for EDs and
      overweight for young adults, specifically college students, is needed programming which could
      potentially have substantial long-term health benefits. This project will pilot an online,
      guided self-help ED intervention that offers cognitive behavioral therapy based tools to
      improve ED symptoms while also teaching the healthy WL methods and maintenance of behavioral
      WL for individuals with clinical/sub-clinical binge-type EDs with comorbid
      overweight/obesity. Participants will take the online screen by going to the URL address
      listed on the study advertisement. Before answering any survey questions, they will read a
      consent information sheet on the study, and consent to having their information stored so
      that they can be reached later if eligible for the long term study. They will then complete
      screening questions asking about their eating habits and weight and shape concerns. Lastly,
      they will be asked if they are interested in taking part in the long term study, and if so,
      at what email address would they like to be reached. Eligible criteria include endorsing
      clinical/sub-clinical symptoms of a binge-type ED, having a BMI > 25, and wanting to lose
      weight. If an individual screens positive for having low weight, as characterized by a BMI <
      18.5, they will automatically be provided a referral to student health services at the end of
      their survey. Those that are eligible to participate will be sent emails to ask if they are
      interested in participating in this study. If they are interested, they will come into the
      lab to read and sign consent information. To minimize coercion, they will have as much time
      as they like to read and consider participation.
    
  