
    
      Background Normal amniotic fluid volume varies across gestation (Ounpraseuth 2017). Abnormal
      amniotic fluid volume has been associated with a variety of adverse pregnancy outcomes (Shrem
      2016). In clinical practice, the amniotic fluid volume is a component of the biophysical
      profile which provides information on fetal well-being.

      Transabdominal ultrasound is used to assess quantitatively the amniotic fluid volume, most
      commonly by either the Amniotic Fluid Index (AFI) or the Maximum Vertical Pocket (MVP)
      methods.

      The value of the AFI method has been questioned in several studies, which have shown that an
      abnormal test, low or high, is neither highly accurate nor predictive of adverse outcome.
      Many pregnancies with normal AFI will be falsely characterized as abnormal, and a large
      number with truly abnormal AFI will be missed (Magann 1994, Chauhan 1997).

      The MVP measurement may be preferred over the AFI method. A 2008 systematic review of
      randomized trials found that use of the AFI increased the rate of diagnosis of
      oligohydramnios (RR 2.3), induction of labor (RR 2.1), and cesarean delivery for fetal
      distress (RR 1.5) (Nabhan 2008).

      Rationale and Hypothesis of the Study Recently, our group observed that when transvaginal
      ultrasound is being performed to non-laboring pregnant women at term for other obstetrical
      indications, there is a large amniotic fluid pocket above the internal cervical os and below
      the fetal presenting part. Due to the unique location of this pocket, we hypothesized that
      transvaginal ultrasound may provide better information than transabdominal ultrasound on
      amniotic fluid volume, particularly in cases when suspecting abnormal low amniotic fluid
      volume.

      Data Collection

        1. Maternal and fetal characteristics Data related to the fetomaternal antenatal,
           intrapartum and postpartum course will be recorded prospectively.

        2. Ultrasound assessment Each eligible woman in the study population group will be asked to
           undergo prenatal ultrasound examination twice. The first ultrasound examination is a
           routine transabdominal ultrasound examination that is carried out to assess fetal growth
           and well-being. This is to be continued with a second transvaginal ultrasound, with a
           specific focus on the amniotic fluid pocket, that is; the distance in centimetres
           between the fetal presenting part and the internal cervical os. The second transvaginal
           ultrasound will be performed for the purpose of the study only, and by one other
           research team member that is blinded to the first routine transabdominal ultrasound. The
           entire length of the study, combining the transabdominal and transvaginal ultrasounds,
           is expected to take on the average around 15 min.

      Ultrasound Equipment and Safety Considerations In their 2011 statement, The International
      Society of Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynaecology (ISUOG) and World Federation of
      Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology (WFUMB) consider ultrasonography to be safe for use during
      clinical practice (ISUOG 2011).

      Statistical analyses and sample size For sample size calculation, and given a 20% rate of
      induction of labor, of which 3% are due to abnormal low amniotic fluid volume
      (oligohydramnios), a sample size of 1000 women is required.

      Feasibility of the Study Considering the high volume of maternal care here at Rambam Health
      Care Campus, and that every year there are around 5,000 births and nearly double routine
      cares, the recruitment process for the current study is feasible.

      Expected Duration of the Study The recruitment for the study is expected to take place over
      12 months with an additional 3-6 months after recruitment for data analysis before
      publication.

      Funding Women will be recruited while approaching Rambam Health Care Campus for their routine
      obstetric care. Ultrasound examinations will be carried out using existing operational
      ultrasound equipments within the obstetric department at Rambam Health Care Campus. For both,
      the recruitment and the ultrasound examinations, no extra funding is currently required.

      Public Health Interest Identifying new ultrasound variables that can assist in quantifying
      amniotic fluid volume, as the one suggested in the current study, is of great importance and
      may provide invaluable information into the overall future care and decision-making around
      the time of delivery, especially whether or not to induce labor in women with suspected
      oligohydramnios. Thus, it may assist in creating future recommendations for pregnant women
      and improved healthcare standards during the delivery process.
    
  