
    
      Left-sided prosthetic valve thrombosis (PVT) is a potentially devastating complication which
      can affect patients with mechanical heart valves. It occurs frequently in developing
      countries because of poor anticoagulation quality. The best modality for treating this
      condition is not known. Most of the available data is from retrospective studies and case
      series, and current guidelines are based largely on expert opinion. Therefore recommendations
      for treatment vary widely. Fibrinolytic therapy (FT) is the most commonly used treatment
      because fibrinolytic agents such as streptokinase are readily available, cheap, and easy to
      use. However, FT is associated with high rates of treatment-related adverse effects (death,
      major bleeding and stroke). Moreover, recent studies suggest that FT may not be as
      efficacious in restoring valve function, as previously believed. Emergency surgery is less
      often used because it is more expensive and the required facilities and manpower are not
      available at all times at all places. A systematic review and meta-analysis of the available
      literature that the investigators performed, suggests that surgery may result in better
      success rates with a lower risk of major bleeding, stroke and non-CNS systemic embolism.
      Evidence from well designed randomised controlled trials is needed to determine the optimal
      treatment of left-sided PVT. The investigators propose to do a single-centre, open-label,
      randomised controlled trial comparing emergency surgery with FT for the treatment of
      symptomatic patients with left-sided PVT. The primary outcome is the occurrence of a complete
      clinical response, defined as discharge from hospital with completely restored valve
      function, in the absence of stroke, major bleeding or non-CNS systemic embolism. The
      investigators will compare the safety of the two interventions and quality of life at
      discharge and at 1 year. The investigators will also assess the cost-effectiveness of surgery
      compared to FT from a societal perspective in the context of the Indian healthcare system
    
  