
    
      The management of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) during pregnancy is a matter
      of continued debate. The introduction of the TKIs in clinical practice has dramatically
      changed the prognosis of CML. Patients diagnosed in chronic phase can reasonably expect many
      years of excellent disease control and good quality of life. Thus, the need to address issues
      related to fertility and pregnancy have arisen. Physicians are frequently being asked for
      advice regarding the need for, and or the appropriateness of, stopping treatment in order to
      conceive. The management of fertility begins at diagnosis. This means that immediate and
      future treatments should be considered at the very beginning. Therefore, the maintenance of
      fertility should be taken into account since diagnosis. Imatinib is not genotoxic but might
      lead to a decrease in sperm counts. Nevertheless, Imatinib is teratogenic in rats when given
      during organogenesis at doses higher than 100 mg/kg, approximately equivalent to 800 mg/day
      in men. Until now, approximately 60 pregnancies were reported in partners of men on Imatinib.
      No suggestions of any problems in conception, pregnancy, delivery or any increase in
      congenital abnormalities were reported. Regarding women, 204 patients were exposed to
      Imatinib, and 180 were reported in literature (76, 77). Of 180 women exposed to imatinib
      during pregnancy, outcome data are available for 125 (69%). Of those with known outcomes, 50%
      delivered normal infants and 28% underwent elective terminations, 3 following the
      identification of abnormalities. There were a total of 12 infants in whom abnormalities were
      identified, 3 of which had strikingly similar complex malformations that are clearly a cause
      for concern. It appears that although most pregnancies exposed to imatinib are likely to have
      a successful outcome, there remains a risk that exposure may result in serious fetal
      malformations. Although numbers are small there has been a disturbing cluster of rare
      congenital malformations such that imatinib cannot be safely recommended, particularly during
      the period of organogenesis. Last but not least, it has recently been reported a poor outcome
      after reintroduction of Imatinib in patients who interrupt therapy for pregnancy without
      having achieved an optimal response (78), introducing another variable in the management of
      women pregnant while receiving Imatinib. Only few data are available about the use of second
      generation TKIs, Nilotinib and Dasatinib, during pregnancy. Dasatinib is not mutagenic in
      rats (in vitro and in vivo tests), but is clastogenic in CHO cells. It does not seem to have
      such effect on fertility of male and female rats. However, it gives skeletal alterations in
      rats and rabbits and has embryolethality in rats if administered during pregnancies. Eleven
      pregnancies were reported while in dasatinib: 5 patients delivered normal infants, while 3
      elective termination and 2 spontaneous abortion were reported. On the other hand, 9 male
      patient conceived during dasatinib: 8 normal infants were delivered, and 1 case was ongoing
      at the time of the report. Nilotinib is not mutagenic in rats. It does not have any effect on
      fertility in male and female rats. When administered during pregnancy, there is no evidence
      of teratogenicity but it is embryo and foetotoxic in the rat and in the rabbit. Only sporadic
      cases of patients who had been pregnant/had conceived during Nilotinib have been reported,
      and no speculation should be made from these data. In summary, there are virtually no data
      regarding II generation TKIs, that must be discontinued by women wishing to become pregnant.
      Several questions still remains unanswered regarding the management of patients receiving
      TKIs who want to conceive, or who have been exposed to TKI during pregnancy/conception.
    
  