
    
      Frequently people undergoing leukemia treatment experience physical and emotional symptoms
      during the course of their illness. These can be very distressing to both patients and their
      caregivers. Patients with acute leukemia receiving non-intensive therapy also often
      experience a rapid decline in their health status and have a limited prognosis. Despite their
      limited life-expectancy, they rarely engage in discussion with their clinicians regarding
      their goals and preferences for care at the end of life. The study doctors want to know if
      the early introduction of a team of clinicians that specialize in the lessening (palliation)
      of many of these distressing symptoms and have expertise in enhancing communication about
      prognosis and illness trajectory may improve the overall care of patients with acute
      leukemia.

      This team of clinicians is called the palliative care team and they focus on ways to improve
      the participant's pain and other symptom management (nausea, fatigue, shortness of breath,
      anxiety, etc.) and to assist the participant and the participant's caregivers in coping with
      the emotional and social issues associated with their diagnosis. The team consists of
      physicians and advance practice nurses who have been specially trained in the care of
      patients facing serious illness.

      The main purpose of this study is to compare two types of care - standard leukemia oncology
      care and standard leukemia oncology care with collaborative involvement of palliative care
      clinicians to see which is better for improving the experience of patients with acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML) undergoing treatment.

      The purpose of this research study is to find out whether introducing patients undergoing
      treatment for acute myeloid leukemia to the palliative care team can improve their
      end-of-life communication, understanding of their prognosis, and their physical and
      psychological symptoms during the course of their illness.
    
  