
    
      The spectral-diagnosis probe being used in this study uses dim pulses of light to identify
      features of tissue that may be related to the status of skin cancer. The probe is shaped like
      a catheter, and it has a camera on the end, which takes pictures of the skin.

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be asked questions about your age, race,
      smoking status, and the status of any diseases you may have (such as diabetes, connective
      tissue disease, and infectious disease). It should take about 5 minutes to answer these
      questions.

      The study doctor will then decide which of your lesions are suitable for imaging by the
      probe. If necessary, any hair on or around the lesion(s) will be shaved or trimmed. The
      area(s) of skin being imaged will be cleaned with rubbing alcohol.

      As part of your exam, the study doctor will use the probe to measure the selected areas of
      tissue. To perform the spectral-diagnosis measurement, the probe will be gently placed on the
      surface of your skin. Each selected area of your skin will take about a few seconds to image.
      The probe will shine different types of light onto the skin, and it will collect the light
      that reflects from the skin surface. The light signals will be stored so that researchers can
      look at them. Preparing the lesion, imaging it, and collecting the light signals should take
      about 10-15 minutes per lesion.

      After all of the imaging is over, you will have biopsies performed on the lesions that your
      study doctor has decided are in need of such treatment as part of your standard care.

      After this clinic visit, your participation in the study will be over.

      This is an investigational study. The imaging probe is not commercially available or FDA
      approved. At this time, it is being used in research only. Up to 150 patients will take part
      in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  