
    
      The identification of care needs of informal caregivers of people with dementia (PwD) at home
      is of particular importance to provide timely appropriate support and health care services to
      this vulnerable group. Family doctors and specialists have a key role in identifying the
      burden and care needs of informal caregivers. However, this often remains a challenge in
      everyday practice. In addition, the regionally available support and health care offers are
      often unknown. A computer-assisted care management system (CMS) can support the
      identification of unmet care needs and suggest individual, regional offers via a constantly
      updated database. On the basis of a standardized self-assessment, the VMS identifies
      personal, social, nursing and medical care needs of informal caregivers of PwD. The
      investigators apply the system in family and specialist practices as well as in memory
      clinics where it generates modularized recommendations for interventions based on predefined
      algorithms. The aim of the study is to test the effectiveness of a CMS to reduce the number
      of unmet care needs and to improve quality of life of informal caregivers of PwD. The study
      design is a cluster-randomized, controlled intervention study with two arms and two
      assessment times. The setting includes family and specialist practices for neurology and/ or
      psychiatry as well as memory clinics. The CMS will be used in the practices of the
      intervention group. Informal caregivers of PwD answer a self-administered questionnaire on a
      tablet PC. From the input, the system generates a list of unmet care needs based on
      predefined algorithms, and assigns these to individual intervention recommendations. The
      doctor evaluates each recommendation and forwards a validated list and possibly further
      intervention recommendations to a study assistant (Care Manager, CM). In a subsequent home
      visit, the care manager systematically collects additional information, specifies and
      concretizes the intervention recommendations and supports the informal caregivers of PwD in
      the implementation of the recommendations. In subsequent telephone contacts, the status of
      the implementation of the intervention recommendations will be discussed and the care manager
      coordinates the informal caregivers individual support. Patients of the control group will
      receive Care as Usual (CAU). After 6 months, a blinded, systematic, computer-based follow-up
      assessment will be conducted in both groups by hitherto uninvolved study assistants
    
  