
    
      Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a chronic devastating skin disorder affecting areas rich in
      apocrine glands. Nodules appear in the affected areas; they progressively become swollen and
      rupture with the release of pus. This process occurs repeatedly leading to sinus tract
      formation and scars. This disease course creates a frustrating situation for the patients but
      also for physicians. Traditional treatments comprise short-courses of antibiotics and
      surgical excision. However, relapse is the rule so that HS leads to severe impairment of the
      quality of life. The Dermatology Quality Life Index (DQLI) for HS is 8.9 being higher than
      any other skin disorder.

      This devastating disorder has often been neglected and considered a rare situation. However,
      HS seems to indiscriminately affect the global population. Although the exact epidemiology is
      largely unknown, the point-prevalence is reported to range between 1% and 4%. A recent large
      epidemiological survey in France reports 0.97% disease prevalence.

      The exact pathophysiology of HS is unknown. Smoking, dietary habits and genetic
      predisposition have all been linked with HS. However, a recent survey by our group in 56
      patients, disclosed a severe derangement of the monocyte function and of subsequent antigen
      processing in these patients. The percentage of natural killer (NK) cells was increased and
      that of CD4-lymphocytes decreased compared to healthy controls probably implying the
      existence of an autoimmune predilection for the disorder. We have previously demonstrated
      defective lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced production of the pro-inflammatory cytokines,
      tumour necrosis factor(TNF) and interleukin (IL)-6 by blood monocytes of patients with HS.

      As a consequence, a hypothesis for the implication of some autoimmune of autoinflammatory
      mechanism in the pathogenesis of HS was started to be created over the last years. The
      hypothesis is further reinforced by positive results from the administration of TNF
      antagonists in prospective studies with limited number of patients one of these was conducted
      by our study group. Subcutaneous treatment with 50mg etanercept once weekly for 12 weeks in
      10 patients, reduced patients' suffering, attenuated local signs of inflammation and retarded
      disease relapse.

      Anakinra is a recombinant interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra). Anakinra blocks
      the biologic activity of naturally occurring IL-1, including inflammation and cartilage
      degradation associated with rheumatoid arthritis, by competitively inhibiting the binding of
      IL-1 to the interleukin-1 type receptor, which is expressed in many tissues and organs. IL-1
      is produced in response to inflammatory stimuli and mediates various physiologic responses,
      including inflammatory and immunologic reactions. The biological properties of anakinra and
      the existing clinical and laboratory data favoring a derangement of the immune response in
      HS, prompted to investigate whether anakinra would be efficient in the management of patients
      with HS.
    
  