
    
      MR-proADM (Mid Region proAdrenomedullin) is a fragment of 48 amino-acids of ADM
      (Adrenomedullin), a protein belonging to the super-family of calcitonin-related peptides.
      MR-proADM is released in a 1:1 ratio with its native protein ADM. Blood levels of ADM are
      high in several conditions including infection, sepsis of septic shock. MR-proADM seems to be
      a promising marker for early diagnosis, prognosis and mortality in sepsis and it is also
      related to sepsis-induced organ failure.

      The microcirculatory and endothelial damages represent two corner stones of the sepsis
      pathophysiology. They involved the loss of functional capillaries density and the loss of red
      blood cells deformability, the endothelial cell disfunction induced by sepsis, the induction
      of the apoptosis and necrosis, the alteration in the capillary permeability due to the loss
      of vasomotor tone and control. Moreover sepsis is characterised by the increased levels of
      adhesion molecules and the consequent interaction between neutrophils and endothelium, the
      fibrin deposition and the activation of the coagulation.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate the correlation between the alteration in
      microcirculation and the levels of MR-proADM.

      MFI (Microvascular Flow Index) is a qualitative measurement of microcirculation and the
      microcirculatory alterations during sepsis are crucial in the pathophysiology of this
      syndrome. It is related to prognosis and mortality in patient with sepsis in ICU (Intensive
      Care Unit)

      Studying the relations between MFI and MR-proADM in the first five days of ICU stay could
      represent a good way to connect the pathophysiological background to a laboratory marker for
      an early diagnosis and for a measure of prognosis in patient with infections.

      It is also important to compare the levels of MR-proADM with the other microcirculatory
      parameters (Total Vessel Density, Perfused Vessels Density, Percentage of Perfused Vessels,
      DeBacker score, Flow Heterogeneity index) and with the parameters of glycocalix and
      endothelial disfunction (Perfused Boundary Region and Endothelin-1)

      When inclusion criteria are present and there are no exclusion criteria, patients will be
      enrolled for this five-days long study. Informed consent will be taken from the patient
      before enrollment or from the legal representative but when the neurological conditions do
      not allow

      At the beginning of the study anthropometric data will be collected together with the main
      clinical and laboratory parameters (systolic, diastolic and mean arterial pressure, heart
      rate, mechanical ventilation parameters, blood gas parameters, vasoactive therapy, main
      parameters for renal, hepatic and haematological function, infectious condition and
      cultures).

      Arterial blood samples will be collected and blood will be immediately centrifuged and plasma
      and serum samples will be stored at -80°C for the measurement of MR-proADM and Endothelin-1.

      Moreover at the beginning of the study, the day after and the fifth days from the enrolment,
      the main microcirculatory parameters will be taken through Incident Dark Field Technology.
      Glycocheck Technology will be used to collect glycocalix conditions.
    
  