
    
      The surface of the eye, including the cornea, is dependent on the tear film to protect it. An
      adequate tear film prevents epithelial breakdown, ulceration and secondary infection. The
      continual regeneration of the corneal epithelium is supported by various components that
      reside in human tears, such as growth factors, vitamins, electrolytes and neuropeptides.
      There are various ocular conditions that can lead to a deficiency in any of these tear
      constituents and can result in excessive surface dryness. This can lead to corneal surface
      breakdown, non-healing ulceration, secondary infection, globe perforation and sight loss, in
      addition to severe pain for patients, all of which can have a significant negative impact on
      a patient's quality of life. First line therapy in the treatment of tear deficiency is in the
      form of ocular lubricants. Multiple formulations are available in drop, gel and ointment
      form. Lubricants act as barriers in one form or another to protect the epithelial surface
      from mechanical trauma. However, in the presence of an unhealthy tear film or corneal
      epithelial surface, barrier protection alone is inadequate to promote surface regeneration
      and wound healing. Therefore, even the use of frequent and continual ocular lubricants may be
      of no benefit to patients with severe ocular surface disease (OSD).

      In this study, we aim to determine the efficacy of autologous blood as an alternative to
      autologous serum eye drops (ASE) in people with severe dry eyes and ocular surface
      inflammation. ASE are drops manufactured from the patient's own blood. Perceived benefits are
      that human blood contains multiple components that are beneficial to healing and maintaining
      a healthy ocular surface, including epidermal growth factor, and transforming growth factor
      β, in addition to fibronectin, vitamin A, and various growth factors. We wish to assess
      whether administering autologous blood directly to their eye would also be an effective
      treatment in the management of severe dry eye. It will be the first study analysing the
      potential benefits of this relatively novel treatment in Scotland and will consider its role
      in treating an important debilitating condition.
    
  