
    
      Breast cancer is the commonest cancer to affect women in the UK. Current guidelines state
      that; disease permitting, all females due to undergo mastectomy for breast cancer should be
      offered reconstruction. This usually takes place in the form of implant based reconstruction,
      regional flap based reconstruction +/- implant or free autologous tissue based
      reconstruction.

      Traditional methods of subjectively assessing the aesthetic outcome of any of the forms of
      breast surgery have been shown to be poor and the assessment of immediate reconstructions a
      cumbersome task. The qualitative part of the assessment usually relies on standardised
      clinical photographs and panel ratings. Four to six photographs are usually taken of the
      patient and their reconstruction from different angles. These photographs are then shown to
      an expert panel (usually consisting of healthcare professionals familiar with breast
      reconstruction).

      A large degree of both inter and intra-observer bias exists when comparing standardized
      photographs. The results from expert assessment of cosmesis often do not correlate to the
      patients opinion with regards to the cosmetic outcome of their reconstruction

      Due to the static nature of clinical photography it does not capture the effect which
      movement and gravity play on a reconstructed breast in comparison to a normal breast.

      A large volume of information can be captured from a short digital video clip in comparison
      to a single photograph. The potential advantages of digital video assessment over photography
      are only beginning to be explored with regards to aesthetics in other fields associated to
      medicine.9 However this has never been trialed with regards to breast cancer reconstruction.

      We believe that real time digital video footage would be a more valuable tool in the
      assessment of breast reconstruction. We believe that there may be more accurate correlations
      between patient's satisfaction and panel opinion and that there will be less inter and
      intra-observer discordance
    
  