
    
      This research aims to analyze the effect of mobilization of 1.-3-ribs joints in a
      relationship in sensitivity and volume of neck and shoulders muscles. The ultrasonic
      diagnostic method will be used to evaluate muscle volume before and after mobilization ribs
      joints. Visual pain scale will be used to evaluate pain during palpation of certain muscles.
      This research will examine 30 subjects, aged 19-26 years old, which will be divided into the
      control and the experimental group. Each subject will be in both groups. In the control
      group, we are going to analyze, if certain neck muscles keep the same volume for 5 minutes
      during sitting position after ribs mobilization. The control group will evaluate if there are
      any muscle volume and palpation muscle sensitivity change before and after mobilization of
      the ribs joints.

      Lack of evidence for a relationship between the ribs joints and reflex spasms was the
      motivation to make this study. During the research, I have found no study, which was aiming
      to analyze the relationship between the mobilization of ribs joint and reflex muscle spasms.

      Subject: Thirty subjects, men and woman, aged from 19 to 26 years old. Each included subject
      has to be diagnosed with at least one sensitive 1.-3. costo-sternal connection. The study
      examines the control and the experimental group.

      Method: During the entrance diagnostics, the examiner will palpate subject´s 1.-3.
      costo-sternal connections and certain muscles on the same side of the sensitive connection.
      Specifically m.scalenus anterior, medius and posterior, sternocleidomastoideus, levator
      scapulae and trapezius. Those muscles are related to dysfunction of those connections
      according to Mojžíšová. The subject will rate the sensitivity of those muscles on the visual
      pain scale (0-10 scale). During palpation, the examiner will be using his index finger. The
      subject will lay down on their back and turn their head 45 degrees away from the examined
      side. Then the examiner will use sonograph to evaluate the volume of sternocleidomastoideus,
      scalenus anterior and medius muscles, on the side, on the side of the sensitive joint. After
      that, the subject will rest in sitting position for 5 minutes, and then the examiner will use
      sonograph again to check the volume of those muscles, If there is any volume change without
      joint mobilization. The subject will be placed in the same position, just as during the first
      sonographic examination. Those data will be used for the control group.

      After this process, the examiner will mobilize 1.-3. costo-vertebral joints, using the
      Mojžíšová technique. This technique will be done in the sitting position.
    
  