
    
      After neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (nCRT) for esophageal cancer, high pathologically
      complete response (pCR) rates are being achieved in patients with squamous cell carcinoma
      (SCC). An active surveillance strategy has been proposed for SCC patients with clinically
      complete response (cCR) after nCRT. To justify omitting surgical resection, patients with
      residual disease should be accurately identified.

      The objective of this study is to assess the accuracy of response evaluations after nCRT
      based on the preSANO trial, including positron emission tomography with computed tomography
      (PET-CT), endoscopic bite-on-bite biopsies and endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) with
      fine-needle aspiration (FNA) in patients with potentially curable esophageal SCC.

      Operable esophageal SCC patients who are planned to undergo nCRT according to the CROSS
      regimen and are planned to undergo surgery will be recruited from four Asian centers. Four to
      six weeks after completion of nCRT, patients will undergo a first clinical response
      evaluation (CRE-1) consisting of endoscopic bite-on-bite biopsies. In patients without
      histological evidence of residual tumor (i.e. without positive biopsies), surgery will be
      postponed another six weeks. A second clinical response evaluation (CRE-2) will be performed
      10-12 weeks after completion of nCRT, consisting of PET-CT, endoscopic bite-on-bite biopsies
      and EUS with FNA. Immediately after CRE-2 all patients without evidence of distant metastases
      will undergo esophagectomy. Results of CRE-1 and CRE-2 as well as results of single
      diagnostic modalities will be correlated to pathological response in the resection specimen
      for calculation of sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value and positive
      predictive value.

      If the current study shows that major residual disease (>10% residual carcinoma at the
      primary tumor site and any residual nodal disease) can be accurately (i.e. with sensitivity
      of 80.5%) detected in patients with esophageal SCC, a prospective trial will be conducted
      comparing active surveillance with standard esophagectomy in patients with a clinically
      complete response after nCRT (SINO trial).
    
  