
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the benefit of erythropoietin vs standard transfusion support in reducing
           transfusion requirements in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes.

        -  Compare the clinical response, disease progression, and survival in patients treated
           with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Evaluate whether adding filgrastim (G-CSF) or increasing the erythropoietin dose will
           reduce the transfusion requirement in patients who do not respond to erythropoietin
           alone.

        -  To compare the benefit of erythropoietin versus supportive care alone on quality of life
           (QOL) in persons with myelodysplastic syndromes.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, multicenter, cross-over study. Patients are
      stratified according to morphologic subtype (refractory anemia [RA] vs RA with ringed
      sideroblasts vs RA with excess blasts), transfusion requirement (yes vs no), prior
      erythropoietin treatment (yes vs no), and erythropoietin level (at least 200 mU/mL vs less
      than 200 mU/mL). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (standard transfusion support): Patients receive red cell and platelet
           transfusions for symptoms or to maintain hematocrit level of 25% or above. Patients
           undergo bone marrow aspirate and biopsy at 4 months and then every year until
           development of acute leukemia or completion of study. Patients with progressive disease
           may cross over to arm II after at least 4 months on study and up to 1 year from the time
           of randomization. Patients who cross over receive erythropoietin alone.

        -  Arm II (Erythropoietin): Patients receive erythropoietin subcutaneously (SC) or
           intravenously (IV) daily. Patients undergo bone marrow aspirate and biopsy as in arm I.
           Treatment continues daily for a maximum of 1 year.

      Patients with stable or progressive disease at day 120 receive filgrastim (G-CSF) SC daily or
      3 days a week and erythropoietin SC daily for up to 6 months. Patients with no response to
      G-CSF and lower-dose erythropoietin may proceed to a higher dose of erythropoietin.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 4 months during study, and at study
      completion.

      Patients are followed every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually for 5 years.

      ACTUAL ACCRUAL: A total of 118 patients were accrued for this study.
    
  