
    
      Current standard for patient monitoring in acute care such as intensive care units (ICU),
      operating rooms (OR) or emergency rooms (ER) is the use of expensive, bulky and uncomfortable
      monitors.

      Unfortunately, once discharged from the acute care setting and transferred to a general
      division for example (low acuity), patients are left with manual measurements of vital signs
      every 4 to 6 hours, depending on the available resources in nursing. Furthermore, these
      measurements reflect only the results of the time the measurement is taken (spot check). The
      combination of manual spot checks and lack of innovative medical technology in 60% of
      hospital care settings (all non-ICUs and non-OR) represents an important limitation to
      patient follow-up, with its associated risks and costs.

      In particular, when referring to the monitoring of blood pressure (BP), current monitoring
      practice relies on the use of occlusive pneumatic cuffs inflated around the arm. Based on
      oscillometric technique, occlusive cuffs not only are uncomfortable, but they provide only
      intermittent measurements, with the inability to provide a full view of the BP regulation
      landscape. Therefore, un-detected hypertensive events can be omitted, putting the patient at
      risk.

      The continuous, comfortable and portable measurement of BP in low acuity hospital departments
      is a major unsolved problem of modern healthcare systems with regards to patient monitoring
      and safety.

      Winmedical (device manufacturer) commercializes a wearable multi-parametric modular medical
      system, WinPack, to deliver continuous real-time monitoring and recording of vital signs,
      such as electrocardiography (ECG), respiration rate, BP, blood oxygen saturation, body
      temperature, and posture, in low-acuity departments to increase the overall clinical
      performance. A new algorithm to process the raw physiological signals acquired by the WinPack
      to provide more accurate and more continuous BP measurement is now to be tested.
    
  