
    
      This study is a retrospective data collection from existing medical records, is observational
      in nature and is designed to evaluate feasibility, safety and performance of the da Vinci®
      surgical system for patients who have undergone inguinal hernia repair surgery during the
      time period from initiation of robotic-assisted surgery to 30 days prior to study initiation
      (IRB approval and fully executed data collection agreement) for approximately 500 subjects.
      Any inguinal hernia repair procedure that uses the da Vinci® surgical system at any point
      will be collected.

      This data will be compared with data associated with open inguinal hernia repairs performed
      by the same surgeons from a period of 5 years prior to the initiation of robotic surgery at
      each participating institution until 30 days prior to study initiation. Sites will collect
      data from consecutive open inguinal hernia repair cases starting with the day prior to the
      1st robotic-assisted inguinal hernia repair, and continue collecting data until the number of
      open inguinal hernia repair cases is equivalent to the number of robotic-assisted inguinal
      hernia repair cases, or until the open repair procedure date reaches 5 years prior to the 1st
      robotic-assisted inguinal hernia repair case.

      Data collected will include, but is not limited to, the following:

        1. Demographics and baseline/pre-operative clinical parameters: Gender, age, BMI,
           comorbidities, smoking history, prior hernia history, prior abdominal surgery history,
           hernia description

        2. Intraoperative parameters: procedure details related to repair, operative time,
           conversions to open, blood loss, intraoperative complications

        3. Post-operative through discharge : length of hospital stay, post-operative complications

        4. Post-operative information regarding complications, readmissions and reoperations
           through 30 days post-discharge.

        5. Hernia Recurrence, if available

      The total duration for this study will be approximately 12 months
    
  