
    
      Frailty is a key risk factor for adverse outcomes among the increasingly large number of
      older patients presenting for surgery. The complexity and risk profile of frail patients
      makes them a population who may derive significant benefit from the multidisciplinary and
      continuous care provided by a Perioperative Surgical Home (PSH) model of care. Development of
      an evidence-based PSH for the frail elderly (PSH-Frail) is the overarching goal of the
      investigator's research program. However, the PSH-Frail is a complex intervention, and will
      require high quality evidence to support inclusion of specific processes and interventions
      into the overall framework.

      To date, the investigator's research group has undertaken prospective studies to support the
      routine and accurate identification of frail patients before surgery. The next step in the
      development of the PSH-Frail is testing interventions to improve the outcomes of frail
      elderly surgical patients. The role of preoperative exercise training (prehabilitation) in
      improving postoperative outcomes is a priority research area in perioperative medicine, and
      may provide its most significant impact in frail elderly patients. However, this hypothesis
      has not been formally tested.

      Study design:

      A single center, parallel arm randomized controlled trial of home-based prehabilitation vs.
      standard perioperative care in frail elderly patients undergoing elective surgery for
      intraabdominal cancer will be conducted. This will be a superiority trial to test the
      hypothesis that home-based prehabilitation will result in improved postoperative functional
      outcomes compared to standard care. This protocol is described in keeping with the Standard
      Protocol Items: Recommendations for Intervention Trials (SPIRIT) guidelines).

      Study setting:

      This study will be performed at The Ottawa Hospital (TOH), a 900-bed tertiary care academic
      health sciences center serving a catchment area of 1.2 million people. TOH is the regional
      cancer referral center for the Eastern portion of the Canadian province of Ontario. On
      average, cancer patients are seen 4 weeks prior to surgery (as this is a provincial benchmark
      for cancer care).

      Sample size:

      To detect a clinically important 25 meter difference in the primary outcome between study
      arms, using a two-sided test at the 5% level of significance with 80% power, and assuming a
      standard deviation of 55 meters based on a previously published trial, we will require 77
      patients per arm. To account for up to 20% attrition we will enroll 100 patients per arm.

      Recruitment:

      Patients will be recruited from the investigator's hospital's Cancer Assessment Center.
      Following cancer diagnosis, patients are seen by a surgeon 4 weeks prior to their scheduled
      operation. Following surgical assessment and confirmation of the decision to operate,
      patients who consent to consideration for research contact, and who meet all inclusion
      criteria except for frailty score, will be assessed by a trained clinician or clinical
      assistant using the Clinical Frailty Scale (CFS). Patients who score >4/9 on the CFS will
      then be randomized after providing written informed consent.

      Intervention:

      The intervention will be a home-based total-body exercise training program (henceforth
      referred to as prehabilitation) based on a protocol with proven efficacy in improving the
      function of non-frail surgical patients in less than 4 weeks of preoperative utilization.
      Prehabilitation will consist of 3 components: 1) strength training; 2) aerobic exercise and
      3) flexibility. Prehabilitation will be prescribed as 1-hour sessions performed a minimum of
      3 times per week.

      Control:

      Patients randomized to the control group will be provided standard perioperative care as per
      institutional standards. Patients will receive the World Health Organization (WHO) Global
      Recommendations for Physical Activity for Health for people 65 years and above pamphlet, as
      well as Canada's Food Guide. In-hospital perioperative care, and postoperative care, will be
      at the discretion of each patient's surgeon and anesthesiologist.
    
  