
    
      Parental Consent/Child Assent for Child Participants:

      If you choose to take part in this study, you will be asked to complete a total of 2 or 3
      questionnaires (depending on your age). Each questionnaire will be completed only once.

      If you are between 6-7 years old, you will be given 2 questionnaires asking you about your
      physical health and illness, and your personal strengths. These questionnaires will take you
      about 30-45 minutes to finish. If you are between 8-18 years old, you will be given 3
      questionnaires that will ask you about your physical health and illness, your personal
      strengths, and your emotional adjustment to the disease. These 3 questionnaires will take you
      about 30-45 minutes in total to finish. A research assistant will help you with the
      questionnaires, if you need help.

      If you are given the questionnaires while you are at the hospital and you cannot complete
      them before you leave, you will be given a stamped envelope to mail the forms back to the
      study staff.

      After your questionnaires are finished, a member of the research team might look at your
      medical chart if they need more information about your treatment or the status of the
      disease.

      Parent Participants:

      If you choose to take part in this study, you will be asked to complete a total of 5
      questionnaires. These questionnaires ask information about your child's emotional adjustment
      to the disease, your child's physical health and illness, your child's personal strengths,
      your emotional distress, and the overall functioning of your family. Each questionnaire will
      be completed only once. It will take about 45-60 minutes to complete all 5 questionnaires.

      Medical Staff Participants:

      If you choose to take part in this study, you will be asked to complete a questionnaire that
      asks for information about the patient's illness. It will take about 3-5 minutes to complete
      this one-time survey.

      All Groups:

      This is an investigational study. About 220 people (100 children, 100 parents, and 20 medical
      staff) will take part in this multicenter study. About 130 will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson
      (60 children, 60 parents, and 10 medical staff members).
    
  