
    
      Health promotion in the general population and in disability groups, such as individuals with
      TBI, has been identified in recent decades as a specific need by the Surgeon General, the
      U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Healthy People 2010, the NIDRR Rehabilitation
      Research and Training Center (RRTC) on Health and Wellness and the Centers for Disease
      Control and Prevention (CDC). Additionally, decreased quality of life and increased
      health-related secondary conditions in TBI supports the need for health and wellness
      promotion. A number of health and wellness programs have been developed for specific disabled
      populations, with a few providing evidence for efficacy; however, no evidence based program
      designed to meet the unique needs of individuals with TBI has been identified. This proposal
      responds to the NIDRR Long Range Plan and the Healthy People 2010 call for further research
      in health promotion to improve quality of life, decrease disability, and eliminate
      disparities in health within disability populations, specifically those individuals with TBI.

      The primary goal of the proposed study is to evaluate the efficacy of a replicable
      community-based group intervention, designed to address both general wellness and specific
      TBI health-related issues. Emphasis is placed on goal setting to develop healthy living
      habits, utilize problem solving strategies, learn means of maintaining progress and set new
      goals. Facilitators will utilize approaches aimed at maximizing participant self-efficacy,
      reducing barriers to health promotion, and developing personal resources. A randomized
      wait-list control group design will be used to evaluate the efficacy of the intervention.

      It is hypothesized that individuals with TBI who participate in the intervention group will
      report increased health promoting behaviors, health related self-efficacy, health-related
      quality of life, level of participation, and greater perceived wellness and satisfaction with
      life, than the control group. Intervention group members are expected to attain
      individualized health and wellness goals, and maintain gains on follow-up at six months.
      Findings from this study will advance knowledge regarding health and wellness intervention
      for individuals with TBI, and may clarify areas of future research.
    
  