
    
      General objectives

      1)Evaluate the effectiveness of the NeuronUp APT attention training program for the
      improvement of the attention problems presented by participants with ABI. 2)Determine whether
      the improvement of the attention problems in the group of participants with ABI, leads to an
      improvement in the cognitive performance of these participants in the other areas of
      cognitive functioning. 3)Determine if the improvement of attention problems in participants
      with ABI, causes changes in their emotional functioning and quality of life. 4)Determine if
      the improvement of the attention problems in participants with ABI, causes changes in the
      functionality of the participants and, consequently, in the activities of their daily life.

      Specific objectives

      1)Determine if there are significant differences between the groups in the scores of the
      attention tests over time. 2)Determine if there are significant differences between the
      groups in the scores of the neuropsychological tests that measure memory, executive functions
      and language over time. 3)Determine if there are significant differences between the groups
      in the scores of the scale of attention problems in daily life after the
      intervention.4)Determine if there are significant differences between the groups in the
      scores of the scale of quality of life over time. 5)Determine if there are significant
      differences between the groups in the scores of the scales of emotional functioning over
      time. 6)Determine if there are significant differences between the groups in the scores of
      the functional functioning scales over time.

      Hypothesis

      1)Participants in the experimental group will present significantly higher scores in the
      neuropsychological tests that evaluate the attention at the end of the intervention and six
      months later compared to the control group. 2)Participants in the experimental group will
      present significantly higher scores on neuropsychological tests that assess memory, language
      and executive functions at the end of the intervention and 6 months later compared to the
      control group. 3)Participants in the experimental group will present significantly lower
      scores on the scales that measure attention problems in daily life, both at the end of the
      intervention and at six months later compared to the control group.4)The gains observed in
      the attentional functioning of the participants of the experimental group will be reflected
      in an improvement of their emotional functioning, their functional status and their quality
      of life at the end of the intervention and six months later compared to the control group.

      Brief Summary of approach and methodology

      - Participants: 46 participants will be recruited with stroke, aged between 18 and 65, who
      attend the Acquired Brain Injury Unit of the Aita Menni Hospital (Mondragón-Arrasate);
      specifically, the investigators will focus on participants whose diagnosis is moderate-severe
      TBI and patients with a diagnosis of stroke, in the last three years. To determine the sample
      size, a statistical power analysis was carried out with the G *Power program. For this, the
      Cohen criteria have been taken into account, so that an effect size of 0.45 (large for the
      ANOVA statistic) and alpha and beta values of 0.05 and 0.95, respectively, have been
      established. The information will be obtained from each participant at three specific times:
      before to the start of the intervention, after completing the implementation of the program
      and six months after the end of the program.

      The information that will be collected in each of these three times is as follows:

        -  Sociodemographic data Information on age, years of schooling (number of years), gender
           (male vs. female), occupation (employed, unemployed, student, retired, etc.), marital
           status (single, married, free union) will be collected through the interview, laterality
           (right-handed, left-handed, ambidextrous) and monthly economic income (total amount of
           income).

        -  Clinical characteristics, screening tests: Primary Outcomes Measures.

        -  Study of cognitive functioning, study of the attentional state in the participant's
           daily life, study of the emotional state of participants, study of the emotional state
           of participants,Quality of life study,Study of functional status: Secondary Outcomes
           Measures.

      NeuronUp APT attentional program

      The model by which NeuronUp APT is governed is the clinical rehabilitation model described by
      Sholberg and Mateer, which considers attention as a main cognitive function of a
      multidimensional character that is hierarchically organized.NeuronUp APT is composed of 80
      activities, based on activities of daily living whose objective is to achieve the greatest
      possible ecology and a true transfer of cognitive training to the daily activities of
      patients. All activities are computerized and can be performed on any electronic device,
      computer, mobile and tablet, allowing patients to continue training from home.

      Since it is based on the traditional clinical model, program activities are organized
      according to the type of attention in blocks of 20 exercises, as follows:

        -  Sustained attention: Exercises in which a series of visual or auditory stimuli are
           presented to the participant, depending on the activity, of which there is a Target
           Stimulus (TS). The stimuli appear one by one on the electronic device, and each time the
           participant sees or hears the TS, the person must press on the screen. For example, in
           one of the activities the participant is instructed to delete the photos of his/her cat
           from the mobile. To do this, different photos appear on the screen of a mobile phone,
           and the participant's task is to press each time the photo of the cat comes out.

        -  Selective attention: Exercises in which in addition to visual or auditory stimuli other
           distracting stimuli are presented, such as ambient noise in the case of visual
           activities, or videos in the case of auditory activities. For example, in one of the
           activities is simulated that the participant is in a shopping center and must attend to
           the license plates of the cars that are being announced by public address system because
           the cars are badly parked. To do this, a video of a shopping center full of people is
           presented while listening to the auditory stimuli, in this case, the license plates of
           the cars, and the task of the participant is to press on the screen every time hear a
           registration ending in a certain number.

        -  Alternate attention: Exercises in which there are two TSs that alternate. For example,
           in one of the activities, the participant is told that is at an airport and must collect
           his/her bags and those of a relative. To do this, the participant must first attend and
           press each time see a specific suitcase (first TS), and when hears an alarm the
           participant must change the instruction and press each time see another particular
           suitcase (second TS).

        -  Divided attention: Exercises in which a visual and auditory stimulus are simultaneously
           presented, which the participant must process at the same time. For example, in one of
           the activities, the participant is instructed to attend the traffic signs and press
           every time sees the signal that indicates the possible appearance of deer to reduce
           speed. In addition, the participant must follow the Global Positioning System (GPS)
           instructions and press each time the instruction indicates the presence of a radar.
           Since the way to respond to the stimuli is by pressing on the screen, the two TSs are
           never presented at the same time, since otherwise would not be possible to determine
           which of the two stimuli the participants are attending.

      The difficulty of each of the tasks will be progressively increased, depending on the number
      of stimuli and the time spent, through 5 levels. So, in the lower levels the tasks last less
      and contain less stimuli than in the upper ones. Thus, during the training process, patients
      complete all levels of sustained attention activities, and then start the selective attention
      block, then the alternate attention, and finally the divided attention. For the
      implementation of NeuronUp APT, the neuropsychologist will need to make use of a
      neurorehabilitation web platform.

      Statistical analysis by objectives

      In the first place, preliminary analyzes will be carried out by means of a t-test to
      determine if there are differences in the sociodemographic variables between groups (sex,
      age, schooling).Subsequently, multiple analyzes of 2 X 3 ANOVAS will be carried out, both of
      repeated measures intra and between groups, where the first factor will be the group
      (experimental and control) and the second factor the time (baseline, after completing the
      implementation of the intervention with NeuronUp APT and six months after the end of the
      intervention) and the dependent variables, the scores on the measures used.
    
  