
    
      Elaboration of the SBO score:

      Intestinal ischaemia as a result of small bowel obstruction (SBO) requires prompt recognition
      and early intervention. A clinicoradiological score was sought to predict the risk of
      ischaemia in patients with SBO. A determined protocol for the assessment of patients
      presenting with SBO was used. A logistic regression model was applied to identify determinant
      variables and construct a clinical score that would predict ischaemia requiring resection. Of
      233 successive patients with SBO, 138 required laparotomy of whom 45 underwent intestinal
      resection. In multivariable analysis, six variables correlated with small bowel resection and
      were given one point each towards the clinical score: history of pain lasting more than 4
      days, guarding, C-reactive protein level at least 75 mg/l, leucocyte count over 10 G/l, free
      intraperitoneal fluid volume exceeding 500 ml on computed tomography (CT) and reduction of CT
      small bowel wall contrast enhancement. The risk of intestinal ischaemia was 6 per cent in
      patients with a score of 1 or less, whereas 21 of 29 patients with a score of three or more 3
      underwent small bowel resection. A positive score of 3 or more had a sensitivity of 67.7 per
      cent and specificity 90.8 per cent; the area under the receiver operating characteristics
      curve was 0.87 (95 per cent confidence interval 0.79 to 0.95). By combining clinical,
      laboratory and radiological parameters, the clinical score allowed early identification of
      strangulated SBO.

      The purpose of the present protocol is to apply the SBO score as a prospective multicenter
      study. After informed consent, SBO patients corresponding to the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria will be managed according to the score. Patients with a score of 0 to 2 will be
      treated conservatively, while a score ≥3 will imply emergency surgery. For its validation,
      the conservative and surgical outcomes will be compared with the results obtained for the
      elaboration of the score.
    
  