
    
      SDB is a promiment clinical feature of various neuromuscular disorders including amyotrophic
      lateral sclerosis (ALS), spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), and myopathies such as myotonic
      dystrophy type 1, Pompe disease, and limb-girdle muscular dystrophies (LGMD). In ALS, SMA,
      LGMD and Pompe disease, SDB is usually caused by nocturnal alveolar hypoventilaton due to
      diaphragmatic weakness which manifests first during sleep and REM sleep in particular. SDB
      usually leads to sleep disruption, non-restorative sleep and daytime symptoms including
      morning headache, hypersomnolence, and increased neuromuscular fatigue. In patients with
      severe diaphragmatic involvement both symptoms of SDB and potential complications of
      respiratory muscle weakness substantially add to overall disease burden of the disease and
      decrease life span. Diagnosis of SDB is established by means of sleep studies which should
      ideally comprise polysomnography (PSG) and transcutaneous capnography. PSG with capnometry is
      time-consuming, expensive and not readily available for patients or referring physicians,
      respectively. For this reason it is desirable to thoroughly screen patients with
      neuromuscular disease for symptoms of SDB and respiratory muscle weakness. Results from a
      validated screening questionnaire could be used as an adjunctive to pulmonary function
      testing or spirometry results in order to identify patients in whom sleep studies should be
      performed. In addition, a screening questionnaire would facilitate early recognition of
      patients with SDB, enabling treating physicians to take appropriate steps to establish the
      diagnosis and to initiate non-invasive ventilation as early as possible.

      Until now, there is no validated German language screening questionnaire for symptoms of
      respiratory muscle weakness and SDB. Steier et al. published an English language
      questionnaire which was validated as a screening tool in 33 patients with very different
      neuromuscular disorders which were predominantly neurogenic (Steier et al. 2011). In this
      study, SDB was defined by an apnea hypopnea index above 5 per hour. Nocturnal oxygen
      saturation and CO2 monitoring were not taken into account at all. In addition the
      questionnaire does not systematically cover sleep-related symptoms of SDB in detail (such as
      sleep disruption and morning headache) which have to be separated from daytime symptoms such
      as dyspnea or orthopnea, respectively.

      Thus, the current project aims to correlate comprehensively generated items of a screening
      questionnaire with sleep study results including capnography alongside with respiratory
      muscle testing in patients with neuromuscular disorders. As control subjects, patients with
      newly diagnosed obstructive sleep apnea syndrome and sleep disorders other than sleep-related
      breathing disorders are enrolled in the study.
    
  