
    
      Almost all infants and young children who were born with a cleft palate (with or without a
      cleft lip) have middle-ear disease and this condition can last into late childhood and early
      adolescence. The type of middle-ear disease that usually occurs in cleft palate patients is
      not associated with pain or symptoms, but the fluid in the middle-ear causes poor hearing and
      sometimes problems with balance.

      Past studies show that the middle-ear disease in infants and children with cleft palate is
      caused by their inability to open a natural tube that connects the back of the nose with the
      middle-ear (called the Eustachian tube). Opening the Eustachian tube is required to keep the
      pressure in the middle-ear equal to that of the atmosphere which prevents fluid from building
      up in the middle-ear. For this reason, middle-ear disease is usually treated by placing a
      small plastic tube in the eardrum which keeps the middle-ear pressure and pressure in the
      room (atmospheric pressure) equal even when the Eustachian tube fails to open. However, the
      disease often returns when the plastic tube becomes blocked or falls out and a new tube needs
      to be placed in the eardrum. The actions of two small muscles, the levator veli palatini
      (LVP) muscle and the tensor veli palatini (TVP) muscle combine to open the Eustachian tube
      and the LVP muscle plays a role in raising the palate during speech, swallowing and other
      activities. Both muscles run through the soft palate. In children with cleft palate, the
      usual position, orientation and function of both of these muscles are abnormal and few
      surgical procedures for palate repair focus on re-establishing a more "normal" orientation
      and attachment of these muscles.

      One well accepted method for repair of the palate, the Furlow palatoplasty is the standard
      procedure used by the two cleft palate surgeons involved in this study. During the Furlow
      palatoplasty the attachment of the TVP muscle is cut. Recently, a modification of the Furlow
      palatoplasty, called a tensor tenopexy, has been described that involves attaching the cut
      part of the TVP muscle to a bony hook in the soft palate in an effort to improve Eustachian
      tube function and lead to less middle-ear disease. One small study presented results
      suggesting that middle-ear disease was cured at an earlier age in those cleft palate patients
      who had their palates repaired using the modified Furlow procedure when compared to a number
      of other methods of palate repair, but these comparisons did not include the standard Furlow
      procedure. However, the design of that study was poor and the possible benefits of this small
      modification in the surgical procedure with respect to middle-ear disease need to be
      evaluated in a more formal study. Because the surgical procedures for the Furlow palatoplasty
      and the modified Furlow procedure are identical with the exception of the addition of
      anchoring the cut muscle attachment, a study of these two procedures will allow us to
      determine if the modified procedure does or does not improve middle-ear disease at an earlier
      age in patients with cleft palate.
    
  