
    
      Type 2 diabetes affects over 29 million US adults, with a disproportionate burden of disease
      borne by low-income populations. Effective self-management requires attention, planning,
      follow-through and consistent performance of multiple health behaviors to prevent negative
      health outcomes. For low-income individuals, though, health improvement is often superseded
      by the drive to fulfill basic needs such as food, housing, personal safety, and money for
      necessities. Having unmet basic needs can overwhelm a person's ability to maintain health
      behaviors. Prior research has demonstrated that with more unmet basic needs, low-income
      individuals are less likely to even remember or act on a referral for needed health services.
      However, when unmet needs are resolved and/or people have a personal navigator to help, the
      likelihood of acting on a health referral significantly increases. Traditionally, patient
      navigators help coordinate care, manage disease or promote screening and preventive
      behaviors. This study will expand the role of navigators to include identifying and resolving
      unmet basic needs, which is expected to facilitate behavior change and improve health
      outcomes. This approach will be tested in a pragmatic randomized trial conducted in
      partnership with Louisiana Healthcare Connections, the largest Medicaid managed care plan in
      Louisiana. This study will test the effectiveness of a basic needs navigation intervention
      compared to usual care among 500 adults (ages 18-75) with Medicaid, type 2 diabetes, and 1 or
      more unmet basic needs. The primary hypothesis is that intervention participants will have a
      greater reduction (M=0.5%) in HbA1c pre-post compared with usual care participants.
      Consistent with the study's conceptual model, the effects of unmet basic needs on barriers to
      self-care (e.g., attention, stress, sleep), health behaviors (e.g., glucose monitoring, diet,
      clinical screenings) and health outcomes (e.g., emergency department utilization,
      hospitalization, quality of life) will be examined. Louisiana Healthcare Connections will
      identify eligible members for study recruitment and provide basic needs navigation for 6
      months. The research team will recruit, enroll, randomize, and survey study participants by
      phone at baseline and 3-, 6- and 12-month follow up. HbA1c data will be obtained from
      electronic medical records to assess change.
    
  