
    
      Pruritus s a very distressing problem affecting patients with uremia and the prevalence of
      uremic pruritus (UP) ranges between 22% to 66%. Although some studies suggested pruritus is
      being decreased recently by use of better dialysis techniques, accumulating studies have
      shown the still high prevalence of UP. Because of its long duration, frequency and high
      intensity, UP has been reported to have a negative impact upon the patients' quality of life
      (QoL). However, the therapies in use, including antihistamines, ultraviolets, opioid
      antagonists and topical agents, are generally of insufficient efficacy, failing to provide
      adequate and long-lasting relief. Based on the neuropathic hypothesis and frequent
      co-occurrence of chronic pruritus and peripheral neuropathy in the patients undergoing
      hemodialysis, gabapentin, a medication widely used for a spectrum of neuropathic pain
      syndromes, has recently been suggested to be effective in the treatment of UP.

      Pregabalin, another gabaergic drug structurally related to gabapentin, have an advantage over
      gabapentin in terms of its more rapid response to stressful symptoms. Only two very recently
      small-scaled studies evaluate the effect of pregabalin for UP. However, both these studies
      were not randomized, placebo-controlled trails.

      Studies focusing on the treatment of UP were limited and no studies comparing the efficacy
      between pregabalin and antihistamine, most widely used for the therapy of UP currently, were
      conducted. Additionally. there were few studies investigating the effect of the drugs used
      for UP on the QoL outcomes, though UP has a great impact on the patients' QoL. As UP is still
      one of the most vexing and disabling symptoms in patients with ESRD, we decided to do this
      multicenter, randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial (RCT) with a larger sample size
      and a longer duration.

      Objectives:

      To investigate the efficacy and the safety of pregabalin, as compared with fexofenadine and
      placebo, in the treatment of uremic pruritus.

      Methods:

      This is a multicenter RCT. Haemodialysis patients with established UP were enrolled from
      multiple medical centers in Taiwan. All patients will be randomly allocated to receive one of
      three treatments -pregabalin 75mg daily, fexofenadine 60 mg daily, or placebo-for 12 weeks.
      The primary endpoint of the study is the change in the visual analogue score and pruritus
      score. The changes in QoL measures, including Skindex-10, Brief Itching Inventory and Itch
      Medical Outcomes Study, are also assessed before, during and after therapy. Safety is
      assessed at all visits throughout the study. A follow-up visit will be performed 2 weeks
      after administration of the final dose of study
    
  