
    
      An increasing emphasis is being placed on preventative healthcare in the NHS (National Health
      Service). Screening programmes currently exist in many clinical areas including diabetic
      retinopathy as well as breast cancer, cervical cancer and cardiovascular disease. In many
      contexts the benefits of health screening are well documented, but concerns exist about the
      effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of such programmes as uptake to screening may be very
      poor in some, generally hard to reach, communities. There are many ways of trying to
      encourage participation in health promoting activities and it is likely real shifts in
      behaviour will only come about with a mix of strategies. In this study we set out to see if
      we can improve screening rates in London, which has both high and low levels of deprivation
      and specific populations with poor attendance. The ultimate success of a high-quality
      screening program depends on the uptake rate of the population and novel solutions are
      required to meet the challenge of achieving this.

      Diabetes is an increasing public health concern worldwide. There are 2.9 million people
      diagnosed with diabetes in the UK (United Kingdom) and an estimated 850,000 people who have
      the condition but are not recognised. Whilst the rates of other vascular risk factors such as
      hypertension, smoking and hypercholesterolaemia are falling, the rates of diabetes in the UK
      are rising. This is despite the co-ordinated efforts of primary and secondary care prevention
      programmes.

      All patients with diabetes are at risk of developing diabetic retinopathy. This condition is
      caused by the microscopic damage to small blood vessels to the eye. There is proliferation
      (growth) of these vessels and these new fragile vessels may bleed and destroy the retina
      leading to sight loss. It is estimated that in England every year 4,200 people are at risk of
      blindness caused by diabetic retinopathy and there are 1,280 new cases of blindness caused by
      diabetic retinopathy. It is the leading cause of sight loss in the UK in the working
      population and therefore there is a significant social and financial burden associated with
      the condition. However with timely diagnosis and treatment the risk of blindness can be
      dramatically reduced. As this condition may well remain silent until catastrophic late
      manifestations of the disease are evident, the need for an effective screening programme is
      obvious.

      The National Screening programme was implemented in England between 2003 and 2006. This
      involves an annual retinal digital photographic screening offered to all people aged 12 years
      and older diagnosed with type 1 and type 2 diabetes. The test involves administration of eye
      drops to the eye and a photograph of the retina taken without contact with the eye. The
      success of this screening programme is without contest. In 2011-2012, 2,587,000 people in
      England aged 12 and over were identified with diabetes and over 90% were offered screening
      for diabetic retinopathy. 1,911,000 received screening which equates to an uptake of 81%.
      However there is significant variability in uptake in differing areas.

      Although screening is offered in multiple locations including GP (general practice) surgeries
      and hospitals, the poor uptake of screening in socially deprived areas is well documented.
      For example, in Gloucestershire, with each increasing quintile of deprivation, diabetes
      prevalence increases (odds ratio 0.84), the probability of having been screened for diabetic
      retinopathy decreases (odds ratio 1.11), and the prevalence of sight-threatening diabetic
      retinopathy among screened patients increases also (odds ratio of 0.98).

      Since the effectiveness of any screening programme is intimately linked to the uptake by the
      population (and in particular uptake by those most at risk), simple, inexpensive and cost
      effective strategies are required by the NHS to influence population health behaviours in
      domains where choices are often in sharp contrast to underlying intentions. This has
      relevance to diabetic retinopathy screening but also more widely as we increasingly try to
      prevent disease rather than simply treat it.

      Incentives are central to economics and are used across the public and private sectors to
      influence behaviour. Psychological phenomena from behavioural economics allow us to design
      incentive-based interventions that are more effective at delivering improved outcomes.
      Personal incentives have been used to motivate patients and general populations to change
      their behaviour. Examples of behaviours targeted include smoking and drug use cessation.
      Incentives can include cash, vouchers or benefits-in-kind and they can have a profound effect
      on individual behaviour at a relatively small cost. Interest in offering incentives to foster
      healthier lifestyles has increased, as the full economic and social costs of bad choices and
      unhealthy behaviour have become apparent. Incentives have previously been used to improve
      cancer screening rates, but they have been targeted at the providers of the service rather
      than people invited to attend for screening. Financial incentives have been seen to be more
      effective in increasing performance of infrequent behaviours (e.g. vaccinations) rather than
      in more sustained behaviours (e.g. smoking). As screening usually requires discrete one-off
      behaviours, incentives may be particularly effective in increasing their uptake.

      A wider use of incentives in public health interventions is a more recent phenomenon and has
      attracted controversy and concerns about whether they are effective (and cost effective) or
      not. This study will provide evidence to policy makers about the role of different incentive
      schemes in encouraging health promoting behaviours. We do not suggest that providing
      incentives is the only answer to encouraging screening participation, but if we demonstrate
      good evidence that they are effective (and cost effective), their targeted application may be
      indicated. Equally demonstration that incentives of this type are not effective may prevent
      unnecessary financial loss from the NHS if wider rollout of such programmes is considered.
    
  