
    
      TRANSLUMINA GmbH has launched clinical programs to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of its
      technology.

      The Translumina Yukon Choice PC drug-eluting stent, coated with Rapamycin (Sirolimus) and the
      biodegradable component polylactide (PLA), has an excellent history of pre-clinical and
      clinical results.

      The Yukon Chrome PC has the identical coating technique and coating properties (dosage,
      thickness) like the clinically proven Yukon Choice PC.

      In two independent trials ISAR-TEST 3 and ISAR-TEST 4 the Yukon DES platform showed
      angiographic and clinical equivalence with the Cypher stent after 1 year and 3 years of
      follow-up.

      Latest clinical data, published by G.Stefanini et al, show the excellent long-term outcome of
      the Yukon biodegradable polymer DES technology in a meta-analysis, comparing the clinical
      outcome after 4 years in more than 4000 patients with the Cypher stent. This analysis shows
      for the first time that the definite Very Late Stent Thrombosis (VLST) can be reduced
      statistically significant by using the biodegradable PLA polymer coating technology of the
      Yukon DES.

      An additional sub-group analysis shows also benefit in difficult patient groups like
      diabetics and patients with acute myocardial infarkt.

      Due to this excellent clinical outcome the Yukon DES technology is recommended by the latest
      ESC guidelines for myocardial revascularization.

      The final 5 years long-term clinical follow-up of the ISAR-TEST 4 randomized controlled
      clinical trial showed excellent safety and efficacy data for the Yukon DES when compared with
      the Cypher and Xience V stent. The definite and probable stent thrombosis was only 1,2% for
      the Yukon compared to 1,4% and 2,4% for the 2 permanent polymer coated competitor DES.

      In a continued approach to collect safety and efficiency data on its products, TRANSLUMINA
      GmbH is determined to collect safety and efficiency information at a very large scale. Based
      on all this, the Yukon Choice PC & the Yukon Chrome PC stents have been designed to treat
      coronary arteries in a relatively easy and simple-to-achieve manner, while providing a higher
      level of clinical efficacy.

      Additionally, the Observatory is aimed to provide a learning tool that will help to define
      best practices/techniques as all results will be fed back to participants and to a larger
      audience through publications.

      In this Observatory, analyses will be performed per clinical presentation and per stent type.
    
  