
    
      About 25-30% of children have at least one episode of wheeze before their 3rd birthday, but
      considerable clinical heterogeneity exists. Many of these children become symptom-free
      between 3 and 8 years of age, but some go on to persistent asthma in later childhood and
      adulthood. Despite its high prevalence, still little is known about pathomechanisms
      determining the different wheeze trajectories and phenotypes in children, and those beginning
      in adulthood. Frequency and severity of exacerbations may play an important role in the
      chronification process but underlying mechanisms are equally not well understood. Therefore,
      deciphering the role of airway mechanics, genetic, environmental and molecular determinants
      for different childhood and adult asthma phenotypes for exacerbations and chronification
      processes is urgently needed to develop personalized treatment approaches targeting distinct
      underlying mechanisms. Thereby, secondary prevention early in the disease process can also be
      achieved.

      In order to do so, a clinical cohort for childhood asthma has been set up with identical,
      standardized instruments (quality assurance plan: standard operating procedures (SOPs) for
      clinical and lab modules, shipment, biobanking and analysis as well as quality control
      measures via audits and site visits have been developed) across the participating 'German
      Center for Lung Research' (DZL) sites. Here, new-onset steroid/leukotriene receptor
      antagonist (LTRA) naïve wheeze/asthma patients and wheeze/asthma patients under controller
      therapy are being recruited in addition to healthy controls. Following recruitment, regularly
      follow-ups and exacerbation visits of included patients are being performed with identical
      study instruments and meticulous quality control checks as at baseline.

      PROJECT HYPOTHESES:

        1. Specific molecular phenotypes are associated with distinct wheeze/asthma phenotypes and
           trajectories. Thereby, underlying mechanisms as well as predictors and biomarkers for
           persistent asthma will be identified.

        2. Individuals at risk for exacerbations can be identified by clinical and molecular
           biomarkers, which will become novel targets for therapy and secondary prevention.

      WORK PROGRAM:

      Identification of molecular phenotypes, predictors and biomarkers for distinct wheeze/asthma
      phenotypes and trajectories.

      The investigators aim to recruit over 1000 cases and controls to ensure sufficient
      statistical power for multivariate statistical analyses. Recruitment of study participants
      will be continued and cases will undergo 'deep phenotyping' as described below. In addition,
      healthy age and sex matched controls will be recruited. Cases and controls undergo a
      comprehensive clinical assessment including questionnaires (browser-based online data entry
      into extensive database with audit trail, plausibility and quality control checks
      implemented, data dictionary accessible), physical examination and lung function tests
      (spirometry and bodyplethysmography including bronchodilator response, multiple breath
      washout, exhaled nitric oxide). Biomaterials will be collected for analyses: i) blood
      samples; ii) nasal secretions; iii) pharyngeal swabs; iv) induced sputum; v) stool samples.
      Furthermore, epithelial cells will be collected by nasal brushings. Breath samples will be
      collected for analyses of volatile organic compounds. The cases will be followed up regularly
      using the same clinical tools and collecting the same biomaterials as at the initial visit to
      assess trajectories over time. Two closely interacting working groups have been established
      for all aims described: one lab and one data management/analysis group, each headed by expert
      members of the participating sites. The lab group will initiate and supervise all
      measurements of biomaterials; the data management/analysis group will expand the combined and
      shared data base and coordinate statistical analyses across sites. A common publication
      policy has already been developed. Using advanced bioinformatics, systems biology and machine
      learning approaches, the investigators will develop predictive (diagnostic) algorithms
      including clinical and molecular biomarkers for transient and persistent wheeze/asthma
      phenotypes and their trajectories. These analyses will also identify underlying mechanisms
      and thereby potential targets for future personalized therapy comparing childhood and adult
      findings. During data collection. The investigators attempt to minimize missing data. In all
      cases where missing data will reduce power for subsequent analyses, imputation will be used
      in order to omit power loss.
    
  