
    
      Anemia is a common problem experienced by patients with malignancy. Although cancer treatment
      such as systemic chemotherapy is an obvious cause, many cancer patients are anemic at
      presentation. Estimates in prostate cancer patients suggest that nearly 40% present with
      hemoglobin levels less than 120 g/L. The most common clinical manifestation of anemia is
      fatigue, although vertigo, loss of appetite, poor concentration and dyspnea (shortness of
      breath) can also occur. Anemia often leads to impairment of physical capacity, lowers
      patients' subjective sense of well-being, and diminishes their overall quality-of-life (QoL).
      The use of recombinant erythropoietin for patients with chronic anemia of end stage renal
      disease, acquired immune deficiency syndrome, or anemia of chronic disease in the setting of
      malignancy (cancer) is well established to provide benefit in reducing transfusion
      requirements. There exists a number of published data on QoL in cancer patients. Abels et al.
      published in 1991 initial results of clinical reports that specifically reported on QoL
      outcomes. The study actually consisted of a series of three concurrent randomized, double
      blind, placebo controlled trials conducted on groups of patients with a variety of underlying
      malignancies. The three studies included 124 patients not previously treated with systemic
      therapy, 132 patients treated systemically with cisplatinum containing chemotherapy regimens
      and 157 patients treated with non-cisplatinum containing regimens respectively. All patients
      had pre-treatment hemoglobins of less than 105 g/L or hematocrits (percentage of red blood
      cells in blood) of less than 32%. In each trial, patients randomized to receive recombinant
      erythropoietin had significantly greater increases in hematocrit than placebo patients. QoL
      parameters (as measured on a visual analog scale) were significantly improved in patients
      receiving erythropoietin who demonstrated an increase in hematocrit throughout the three
      studies. Overall QoL improved significantly over baseline, although individual studies only
      demonstrated a trend towards improvement. Littlewood et al. published in 2001 the results of
      a double-blind, placebo controlled multi-center study of 375 cancer patients receiving
      non-platinum containing chemotherapy. A baseline hemoglobin of less than or equal to 105 g/L,
      or a drop of 20 g/L with chemotherapy was required for eligibility. Patients were randomized
      1:2 to either placebo or epoetin alfa, for up to 4 weeks following chemotherapy. Active
      treatment demonstrated significant effectiveness in increasing hemoglobin levels and reducing
      transfusion requirements. Significant improvement in all primary cancer- and anemia-specific
      QoL domains favoured epoetin alfa. Although clinical evidence suggests benefit beyond reduced
      transfusion requirements, many studies looking at impact on QoL have been uncontrolled by
      design, with variable quality and collection of QoL data. Since they have also involved
      patients with a myriad of primary malignancies, and previous therapies, the translation of
      results to site and situation specific clinical practice has been difficult. As
      erythropoiesis is a complex process that depends on inhibiting or stimulating cytokines,
      which may be regulated differently among various neoplastic diseases (i.e. different tumour
      types), studies in more homogenous groups of patients were deemed necessary to evaluate
      impact on QoL. Prostate cancer is the most common serious cancer in men. Despite advances in
      screening and treatment, progression to the incurable metastatic phase of the disease remains
      common. Androgen ablation therapy using surgery or drugs remains the standard of treatment,
      but inevitably, androgen resistance develops. Hormone refractory prostate cancer represents a
      spectrum of disease ranging from asymptomatic patients with only biochemical evidence of
      androgen resistance to end-stage disease characterized by extensive bone metastases, pain,
      wasting, reduced QoL, and a median survival of less than one year. Treatment of hormone
      refractory prostate cancer does not prolong survival, but may improve symptoms and QoL.
      Anemia is common in this group of patients, with hemoglobin levels of less than 120 g/L often
      seen (in up to 40% patients). Patients are also genrally older, often have co-morbid
      conditions, and transfusions for palliation are frequently given. A randomized,
      placebo-controlled study evaluating an intervention with epoetin alfa that could
      significantly improve QoL was thus carried out in hormone refractory prostate cancer
      patients. It was deemed that such an intervention, if successful, could have the potential to
      change current clinical practice. Moreover, improved QoL, in response to increased Hb levels,
      could also lead to a reduction in hospital admissions and to fewer transfusions in this
      patient population.

      Patients were to receive either 40,000 IU epoetin alfa weekly or matching placebo
      subcutaneously for 16 weeks.
    
  