
    
      Objectives: The overall study objective is to compare the sensitivities and specificities of
      morphometric analysis techniques using structural MRI images based on pre- and postsurgical
      localization of epileptic foci in patients undergoing presurgical evaluation for medically
      refractory epilepsy. To carry out these analyses, we aim to establish an age-stratified
      normative imaging database using healthy volunteers. Additional objectives are to identify
      abnormal networks in these patients using resting state fMRI/EEG and MEG/EEG, and to use
      language and memory fMRI tasks to examine the effects of epileptogenic zones and surgery on
      cognitive function and the networks associated with these functions.

      Study population: 300 adults and children (age 8-65) with uncontrolled focal epilepsy, and
      200 age-stratified healthy volunteers.

      Design: A retrospective and prospective natural history study. Research procedures for
      patients in this study include neuropsychological testing and 1-4 MRI sessions during
      presurgical evaluation and an additional 1-3 MRI sessions and neuropsychological testing
      approximately 12 months post-operatively. Research testing (such as research
      neuropsychological tests or MRI scanning sequences) will be done during a visit for clinical
      testing whenever possible, likely reducing the number of required visits. Patients will also
      have optional MEG and 7T structural imaging. Data will also be obtained from patients who
      have already undergone epilepsy surgery if they had procedures as outlined in the protocol
      and are willing to share the data. Healthy volunteers will receive a subset of the
      pre-operative procedures for patients, requiring at least 3 visits. In order to ensure
      adequate data acquisition, subjects may be re-scanned up to three times for the portions of
      the study in which they participated, possibly requiring additional visits.

      Outcome measures:

      The main outcomes will be establishment of normative values for morphometric analysis methods
      in age-stratified normal controls, and comparison of the sensitivity and specificity of these
      measures to pre- and postsurgical localization of the epileptogenic zone. Exploratory outcome
      measures will include determination of the sensitivity and specificity of source localization
      using MEG/EEG and resting state fMRI/EEG, and to evaluate changes in activation during rest,
      as well as language and memory fMRI tasks in patients pre- and post-surgically, to examine
      the effects of epileptogenic zones and surgery on cognitive function and the networks
      underlying these functions.
    
  