
    
      Brief Summary:

      Screening programs for high-grade ovarian carcinoma failed to reduce disease-specific
      mortality, since they do not offer early enough detection of the disease. Most cases of high
      grade ovarian cancer develop in the fallopian tubes, hence the universal recommendation for
      high-risk populations (e.g., BRCA1/2 mutation carriers) is to undergo risk-reducing bilateral
      salpingo-oophorectomy (RRBSO) around the age of 40. The aims of this trial are: (1) to
      identify novel early-stage disease biomarkers using liquid biopsies obtained through uterine
      lavage, and (2) to optimize the technique a of uterine lavage and the processing of the
      samples for ultimate implementation as a routine diagnostic test for high risk populations.

      The end point of the study is sensitivity and specificity of a liquid biopsy test based on
      uterine lavage for detection of ovarian cancer.

      The study enrolls two cohorts:

        1. Proof-of-principle cohort - patients with either established ovarian cancer or other,
           non-malignant, gynecological conditions.

        2. High risk cohort - healthy women at genetically high-risk for ovarian cancer who have
           not undergone RRBSO.

      Inclusion criteria include age over 18, ability to read, understand and sign informed consent
      form, and planned surgical procedure with general anesthesia (for the proof-of-principle
      cohort), or planned regular gynecological examination due to high-risk for developing ovarian
      cancer (high risk cohort).

      Exclusion criteria include pregnancy or current attempts to conceive, any prior condition
      that precludes washing of the entire fallopian tubes.

      Patients will provide signed informed consent and will undergo uterine lavage which will be
      performed by a surgeon before surgery, after induction of anesthesia (proof-of-principle
      cohort), or by a gynecologist during gynecological examination in an office setting (high
      risk cohort). Uterine lavage is performed using an intrauterine insemination catheter or
      rigid pipelle uterine sampler. The catheter is inserted into the cervical canal. 10mL of
      saline are infused into the uterine cavity and fallopian tubes and immediately retrieved.
      5-10mL of blood is also collected from each participant. Patients who have undergone the
      procedure without anesthesia are requested to complete a pain and stress score questionnaire.
      All patients are asked to allow access of their medical records and pathology reports from
      past, present and future gynecologic surgeries.

      The uterine lavage liquid biopsy samples are centrifuged to eliminate cells and cell debris.
      Supernatants were aliquoted within 6 hours from the procedure. Microvesicles, total RNA and
      DNA are isolated according to previously published protocols.

      The samples of the proof-of-principle cohort will be used to define an optimized set of
      assays, measuring either protein-based or nucleic acid-based biomarkers.

      The samples of the high risk cohort will be used to test the sensitivity and specificity of
      the previously defined biomarkers, and to evaluate confounding factors that may affect the
      accuracy of the test, such as menopausal status and breast cancer endocrine therapy. Each
      participant will be asked to consent to uterine lavage procedure on subsequent follow-up
      visits.
    
  