
    
      In a typical session, the investigators video-record your child participating in one or more
      engaging activities with you and/or a member of the staff.

        -  In one type of task, your child looks at colorful pictures on a video screen while
           listening to recorded speech referring to the pictures. The investigators may vary
           factors in the speech stimuli such as word familiarity or sentence structure to learn
           more about the development of language understanding. Your child is seated on your lap
           throughout the session. From the video record, the investigators can later look at your
           child's gaze patterns in response to speech.

        -  In another type of task, the investigators observe children interacting with a staff
           member in the playroom. In these game-like activities, your child may be asked to play
           with toys, name or point to pictures, repeat sequences of words or sentences, tell
           stories, imitate hand movements, or solve puzzles. These observations help the
           investigators understand how language development relates to other types of cognitive
           activities in children at different ages.

        -  In a third type of task, the investigators observe how children interact spontaneously
           in a less structured situation. In some cases, the investigators observe you as you play
           with your child in a playroom. The investigators will provide you with a selection of
           toys appropriate to your child's age, and ask you to engage with your child as you would
           at home. From these observations, the investigators learn how children at different ages
           respond to language in the context of social interaction.

      The investigators may also collect a language questionnaire and similar forms containing
      basic information about your child's development. Additionally, the investigators may review
      your child's medical records, including ultrasounds and MRI scans, to gain a better
      understanding of your child's medical history. All information is used for purposes of basic
      research on language learning only, and will not constitute a clinical assessment or
      evaluation.

      TIME INVOLVEMENT

      In this longitudinal study, each child is expected to come for a total of 12-16 sessions of
      behavioral testing, spread out over 3 years. Children are tested in 2 sessions (sessions
      occur approximately one week apart) at ages 18 (chronological), 18 (adjusted; applicable to
      pre-terms), 24, 30, 36, 42, 48, and 54 months. Each session typically lasts from 30 to 60
      minutes, depending on the age of the child and number of breaks taken.

      RISKS AND BENEFITS

      There are no foreseeable risks or discomforts to you or your child in participating in this
      research. All the procedures are observational and non-intrusive. The investigators pace each
      session appropriately and give breaks as needed to enable your child to enjoy and complete
      the session. Your child will not be pressured to continue in the event that he or she becomes
      upset, tired, or resistant at any point during the session. If for any reason you or your
      child does not want to continue, the session will be ended immediately with no penalty.

      The investigators cannot and do not guarantee or promise that you will receive any benefits
      from this study, apart from the payment and the satisfaction of participating in
      developmental research. If appropriate, the investigators provide information regarding
      resources that may be helpful in addressing any concerns regarding your child's development.

      There are no direct costs to you for participating in this study. Neither you, nor your
      insurance provider, will be charged for the costs of any of the procedures performed for the
      purpose of this research study. The National Institute of Health is providing financial
      support for this study.

      PARTICIPANT'S RIGHTS

      If you have read this form and have decided to allow your child to participate in this
      project, please understand your child's participation is voluntary and your child has the
      right to withdraw his/her consent or discontinue participation at any time without penalty or
      loss of benefits to which he/she is otherwise entitled. Your child has the right to refuse to
      answer particular questions. The video record of the session will be identified by a code
      number, not by name. This record will be accessible only to the project directors and members
      of the project staff, unless you give your explicit permission for others to view it for
      scientific or educational purposes. All records will be stored securely so that your child's
      individual privacy will be maintained. In addition, your child's identity will remain private
      in all publications resulting from the study. Five years following the completion of your
      child's participation in this study, the investigators will destroy all raw videotapes.
    
  