
    
      Heavy drinking remains a significant public health problem and is frequently under treated.
      Although several medications have been shown to help patients stop or reduce drinking,
      additional medication options are needed as there is considerable variability in
      effectiveness or tolerability of existing medications for individual patients. Additionally,
      identification of individual subject level predictors of efficacy are needed to better
      personalize pharmacotherapy treatment recommendations. This study will seek to replicate and
      extend our results showing efficacy of a novel medication dutasteride for reducing drinking
      and will examine potential easily measured predictors of response.

      Dutasteride is a widely prescribed medication for benign prostatic hypertrophy and androgenic
      hair loss that also modulates the elimination of cortisol and the production of some
      neuroactive steroids. Changes in the regulation of cortisol and neuroactive steroids have
      each been suggested as factors which may contribute to the maintenance of alcohol dependence.
      Data from a recently completed first randomized placebo controlled trial of dutasteride for
      AUD in a sample of male drinkers, indicates that dutasteride is well tolerated in alcoholics
      and has efficacy in helping subjects reduce drinking. Additionally, results indicate that
      dutasteride may be particularly helpful for patients who drink to cope with anxiety and
      negative emotions, a group of patients with poor response to other treatments.

      This 24-week treatment study will use an innovative randomized placebo controlled step
      therapy design to examine the safety and efficacy of dutasteride to reduce drinking by
      treatment seeking women and men with hazardous levels of alcohol use. At 12-weeks placebo
      non-responders will transition to dutasteride and dutasteride non-responders will transition
      to naltrexone, an FDA approved medication with demonstrated efficacy for reducing heavy
      drinking. 12-week responders (reduction in drinks/week of 60% or greater compared with
      screening) will continue for an additional 12-weeks on their initial study medication
      assignment (dutasteride or placebo).

      Additionally, the investigators will examine several baseline measures as predictors of
      dutasteride efficacy, including drinking to cope, anxiety, adverse child events, and
      perceived life stress as well as stress resilient vs. reactive genotypes of FKBP5 a chaperone
      protein involved in regulation of glucocorticoid, androgen and progesterone receptor
      function.
    
  