
    
      Intervention Methods

      ECD Intervention. Mothers2mothers (m2m) was selected to pilot-test a parenting intervention
      integrated within the Eswatini standard integrated antenatal care and PMTCT program developed
      according to the World Health Organization (WHO) Option B+ recommendations. Each clinic
      selected for the pilot test had already implemented a m2m mentor mother (MM) peer support
      program at the facility, as well as defaulter follow-up in the community.

      The parenting intervention strategy, known as "uMntfwana Wami, uMntfwana Wetfu"( "My Child,
      Our Child") was focused on peer support for pregnant women and parents/caregivers of young
      children to assist them in building resilience and gaining skills to support their children's
      development.

      M2m's facility-based Mentor Mothers (MMs) recruited pregnant women at the ANC/PMTCT clinics.
      Both HIV-positive and HIV-negative women were eligible to participate in the m2m
      intervention. Community-based ECD MMs, who received five weeks of program-specific training,
      provided the parental training intervention.

      Evaluation Methods

      Evaluation Design. The independent evaluation was designed as a quasi-experimental comparison
      between clinic sites (and their surrounding communities) implementing the intervention and
      similar clinic sites not implementing the intervention.

      Sample size calculations. A sample size of 416 participants (213 intervention arm, 203
      comparison arm) was estimated to be sufficient to detect a clinically meaningful difference
      of 0.5 standard deviation (SD) on an age-normed Mullen scale, after allowing for potential
      10% child mortality and 20% loss to follow-up, and accounting for clustering at the clinic
      level.

      Enrollment of participants. At intervention arm clinics, m2m facility MMs referred ANC
      clients in the third trimester of pregnancy, residing in the clinic catchment area, and
      interested in participating in both intervention and study to the study team. At comparison
      arm clinics, nurses referred interested third trimester pregnant women to the study. A study
      research assistant based at each clinic conducted eligibility screening and obtained informed
      consent. Although women could participate in the parental training intervention irrespective
      of HIV status, the evaluation was designed to assess its effect only on the HIV-positive
      subgroup of mothers. Participant inclusion criteria were: a woman, aged at least 18, with
      confirmed HIV-positive status recorded on a clinic chart or register, visiting the PMTCT
      clinic in the 3rd trimester of pregnancy, and verified resident within the clinic-defined
      catchment area. Participants who planned to move outside the catchment area or switch HIV
      care to another site, did not provide written consent to participate in the study or did not
      complete the enrollment questionnaire were excluded.

      Data collection and follow up. Study participants were interviewed at enrollment to collect
      demographic and contact information, abstract patient-held HIV and maternal health cards, and
      carry out baseline assessments. Follow-up interviews and abstraction of the patient-held HIV,
      maternal health and well child care cards were targeted for two weeks after the baby's birth
      and when the baby reached three, six, nine and 18 months of age. A home visit and observation
      were conducted when the baby was between 12-15 months of age. If the mother was not
      reachable, the baby's primary caregiver was interviewed.

      Primary outcomes assessment.

      The primary pediatric outcome of cognitive development at nine and 18 months of age was
      assessed using the Mullen Scales of Early Learning, administered by two assessors. The items
      were translated into siSwati as needed and adapted for and tested on emaSwati children in the
      relevant age groups. At the 18-month time point, inter-rater reliability was assessed by
      independently scoring a sample of 40 children.

      The primary maternal outcome of psychosocial well-being was assessed using the Edinburgh
      Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS), categorized dichotomously as depressive symptoms present
      (EPDS score >13) or absent (EPDS score ≤13). The cutoff was selected based on work in
      neighboring South Africa by Tomlinson et al (2017). Parenting self-confidence was also
      assessed, using the Maternal Self-Report Inventory (Short Form) (MSRI). These instruments
      were administered to women at enrollment and at nine and 18 months postpartum.

      Secondary outcomes assessment. Length, weight, head circumference and mid-upper arm
      circumference were measured at the child's 9- and 18-month visits and compared to norms
      established by the WHO Multicentre Growth Reference Study..[ref 49]. Three separate
      anthropometric measurements were taken and the median value used. Retention in care and
      pediatric HIV testing was assessed based on health care visits and outcomes abstracted from
      multiple sources including: participant-held maternal health/ANC and HIV cards and child
      health and HIV cards, postnatal care and child welfare registers at the clinics, and the
      client management information system (CMIS) in some clinics, as well as self-report.
      Compliance with feeding recommendations was obtained by maternal or caregiver report.
      Mortality information was obtained by report from families.

      Potential mediators. Information on routine caregiving practices and household
      characteristics was obtained by observation using the Home Observation for Measurement of the
      Environment (HOME) Inventory [refs2 3] during a home visit at 12-15 months of age. Households
      were instructed to carry out everyday household activities during this observation visit.
      Study Research Assistants (RAs) completed classroom training on this instrument and then
      pilot-tested it in the field using non-participating households. Inter-rater reliability was
      assessed by having multiple observers score the pilot and then discuss discrepancies in
      scoring. Key, non-routine child stimulation practices were assessed by interview using the
      Family Care Indicator, a series of standardized questions developed as part of the UNICEF
      Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS) version 3 (2006), which was administered at
      baseline to all participating mothers who at the time had children under age five, and to all
      mothers and caregivers at the 9-month and 18-month assessments.

      Potential confounding factors. Eswatini was affected by a drought during 2016-2017 and its
      impact was assessed at home visits (age 12-15 months), and at the 18-month interview using
      the Household Food Insecurity Access Scale (HFIAS).

      Contamination assessment. Participants in both arms were interviewed about their contact with
      m2m at each visit and at the 18-month assessment.

      Statistical methods.

      Mullen scores:

      Scores from each domain (Visual Reception, Fine Motor skills, Receptive Language, Expressive
      Language and Gross Motor skills) were analyzed separately. For each domain, the within-sample
      means and standard deviations of the raw scores by arm were calculated. To facilitate
      understanding of the effect sizes, the Mullen scores in each domain were then transformed
      into within-study sample standardized scores (Z-scores), for which effect sizes represent
      unit changes in the distribution SD. Multivariable linear mixed effects regression models
      with a random effect for enrollment site were applied to test the difference in the
      standardized mean scores between the two study arms at each time point. Adjusters selected
      based on the literature included the child's actual age at the assessment date, the child's
      gender, and an indicator for stunting (length-for-age Z-score < 2) as a proxy for chronic
      malnutrition. Additional adjusters were included in the multivariate model based on their
      strong (p<=0.2) effects in bivariate analyses: the size of the mother's household at
      enrollment, the length of residence of the mother at her current location at enrollment,
      household asset-based socio-economic status of the mother at enrollment, the mother's number
      of other living children at enrollment, her number of previous miscarriages, and her years of
      education.

      Other measures. Growth: Percentages of children with Z-scores of the WHO-standardized
      anthropometric measurements < -2 at the 9 month and 18 month assessments were reported.
      Maternal retention in HIV care: Time in care was calculated as days from the date of
      enrollment in the study to the last documented visit as found in the patient-held HIV cards,
      the chronic care file of the HIV clinic at the clinic where they enrolled, the CMIS and from
      self-report. A log-rank test for equality of mean retention between the two arms was
      conducted.

      Socio-economic status: Principal components analysis was used to develop a composite score of
      socio-economic status based on reported household assets, which was divided into quintiles
      for analysis. Family Care Indicator. Performance on individual items was assessed and as well
      as through a combined score (possible range: 0-6) of activities that someone in the household
      was reported to have performed with the child: (1) "Read books or look at picture books" (2)
      "Sing songs" (3) "Tell stories" (4) "Play with" (5) "Take [the child] outside the home,
      compound, yard or enclosure" and (6) spend time naming, counting and/or drawing things."

      Mediation analysis. The multivariable linear regression model used in the primary analysis of
      the 18-month timepoint was extended into a generalized structural equation model to evaluate
      a potential mediating effect of book-sharing with the child on the relationships between
      study arm and expressive language scores, and between study arm and visual reception scores.
      Robust variance estimation was used to adjust for site clustering The presence of book
      sharing was defined as a positive response to item (1) on the Family Care Indicator at the 18
      month timepoint.
    
  