
    
      Subjects administered MMF as part of their immunosuppression regimen after lung
      transplantation have a high incidence of GI symptoms related to the known side-effects of
      this drug. Previous studies have shown that GI symptoms are an important predictor of health
      related quality of life in other solid organ transplants (1). GI complications are common
      after lung transplant (2). We hypothesize that lung transplant patients converted from MMF to
      Myfortic will have significant reduction in severity of GI complaints. We also hypothesize
      that improvement in the severity of GI complaints will lead to an improved quality of life in
      these subjects. The study also includes data to evaluate the effect of GI complaints on
      health related quality of life.

      Patients will complete questionnaires at each visit. Calls from the patients to the lung
      transplant center with GI complaints will be queried and documented on the case report form
      by the research nurse at each study visit. Similarly, hospital admissions for GI related
      complaints in the cohort will be documented. Symptom severity and health related quality of
      life will be assessed through the following questionnaires that have previously been
      validated in populations other than lung transplant (1). These questionnaires are selected
      specifically to capture the impact of GI complaints as related to the health related quality
      of life. The questionnaires that will be completed by the patient:

      i.Gastrointestinal Quality of Life Index (GIQLI)

      • The GIQLI is a 36-item questionnaire that assess the impact of GI distress on daily life

      ii.SF-36 Health Survey • "The SF-36 Health Survey is a questionnaire that capture practical,
      reliable, and valid information about functional health and well-being from the patients'
      point of view" (4)

      iii.EQ-5D Health Questionnaire

      • "The EQ-5D is a standardized instrument for use as a measure of health outcome. The EQ-5D
      provides a simple descriptive profile and a single value for health status" (5)

      Patients will complete the three questionnaires at 4 outpatient visits occurring:

        -  when the patient comes in to an outpatient clinic visit after initial hospital discharge
           after lung transplantation with complaints of GI distress (Day 1-Convert to Myfortic);

        -  60 Days;

        -  90 days;

        -  180 days
    
  