
    
      Evidence from 6 systematic reviews involving 200 trials and more than 80,000 participants
      further supports the effectiveness of fluoride varnishes, applied professionally 2-4 times a
      year, for preventing dental caries. Additionally, the simultaneous use of fluoride varnishes
      with fluoride toothpaste appears to significantly enhance the caries-inhibiting effect
      compared with the use of fluoride toothpaste alone. The relative benefit of fluoride
      varnishes application seems to occur irrespective of baseline caries risk, baseline caries
      severity, background exposure to fluorides and application features such as prior
      prophylaxis, concentration of fluoride or frequency of application.

      To determine the sample size, the results of epidemiological studies conducted in the
      framework of the health monitoring of the Polish population in 2015 in the group of people
      aged 15 years (dmf = 5.75) and in 2016 in the group of people aged 12 years (dmf = 3) 0.7 as
      annual growth of caries, and literature data on the effectiveness of fluoride varnish in the
      prevention of permanent tooth decay in the general population at 43% (a reduction of about
      0.3% per year in dmf, Standard Deviation = 0.8) and was considered achievable in the case
      Apply Fluor Protector S at 3 months intervals in the high risk group of caries. Size of the
      study group with such assumptions (α = 0,05, power = 80%, mean reduction of dmf: 0,3,
      Standard Deviation = 0,8 ; t test for comparison of two groups) - Minimum 84 patients [70
      patients+ 20% (dropped out), in both groups].

      Participants will be allocated to the "test" and to the "control" group, respectively, by
      computer-generated randomly permuted blocks using R package in statistical software..

        -  The children will be examined and re-examined clinically by the same examiners.

        -  Statistical analyses will be performed using statistical software, the level of
           significance was set at 0.05. Intra-examiner reliability was assessed by kappa
           statistics.

        -  To compare average values between two independent groups U Mann-Whitney test will be
           used (for e.g. to compare experimental group with the control one); Wilcoxon signed-rank
           test will be used for paired samples (for e.g. to compare first measurement with final
           measurement for experimental group). Comparison of fractions will be conducted using
           Pearson's chi-square test of independence and Z test. The 95% confidence intervals will
           be calculated on the basis of normal approximation.

      Purpose of the study is to evaluate the effectiveness of Fluor Protector S in preventing
      tooth decay in adolescents and to isolate factors that reduce its effectiveness.
    
  