
    
      Impairment of the upper limb is one of the most frequent consequences of stroke and directly
      impacts on the patient's functional status and quality of life. It is estimated that less
      than 50% of stroke survivors will recover arm function, which will exert a great economic,
      social and personal toll.

      Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) is one of the techniques suggested for upper limb
      recovery in stroke patients. However, after considering the bibliographic background, more
      studies are required in order to test its effectiveness, to establish the most efficient NMES
      protocols and to assess the characteristics of the patients who can benefit the most from
      this treatment. With this regard, the parameters of the stimulation are currently subject to
      debate, and more data are needed to optimize the application of this treatment. The aim of
      this study was to evaluate and compare the effects of two neuromuscular electrical
      stimulation protocols with different stimulation frequencies on motor impairment,
      kinaesthetic sensation, functional motor ability, activities of daily living, and quality of
      life in older adults with spastic hemiparesis suffering a stroke.

      To cope with the objective of the present study, RCT was conducted. Subjects who met
      inclusion criteria were recruited from a hospital rehabilitation unit. After the screening
      and signed consent, participants were randomly allocated to the control group or one of both
      experimental groups. NMES was applied on wrist and finger extensors for 30 minutes, 3
      sessions per week for 8 weeks. The electrostimulation protocols were only differentiated in
      the parameter of the stimulation frequency, 35 Hz or 50 Hz, depending on the experimental
      group to which the patient belonged to. Outcome measures were collected at the beginning,
      after 4 and 8 weeks of treatment, and after a follow-up period (4 weeks).
    
  