
    
      Brief alcohol interventions (BAI) are among the most cost-effective preventive care measures
      available and the evaluation of these interventions with high-risk and difficult-to-reach
      populations is an NIAAA priority. Although emerging adults (EAs) who attend college often
      have access to brief alcohol interventions (BAIs), there is a critical need to enhance both
      the efficacy and potential for dissemination of these approaches with high-risk non-student
      EAs. EAs who are not 4-year college students or graduates report higher levels of
      alcohol-related problems, greater levels of comorbid drug use and mental health symptoms, and
      higher risk for chronic alcohol use disorder compared to college graduates. Most BAIs include
      a single session focused explicitly on discussing risks associated with drinking and
      correcting normative beliefs about drinking rates without addressing the reasons why EAs may
      drink, including stress and limited behavioral alternatives to drinking. Because many EAs who
      do not graduate from college are socially and economically marginalized, an approach that
      encourages them to drink less without providing the tools to reduce stress and develop mood
      enhancing behavioral substitutes to drinking or drug use is unlikely to be successful. The
      Substance-Free Activity Session (SFAS) attempts to increase engagement goal-directed
      activities that might provide alternatives to alcohol use and also includes strategies for
      coping with stress/depression. The two-session (plus booster) BAI+SFAS approach has
      demonstrated efficacy for reducing both alcohol use/problems and depressive symptoms in two
      randomized clinical trials with college EAs and may be a more promising approach than
      single-session BAIs for higher-risk non-student EAs. Two critical next steps are to: 1)
      evaluate the BAI+SFAS with non-student EAs, and 2) determine if a two-session Relaxation
      Training (RT) +SFAS approach, which would enhance wellness and address two synergistic risk
      factors for alcohol misuse, demonstrates similar efficacy as the BAI+SFAS intervention. If
      so, this wellness-based approach may have greater potential for dissemination than approaches
      that include a BAI because the session content may be more appealing to EAs (managing stress
      and increasing positive activities). Thus, the primary goal of the proposed study is to
      establish the efficacy of these novel BAI approaches with high-risk community dwelling EAs,
      and a secondary goal is to identify factors that may increase potential for dissemination. We
      will conduct a randomized 3-group (BAI+SFAS vs. RT+SFAS vs. education control) trial with 525
      EAs (175 per group; estimated 50% women & 50% African American) who report recent heavy
      drinking and who are not students or graduates of 4-year colleges. Outcomes will be assessed
      at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months post-intervention.
    
  