
    
      The Rolling 6 design will be used to estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and determine
      the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of the combination of escalating doses of crizotinib and
      dasatinib. Our goal is to accrue research participants for both stratum A and B. However, it
      is our expectation that the accrual of research participants to stratum B will proceed at a
      slower pace. Therefore, initially the strategy of dose escalation will be exclusively based
      on research participants treated at stratum A until the MTD of this combination is reached.
      Until the MTD of this combination is reached for research participants in stratum A, accrual
      of research participants in stratum B will be allowed at the highest dosage level which has
      already been deemed to be safe (i.e., no DLTs in three research participants or ≤ 1 DLT in
      six research participants). No research participants will be accrued to stratum B until at
      least one dosage level has been confirmed to be safe in stratum A. Once the MTD for stratum A
      is reached, we will accrue research participants at this same dosage level to stratum B
      following the rules of the Rolling 6 design. If the MTD for stratum A is well tolerated among
      research participants in stratum B, we will proceed with dose escalation for research
      participants in stratum B based on the same rules of the Rolling 6 design. This strategy is
      based on the premise that research participants who are more heavily pre-treated (stratum A)
      may not tolerate therapy as well as those with minimal previous treatment (stratum B).

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To estimate the MTD of the combination of crizotinib (c-Met and ALK inhibitor) and
           dasatinib (bcr-abl, PDGFRA and B, src, lck, yes, and c-kit inhibitor) in pediatric
           research participants with recurrent or progressive DIPG and other HGGs (stratum A).

        -  To estimate the MTD of the combination of crizotinib and dasatinib in research
           participants with DIPG or HGG who completed RT within a short interval prior to
           enrollment but have not experienced disease progression (stratum B).
    
  