
    
      Among Men who have Sex with Men (MSM) in the U.S., Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)
      incidence has remained highest in those less than 30 years of age, demonstrating the need for
      new ways to prevent HIV in Young Men who have Sex with Men (YMSM). Pre-exposure Prophylaxis
      or PrEP is the use of a daily medication to prevent HIV infection. In order for PrEP to work
      the pills must be taken, so adherence is a very important part of PrEP. Efforts to accurately
      assess adherence to PrEP have been hindered because participants do not always accurately
      report adherence and the flawed methods that have been used to measure adherence. In previous
      studies it has been shown that participants over-report adherence when compared to drug
      concentration levels in blood. Although drug-levels can be used to monitor adherence, the
      cost can be prohibitive and specimens may be difficult to collect in real-time. This means
      that better and more accurate assessments of PrEP adherence from self-reports are needed in
      order for PrEP to achieve wide-spread use.

      This longitudinal pilot sub-study of ATN 110 and ATN 113 (Project PrEPare - An Open Label
      Demonstration Project and Phase II Safety Study of Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis Use Among Young
      Men Who Have Sex With Men (YMSM) in the United States) aims to assess how structural
      (physical settings) and partnership factors affect adherence of YMSM to PrEP. This study will
      compare levels of adherence reported in the Interactive Questionnaire System (iQS) to those
      collected in ATN 110 or ATN 113 by Audio Computer Assisted Self Interview (ACASI), Wisepill,
      and drug concentration levels in blood and hair. The iQS will be administered at study entry
      and week 24 visits. PrEP, Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (Truvada®), will be
      administered as part of the ATN 110 and ATN 113 protocols. Study drug will not be
      administered as part of this study, ATN 123.
    
  