
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility of, and adverse events associated with, treatment with
      soluble ephrin type-B receptor 4 (sEphB4)-human serum albumin (HSA) (recombinant EphB4-HSA
      fusion protein) prior to minimally invasive robotic surgery in patients with either
      muscle-invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder; clear cell renal cell carcinoma
      (4 cm or greater); or prostate cancer Gleason (7 or under).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine tumor response to neoadjuvant sEphB4 as measured by imaging response and
      pathologic response.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the expression of ephrin type-B receptor 4 (EphB4) and eph-related receptor
      tyrosine kinase ligand 5 (EphrinB2) in the archival tumor samples and explore potential
      associations with outcome.

      II. To bank specimens for future correlative biomarker studies based on the results of
      ongoing biomarkers analyses in the phase I of sEphB4-HSA as a single agent.

      III. To evaluate changes in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation of the surgical specimen
      after being treated with sEphB4-HSA.

      IV. To evaluate the infiltration of immune cells into the tumor due to administering
      sEphB4-HSA.

      V. To evaluate the impact sEphB4-HSA has on vessel density on the tumor tissue. VI. To assess
      the applicability of using sEphB4-HSA for treating genitourinary cancers.

      VII. To assess the applicability of using contrast-enhanced ultrasound imaging for
      determining pathological complete response (pCR) rate.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes once
      weekly for 3 weeks (3 doses) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients who agree may receive the fourth dose after an additional week as determined by the
      study medical oncologist. Two to four weeks after the last dose of recombinant EphB4-HSA
      fusion protein, patients undergo robotic-assisted radical cystectomy or robotic-assisted
      radical or partial nephrectomy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  