
    
      Background and Rationale

      Patients who receive radiation therapy for head and neck cancer treatment are susceptible to
      side-effects such as a significant loss in body mass and a loss of muscle mass (cancer
      cachexia) compared to pre-treatment. In addition, radiation therapy treatment may cause
      cancer-related fatigue and a reduction in overall physical function and health-related
      quality of life. Some research has shown success in the use of generic (dynamic exercise)
      resistance training interventions when applied for head and neck cancer survivors. Typically,
      when the correct training principals are adhered to in healthy populations (i.e. progressive
      overload, specificity, variation, rest/recovery), muscle strength and muscle mass are
      effectively enhanced. However, these training variables may be less effective in eliciting
      positive outcomes in clinical populations in that they are less effective in increasing
      muscle mass and muscle strength. Exercise is beneficial for people affected by all cancer
      types, but resistance training may be particularly beneficial for people who have completed
      radiation therapy treatment for head and neck cancer. Alternative modalities may provide
      superior improvements in muscle strength and muscle mass. Therefore, further research is
      warranted to investigate optimized resistance training prescription in head and neck cancer
      patients.

      Research Question & Objectives

      The primary aim of this research is to investigate the effect of conventional resistance
      training vs. an experimental intervention (electromyostimulation combined with accentuated
      eccentric loading) on muscle strength and muscle mass after radiation for HNC.

      Methods

      Head and neck cancer survivors who have completed radiation therapy ≥ 1 month and ≤ 1 year
      from enrollment will be randomly allocated to one of two treatment arms: conventional (active
      control) and accentuated eccentric loading + electromyostimulation. Participants will be
      assessed before and after the intervention for patient-reported outcomes, neuromuscular
      function and fatigability in response to whole-body exercise.
    
  