
    
      Background: Liquid meal replacements (LMRs) provide a mixture of carbohydrate, fat and
      protein, along with added vitamins and minerals in liquid ready-to-drink form or powder
      formulas that require mixing. They are designed to mimic a low-calorie meal and serve as a
      quick and easy source of calories to consume. Behavioral strategy tools are important to
      assist obese individuals in losing weight and maintaining weight loss. There is evidence that
      LMRs contribute to weight loss and may reduce related cardiometabolic risk factors.

      Need for proposed research: An earlier meta-analysis demonstrated that partial meal
      replacement plans produced significant weight loss and improved weight-related
      cardiometabolic risk factors. Several controlled trials have since investigated the effect of
      liquid meal replacements on body weight and weight-related risk factors for disease. There is
      a need to update of the evidence of the effect of LMRs on cardiometabolic risk to inform
      dietary guidelines and public health policy development.

      Objective: To synthesize the evidence of randomized controlled trials of the effect of LMRs
      on body weight, blood pressure, glycemic control and established lipid targets.

      Design: The systematic review and meta-analysis will be conducted according to the Cochrane
      Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions and reported according to the Preferred
      Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA).

      Data sources: MEDLINE, EMBASE and The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials
      (Clinical Trials; CENTRAL) will be searched using appropriate search terms supplemented by
      manual searches.

      Study selection: The investigators will include randomized controlled trials of >= 2-weeks
      duration that assess the effect of LMRs versus control diets on body weight, blood pressure,
      markers of glycemic control and lipid profile.

      Data extraction: Two or more investigators will independently extract relevant data and
      assess risk of bias using the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool. All disagreements will be resolved
      by consensus. Standard computations and imputations will be used to derive missing variance
      data.

      Outcomes: Four sets of outcomes will be assessed: (1) Markers of adiposity (body weight, BMI,
      body fat, waist circumference), (2) glycemic control (HbA1c, fasting glucose, and fasting
      insulin), (3) Established therapeutic lipid targets (LDL-cholesterol, non-HDL-cholesterol,
      apolipoprotein B, HDL-cholesterol, triglycerides), and (4) blood pressure (systolic blood
      pressure and diastolic blood pressure).

      Data synthesis: Pooled analyses of the mean difference will be performed using the generic
      inverse variance method. Random-effects models will be used even in the absence of
      statistically significant between-study heterogeneity because they yield more conservative
      summary effect estimates in the presence of residual heterogeneity. Fixed-effects models will
      be used only if there are less than 5 included trials. Crossover trials will be assessed via
      paired analyses. Heterogeneity will be assessed by the Cochran Q statistic and quantified by
      the I2 statistic. To explore sources of heterogeneity, the investigators will conduct
      sensitivity analyses, in which each study is systematically removed. If there are >= 10
      trials, the study investigators will conduct apriori subgroup analyses by liquid meal
      replacement type (diabetes-specific formula, soy-based formula and fiber-containing formula),
      age, health status (presence/absence of type 2 diabetes), comparator, dose, baseline
      measurements, study design (parallel, crossover), follow-up (<= 3 months, > 3 months) and
      risk of bias. Meta-regression analyses will assess the significance of categorical and
      continuous subgroup analyses. When >= 10 trials are available, publication bias will be
      investigated by funnel plots and formal testing using Egger and Begg tests. If publication
      bias is suspected, then the investigators will attempt to adjust for funnel plot asymmetry by
      imputing the missing study data using the Duval and Tweedie trim and fill method.

      Evidence assessment: The strength of the evidence for each outcome will be assessed using the
      Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE).

      Knowledge translation plan: The results will be disseminated through interactive
      presentations at local, national and international scientific meetings and publication in
      high impact factor journals. Target audiences will include the public health and scientific
      communities with interest in nutrition and obesity. Feedback will be incorporated and used to
      improve the public health message and key areas for future research will be defined.
      Applicant/Co-applicant Decision Makers will network among opinion leaders to increase
      awareness and participate directly as committee members in the development of future
      guidelines.

      Significance: The proposed research will synthesize the highest quality evidence from
      randomized trials and aid in knowledge translation of the effect of LMRs on body weight and
      related cardiometabolic disease risk. It will strengthen the evidence-base for guidelines,
      improve health outcomes, by educating healthcare providers and patients, stimulating industry
      innovation, and guiding future research design.
    
  