
    
      The presence of obesity increases the risk for hypertension and diabetes, in part due to the
      development of insulin resistance. Obesity is also associated with sympathetic activation and
      our overarching hypothesis is that sympathetic activation contributes to insulin resistance
      with impairment of its vascular and metabolic actions. Our preliminary studies suggest that
      1) Blood pressure can be normalized by autonomic blockade in obese hypertensives, 2)
      Sympathetic activation provides no metabolic benefit because the increase in resting energy
      expenditure associated with obesity is due to an increase in fat free mass rather than
      sympathetic activation. On the contrary, autonomic blockade: 3) Improves insulin sensitivity
      in obese hypertensives, 4) Reverses their impaired NO-mediated dilation, and 5) Reduces
      plasma isoprostanes, a measure of oxidative stress. Furthermore, these abnormalities are
      interrelated in negative feedback loops, whereby inflammation/oxidative stress impairs nitric
      oxide mechanisms, which in turn reduces insulin-mediated vasodilation important for substrate
      delivery, thus contributing to insulin resistance; insulin resistance leads to compensatory
      increases in insulin levels, which contributes to further sympathetic activation. Current
      treatment guidelines do not specifically address the treatment of obesity hypertension, and
      do not target sympathetic activation as a first line approach. It is important, therefore, to
      determine whether or not targeting sympathetic activation offers unique advantages in the
      treatment of obesity hypertension over current approaches. The investigators propose a
      proof-of-concept mechanistic study comparing the metabolic, vascular, and anti-inflammatory
      effects of sympathetic inhibition, calcium channel blockade and angiotensin receptor blockade
      in obesity hypertension. The investigators will test the hypotheses that sympathetic
      activation contributes to 1) metabolic insulin resistance, which impairs the suppression of
      endogenous glucose production and the stimulation of glucose uptake normally provided by
      insulin, 2) vascular insulin resistance, which impairs insulin-mediated vasodilation and
      microvascular recruitment that normally promote glucose uptake, and 3) inflammation and
      oxidative stress, which contribute to insulin resistance and hypertension. The proposed
      studies will gauge the contribution of sympathetic activation to the cardiovascular and
      metabolic complications of obesity and provide the mechanistic insight to determine whether
      or not we should foster the efforts currently under way to develop novel therapies targeting
      sympathetic activation for hypertension.
    
  