
    
      Food insecurity is a serious issue facing households in the United States. In 2012, the time
      this study was begun, the U.S. Department of Agriculture reported that almost 15% of U.S.
      households and one in five households with children were considered to be food insecure. Over
      one third of these experienced very low food security (VLFS), with multiple indicators of
      disrupted eating patterns due to inadequate resources. These statistics are of particular
      concern because children without consistent access to sufficient and nutritious food show
      sustained disadvantages, including effects on cognition, academic performance, long-term
      nutritional status, and psychosocial development. To improve their food security, households
      utilize three types of coping strategies- (1) participating in federal feeding and financial
      assistance programs ("safety net"), (2) obtaining food from nongovernment Emergency Food
      Providers (EFPs), and (3) using individually developed coping strategies. The objectives of
      this study related to developing a better understanding of the coping strategies that VLFS
      households with children use to ensure that their households have sufficient food.
      Specifically, the study addressed two main research questions: What are the interdependencies
      among three types of coping strategies: participating in federal feeding and financial
      assistance programs ("safety net"), obtaining food from EFPs, and using individually
      developed coping strategies. What decision-making processes do people in VLFS households with
      children use when selecting coping strategies to ensure that their households have sufficient
      food? The investigators conducted a two-phased mixed-methods study of coping strategies used
      by VLFS households with children <18 years in North Carolina (NC), using a socio-ecological
      theoretical framework to guide their hypotheses, methods, and analyses. For phase I, the
      investigators employed a cross sectional, observational design. The investigators used a
      two-stage sample to recruit 320 clients of service providers who offer assistance to people
      with limited resources within eight NC counties with the highest food insecurity rates.
      Trained interviewers administered in-person a survey interview asking clients
      socio-demographic questions and about their use of three categories of coping strategies.
      Using a longitudinal design, more than a year after Phase I, in Phase II, the investigators
      completed in depth interviews with a cohort (n=28) of Phase I participants, selected using
      maximum variation sampling. During the largely unscripted interviews, participants were asked
      a select number of close ended questions from Phase I, including the 18 item food security
      module, to assess changes over the past year and permit comparisons between times one and
      two. To address the first question, two by two and multi-dimensional contingency tables were
      constructed to analyze the interdependencies among the three types of coping strategy
      outcomes. Descriptive statistics (odds ratios, counts and percentages) were performed to
      define the magnitude of the association among coping strategies. Fisher's exact tests and
      Chi-square statistics were then employed to assess the statistical significance of the
      interdependency among the outcomes. To further determine the interdependencies among the
      three coping strategies, and to assess how individual and household-level factors affect
      those interdependencies, the investigators employed log-linear models. To address the second
      research question, the investigators formulated a hierarchically ordered, analytical coding
      structure that reflected key decision-making constructs (e.g., knowledge of coping
      strategies, perception of risk of accessibility and availability of coping strategies,
      barriers to participation in "safety net" programs) and examined the results in terms of the
      key constructs. Lastly, responses to both sets of questions were jointly reviewed using
      Qualitative Comparative Analysis (QCA), a mixed-methods analysis technique. The investigators
      implemented a conventional, crisp set for (1) developing typologies of households and
      individuals experiencing very low food insecurity, and (2) exploring pathways to improving
      food security status among participants in the follow-up interviews. All procedures involving
      human participants was reviewed and approved by RTI International's Institutional Review
      Board (IRB).
    
  