
    
      Rationale: To determine, using a mixed-methods design, the impact of a rheumatology
      appointment via video conferencing combined with on-site pre-assessment by an Advance
      Clinician Practioner in Arthritis Care (ACPAC)-trained ERP compared to usual in-clinic care
      during a one-year period of follow-up for a cohort of persons with stable, well-controlled
      inflammatory arthritis residing in areas of low rheumatology supply.

      Research Questions: For people with stable IA residing in areas of low rheumatology supply,
      is it feasible to provide follow-up to people with stable, well-controlled IA using
      videoconferencing and an assessment by an extended role practitioner? Does VC with ERP
      pre-assessment change quality of life and barriers to care perceived by people with stable,
      well-controlled IA?

      Methods: Mixed-methods design. Randomized controlled trial with 2 groups: VC with ERP
      (VC-ERP) and usual care (UC). Pre- and Post-trial Interviews. Study procedures will be as
      follows:

        1. Pre-trial Interview - 15 minute telephone interview that will be audio taped. Will take
           place no more than one month before baseline study visit. Participant will be asked
           about experience traveling to rheumatologist and barriers to receiving care closer to
           home.

        2. Baseline visit - This visit will be a regularly scheduled appointment with the
           participant's rheumatologist. The participant will complete a package of four
           questionnaires and the rheumatologist will assess disease activity.

        3. Randomization - after completion of the baseline visit, participants will be randomized
           either to VC-ERP or UC.

        4. Follow-up Visits - There will be three follow-up visits 6, 12, and 13 months after the
           baseline study visit. Participants assigned to UC will be seen by their rheumatologist
           at the clinic as usual for all visits. At each visit, the participant wil complete a
           package of four questionnaires and the rheumatologist will assess disease activity.
           Participants assigned to VC-ERP will have their first two follow-up visits at an OTN
           site. There they will complete a package of four questionnaires, meet with the ERP for
           an assessment of disease activity, then connect with their rheumatologist by video
           conference. The final visit will take place in the rheumatologist's office, where the
           patient will complete a package of four questionnaires and the rheumatologist will
           assess disease activity.

        5. Post-trial interview - 15 minute telephone interview that will be audio taped. Will take
           place no more than one month after final follow-up visit. Participants assigned to UC,
           will be asked the same questions as first interview. Participants assigned to VC-ERP,
           will be asked questions about their experience with the therapist and OTN during the
           study period

      Significance: From perspective of people with stable, well-controlled IA, we will understand
      the barriers they perceive when travelling for rheumatology care far from their communities
      and whether this new model of care might help to mitigate some of that burden. This model
      already exists in Ontario and it's important to understand its value to people with stable IA
      and determine whether it is good use of an extended role practitioner's time.
    
  