
    
      This is a non-inferiority trial with a prospective randomized controlled design assessing
      patient satisfaction and complications associated with both retrobulbar block anesthetics
      (current gold standard) and conscious IV sedation alone (alternative choice of anesthesia)
      for trans-scleral diode laser (TSD). Patient satisfaction and complications will be measured
      using standardized patient surveys.

      Methodology:

        1. Patients undergoing TSD would be recruited from one glaucoma subspecialist's practice.

        2. Patient consents to TSD at the eye clinic.

        3. Clinical trial is mentioned to the patient and if there is interest a consent form is
           given to the patient to look over and develop questions the patient may want to ask.

        4. Pre-anesthesia consult will be conducted to determine eligibility for both conscious
           sedation and retrobulbar block.

        5. Patient is contacted by phone by the study coordinator to discuss whether the patient is
           still eligible to be a part of the clinical trial and whether the patient is still
           interested and if yes, what questions the patient might have. If the patient wishes to
           meet in person this will be arranged and consent can be obtained at that time, but if
           the patients are from a far distance then the signing of the consent will happen on the
           day of the procedure (although the discussion would already have taken place over the
           phone).

        6. Patients will be randomized to either conscious sedation group, or retrobulbar injection
           group (control) via an online program.

        7. On the day of the surgery, patients will receive a pre-anesthesia questionnaire
           (questions include basic identifying, health and surgery information).

        8. Patients will receive a post-surgery questionnaire one hour after the surgery, in the
           recovery room.

        9. Patients will receive a phone call for a post-recovery questionnaire 24 hours later.

       10. Patients will receive a recovery and complications questionnaire one week later at the
           clinic (during check-up).
    
  