
    
      In the light of literature data, it becomes crucial to develop models for studying the
      functionality of CTCs. In this context, xenograft models in nude mice have recently been
      described9,10. Establishing cell lines to allow CTC amplification to have enough material to
      work is an attractive approach. Some recent studies have demonstrated the feasibility of
      establishing such tools in breast or prostate cancer, 11, 12 but no studies have been done
      for colorectal cancer. Thus on the basis of the hypothesis that circulating tumor cells could
      be, or at least contain, cancerous stem cells, we propose to isolate them under conditions
      that promote their survival in order to characterize them in the particular context of
      colorectal cancer.

      If CTCs consist at least in part of CSCs, they should survive in an environment favorable to
      the culture of these cells. It is for this reason that purified CTCs will be seeded in
      plaques that prevent cell adhesion and in a serum-free medium but including growth factors
      (M12) under hypoxia conditions to approximate their original context. The ability of these
      cells to form spheres will be observed under these conditions.

      In this context, the team of the Institute of Functional Genomics of Montpellier are the
      first, to have developed and characterized three lines of CTC from blood samples of patients
      with metastatic colon cancer (Grillet F. and al; submitted for publication). In addition to
      the characterization of these rare cells and the decryption of some of the mechanisms
      involved in tumor dissemination, this tool is very valuable for the clinic. Indeed, it could
      help the establishment of personalized medicine to test quickly (less than 3 weeks) on the
      CTC of the patient, the effectiveness of conventional treatments but also new drugs included
      in clinical protocols. For the basic research part, this line will help us to characterize
      these cells because the number is no longer a limiting factor, the main objective now being
      to obtain more lines from a blood sample from patients with different profiles by optimizing
      cell culture conditions.
    
  