
    
      Episodic angioedema with eosinophilia (EAE), also known as Gleich s Syndrome,is a rare
      disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of urticaria, fever, angioedema, weight gain and
      dramatic eosinophilia that occur at 3- to 6-week intervals and resolve with spontaneous
      diuresis in the absence of therapy. Although the syndrome is often classified in the broad
      category of idiopathic hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES), EAE is a distinct eosinophilic
      syndrome that is remarkably homogeneous in clinical presentation. More recently, it has
      become apparent that there is multilineage cycling, involving lymphocytes and neutrophils in
      addition to eosinophils. Early studies described cyclic elevations of serum interleukin 5
      (IL-5) preceding the rise in eosinophilia, and additional studies have shown cyclic
      elevations in other type II cytokines as well as in eosinophilic chemokines. Aberrant T cells
      with a CD3-CD4+ surface phenotype have also been detected in the majority of subjects with
      EAE. The cyclic nature of the disorder and the involvement of multiple cell lineages have
      made it difficult to determine the underlying cause of EAE.

      We hypothesize that IL-5 driven eosinophilia is central to the pathogenesis of EAE.
      Suppression of eosinophil cycling by blocking IL-5 would help determine whether eosinophils
      are indeed the main drivers of the symptoms of angioedema and urticaria and pave the way for
      future mechanistic studies investigating the etiology of this unusual disorder. The purpose
      of this pilot study is to evaluate the effect of mepolizumab, a humanized antibody to IL-5,
      on eosinophil cycling in 12 subjects with EAE. Subjects with EAE will undergo screening on
      the National Institutes of Health protocol 94-I-0079 to establish the periodicity of their
      cycling (if not previously determined) and the optimal timing for the baseline visit. After
      screening, subjects will be followed closely with signs and symptoms recorded in a daily log,
      as well as complete blood counts and research blood collected for one cycle prior to
      administration of mepolizumab. Subjects will receive a total of 3 administrations of
      mepolizumab, one infusion every 4-6 weeks, and have a follow-up visit 4 weeks after the last
      administration of mepolizumab.

      The primary efficacy endpoint will be reduction of symptoms and severity of symptoms after
      mepolizumab. Secondary endpoints will include reduction in peak eosinophils after
      mepolizumab, continued suppression of absolute eosinophil count and reduction in symptoms
      following monthly dosing of mepolizumab therapy.
    
  