
    
      An optimal analgesic therapy is very important for postoperative recovery. In recent years,
      several studies showed that the prevalence of the moderate to severe pain after craniotomy
      ranged from 69 to 87% of patients. In a previous study, the investigators showed that the use
      of morphine based patient controlled analgesia prevented moderate to severe postoperative
      pain in patients undergoing supratentorial craniotomy. Morphine related side effects such as
      sedation, miosis, respiratory depression, nausea and vomiting produce a general reluctance
      for their use in neurosurgery. Therefore, all patients were closely observed to detect opioid
      related side effects in the intensive care unit for 24 hours following surgery in the
      previous study. The Integrated Pulmonary Index (IPI) is a new tool that calculates
      respiratory and hemodynamic parameters noninvasively. In the present study the investigators
      will use different doses of morphine based PCA and the IPI system to determine more effective
      and safer morphine dose for postoperative analgesia following supratentorial craniotomy.

      90 patients will randomize in 3 groups following supratentorial craniotomy. All patients will
      previously instruct on the PCA pumps (Abbott Provider, Chicago, USA) and visual analogue
      scale (VAS) from 0 to 10, with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst pain imaginable. All
      patients will use PCA for 24 hours following supratentorial craniotomy. In the Group 1 the
      PCA will set to administer a bolus dose of 1 mg morphine on demand with a lockout period of
      10 minutes and maximum 20 mg for 4 hours. In the Group 2 the PCA set to administer a bolus
      dose of 0.5 mg morphine on demand with a lockout period of 10 minutes and maximum 20 mg for 4
      hours. In the Group 3 the PCA will contain placebo. The Group 3 will take 50 mg dexketoprofen
      in the recovery room. Intra venous injections of dexketoprofen will repeat every 8 hours. If
      the VAS skore more than 4 the Group 3 patients will take 1 g paracetamol every 6 hours.

      All patients will observe by the Integrated Pulmonary Index (IPI). It is a new device that
      provides to recognise in a patients respiratory status. This software tool is a single index
      value ranging from 1 to 10 based on 4 physiological parameters: end tidal carbon dioxide,
      respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, pulse rate. Patients will asses at 10th minute, 1, 2, 6,
      12, and 24 hours postoperatively. Sedation will evaluate according to Ramsay score. VAS
      scores, total morphine consumption, Ramsay score, blood pressure, heart rate and respiratory
      rate, the IPI score will record at each time pain will evaluate. Postoperative side effects,
      including rash, pruritus, nausea and vomiting will record at the same intervals and defined
      by a scale with 0 = absent or 1 = present. Moreover the lowest IPI score, the apnea count
      (longer than 30 seconds) and the count of the desaturation events will record in the
      postoperative 24 hours.

      The 3 Groups will compare with respect to VAS scores, morphine consumption, IPI scores, the
      apnea count, the desaturation events and morphine related side effects during the 24 hours
      following supratentorial craniotomy.
    
  