
    
      Cerebral palsy refers to a neurological disorder caused by a non-progressive brain injury or
      malformation that occurs in early childhood. It can result in central motor deficits,
      developmental retardation, abnormal posture, abnormal muscular strength, abnormal muscle tone
      and/or dysreflexia. It has a high disability rate. There is currently no effective treatment
      for cerebral palsy. Conventional treatments for cerebral palsy are often tiresome and
      expensive and have a slow onset of action. Stem cells have been recently used in the
      treatment of cerebral palsy. This provides a novel method for the treatment of cerebral
      palsy. According to the existing clinical studies, neural stem cells, bone marrow-derived
      mesenchymal stem cells, and umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells (UC-MSCs) are
      mainly used as the seed cells for the treatment of cerebral palsy. UC-MSCs are the most
      promising seed cells for the treatment of cerebral palsy because of the advantages including
      rich sources, ease of harvesting, short doubling time, low immunogenicity, long-time survival
      post-transplantation, and no ethical issues. UC-MSCs have been widely used to treat
      Parkinson's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, traumatic brain injury, aplastic anemia, and
      decompensated liver disease. However,only two studies, and performed only in China, are
      reported on the treatment of cerebral palsy with UC-MSCs. One from the Hospital 463 of PLA
      reported 51 patients with cerebral palsy whose symptoms had not been obviously improved after
      1 year of rehabilitative treatment. These patients received intrathecal injection of UC-MSCs
      for three times, once a week, followed by one injection of UC-MSCs via the peripheral vein in
      the fourth week. Four UC-MSCs injections, once per week, were considered as one course of
      treatment. Activities of daily living scale score was compared between before and after
      treatment to evaluate efficacy. Another study is a case report from China. In this report, a
      combined intravenous and intrathecal injection of UC-MSCs was used to treat cerebral palsy in
      a 5-year-old child. 28-month follow-up results revealed that the child's gross motor
      function, immune function, muscle strength, and language ability improved and adverse
      reactions were not obvious.
    
  