
    
      Vitamin D plays an important role for cardiac function and blood pressure regulation, and the
      serum 25(OH)D concentration change is an important indicator for Vitamin D nutritional
      status, and serum 1,25(OH)2D is an active hormone for biological actions. However, little is
      known about the change of vitamin D concentration was related to the usage of angiotensin
      receptor blocker among patients with hypertension.

      We will conduct an open label, non-comparative, observational study to evaluate the efficacy,
      safety and tolerability of Olmesartan therapy in Taiwan patients with essential hypertension,
      and the primary objective is the change in the 24-hour mean systolic blood pressure from
      baseline to the day after post-treatment week-12 visit according to the ambulatory blood
      pressure monitoring. Our second endpoints included:

        1. Change in the 24-hour mean diastolic blood pressure from baseline to the day after
           post-treatment week-12 visit

        2. To evaluate the reduction in office blood pressure, including SeSBP and SeDPB, with
           Olmesartan 20mg therapy at 4,8,12 weeks (only for subjects with week-4, week-8 visit)

        3. Control rate [% of patients] at 12weeks, defined by Defined as SBP less than 140mmHg and
           / or DBP less than 90mmHg or a reduction more than 10 mmHg for DBP and / or more than
           20mmHg SBP versus baseline values

        4. Biomarker assessment Vitamin D change from the baseline 24-hour urinary sodium excretion
           change from the baseline

        5. To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of Olmesartan 20mg at 12 weeks based on global
           assessment by the physicians and patients

      The major aim of this proposal is to investigate the effect of angiotensin receptor blocker,
      Olmesartan, for a 12 weeks' treatment among patients with hypertension in the outpatient
      clinics in one hospital center. We set the blood pressure measured from ambulatory blood
      pressure monitor as the primary endpoint. Furthermore, we will test Vitamin D related
      concentrations and 24 hour urine sodium excretion change with the blood pressure change. We
      will recruit 200 patients with hypertension in this observational study and will evaluate the
      efficacy and safety issues among these patients. The specific aims of this proposal will
      include:

        1. Test the improvement of blood pressure change in 24-hour blood pressure monitor by an
           angiotensin receptor blocker, Olmesartan, among hypertensive patients

        2. Test the change of vitamin D concentrations and 24-hour urinary sodium excretion change
           after this angiotensin receptor blocker, Olmesartan, treatment

        3. Test the association between blood pressure change and vitamin D-related measurements
           among the drug treatment, We hypothesize that the blood pressure change was related to
           the change of serum vitamin D concentration and also related to urinary sodium excretion
           change. .

      The unique feature of this proposal includes a well-designed observational study with
      experienced clinicians and epidemiologists to conduct the study. Under the infrastructure in
      a tertiary hospital center, participant compliance, follow up, quality control and outcomes
      measurements can be assured and monitored under the guideline of good clinical practice.
      Furthermore, the investigators are the experts in vitamin D associated measurements and
      biomarkers studies and in clinical setting. This proposal will provide important scientific
      knowledge about the relationship among blood pressure change, vitamin D and urinary sodium
      excretion among hypertensive patients under 12 weeks' angiotensin receptor blocker treatment
      in Taiwan.
    
  