
    
      Ischemic heart disease (IHD) is currently the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the
      developed world, and is set to become the leading cause of death in the world by the year
      2020, according to the World Health Organisation. Patients with severe IHD that require
      coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery, although protected by techniques such as
      cross-clamp fibrillation and cardioplegia, still sustain significant myocardial injury as
      evidenced by perioperative troponin T or I or CK-MB release. Novel treatment strategies are
      required to limit the myocardial injury sustained by patients undergoing CABG surgery in
      order to improve the clinical outcomes of this patient group.

      One such cardioprotective strategy is remote ischemic preconditioning(RIPC) which describes
      the cardioprotection obtained from inducing ischemia in tissue or an organ remote from the
      heart. Our laboratory and others have established RIPC using forearm ischemia (induced by an
      automated cuff applied to the upper arm) as an effective cardioprotective intervention in
      children undergoing corrective cardiac surgery for congenital heart disease and in adults
      undergoing CABG surgery. In this study we investigate whether simultaneous
      inflation/deflation of cuffs placed on the upper arm and thigh can reduce peri-operative
      myocardial injury and improve short-term outcomes in patients undergoing CABG surgery.

      Eligible patients will be those patients undergoing elective CABG surgery who are >18 years
      old, with no significant renal or hepatic disease, and have not had a recent AMI (within 1
      month).

      Consented patients will randomized to RIPC treatment or control.The RIPC protocol will
      comprise simultaneous 2 x 5 minutes of forearm and lower leg ischemia (with an automated
      pressure cuff inflated to 200 mmHg) with an intervening 5 minutes of reperfusion (during
      which the cuff is deflated) between each inflation. The control protocol will comprise a
      deflated cuff being placed on the upper arm and thigh for 20 minutes. The RIPC protocol will
      be implemented after the patients have been anesthetized and immediately prior to CABG
      surgery.

      The measured endpoint of cardioprotection will be troponin-T release at 0, 12, 24, 48 and 72
      hours following CABG surgery.
    
  