
    
      This is a prospective multi-center clinical trial in which a maximum of 360 eyes of 360
      consecutive subjects will be enrolled and treated with the VisuMax™ Femtosecond Laser. The
      study will be conducted at up to 8 clinical sites.

      Subjects will be screened for eligibility, and informed consent will be obtained from those
      who meet screening criteria and are interested in participating in the study. Eligible
      subjects will be examined preoperatively to obtain a medical history and to establish a
      baseline ocular condition. Baseline and postoperative measurements will include manifest
      refraction, cycloplegic refraction, distance visual acuity (best corrected and uncorrected),
      slit-lamp examination, fundus examination, corneal topography, central corneal pachymetry,
      mesopic pupil measurement, wavefront analysis, mesopic contrast sensitivity, and intraocular
      pressure (IOP).

      Only eyes with astigmatism ≥ -0.75 D to ≤ -3.00 D targeted for the full distance manifest
      spherocylindrical refraction, or eye(s) with astigmatism < -0.75 D targeted for the full
      distance manifest sphere-only refraction, will be enrolled into the study.

      Subjects must have astigmatism ≤ -3.00 D in the eye to be treated. Eyes with astigmatism ≥
      -0.75 D to ≤ -3.00 D will receive a spherocylindrical treatment. Eyes with astigmatism <
      -0.75 D will receive a sphere-only treatment.

      Operative eyes with astigmatism ≥ -0.75 D to ≤ -3.00 D must be targeted for the full distance
      manifest spherocylindrical refraction. Operative eye(s) with astigmatism < -0.75 D must be
      targeted for the full distance manifest sphere-only refraction.

      Monovision treatments and retreatments of the study eye will not be allowed during the course
      of the study. Bilateral investigational treatments will not be allowed during the study.

      Safety and effectiveness criteria from the American National Standard for Ophthalmics (ANSI
      Z80.11-2012) - Laser Systems for Corneal Reshaping will be utilized in the evaluation of the
      VisuMax Femtosecond Laser.
    
  