
    
      A. BACKGROUIND

      Current knowledge and understanding of individuals with lower extremity amputations (ILEA)
      when running are limited with respect to biomechanical performance and injury risks. ILEA are
      able to run with both running-specific prostheses (RSPs) and traditional prostheses; however,
      direct comparisons of subjects running with each of these prosthetic designs do not exist.
      The reported literature examining one design or the other often do not have participants
      running at the same velocities. Additionally, when running velocities are similar between
      studies, the same variables are rarely investigated. This makes comparisons between RSPs and
      traditional prostheses exceedingly difficult, and drawing conclusions on both performance and
      injury risk is virtually impossible. Furthermore, no ILEA running studies to date have
      investigated muscle activities, nor have running simulations of musculoskeletal models been
      generated. These major gaps in research substantially limit the understanding of both
      performance and injury risk of ILEA running with different prosthetic designs. Gaining this
      knowledge will directly inform clinicians and administrators within the Department of Defense
      and Veterans Administration systems on prosthesis prescription for running at a range of
      speeds as well as for return to duty scenarios. Therefore, the proposed study will utilize
      motion capture, muscle activity, and musculoskeletal modeling techniques to directly compare
      performance and injury risks of ILEA running with both RSPs and traditional prostheses across
      a range of speeds. The investigators will also capture an able-bodied control group for
      normative comparisons. In doing so, this project directly attends to the OPORA's goals and
      needs at multiple levels.

      B. RESEARCH STRATEGY:

      Subjects Twelve subjects with unilateral transtibial amputations will be recruited from the
      military, veteran, and civilian populations. Twelve able-bodied sex, age, height, and
      weight-matched subjects will serve as a control group to provide normative data for
      comparison. All subjects must provide their informed consent prior to beginning any portion
      of the study and will have the option to discontinue the study at any time without penalty.
      All subjects must complete the Physical Activity Readiness Questionnaire (PAR-Q) prior to
      beginning the experiment. If subjects fail this questionnaire (by responding "yes" to any of
      the 7 questions), they will not be allowed to participate in the study until they provide
      documentation from a physician clearing them to participate.

      Experimental Procedures A randomization computer program will determine the order of
      prosthetic foot conditions (RSP or traditional) for the ILEA subjects. All subjects (Controls
      and ILEA) will undergo 3D running analysis on an instrumented treadmill. A motion capture
      system will collect kinematic data (i.e. limb positions; joint angles, velocities,
      accelerations) at 200 Hz from reflective markers placed on specific body landmarks. On the
      amputated limb, the shank cluster will be placed laterally on the socket and a marker will be
      placed at the distal tip of the socket to define the long axis of the residual shank segment.
      For the RSP conditions, eight additional markers will be placed on the prosthesis keel. The
      marker on the most acute point of the prosthesis will define the prosthetic limb "ankle"
      joint. For the traditional prosthesis conditions, markers will be placed similarly to the
      intact foot.

      An instrumented treadmill will collect ground reaction force (GRF) data at 1000 Hz from force
      platforms imbedded in the treadmill. Kinematic and ground reaction force data will be
      combined and standard inverse dynamics techniques will be used to calculate joint kinetic
      data (i.e. forces, moments, powers, and work) using Visual3D (C-Motion, Germantown, MD)
      software.

      Muscle activation data will be collected at a sampling frequency of 2000 Hz using surface
      electromyography (EMG) from six bilateral hip and trunk muscles. Disposable pre-gelled
      silver-silver chloride (Ag-AgCl) electrodes will be placed over bilateral gluteus medius,
      gluteus maximus, rectus femoris, biceps femoris, lumbar erector spinae, internal oblique, and
      external oblique muscles. Maximal voluntary isometric contractions (MVIC) will be obtained
      for normalization purposes using manual resistance applied in standardized positions.

      All subjects (ILEA using RSPs, ILEA using traditional prosthesis, and Controls) will run at
      six prescribed speeds (2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 m/s) on a treadmill, presented in
      randomized order. ILEA subjects will complete all speed conditions wearing both their RSP and
      traditional prosthetic foot. As mentioned earlier, the prosthesis order will be randomized,
      but all speed conditions will be completed in one prosthesis prior to changing into the
      second prosthesis condition. This will save time and maintain a similar prosthetic fit
      between speed conditions. The study protocol requires that every subject runs at the same 6
      specific speeds identified above. Each treadmill speed condition will take approximately 30
      seconds, or the time needed for subjects to stabilize their gait at the speed and a
      collection of 10 consecutive strides to be collected. At least 2 minutes rest will be
      provided between each speed condition, and subjects can take more rest if needed.

      After completing the treadmill trials, subjects will complete 3x50m dashes in each foot
      condition to determine maximum speed. Again, at least 2 minutes rest will be provided between
      each effort, and subjects can take more rest if needed. The order of prosthesis use will also
      be randomized for this test, but all three dashes will be completed consecutively for each
      prosthesis condition.

      To evaluate performance while running, the primary outcome measures being evaluated will
      include peak joint powers; concentric, eccentric and total joint and limb work; average
      vertical and Anterior and Posterior (AP) GRFs; vertical and AP GRF impulses; and 50m dash
      time/speed. To evaluate injury risk while running, the primary outcome measures being
      evaluated will include average GRF magnitudes and loading rates, asymmetry in GRFs and joint
      moments, normalized EMG amplitudes, lumbopelvic kinematics, and peak and average joint
      contact forces over stance. Data for these measures will be collected for all subjects and
      then compared among the three groups (ILEA with RSPs, ILEA with Traditional Prosthesis, and
      Controls). No intervention will be offered to any subject and no follow-up to assess
      biomedical and/or health outcomes will be conducted.

      Electromyography Signal Analysis Raw EMG data will be demeaned, band-pass (cutoff
      frequency10-400 Hz) and band-stop (cutoff frequency 59-61 Hz) filtered to remove movement
      artifact and 60 Hz electrical noise using dual-pass (zero phase lag) Butterworth filters. EMG
      data will then be full wave rectified and low pass filtered to create linear envelopes. Peak
      values will be extracted from the MVIC trials to be used for normalization of the running
      trials to express EMG data as % Maximum Voluntary Contraction (MVC). Root mean square (RMS)
      of each muscle's activity will be calculated during stance and swing phases of running to
      investigate amplitude differences. Cross-correlation methodology will be utilized to
      investigate relative timing between trunk and hip musculature. Comparisons will be made to
      assess symmetry of muscle activation amplitude and timing between intact and prosthetic limb
      sides for each of the running speed and prosthesis conditions.

      Musculoskeletal Model Three musculoskeletal models will be developed in OpenSim. For the
      first model, the investigators will use a generic musculoskeletal model representing a
      non-amputee adult male, which has previously been used to assess muscle function during
      non-amputee running. The second and third models will be modified versions of the non-amputee
      model that represents a person using a prosthesis. The second model will include a
      traditional transtibial energy storage and return prosthesis, and the third model will
      include a running specific prosthesis. For both models, the investigators will remove the
      ankle muscles from the residual leg, including the medial and lateral gastrocnemius, soleus,
      tibialis posterior, flexor digitorum longus, tibialis anterior and extensor digitorum longus.

      Running Simulation Generation The models will be scaled to each individual subject using
      manual, uniform scale factors, computed from an inverse dynamics model based on kinematic
      marker positions and developed in Visual3D (C-Motion, Inc., Germantown, MD). Then, an inverse
      kinematics solution will be computed in Visual3D using a weighted least squares optimization
      algorithm. After the inverse kinematics solution has been computed, the investigators will
      perform a Residual Reduction Algorithm. Once minor changes have been made to the model and to
      the kinematic trajectories of the generalized coordinates, the investigators will implement a
      Computed Muscle Control algorithm. Once a solution for individual muscle excitations is found
      using the Computed Muscle Control algorithm, the investigators will compare it to the
      experimentally-collected electromyographic data. The investigators will generate running
      simulations at all running speeds for all participants. The results of these simulations will
      be compared between groups and across speeds, similar to the experimental measures that will
      be analyzed in this study.

      Joint Contact Force Analysis Once the running simulations have been developed, the
      three-dimensional contact load at the hip will be determined from the joint intersegmental
      force and compressive forces from the muscles crossing the joint, similar to the previous
      analyses during amputee walking. In addition, the muscle forces determined from the movement
      simulation will be used to help interpret the net contact loads.

      Material Properties and Anthropometrics Inertial properties of the prosthetic components and
      intact body segments will be estimated for use with the inverse dynamics approach. Subject
      masses will be measured using a force platform. Height and body weight of each subject will
      be measured, and anthropometric measurements from marker positions will be used to estimate
      the mass, center of mass, and moments of inertia of intact limb segments. Because ILEA
      subjects are missing one foot and part of their shank, an adjusted body mass (ABM) will be
      used as an input to anthropometric regression equations that account for the missing body
      segments.

      For subjects with amputation, the residual limb length and circumferences at the knee joint
      and distal end of the limb will be measured using a measuring tape. Residual limb inertial
      properties will then be estimated as a frustum of a right circular cone. Residual limb mass
      will be estimated from the calculated geometric volume assuming a uniform 1.10 g/cm3 tissue
      density. For the RSP conditions, the inertial properties of the RSP will be estimated from
      data published by the PI. Subsegments within the RSP keels will be defined via reflective
      marker placements and the inertial properties of each subsegment will be estimated by
      assuming each segment as a rigid trapezoidal cuboid. For the traditional prosthesis
      conditions, the inertial properties of the prosthesis will be estimated according to
      published literature.

      C. STATISTICAL PLAN and DATA ANALYSIS

      Statistical Analysis This research is designed to determine the effects of prosthesis type on
      a variety of performance and injury-risk related outcome variables across a range of running
      speeds. A three factor (Group x Limb x Speed) mixed model ANOVA will be used to identify
      statistical changes of the following dependent variables: peak hip, knee, and ankle joint
      powers and mechanical work; average ground reaction forces; loading rates; and EMG
      amplitudes. Group (Individual Lower Extremity Amputation Running-Specific Prosthesis
      (ILEARSP) vs Individual Lower Extremity Amputation Traditional Prosthesis (ILEATrad) vs.
      Control) will be considered as a between-subjects independent variable, Limb
      (prosthetic/intact or left/right) as a within-subjects independent variable and Speed (2.5,
      3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 5.0, and 6.0 m/s) as a within-subjects independent variable.

      A two factor (Group x Speed) ANOVA will be used to identify statistical changes of dependent
      variables including ground reaction force symmetry, joint kinetic symmetry, and lumbopelvic
      kinematics. A one-way ANOVA will determine statistical differences between groups for the 50m
      dash time and speed.

      Significance for all statistical tests will be set at α=0.05.

      Sample Size Calculations This study will have appropriate statistical power to assess our
      hypotheses. Effect sizes for significant differences between RSP, intact, and able-bodied
      limbs in GRF loading rates, average GRF, and total joint work were estimated based on prior
      data collected by the PI from 8 ILEA and Control subjects running at 2.5, 3.0, and 3.5 m/s.
      These effect sizes ranged between 0.4 and greater than 0.9. An effect size of 0.7 was also
      estimated from the volume of oxygen (VO2) values of one study comparing subjects running with
      RSPs and traditional prostheses. To be conservative, the investigators utilized the lowest of
      these effect sizes (0.4) to perform a power analysis for ANOVA with repeated measures using
      G*Power (v. 3.1.9.2, Dusseldorf, Germany). This yielded a total sample size of 24 with α =
      0.05 resulting in 80% power to detect differences between limbs, prosthetic feet, or ILEA and
      Control subjects in kinetic values during running. The investigators anticipate similar
      effect sizes for changes in the remaining biomechanical variables the investigators will
      examine in the proposed study. Based on this analysis, 12 ILEA subjects and 12 control
      subjects will provide substantial statistical power to detect significant differences in
      biomechanical outcomes between groups and prosthetic feet.
    
  