
    
      This is a double-blind, placebo-controlled cross study designed to evaluate the safety and
      efficacy of autologous immunoregulatory dendritic cells (iDC) in patients with type 1
      diabetes. To do this, a total of 24 subjects with recent onset (<100 days from diagnosis)
      type 1 diabetes will have circulating dendritic cells harvested via leukapheresis. The
      harvested dendritic cells will then be incubated in vitro with antisense DNA oligonucleotides
      targeting the primary transcripts of cluster of differentiation antigen 40 (CD40), cluster of
      differentiation antigen 80 (CD80) and cluster of differentiation antigen 86 (CD86). These
      engineered dendritic cells will then be given as autologous intradermal injections (4
      injections administered at 2 week intervals) in the subject' peri-umbilical region. The
      hypothesis is that the injected cells will generate immunoregulatory cells that suppress the
      autoimmune process responsible for the development of type 1 diabetes via destruction of the
      subject's pancreatic beta cells.

      Employing a cross-over design, all subjects will undergo leukapheresis at the outset. Twelve
      subjects will be randomly assigned to receive cell injections at the outset while the other
      12 subjects will receive sham injections and serve as controls. At the end of 12 months, all
      subjects will cross-over to the alternative treatment and continue to be followed for an
      additional 12 months. (Note: The subjects assigned to receive the cell therapy for this
      segment will receive injections of their autologous cells harvested and engineered at the
      time of the leukapheresis performed at study entry. The engineered cells will be stored
      frozen until needed for administration. This design will test whether treatment later (>1
      year after diagnosis) is as effective as immediate treatment (<100 days from the diagnosis of
      type 1 diabetes).

      As an added safety measure, the first 6 subjects randomized will all be over the age of 18.
      When the last of these 6 subjects complete 3 months of observation following the initiation
      of therapy, the age for enrollment will be lowered to age 16 for the next 6 subjects unless
      safety observations dictate otherwise. When all subjects in this cohort have been enrolled,
      the age for enrollment will be lowered to age 14 unless advised otherwise by the independent
      Data Safety Monitoring Board. When all subjects in this cohort have completed observation for
      3 months, the age for enrollment will be lowered to age 12 following clearance by the Data
      Safety Monitoring Board.

      If this therapy is successful, the subjects' remaining beta cell mass will be preserved and
      hopefully expanded once the autoimmune process is slowed or stopped. This outcome will be
      assessed indirectly using plasma c-peptide concentrations following ingestion of a
      standardized mixed meal at the end of 12 and 24 months of therapy. If the treatment is
      successful, glucose control should improve and be detectable via measurement of hemoglobin
      A1c (measure of long-term control), fasting plasma glucose concentrations and the plasma
      glucose concentrations following ingestion of the standardized mixed meal. In addition, the
      total daily insulin requirements should decrease. These measures of glucose control will be
      assessed at baseline and then at 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21 and 24 months.

      Immune markers will also be profiled at 3 month intervals to assess potential tolerogenic
      effects of the therapy. To this end, numbers of potentially tolerogenic/regulatory T-cells,
      B-cells and dendritic cells in the circulating peripheral blood monocyte population will be
      assessed. In addition, analysis of selected populations of T-cells, B-cells and dendritic
      cells will be conducted over the entire study period in an attempt to identify molecular
      signatures correlated with the clinical response.

      Finally, in addition to the routine safety laboratory measurements, all reported adverse
      events will be examined in detail to characterize the safety aspects of the therapy. The
      review of these safety data will be guided by an independent Data Safety Monitoring Board
      which will meet at least semi-annually to review the accrued data.
    
  