
    
      This research was an observational, descriptive, cross-sectional study. The population was
      made up of children and adolescents from 2 to 18 11 months years of age with CP diagnosis and
      their families who attended public and private health institutions in the City of Córdoba. A
      non-probability sequential sampling was carried out. The sample size was calculated for an
      expected prevalence of at least 25% of nutritional deficit in children and adolescents with
      CP to detect the strategies that predict good nutritional status with an odds ratio of at
      least 2 in 94 patients (Ortega Calvo and Cayuela Dominguez 2002) The families were invited to
      participate through the directors or managers of the educational centers or institutions.
      They were communicated orally and then in writing what the project was about.

      This study included all children of both sexes from 2 to 18 years and 11 months with a
      diagnosis of CP defined as a disability that describes a group of permanent developmental
      disorders of movement and posture, which cause activity limitation, attributable to
      non-progressive alterations that occur in the developing fetal or infant brain. CP motor
      disorder is often accompanied by disturbances in sensation, perception, cognition,
      communication, and behavior; due to epilepsy and secondary musculoskeletal problems, who
      attend rehabilitation centers or public and private therapeutic educational centers in the
      city of Córdoba and neighboring towns that agree to participate and whose parents, guardians
      or caregivers sign the informed consent and want to participate. The CP diagnosis was taken
      from the Unique Certificate of Disability and in those children who were not established, the
      medical records were searched.

      The normality of the continuous data was tested with the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test and they
      were reported as mean and standard deviations, while the non-normal distribution as medians
      with their interquartile ranges. Discrete data were expressed in absolute frequencies and
      percentages with 95% CI. The data that were non-parametric underwent a logarithmic
      transformation for their conversion to parametric.

      The nutritional assessment, in accordance with the WHO reference parameters, was performed
      using the WHO Anthro Plus V1.0.4 anthropometric assessment program which uses the official
      WHO 2007 reference standards, providing accurate z-score values. Due to the fact that the
      growth patterns of the WHO (2007) do not present weight-for-age data up to 18 years of age,
      it was decided to use the Argentine references of the Argentine Society of Pediatrics,
      standardizing the weight by sex and age (2013).

      Then a) Bivariate analysis will be carried out: The relationship between energy and
      macronutrient intake, factors related to food and nutritional assessment of children with CP,
      were analyzed using Chi-square tests with Fisher's test, t-test, or Mann-Whitney, as
      applicable. Variables that were significant with a p value <0.05 were placed in a
      multivariate model. b) Multivariate analysis: A multiple logistic regression model was used
      to identify significant predictors for adequate caloric and macronutrient intake, adjusted
      for sex, age, and CP severity.

      The study of nutrition in patients with CP is an emerging field that has not yet been
      developed in our country, for which this work plan seeks to develop methodologies that
      promote social inclusion by making substantial and necessary contributions to improve the
      treatment and quality of life of children and adolescents with CP.
    
  