
    
      The main aim of the project is to assess the effects of seven days of HMB (4.0 g/day) or
      Placebo (PLA) supplementation on lower body strength performance, and functional,
      histological, clinical and molecular markers of muscle recovery after an acute resistance
      exercise session.

      The study is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel trial. 30 male
      participants will be divided randomly into two parallel groups: One group receiving 4.0 g/day
      HMB and the second group receiving PLA. Supplementation period (HMB or PLA) will be seven
      days (five days before and two days after muscle damage induced by an acute resistance
      training session). Food intake during the intervention will be assessed with the use of a
      food diary.

      Before the start of the experimental protocol, the participants will be familiarized with all
      tests and procedures.

      During the first visit, participants will be assessed for their anthropometric
      characteristics, and baseline blood samples will be collected for the analysis of the
      activity of muscle damage markers [creatine kinase (CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)]. We
      will then carry out the evaluation of the maximal voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC;
      performed in a Biodex isokinetic dynamometer), lower body maximum dynamic strength (1RM) for
      squat, leg press, and leg extension exercises. The participants will then return to the
      laboratory to repeat the same tests and confirm the obtained results (MVIC and 1RM tests).

      On the third day, participants will take part in a resistance training session (RE3sets) to
      evaluate strength performance. We will monitor the maximum number of repetitions possible in
      three sets of three exercises (squats, the leg press, and leg extension), until the
      concentric failure, with a rest interval of two minutes per set. The workload will correspond
      to 80% of the individual's 1RM).

      Participants will then spend five to seven days without any leg strength/power training, in
      order to facilitate effective recovery prior to the next main resistance exercises training
      (RE5sets), which will be designed to induce muscle damage. Furthermore, HMB or PLA
      supplementation will commence five days before RE5sets, and continue for 48 hours after
      RE5sets.

      Before the RE5sets, a muscle biopsy will be done in the vastus lateralis for morphological
      analysis of the sarcomere integrity (histological analysis) and molecular testing (e.g.
      selected protein kinase activity (e.g. AKTser473, mTORSer2448, p70S7K1Thr389,
      4E-BP1Ser65/Thr70, 4EBP1Thr37/46); muscle cholesterol, and mevalonate content). Blood samples
      will also be collected. After the biopsy, participants will carry out exercises similar to
      those performed in the preliminary studies, but will do 5 sets per exercise until concentric
      failure with a 2-min resting interval between sets and load corresponding to 80% of the
      participant's 1RM.

      24 hours after the end of RE5sets, blood samples will be taken and the evaluation of the MVIC
      will be performed. 24 hours later (48 hours after the RE5sets), a muscle biopsy (for
      histological and molecular testing) will be conducted, and blood samples will be collected.
      Furthermore, the MVIC and RE3sets will also be measured.

      Collected data will be compared between groups and times using mixed models (proc mixed, SAS
      v.9.3) followed by multiple comparisons of a hypothesis-driven single degree of freedom
      contrast analysis. The sample size was estimated at 24 in total, assuming an intra- and
      inter-subject interaction model, alpha level of 5%, power (1-β) of 0.8 and effect size 0.3
      (small) (G*Power v.3.9.1.2). We will recruit a slightly larger number of participants (n =
      30) to allow for the likely dropouts that will occur throughout the study. The level of
      significance adopted will be p <0.05.
    
  