
    
      Bronchiolitis is the most common lower respiratory tract infection that affects children
      younger than 24 months. The diagnosis is clinical and, according to international guidelines,
      chest x-ray (CXR) should be reserved for cases in which signs of pulmonary complications are
      present or where respiratory effort is severe to warrant intensive care unit admission.
      Despite these recommendations, CXR is still performed in about 50% of bronchiolitis (ranging
      from 24 to 77%), which exposes infants to ionizing radiation.

      Given its portability, no ionizing radiation, rapid and repeat testing, lung ultrasound (LUS)
      has become an emerging diagnostic tool for pneumonia, pleural effusion and pneumothorax in
      adults and children. At present, LUS is not included in the diagnostic work-up of
      bronchiolitis. Previous papers have reported that LUS may be useful in bronchiolitis because
      of a good correlation between clinical course and ultrasound findings. However, data on the
      possible role of LUS in children with bronchiolitis and suspected pulmonary complications
      have not been published yet.

      Enrolled patients will undergo a bedside LUS in the first 12 hours after CXR. LUS will be
      performed by one paediatrician with specific LUS expertise and blinded to clinical and
      radiological data. The paediatrician must have previously attended a specific course on LUS
      and supervised practical training. A Mindray-DC-T6 ultrasound machine equipped with a linear
      probe with frequencies ranging from 7.5 to 12 MHz will be use. LUS examination will consist
      of both longitudinal and transversal sections from the anterior, lateral and posterior chest
      wall according to the methodology described by Copetti et al. A radiologist will then
      independently repeat the LUS to test the sonographer inter-observer agreement. The
      radiologist will be blinded to the results of the previous studies (LUS and CXR). The LUS
      findings will be recorded on the data form together with patient demographics, symptoms, CXR
      findings and laboratory data.

      Patients with LUS positive for pulmonary complications will receive follow-up ultrasound
      every 48 hours until the resolution or the discharge.
    
  