
    
      Mucositis is common among cancer patients receiving radiotherapy and chemotherapy. A total of
      80-100% of the patients are suffering from the mucositis pain; their regular dieting is
      disturbed, nutritional status deteriorated, and even treatment discontinued. Some self-paid
      medications like glutamine have been used to prevent mucositis before and during
      radiotherapy/chemotherapy. However, the cost of glutamine is relatively high (NT15,000
      month/person) and its treatment efficacy and side effects are still to be determined.
      Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and experiments have shown that honey and propolis may be
      used for the management of mucositis. Taiwan is a country of rich agriculture with unique bee
      products among which the longan honey demonstrates the most significant antibacterial
      effects; the green propolis has also been proved to comprise antibacterial,
      anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant effects. However, none of these propolis products have
      been specifically trialed for the management of mucositis of cancer patients.

      Bee products have been concerned as potential sources of natural antioxidants such as
      flavonoids, phenolic acids, and terpenoids. Their potential treatment effects have caught the
      attention of the medical community. Accumulating evidence is supporting the use of bee
      products in mucositis caused by chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or both. However, systematic
      review and meta-analysis have suggested a low quality of the included RCTs, and this affects
      the applicability of the evidence in the real clinical scenario.

      The investigators plan to conduct a 3-year pioneering care research project for mucositis in
      cancer patients. These include: (1) an analysis of the incidence and severity of mucositis,
      severity, treatment methods, and treatment costs; (2) an RCT comparing the effectiveness of
      honey, Taiwan green propolis, and usual care in mucositis of cancer patients; (3) monitoring
      of related symptom changes using a smart bracelet device; (4) a measurement of IL-1, IL-6,
      IL-10, and TNF in saliva and (4) modeling of the trend of mucositis for alertness and search
      of essential parameters of the complications. In the first year, our project will focus on
      the analysis of the incidence and severity of mucositis, treatment methods, and treatment
      costs. In the second year, the planned RCT will be carried out and changes in heart rate,
      stress, and fatigue of the patients are to be collected using the smart bracelet. In the
      third year, the investigators will conduct a deep machine learning of the clinical and serial
      test data to predict the changes in symptoms. The modeling is anticipated to provide
      important parameter combinations that assist the alerting of possible severe complications.
      The overall findings of this project shall the strategical references for applying bee
      products in the prevention and treatment of mucositis in cancer patients.
    
  