
    
      Approximately one third of Americans suffer from acute and chronic pain and pain has been
      called a silent epidemic. Treatment of pain often involves opioid medications with a
      significant potential for abuse, addiction and adverse reactions such as respiratory
      depression and death. Magnetic brain stimulation has been used for the treatment of pain.
      There are reports of its use in phantom-limb pain and in the treatment of central and
      peripheral pain syndromes.

      The study will evaluate whether an experimental medical device (Fischell TCMS Pain Treatment
      Device) that emits pulses of a brief, intense magnetic field will relieve pain in the lower
      back. Transcutaneous Magnetic Stimulation (TCMS) is the name of this method of delivering
      magnetic pulses through the skin. TCMS has been approved by the FDA for peripheral nerve
      stimulation, treatment of migraine headaches and for depression but this type of device has
      not been studied scientifically for the treatment of back pain. No significant adverse
      reactions or side effects have been reported with the use of magnetic stimulation for
      headache treatment. Some patients who have migraine headaches have excellent pain relief with
      the magnetic treatment even if they do not get pain relief with medications. Other patients
      do not have headache relief with magnetic treatment. The current use of TCMS applied to the
      head requires special equipment and multiple treatment sessions. TCMS applied peripherally is
      easier to do, and may require fewer treatment sessions to achieve pain relief. Non-invasive
      treatment of pain would represent a significant advance in the field especially if its use
      both successfully treated pain and resulted in the reduction or elimination in the need for
      opioid medications.

      The investigators do not know whether magnetic treatment will relieve back pain so the
      investigators will test this by applying a powerful electromagnet to the area of the back
      having pain. In some patients, the magnet will be turned on, but in other patients the magnet
      will not be turned on. Neither patients nor patient's treating doctor will know whether the
      magnet was turned on or not, although the study team will know which patients received
      treatment with magnetic pulses. The effect on pain will be recorded periodically for 2 days.
      If the patients' reported pain is reduced by having the magnet turned on compared to
      patients' who do not have the magnet turned on, then the magnet may have reduced the pain.
      Additional studies in patients will be needed to be sure that the magnet therapy is reducing
      low back pain.
    
  