
    
      Test components:

      A) Active: Full-spectrum medical cannabis with ratio of CBD:THC 10:1 (HemPhar)

      B) Placebo (both of the same producer)

      Study Steps

        1. Informed consent should be signed by parents/caregivers.

        2. Weight of the participant should be determined and an IV line inserted. The following
           lab tests should be performed: CBC and differential counts, blood electrolytes,
           magnesium, calcium, phosphorus, urea & creatinine, liver enzymes (AST, ALT, gGT)

        3. ECG performed and analyzed

        4. A trained physiotherapist will perform the following motor assessments: spasticity level
           according to modified Ashworth scale (Bohannon), function/activity assessment with the
           use of Gross Motor Function Measure scale (GMFM-88) and assessment of muscle power with
           dynamometer.

        5. Randomization of patients into one of the two arms of the study

        6. Active substance or placebo are introduced thereafter (as an oral oily solution for oral
           application) in a starting dose of 0.08 mg/kg body weight (BWt)/day divided in 2 doses
           (the dose is according to the THC content). The dose is gradually increased, every 3
           days for 0.08 mg THC/ kg BWt/day, until the maximum dose of 1 mg THC/kg BWt/day is
           reached, or else until adverse effects are noted. It is expected that the average dose
           will be 0.33 mg/kg BWt per day.

        7. The parents/caregivers are given questionnaires/scales and also given oral instructions
           on how to fulfil them (Edmonton scale, Borg scale and Global Impression of Change - GIC)
           and the paper to take down notes on possible side/adverse effects while taking the
           preparation (either active substance or placebo).

        8. After 6 weeks of taking the substance or at the premature end of the study again the lab
           tests will be performed as well as the motor assessment by the physiotherapist (as above
           at inclusion).

        9. In patients, who have been receiving placebo for the first 6 weeks, the active substance
           is given for the next 6 weeks, as described above (under 6). The patients who have been
           receiving the active substance for the first 6 weeks will continue to do so for the next
           6 weeks.

       10. Additional blood samples are taken at 6 weeks in both groups for analysis of levels of
           cannabidiol (CBD) as well as delta-9-tetrahydrocannbinol (THC) - around 4 ml of blood
           for determination of both levels at time(s) after ingestion: 0, 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24 hours.

       11. At the end of the study (after 12 weeks) again repeat:

             1. CBC and differential counts, blood electrolytes, magnesium, calcium, phosphorus,
                urea & creatinine, liver enzymes (AST, ALT, gGT)

             2. ECG

             3. Motor assessments by a physiotherapist (Ashworth/Bohannon, GMFM 88, dynamometer)

             4. Pharmacokinetics: 4 ml of blood for determination of phamacokinetics after
                ingestion of the last dose (as in point 10 above)

       12. Evaluation of the questionnaires

      NOTE: if severe side/adverse effects are noted, the test compound should be stopped
      immediately. If mild/moderate side/adverse effects are noted, the test component should be
      gradually stopped: for 0,08 mg/kg BWt/day, every 3 days.
    
  