
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the 3-year event free survival, defined as the proportion of patients without
      invasive or metastatic recurrence following definitive gemcitabine hydrochloride
      (gemcitabine) and cisplatin (standard or dose-dense) chemotherapy in those patients whose
      pre-treatment transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) tumors harbor deleterious DDR
      gene alterations and who achieve < cT1 response to chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the clinical response rate (< cT1) for patients harboring deleterious DDR
      gene alterations following dose dense gemcitabine and cisplatin.

      II. To determine the bladder-intact and overall survival for DDR-altered patients with < cT1.

      III. For DDR gene altered patients who elect radical cystectomy despite < cT1, to determine
      the pT0 rate in this patient population.

      IV. To determine the pathologic response rate at cystectomy and 3-year recurrence-free and
      overall survival for patients without DDR mutations who are registered onto this trial.

      V. To assess the local treatment burden (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin [BCG] therapy, resection of
      non-invasive disease, checkpoint blockade) over time in the bladder-sparing group.

      VI. To determine the bladder-intact disease-free survival in patients who elect to undergo
      chemoradiation therapy in the DDR mutant group and the DDR wild-type group.

      OUTLINE:

      Participants receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1,
      cisplatin IV on days 1 and 2, and pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 3. Treatment
      repeats every 14 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted
      toxicity. Participants are then assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Participants with DDR gene alteration and disease stage < cT1 undergo bladder sparing.

      ARM II: Participants with DDR gene alteration and disease stage >= cT1 or participants
      without DDR gene alteration undergo radical cystectomy or chemoradiotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up for 5 years.
    
  