
    
      Introduction:

      Transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate biopsy (TUGP) is currently the gold standard method
      used for early cancer diagnosis of this gland, when associated with PSA plasma measurement.
      Although well tolerated by many patients, about 65-90% of men undergoing BPTU complain of
      discomfort, associated or not to pain. For better tolerance, various methods of analgesia and
      / or sedation have been proposed, such as nerve block periprostatic ( or intraprostatic,
      topical anesthesia with lidocaine or EMLA at the puncture site , general anesthesia with
      propofol and remifentanil and other invasive techniques.

      Inhalation of N2O-O2 50-50% by self-demand valve proposed in this study can be a good
      alternative to invasive methods to be a safe technique, cost-effective, which promotes
      analgesia on demand, in order to increase the tolerance painful procedures as TUGP,
      regardless of the presence of anesthesiologists.

      Nitrous oxide (N2O) can be self administered for analgesia in various procedures such as drug
      joint intra injections, vascular access puncture, flexible sigmoidoscopy and colonoscopy,
      ophthalmic procedures and prostate biopsy. In Europe it is used in emergencies in the care
      and transport accidents in ambulances.

      The objective is to evaluate the efficiency of inhalation of N2O-O2 50-50% by self-demand
      valve, comparing it to a placebo group. In addition, investigators evaluated side events such
      as the adverse effects of administration of nitrous oxide to discuss their security
      procedures without the presence of anesthesiologist.

      Materials and methods:

      The trial will be done at Antonio Pedro University Hospital, Niterói, RJ - Brazil. Currently,
      the procedure is performed in the hospital outpatient clinics, without anesthesia.

      Included patients are those undergoing transrectal prostate biopsy guided by ultrasound.
      Patients with failure to report the severity of the pain or unable to inhale through the
      device or Patients diagnosed with pulmonary hypertension, severe lung disease, or cardiac
      failure NYHA 3 and 4 will be excluded from the study The free and informed consent will be
      presented and signed by each volunteer participant, and the benefits of research clarified.
      84 patients undergoing TUGP an outpatient will be randomized into two groups of 42. The
      conventional group (C) will receive local anesthesia at the puncture site plus inhalation of
      100% oxygen a face mask (standard technique used routinely in our Hospital for this
      procedure). The NO group receive local anesthesia at the puncture site plus inhalation N2O-O2
      mixture by self-demand valve An anesthesiologist will monitor the examinations respecting the
      resolution of the Federal Council of Medicine No. 1.802 / 2006, without being able to
      intervene in analgesia proposed by randomization. A visual analogy scale (VAS) pain 0-10 and
      a satisfaction form will be presented to the patient before the procedure and answered after
      it. The group will receive the mixture of N2O, O2 will be evaluated for the incidence of
      nausea, vomiting, dizziness, hemodynamic changes, fit of laughter and sleepiness during the
      examination.
    
  