
    
      Lichen planus affects up to 1% of the worldwide population. Recent estimates suggest
      approximately 0.44% of the US population suffers from this disease. Oral or genital
      involvement occurs in 60-70% of patients, and it may be the sole manifestation of disease in
      20-30% of patients.

      Lichen planus is a mucocutaneous disorder that can involve the skin, oral or genital mucosa,
      conjunctiva, and nails. On the skin, the disease presents as multiple papules, which can be
      localized or generalized, that are often extremely itchy. Mucosal disease can consist of
      either asymptomatic plaques or extremely painful erosive lesions. The disease course is
      unpredictable and typically lasts 1-2 years but can follow a chronic, relapsing course.
      Erosive mucosal disease is important to aggressively treat for many reasons: First, the
      associated pain can be debilitating for the patient. Patients with severe oral lichen planus
      can become malnourished due to pain associated with eating. Vulvar disease can cause
      dyspareunia, burning pain, and discharge; second, the disease tends to be chronic, with
      little chance for self-resolution; third, erosive disease is associated with an increased
      risk of squamous cell carcinoma in the affected areas. These cancers occur in up to 1% of
      patients over a 3-year period, and they can be aggressive and even-life threatening for the
      patient if not recognized and treated early.

      Several lines of evidence suggest that TNF-alpha plays a role in the pathogenesis of lichen
      planus. It has been shown that there are increased levels of TNF-alpha in the serum of these
      patients. In addition, skin and mucosal biopsies show increased TNF-alpha produced by the
      infiltrating lymphocytes as well as the basal keratinocytes. It has been suggested that the
      expression of TNF-alpha receptor on the basal keratinocytes may contribute to apoptosis.
      Also, TNFR1 (a TNF-alpha receptor) is expressed by the infiltrating mononuclear cells as well
      as the keratinocytes. Increased levels of soluble TNF receptors are also found in the serum
      of patients with lichen planus. A recent report also has shown that polymorphisms in the
      TNF-alpha gene are associated with both oral and cutaneous lichen planus. Finally,
      thalidomide, which partly functions as a potent inhibitor of TNF-alpha transcription, has
      been shown to be effective (in small case series and reports) in selected patients for the
      treatment of oral and genital lichen planus. However, thalidomide is a potent teratogen and
      cannot be used in women of childbearing potential. In addition, thalidomide usage not
      uncommonly results in neurotoxicity, which can be permanent, and thus limits use of this
      drug. Despite the evidence for a role of TNF-alpha in LP there are no reports of any TNF
      inhibitors being used for this disease.

      This is a double-blind, placebo-controlled pilot study to observe the safety and efficacy of
      etanercept in patients with lichen planus.

      This study will consist of 3 periods: first, a double-blind period (weeks 0-12) in which
      subjects will be randomized to etanercept 50 mg twice weekly or placebo; second, an
      open-label period (weeks 12-24) in which subjects who were randomized to placebo treatment,
      who have not achieved a complete remission, will be rolled over to use etanercept at 50 mg
      twice weekly. Subjects who previously received etanercept during weeks 0-12, who have not
      achieved a complete remission, will be continued on etanercept at a lower dosage of 25 mg
      twice weekly for weeks 12-24; third, an 8 week follow-up period for all subjects.
    
  