
    
      Current cancer therapies often produce an initial reduction in tumour size but may not have
      longterm benefits. One possible explanation for this is the presence of cancer cells known as
      cancer stem cells. Cancer stem cells represent a small part of the tumour but are believed to
      be responsible for much of the growth and spread of the cancer. They may also be more
      resistant to traditional therapy, such as chemotherapy and radiation therapy.

      Up to 50 subjects will be enrolled at up to 8 centers in Australia, New Zealand, and Spain.
      Up to 28 days (4 weeks) prior to treatment you will undergo testing to determine your
      eligibility to take part in this study, and then if enrolled in the study you will receive
      intravenous (in the vein) infusions of the demcizumab, carboplatin, and pemetrexed
      administered on the same day, every 21 days for 4 cycles, or until it has been shown that
      your cancer has progressed. If your physician decides to delay treatment with one of the
      agents due to side effects, the other agents may still be administered as scheduled. After 4
      cycles, if you have stable or improved disease, you will continue to receive pemetrexed once
      every 21 days as maintenance therapy. You will undergo assessments every 8 weeks to determine
      the status of your disease.

      In addition to routine testing of blood and urine (for complete blood counts with
      differential and platelets, coagulation studies to determine how quickly your blood is
      clotting; serum chemistries; B-type natriuretic peptide [BNP] and Troponin I, which indicate
      how well your heart if working; creatinine clearance to measure your kidney function and
      urinalysis), special tests will be performed during the study at specific time points.

      In addition, you will have an ECG and doppler echocardiogram performed during screening, then
      every 28 days on study and at treatment termination. Your Doppler echocardiograms may be sent
      to a Cardiologist at another hospital who may perform a central read on some of the doppler
      echocardiograms in this study. Finally, you will have a head CT or MRI at baseline and CT
      scans and/or other radiographs performed every 56 days to assess the status of your tumor.

      The study includes an optional part which will investigate how variations in people's genetic
      makeup affect their response to medications. This involves the collection of one blood sample
      just before participants receive their first dose of study treatment. DNA will be extracted
      from the blood sample for testing.
    
  