
    
      Patient Blood Management (PBM) is an evidence based multidisciplinary approach for the care
      of patients who may need blood transfusion. The aim of PBM is achieving better patient
      outcomes by focusing on the patients' own blood as a source.

      To date PBM is considered "good transfusion practice" and is being implemented in a growing
      number of countries. The Turkish Society of Anesthesiologists PBM Task Force is working on
      this subject since 4 years and decided to conduct a study. Before starting a PBM program, the
      transfusion practices of clinicians working at diverse surgical fields; differences between
      current transfusion practices and PBM strategies; the areas for improvement and the obstacles
      that could prevent change could be identified with this study. Data collection will also
      serve to identify the current situation as a reference and to control the achievement of the
      PBM's aim: improving clinical outcomes. These data will be refered as The Turkish National
      Perioperative Transfusion Study (TULIP TS) data.

      The aim of this study is to describe the transfusion practices in patients undergoing major
      surgery in Turkey.

      The study evaluates i. The perioperative transfusion rates of RBCs, FFP and platelets. ii.
      With which reasons the anesthesiologists decide to transfuse a patient (co morbidities of the
      patients, physiologic transfusion triggers, hemoglobin trigger, uncontrolled bleeding, on
      request from surgeon etc.).

      iii. The relation of transfusion and the patients co-morbidity index, the P POSSUM score and
      SORT score; anesthesia methods; monitorisation methods (hemodynamic, coagulation); amount of
      bleeding; type of surgery; type of hospital.

      iv. The relation of transfusion and patient outcomes (unanticipated ICU admission, prolonged
      ICU stay, acute renal failure, thromboembolic events, ischemic events, pulmonary
      complications, cardiac advers events, infections, acute respiratory distress, infection,
      all-cause mortality).
    
  