
    
      Pre-diabetes, characterized by glucose levels that are above normal but below the diagnostic
      criteria for diabetes, is an increasingly common condition affecting approximately 54 million
      U.S. adults. African Americans are disproportionately affected by pre-diabetes and experience
      high rates of diabetes-associated morbidity and mortality including damage to the circulatory
      system, kidneys, and nervous system. Patients with pre-diabetes who increase their physical
      activity and improve their diets have reduced risk of developing diabetes. Psychological
      distress negatively influences the course of the disease by increasing deleterious health
      behaviors; preventing scheduling and maintenance of positive behavior change; and stimulating
      HPA-axis activation and dysregulation, which may have a direct impact on insulin resistance
      and glucose metabolism. African Americans may have increased exposure to stress and increased
      vulnerability to adverse stress-related health outcomes like diabetes, because of their
      unique history, sociocultural experiences, and societal position in the U.S. Helping
      individuals to reduce stress and to increase healthy coping strategies may enhance
      conventional diabetes prevention efforts, especially among African Americans.

      Mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR), a mind-body practice with a wide range of health
      benefits, has been shown to result in statistically significant reductions in psychological
      stress and anxiety in randomized, controlled studies. Mindfulness training is cost-effective
      in comparison with other small-group or individualized programs, and can be taught safely and
      effectively by well-trained instructors. There is little research, and no randomized,
      controlled trials of MBSR as a treatment for individuals with pre-diabetes. There is also
      little research on the acceptability of MBSR program to a prediabetic subgroup of African
      Americans, or on the acceptability of an MBSR program for a general population of African
      Americans.

      Overall goals of this exploratory pilot study are to study the potential efficacy of a
      diabetes prevention education program that includes training in mindfulness-based stress
      reduction for pre-diabetic African Americans. Specific Aims are 1) to determine the
      feasibility of developing a clinical trial to compare the effectiveness of a
      mindfulness-based diabetes prevention program (treatment group) with a conventional diabetes
      prevention program (control group) in improving glucose metabolism in pre-diabetic African
      American adults; 2) to identify relevant physiological and psychological secondary outcomes
      associated with a mindfulness-based, educational self-care program in African-Americans with
      pre-diabetes; 3) to assess the acceptability and cultural relevance of MBSR for pre-diabetic
      African Americans via a post-intervention qualitative study, to include interviews of
      participants, dropouts, and instructors; and 4) to identify, and find solutions for, problems
      in conducting a well-powered clinical trial to assess the efficacy of a mindfulness-based
      diabetes prevention program in improving glucose metabolism in pre-diabetic
      African-Americans.
    
  