
    
      Background:

      In 2016, it is estimated that there will be 76,960 new cases of bladder cancer and 16,390
      deaths associated with bladder cancer. Bladder cancer is associated with the highest costs
      among all types of cancer, due to the need for lifelong routine monitoring and treatment.
      Approximately 70% of cases are non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) at presentation and
      are treated by transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) followed by intravesical
      treatment with BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guerin) or mitomycin C. However, in the setting of high
      grade disease, these therapies can become ineffective over time in up to two-thirds of
      patients and disease progression to muscle invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) can occur. In
      patients who present with CIS (carcinoma in situ) rates of progression are greater than 50%.
      Progression to MIBC portends a poor outcome as only 50% of patients will survive five years
      despite undergoing radical cystectomy. Clearly, there is a large unmet need in therapeutic
      options for NMIBC that recurs or progresses.

      Vicinium is a recombinant fusion protein, VB4-845, that contains a humanized single-chain
      antibody fragment specific for the epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM) antigen linked
      to ETA (252-608), a truncated form of Pseudomonas exotoxin A (ETA). EpCAM is overexpressed on
      the surface of urothelial carcinoma cells and therefore represents a good target for Vicinium
      to bind to. In a previous phase II study in BCG refractory or BCG intolerant patients with
      high grade bladder cancer, 16% of patients treated with induction and maintenance therapy
      with Vicinium remained disease-free at 1 year. As a result, Vicinium is currently being
      evaluated as a single agent in a phase III trial.

      Pre-clinical work with a drug called Proxinium, an earlier version of Vicinium, demonstrated
      an abscopal effect and synergy with the use of a checkpoint blockade inhibitor. Although it
      was done in a NSCLC model, the results were impressive in causing tumor shrinkage. Durvalumab
      is a human monoclonal antibody (MAb) that inhibits binding of programmed cell death ligand 1
      (PD-L1) (B7 homolog 1 [B7-H1], cluster of differentiation [CD]274) to programmed cell death 1
      (PD-1; CD279) and CD80 (B7-1). Durvalumab has been demonstrated to have activity against
      advanced metastatic urothelial bladder cancer whose tumor has progressed during or after one
      standard platinum-based regimen in a phase I trial.

      Therefore, this trial will take two agents with single agent activity against urothelial
      cancer and combine them in a Phase I trial for patients with high-grade NMIBC Previously
      Treated with BCG.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objectives:

      -To evaluate the safety and tolerability of durvalumab and Vicinium when administered in
      combination to subjects with BCG-refractory high-grade NMIBC

      Eligibility:

        -  Subjects must have a histologically-confirmed high-grade non-muscle invasive urothelial
           carcinoma (transitional cell carcinoma) of the bladder as follows:

             -  Carcinoma-in-situ (CIS) with or without papillary tumors

             -  High-grade Ta or T1 disease based on a biopsy/TURBT performed within 12 weeks of
                the initial dose of study treatment. If multiple bladder biopsies/TURBTs are
                required to confirm eligibility, the timing of the last bladder biopsy to the
                initial dose of study treatment must be within 12 weeks.

        -  Subjects with BCG unresponsive disease as defined by the Society of Urologic Oncology
           and the FDA: Subjects must have received at least two courses of intravesical BCG (at
           least 5 of 6 induction doses of BCG and at least 2 of 3 maintenance doses of BCG under a
           maintenance regimen or at least 2 doses of a repeat induction course). See exception
           below for persistent T1 disease below. There is no upper limit on the amount of prior
           BCG a subject may have received.

        -  Patients with persistent T1 high grade disease on TURBT following a single induction
           course of BCG (at least 5 of 6 doses) may also be eligible for this trial provided that
           the patient is surgically unfit for cystectomy as deemed by the investigator or the
           patient declines cystectomy

      Design:

      This is a Phase I, open-label study of the combination of durvalumab and Vicinium in subjects
      with high-grade NMIBC previously treated with BCG.

        -  All subjects will receive Vicinium intravesically and durvalumab systemically at the
           standard doses for both drugs as determined by Phase II trials for each drug, as no
           synergy or additive effect is expected for adverse events.

        -  Vicinium is administered in a 12-week Induction Phase followed by a Maintenance Phase
           for at least one year with an option for a total of up to 2 years of treatment. During
           the Induction Phase, Vicinium is administered once weekly for 12 weeks. During the
           Maintenance Phase, Vicinium is administered every other week. The dose of Vicinium is 30
           mg in 50 mL of saline.

        -  Durvalumab 1500 mg is administered intravenously (IV) once every 4 weeks for 12 months
           with an option to continue therapy for an additional 12 months (total of 24 months)
           provided that patient is tolerating therapy and remains free of recurrent high grade
           NMIBC (see Treatment Period below). The dose of durvalumab is 1500 mg. If optional
           maintenance therapy continued in the second year, durvalumab 1500 mg will be
           administered intravenously once every 3 months to provide an immune boost.

        -  Vicinium will be given as monotherapy for 1 week followed by treatment with the
           combination of Vicinium and durvalumab starting week 2.

        -  In the initial six patients, three subjects at a time will enroll at these doses and
           schedules. Dose-liming toxicity (DLT) for each subject will be determined during the
           initial 6-week period that the subject is on treatment (i.e., the DLT period). When all
           subjects in the initial cohort have been on treatment through the DLT period, all
           available safety data will be considered in decisions to enroll additional subjects at
           this dose level, or to de-escalate the dose(s) of study drug(s), based on a standard 3 +
           3 design. There will be no dose escalations in this study. The dose of durvalumab will
           remain at 1500 mg every 4 weeks, and the dose of each intravesical Vicinium treatment
           can be reduced to 20 mg if the initial doses in combination induce DLTs.

        -  After the first six patients, an additional 18 subjects will be enrolled at the initial
           doses or at the reduced doses (if DLTs resulted in the first 6 patients) in order to
           obtain additional safety data, biomarker data and preliminary anti-tumor activity.

      Each subject s course will consist of the following periods:

        -  Screening/Baseline Period: The subject is consented and undergoes screening assessments
           to determine eligibility for the study.

        -  Treatment Period: The subject is treated and monitored for safety. Biomarker data will
           be obtained prior to treatment and at periodic intervals during treatment. Subjects who
           remain free of high-grade NMIBC after 12 months of study treatment may continue to
           receive treatment for an additional 12 months until they develop recurrent high-grade
           disease, disease progression, or intolerable toxicity, or meet another withdrawal
           criterion (e.g., consent withdrawal, pregnancy).

        -  Post-Treatment. The subject will return to the study site montly for up to 90 days after
           the last dose of immunotherapy for end-of-treatment assessments. Subjects with ongoing
           clinically significant related AEs or SAEs will have additional follow-up after the
           initial post-treatment visit.
    
  