
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the efficacy and identify (in)active arm(s) of the combination of cediranib
      maleate (cediranib) and olaparib, cediranib alone, olaparib alone, and physician's choice
      standard of care chemotherapy, as measured by progression-free survival (PFS) in the setting
      of recurrent platinum-resistant or-refractory ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube
      cancer. (Phase II) II. To assess the efficacy of the combination of cediranib and olaparib,
      and cediranib monotherapy, as measured by overall survival (OS) and PFS, as compared to
      physician's choice standard of care chemotherapy in women with recurrent platinum-resistant
      or-refractory ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the efficacy of the combination of cediranib and olaparib, cediranib alone,
      olaparib alone, and physician's choice standard of care chemotherapy, as measured by
      objective response rate (ORR: partial or complete response) by Response Evaluation Criteria
      in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria, in the setting of recurrent platinum-resistant
      or-refractory ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer. (Phase II) II. To assess
      safety endpoints, as measured by frequency and severity of adverse events by Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). (Phase II and Phase III) III. To assess the
      efficacy of the combination of cediranib and olaparib, and cediranib monotherapy, as measured
      by ORR as compared to physician's choice standard of care chemotherapy in the setting of
      recurrent platinum-resistant or-refractory ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube
      cancer. (Phase III)

      OBJECTIVES WITH INTEGRATED BIOMARKERS:

      I. To assess correlation of homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) status, as assessed via
      BROCA-HR assay with response, as measured by PFS and ORR. (Phase II) II. To evaluate the
      prognostic and predictive role of circulating endothelial cells (CEC) on comparative
      effectiveness of targeted therapies and reference chemotherapy. (Phase II) III. To evaluate
      quality of life data compliance, as measured by the 9-item Disease Related Symptoms (DRS-9)
      subscale of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)-Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy (FACT) Ovarian Symptom Index (NFOSI) for utilization and analysis in the Phase III
      study. (Phase II) IV. To assess correlation of HRD status, as assessed via BROCA-HR assay
      with response, as measured by OS, PFS and ORR. (Phase III) V. To evaluate the prognostic and
      predictive role of circulating endothelial cells (CEC) on comparative effectiveness of
      targeted therapies and reference chemotherapy. (Phase III) VI. To assess the effect on
      disease-related symptoms (DRS) as measured by the 9-item DRS-P subscale of the NCCN-FACT
      Ovarian Symptom Index-18 (NFOSI-18), of single agent cediranib and cediranib/olaparib
      combination, compared to standard chemotherapy, in the setting of recurrent
      platinum-resistant or-refractory ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer. (Phase
      III)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess exploratory biomarkers of potential HRD, including genomic scarring, BRCA1
      methylation, BRCA1 protein expression, and mutations in NHEJ, and other genes that might
      modify HRD. (Phase II and Phase III) II. To evaluate the prognostic and predictive role of
      angiogenic biomarkers, as assessed by the Duke plasma angiome. (Phase II and Phase III) III.
      To assess the effect on secondary measures of quality of life, as assessed by the treatment
      side effects (TSE) and function/well-being (F/WB) subscales of the NFOSI-18, sensory
      neuropathy as measured by the FACT/GOG-Ntx-4, and health utility as measured by the EQ-5D, of
      single agent cediranib and cediranib/olaparib combination, compared to standard chemotherapy,
      in the setting of recurrent platinum-resistant or-refractory ovarian, primary peritoneal or
      fallopian tube cancer. (Phase III)

      OUTLINE:

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

      ARM I (REFERENCE REGIMEN): Patients undergo physician's choice of standard of care
      chemotherapy, comprising either paclitaxel intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 every
      28 days (Regimen I); pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1 every 28 days
      (Regimen II); or topotecan hydrochloride IV on days 1, 8, and 15 every 28 days or days 1-5
      every 21 days (Regimen III). Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. No modification of the assigned regimens, such as additional drugs
      (gemcitabine, or bevacizumab) is allowed. (12/05/2016)

      ARM II (CEDIRANIB MALEATE AND OLAPARIB): Patients receive cediranib maleate orally (PO) once
      daily (QD) and olaparib PO twice daily (BID). Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III (CEDIRANIB): Patients receive cediranib maleate PO daily continuously. Cycles repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM IV (OLAPARIB): Patients receive olaparib PO BID on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (In July 2018, the Data
      Monitoring Committee voted to exclude the olaparib alone regimen).

      PHASE III: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I (REFERENCE REGIMEN): Patients undergo physician's choice standard of care chemotherapy
      as in Phase II Arm I. No modification of the assigned regimens, such as additional drugs
      (gemcitabine or bevacizumab) is allowed. (12/05/2016)

      ARM II (CEDIRANIB AND OLAPARIB): Patients receive cediranib maleate PO and olaparib PO as in
      Phase II Arm II.

      ARM III (SINGLE AGENT): Patients receive cediranib maleate PO as determined by the Phase II
      study. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for up to 3 years.
    
  