
    
      Many medical care facilities in the United States employ therapy dogs in Animal Assisted
      Interventions (AAI), which can be categorized as either Animal Assisted Activities (AAA) or
      Animal Assisted Therapy (AAT). AAA programs are more casual and are typically not
      goal-oriented, instead tending to focus on human-animal engagement. AAT programs are formal
      interventions targeting specific therapeutic goals using defined therapy sessions with a
      physical, psychological, occupational, or speech therapist. AAT programs with Physical
      Therapists focus on patients with motor deficits, such as those hospitalized due to stroke
      (14.5-16.1% lifetime incidence), Parkinson's (1.3-2% lifetime incidence), or other
      neurological injuries/disorders.

      In the last decade, the popularity of AAT programs in hospitals has significantly increased,
      and there has been tremendous growth in the number of studies assessing whether the use of
      canine AAA or AAT have positive medical impacts on patients. Currently, the majority of
      studies focus on AAA programs, possibly because AAT programs require formally trained
      therapists and animals, program consistency, and strict program structure. Unfortunately,
      while most studies suggest that use of AAT can improve patient outcomes, many are poorly
      designed, poorly described, and few include randomized, controlled trials (RCT). The few
      existing RCT AAT studies focus on depression, schizophrenia, or other psychiatric disorders
      and suggest improvements in depression, anxiety, self-esteem, social outcomes, and
      enjoyment/pleasure. No RCT studies have looked at AAT in a physical therapy setting. However,
      non-controlled, non-randomized studies suggest that AAT as part of physical therapy may
      improve patient physical outcomes (such as walking speed, number of steps, gait, etc.),
      possibly by impacting patient motivation and participation in physical therapy activities.

      The Aurora Sinai Medical Center (ASMC) currently utilizes both AAA and AAT programs. Most
      patients involved in the AAT program at ASMC are undergoing intensive inpatient physical
      therapy due to stroke, Parkinson's disease, or other diseases causing generalized weakness
      deconditioning, and these inpatients receive daily physical therapy with the occasional
      opportunity to include AAT in their therapy sessions. Previous studies suggest that patient
      interactions with therapy dogs are intrinsically rewarding, suggesting that use of an AAT
      program may increase patient motivation to participate and thus improve physical indices.
      However, this has yet to be objectively analyzed.

      Hypothesis: Canine AAT in inpatient physical therapy improves physical activity function
      through enhanced levels of participation in physical therapy sessions.

      Specific Aim 1: To evaluate whether patient participation increases during physical therapy
      using canine AAT. Physical activity function is impacted by a patient's level of
      participation, which is influenced by multiple sub-factors. Participation can be measured in
      multiple ways, including subjectively by the patient, subjectively by an observer (the
      physical therapist), or objectively through activity outputs. The level of participation may
      or may not correlate with the patient's self-perceived motivation.

      Specific Aim 2. To determine whether use of canine AAT increases patient enjoyment and
      motivation in physical therapy. Many people perceive interactions with animals as
      intrinsically motivating and enjoyable. Consistent with this, canine AAT can improve patient
      motivation to participate in physical therapy. However, neither enjoyment nor motivation have
      been studied in physical therapy rehabilitation inpatients, nor have they been tested in RCT
      settings.

      Specific Aim 3: To assess whether patient perceptions of care improve with use of canine AAT
      in physical therapy. Because the presence of a therapy canine may improve mood, motivation,
      and/or patient/caregiver communications, we hypothesize that use of canine AAT in inpatient
      physical therapy will improve patient perceptions of their caregivers, their care, and the
      hospital.

      Innovation and Impact While AAT programs are currently used throughout the United States in
      inpatient rehabilitation programs, it is unknown whether and how these programs impact
      patient physical activity functions. This study will elucidate whether these programs provide
      benefits to patients or medical institutions, thereby providing medical providers with the
      data necessary to choose the most effective and impactful care for their patients.
    
  