
    
      End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) is a potential outcome of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) that
      requires renal replacement therapy in the form of dialysis or transplantation. The prevalence
      rate of people undergoing dialysis is 296 of 1 Million. 90% of them receiving haemodialysis
      (HD). For haemodialytic therapy, patients need to receive dialyses 2-3 times a week in an
      outpatient hospital facility or a clinic lifelong or until kidney transplantation. A dialyses
      session last between 3 and 4 hours.

      Nowadays, the beneficial effects of exercise in people undergoing haemodialysis (PHD) are
      well accepted and there is evidence that they profit from an exercise program.

      Despite the encouraging benefits seen in PHD who exercised, they may be confronted with more
      barriers to start and maintain an exercise program than healthy persons, e.g. due to reduced
      accessibility of specialised physiotherapists. Telerehabilitation (TR), a subfield of
      telemedicine, may help to overcome some of the barriers to exercise regularly and connect PHD
      with specialised physiotherapists. TR is defined as the provision of rehabilitation services
      from a distance using telecommunication technologies as the delivery medium. This approach
      may optimize the timing, intensity and sequencing of interventions and provide opportunities
      for individuals to receive rehabilitation in their own social and professional environments
      from disease-specialised caregivers. An additional advantage of TR is the possibility to
      implement different persuasive technologies such as personalisation, self-monitoring,
      tailoring, goal setting, comparison and conditioning through positive and negative
      reinforcement in the development of exercise programmes. These technologies help to make
      exercise programmes more enjoyable and, therefore, enhance patients' motivation to exercise
      regularly.

      Furthermore, the importance of individual and social support has been emphasized in several
      reviews evaluating health behaviour change for example becoming more active. This kind of
      support can be integrated in the design of a TR program.

      To the best of our knowledge, there exist no TR programme especially designed for PHD.
      Therefore, the aim of this study is to evaluate feasibility of a tablet-based exercise
      program, called "Dividat Fit" for PHD.

      The study intervention is an interactive tablet-based home exercise program. The program is
      called "Dividat Fit" and works interactive, meaning that the responsible specialised
      Physiotherapist (PT) supervises the training progression of her/his patient weekly and if
      necessary assists the patient via remote or through a visit at home.

      During the first face-to-face session, the PT examines the patient, sets up an individually
      tailored physical exercise (PE) program with four to six exercises and practises these
      exercises with the patient. Before the patient will start with the 12-week home program,
      she/he receives a tablet-computer on which the physical exercises are programmed as well as
      an instruction how to use "Dividat Fit". During the whole training program, the PT
      tele-monitors each patient by checking the training diary weekly and providing written
      feedback to the exercises and the comments, if applicable. If needed, the PT contacts the
      participants (per phone).

      10-15 participants will be recruited. For feasibility studies, a sample size calculation is
      not possible. There are different rules of thumb for the sample size of feasibility studies.
      One general rule of thumbs recommends 12 participants for a feasibility study. Another
      recommendation is based on the estimated effect size: they recommend 15 or 10 patients for
      standardized effect sizes that are medium (0.5) or large (0.8), respectively.
    
  