
    
      The overall objective of this project is to compare three home-managed treatment regimens for
      subacute low back pain: Progressive Exercise Plan (PEP), NMES (neuromuscular electrical
      stimulation) core strength training and standard primary care management (PCM). The central
      hypothesis is that the NMES with PCM core strength training and PEP with PCM will show
      significantly greater improvements in muscle strength, pain, mobility/function, daily
      activity and quality of life (QOL) than PCM alone in military members with low back pain
      lasting three to eighteen weeks. The rationale for this study is that increasing torso muscle
      strength and decreasing pain through strength training exercises will significantly improve
      mobility, physical activity, QOL and reduce disability. Such outcomes could ultimately result
      in improved deployability, retention of military personnel and decreased economic costs in
      this population. The specific aims will be to determine whether the two treatment régimes are
      significantly more efficacious than standard PCM alone in improving lower back muscle
      strength, daily physical activity, physical function, quality of life, and symptoms
      associated with subacute LBP. After consent and baseline testing, active duty male and female
      subjects, ages 18 to <45, (n=135) with LBP will be randomly assigned to one of the three
      groups. Each of the two treatment arms will be supplemented by PCM and compared to a group
      receiving standard PCM alone. All groups will receive nine weeks of home therapy. Using
      longitudinal mixed regression models, differences in time trends for the outcome variables
      among controls and those in the treatment groups will be examined. In these regression
      analyses, the important primary measures will be expressed as a function of time, treatment
      group, and group-by-time interactions, while controlling for important covariates. Positive
      results could translate into accelerated rehabilitation, decreased symptoms and lower medical
      costs with better patient outcomes.
    
  