
    
      Despite spending $12 billion annually on the emergency evaluation of chest pain in the US,
      only 15% of admitted patients have a cardiac cause of their presenting symptoms. Clinical
      decision units (CDUs) improve resource utilization and are a recommended care option by the
      American College of Cardiology / American Heart Association, but are underutilized in non-low
      risk chest pain patients due to weaknesses of traditional cardiac testing. Cardiac magnetic
      resonance imaging (CMR) is sensitive and specific for ischemia, can simultaneously assess
      cardiac function and myocardial perfusion, and could revolutionize the diagnostic process for
      intermediate risk patients with chest pain. The superior accuracy of CMR could decrease
      testing and invasive procedures. The high sensitivity for ongoing ischemia could allow
      imaging in parallel with cardiac markers. As a result, CMR could improve the care of
      emergency department (ED) patients with intermediate risk chest pain. However, the efficiency
      and safety of CMR has not been extensively tested in the CDU setting.

      Primary Hypothesis: A CDU-CMR strategy will reduce the occurrence of the composite of
      revascularization, re-hospitalization, and recurrent cardiac testing at 90 days when compared
      to an inpatient care strategy.

      Methods: Participants (n=146) at intermediate risk for acute coronary syndrome (ACS) will be
      recruited into a clinical trial from Wake Forest University Baptist Medical Center (WFUBMC)
      ED. Participants will be equally randomized to CDU-CMR or inpatient care. CDU-CMR
      participants will undergo resting and stress CMR imaging in parallel with serial cardiac
      markers. Inpatient care participants will undergo serial cardiac markers followed by existing
      cardiac testing as determined by their care providers. The primary outcome is the composite
      of 90 day revascularization, re-hospitalization, and recurrent cardiac testing. The secondary
      outcome is index hospitalization length of stay. Safety events include ACS after discharge,
      mortality, and stress testing-related adverse events.
    
  