
    
      Only about 60% of patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) are cured with standard
      chemo- and immunotherapy, with R-CHOP(Rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride,
      oncovin, prednisone).

      Early and more accurate identification of patients with unfavorable prognosis after R-CHOP
      will enable the clinician to find patients who need other treatment strategies. New
      predictive biomarkers are needed to predict the effect of treatment at the individual level.

      A proportion of patients have, or develop, lymphoma involvement of the central nervous system
      (CNS) and this group has a particularly dismal outcome. Identification of patients with
      primary subclinical or later manifest involvement of the CNS also requires new and improved
      diagnostic methods. Currently, a number of clinical parameters are included in a CNS-IPI risk
      score, that can be used to predict the risk of CNS disease. This score enables the clinicians
      to decide if patients should have prophylactic chemotherapy to prevent development of CNS
      disease. However, this risk model is far from accurate and the effect of prophylactic
      treatment is based on a low level of evidence.

      DLBCL is a highly heterogeneous disease as evidenced by the 19 subtypes and variants of large
      B-cell lymphoma diagnoses found in the WHO classification of tumors of hematopoietic and
      lymphoid tissues. However, the cancer within each patient is also characterized by
      heterogeneity. The fact that different lymphoma cells may co-exist in the same tumor has been
      known for decades. One example of this is transformation of indolent lymphoma to a more
      aggressive lymphoma subtype, often DLBCL where the two types of lymphoma cells are found in
      the same lymph node. Differences between the cancer cells in the same tumor is termed
      intratumor heterogeneity. Such differences may be found within the same tumor as well as at
      spatially separate locations(inter-tumor heterogeneity). Intratumor heterogeneity may have an
      important impact on the clinical course and response to therapy. In clinical practice, the
      prognosis in patients with similar clinical stage and International Prognostic Index (IPI)
      score is often diverse. Such differences may be attributed to both intra and inter-tumor
      heterogeneity. Molecular profiling (mutations) in different nodal and extra nodal sites
      within the same patient have not before been studied in larger cohorts of DLBCL patients
      (Inter-tumor heterogeneity).

      Monitoring circulating cell-free tumor DNA (ctDNA) has the potential to serve as a
      non-invasive tool for measuring the entire spectrum of genetic aberrations found in an
      individual patient as an alternative to more invasive diagnostic procedures.

      Clinical presentation of DLBCL:

      DLBCL is the most common type of lymphoma, and accounts for approximately 40% of non-Hodgkin
      lymphomas in adults in Denmark (500 new cases per year). DLBCL can arise de novo or from the
      histologic transformation of more indolent lymphomas, most commonly follicular lymphoma (FL)
      and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). DLBCL primarily affects elderly patients with a
      median age at diagnosis of nearly 70 years. Patients can present with both nodal and
      extra-nodal involvement. More than one extra-nodal involvement is a negative prognostic
      factor, and some sites are associated with higher risk of having or developing CNS
      involvement (e.g. testis, adrenal glands, uterus).

      DLBCL is characterized as a clinically heterogeneous disease with a variable outcome, however
      it is potentially curable. R-CHOP is the standard therapy for patients with DLBCL. The 5-year
      progression-free survival (PFS) is around 60%. However, more than 30% of patients treated
      with R-CHOP do not respond or relapse, with the majority of these patients succumbing to
      their disease. Despite risk models like the International Prognostic Index (IPI) and CNS-IPI,
      patients with a high risk of treatment failure, relapse or CNS involvement cannot be
      identified accurately by standard prognostic factors. Therefore, new prognostic factors and
      biomarkers are under investigation at diagnosis, to better identify those high-risk patients,
      who may benefit from an alternative therapeutic strategy.

      Project aims and perspectives:

      Our current understanding of the molecular mechanisms associated with DLBCL relapse is
      limited. It is presently unclear whether clonal heterogeneity in primary tumors plays a role
      in DLBCL relapse. Our study is based on the hypothesis that divergent subclones give rise to
      the relapse tumor in an early-divergent scenario. This scenario suggest that several
      divergent clones exist at diagnosis besides the one that gives rise to relapse. Thus,
      information regarding intratumor heterogeneity and clonal evolution of the disease may
      provide a better understanding of DLBCL and development of prognostic factors regarding
      identification of high risk DLBCL patients. If the tumor is heterogenic, as studies of ctDNA
      have indicated, it could potentially transform the clinical care paradigm. It could perhaps
      explain the diverse outcome in patients with similarly clinical presentation, or why some
      patients develop CNS involvement. Furthermore, knowledge of tumor heterogeneity could guide
      the clinician in treatment choice and protocol development and thereby improve outcome for
      the patients.

      If heterogeneity could be detected in ctDNA it could be made operational and the patients
      could avoid invasive biopsy procedures. The dynamic evolution of the tumor could perhaps also
      be monitored by ctDNA regarding tumor burden related to interim and end of treatment PET-CT
      and treatment intensity.

      Current genomic models in DLBCL are mainly based on single tumor biopsies. They find a wide
      spectrum of mutations between patients. The single tumor models may underestimate the
      possible heterogeneity between tumor sites in the individual patient. Furthermore,
      heterogeneity, data on mutational evolution and relationship with CNS involvement largely
      remains unknown. Our setup will make it possible to clarify heterogeneity within the
      individual patient and investigate the relation to prognosis and CNS involvement.

      Primary objective of the study:

      - To identify the pattern and variations of mutations in different lymphoma sites in
      individual patients

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To identify inter-tumor heterogeneity between nodal and extra nodal sites

        -  To identify the association between inter-tumor heterogeneity and risk of CNS
           involvement

        -  To identify clonal evolution and clonal relationship between primary tumor site and
           tumor at relapse

        -  To explore the role of "liquid biopsies" and ctDNA in monitoring inter-tumor
           heterogeneity

        -  To identify heterogeneity between nodal sites and bone-marrow biopsy.

        -  Inter-patient heterogeneity identified with our local clinical lymphoma panel can be
           used to subdivide patients according to the Wright classification

      Clinical trials:

      The project will consist of a retrospective study and an observational and clinical study.

      5.1 Retrospective study - cohort A - Specific markers in patients with DLBCL

      The first part of the retrospective study, cohort A, will be a study of different biopsies
      taken from the same patient. The biopsies from different nodal and/or extra nodal sites have
      either been taken at the same time or at different times in the treatment course. The time
      period is 2015-2019.

      The aim with cohort A is to explore the biopsy samples for various purposes:

        -  The biopsies taken at different times: give us the possibility to look at clonal
           evolution over time.

        -  The biopsies, taken at the same time, but from different sites: gives us the possibility
           to look at inter-tumor heterogeneity in one patient.

      The results from different sites from the same patient will be compared and used to subgroup
      the patient according to the Wright algorithm. All analyses will be performed on paraffin
      embedded biopsy material.

      Retrospective study - cohort B - Specific markers in patients with DLBCL and secondary CNS
      involvement

      In the retrospective study - cohort B, the investigators explore heterogeneity and clonal
      evolution between CNS lymphoma and nodal/extra-nodal sites using already collected biopsies.

      The investigators will look at patients with both systemic disease and involvement of the
      central nervous system.

      The time period is: 2010-2019

      The aim with cohort B is to explore the biopsy samples for various purposes:

        -  The biopsies, taken from different sites (CNS vs systemic) gives us the possibility to
           look at inter-tumor heterogeneity and possible clonal evolution.

        -  The biopsies taken at different times: give us the possibility to look at clonal
           evolution over time

      By comparing our results from the retrospective cohort A, the aim is to possibly define
      particularly important mutations that are only present within patients whose disease has
      spread to the central nervous system. Knowledge of mutations that may predispose to
      involvement of the CNS would be essential in identifying patients with this risk.

      The results from different sites from the same patient will be compared and used to subgroup
      the patient according to the Wright algorithm. All analyses will be performed on paraffin
      embedded biopsy material.

      Prospective study - cohort A and B - Heterogeneity within lymphoma patients

      The prospective study will include two different cohorts:

      A: DLBCL patients with lymphoma involvement of several nodal sites accessible for biopsy and
      bone-marrow.

      B: DLBCL patients with both nodal, extra-nodal sites accessible for biopsy and bone-marrow.

      The prospective study will include newly diagnosed patients with DLBCL. Patients will be
      included in either cohort A or B according to localization of the disease ascertained by
      PET-CT to clarify nodal vs extra-nodal involvement.

      Cohort A - patients with more than one nodal site: One additional biopsy for clinical
      evaluation will be performed from a different location than where the diagnostic biopsy was
      performed. These biopsies can explore the heterogeneity within the patient at nodal sites.

      Available bone-marrow biopsies will be analyzed as a separate site.

      Cohort B - patients with both nodal and extra-nodal sites: One biopsy for clinical evaluation
      will be performed from a different site than the diagnostic biopsy, resulting in one nodal
      and one extra-nodal biopsy. These biopsies will explore the heterogeneity between nodal and
      extra-nodal sites within the patient.

      Any available bone-marrow biopsies will be analyzed as a separate site.
    
  