
    
      Achieving local anesthesia in children is one of the critical aspects of pain management.

      A contemporary engaging form of distraction is represented by virtual reality devices.
      Virtual reality (VR) devices create a virtual environment of view and sound that allow
      patients to be immersed in an interactive, simulated world to distract them from pain. The VR
      devices have a wide viewing field and three-dimensional displays that project the images
      right in front of the user. They not only show potentially attractive audio-visual stimuli,
      but also exclude all other visual environmental stimuli that may affect the patient.

      The aim of this study is to determine the efficacy of a virtual reality (VR) device in
      reducing injection pain and anxiety associated with local anesthesia in pediatric dental
      patients.

      The device used in this study is Noon VR, FXGear, compatible with a mobile phone.

      The clinical trial is a randomized split-mouth assignment. Included patients are healthy
      positive children 8-12 years old requiring local anesthetic infiltration for conservative
      treatment of two primary maxillary molars bilaterally.

      Eligible patients undergo two single-visit treatments after measurement of dental fear prior
      to each according to the Dental Subscale of the Children's Fear Survey Schedule (CFSS-DS).
      Local anesthetic is delivered through buccal infiltration with conventional syringe, where as
      the virtual reality distraction is allocated to either first or second local anesthesia
      procedure. Primary outcome measure will be pain felt during injection, reported by patient on
      visual analogue scale. Secondary outcome measures: self-reported anxiety during injection on
      Facial Image Scale; pain-related behavior according to Faces, Legs, Activity, Cry,
      Consolability (FLACC) scale; heart-rate dynamics; patient preference to local anesthesia
      method - traditional infiltration or virtual reality device-assisted injection.
    
  