
    
      The multidrug resistance in Enterobacteriaceae is a recurring concern for the treatment of
      patients. Given their epidemic character, the bacteria that produce extended spectrum
      beta-lactamase (ESBLs) are subject to extensive and costly preventive measures. Gene location
      of the first described ESBL were plasmids which could transfer from one species to another
      often associated with resistance to aminoglycoside. Quinolone resistance was not
      transferable. In 1998, was discovered a Klebsiella pneumoniae carrying a qnr A plasmid gene
      encoding a protein protecting girases and topoisomerase IV against quinolones. Yet the levels
      of ciprofloxacin MIC achieved by strains harboring this gene without any other quinolones
      resistance mechanism associated, remain low. However, the ciprofloxacin MICs for Escherichia
      coli lacking any other quinolone resistance mechanism can go from 0.003 mg / L to 0.25 mg /
      L, depending on the type of qnr. Currently, three types of qnr genes have been described,
      encoding proteins having several variants (qnrA (n = 6), qnrB (n = 10) and qnrS (n = 2). The
      qnrA and qnrB genes are carried by plasmids of 54-180 kb. Gene environment on plasmid DNA is
      that of class 1 integron or Type sul1 called. However the sequenced plasmids carrying qnrS do
      not have integron-like structures. These genes are more common in the Enterobacteriaceae
      strains producing ESBL strains than in the others. The low prevalences observed up to date,
      are increasing in some studies. We have observed qnr in 9 of 138 (6.5%) strains isolated in
      Champagne-Ardenne in 2004, including 4 of 10 strains of Enterobacter cloacae. Furthermore it
      has been shown in vitro that the presence of qnrA gene facilitated mutant selection for
      high-level quinolone resistance. Therefore, given the increasing trend in the prevalence of
      this gene reported by some authors, it is necessary to establish a monitoring and identify
      factors favoring the emergence of these strains. The purpose of the study is to observe the
      evolution of the prevalence of qnr genes within ESBL-producing strains, to detect the
      emergence of an epidemic clonal strain, and look for the emergence of risk factors of these
      genes. Given the low prevalence of these genes that research involves a multicenter study
      which will be organized on 9 East region's inter hospitals from 1 April 2008 to 31 March
      2009. It is therefore a descriptive study that clinicobiological aims to: - To collect a
      sufficient number of producer strains of these genes, - To characterize their different
      variants (CHU Reims), - To identify the clones possibly associated with these genes (Besançon
      University Hospital), - To study their genetic environment (CHU Dijon), - Seek clinical
      factors and antibiotic treatments favoring their presence. All ESBL-producing
      Enterobacteriaceae isolates, identified in the 5 CHU inter region and CH 4, Colmar, Vesoul,
      Troyes and Charleville for one year will be centralized at the Bacteriology Laboratory of the
      University Hospital of Reims. The non duplicate isolates will be included (one isolate per
      patient resistance phenotype, by species and by month). 600 ESBL-producing strains are
      expected in this period and among them 50 strains carrying the gene qnr. The clinical study
      is a retrospective record. For each patient with a isolate carrying qnr, 2 control patients
      from the same hospital with an age difference of less than 10 years with the "case" will be
      drawn in the list of patients who had a ESBL producing Enterobacteriaceae. And 150 patient
      records will be included in the study. Parallel sequencing of qnr genes will allow their
      precise identification and highlight variants. The quinolones MICs will be determined to
      detect any increase in the level of resistance. The rest of the study include ESBL
      identification by sequencing. The study of the genetic environment of qnr will be performed
      for one isolate by gene type and by species for detecting genetic factors promoting their
      dissemination (plasmid, integron), variabilities compared to the literature data and get
      additional epidemiological markers. Genotyping of the isolates will highlight a possible
      epidemic clone. For Escherichia coli phylogenetic group will be determined at the University
      Hospital of Besancon. The distribution of E. coli strains. coli carrying the qnr among
      different phylogenetic groups will be compared to that of a number of isolates of Escherichia
      coli drawn among the ESBL strains having no qnr (2 controls for 1 case). The major clinical
      parameters recorded from the files will be, among others, the reason for hospitalization, the
      main underlying disease, antibiotic treatment before and after the isolation of ESBL
      bacteria. It will determine if the strains carrying the gene qnr are statistically more
      resistant to certain molecules that stem not having.
    
  