
    
      Nails are characteristically affected in skin diseases such as psoriasis (speckling,
      psoriatic oil spot, crumbling nails, pachyonychia) ,lichen( anonychia, dystrophy) ,alopecia
      areata (speckling, trachyonychia, longitudinal grooves, leukonychia), atopic dermatitis
      (shiny nails, transverse grooves, speckling, paronychia) and other diseases.

      Nail disorders are assessed by clinical inspection, dermatoscopy , microbiological (including
      mycological) testing, and histopathological examination by nail biopsy .

      Utility of dermoscope as a tool for detection is increasing by the day and its use in
      onychopathies needs to be explored .

      Nail dermoscopy has initially been used for the assessment of nail pigmentation . But its
      utilization has expanded for the diagnosis of all nail disorders; it became a routine
      diagnostic instrument, as its reveals helpful information. Dermoscopy can be applied to all
      visible parts of the nail unit, and even the nail matrix can be studied, in conjunction with
      intraoperative methods .

      Nail dermoscopy offers many advantages. Mostly, it enhances visible nail features; however,
      it can also help identify additional unique and fascinating features, not visible to the
      naked eye. It is practical, noninvasive and still opens up a second microscopic level of
      inspection. It contributes toward confirmation of diagnosis and assessment of treatment
      response as well as prognosis.

      In a cross-sectional study to detect signs of subclinical nail involvement in 68 patients
      with chronic plaque psoriasis, Forty-six patients showed nail dermoscopic findings. Coarse
      pits, onycholysis, oil drop sign and splinter hemorrhages were seen .

      To the best of the investigator's knowledge, no available studies in the literature evaluate
      subclinical nail affection in skin diseases as lichen planus, atopic dermatitis and auto
      immune bullous diseases. Hence, with the help of a dermoscope,early diagnosis and appropriate
      treatment can be instituted.
    
  