
    
      Expected results :

      The investigators expect a correlation between serum sRAGE, esRAGE and activity of SLE and
      the presence of visceral involvement. Furthermore this study will allow us to analyze for the
      first time in a lupus population, the correlation between soluble forms of RAGE (esRAGE,
      sRAGE) and cytokines and molecules involved in lupus visceral involvement as IL-6, IL-1α,
      IFN-γ, sICAM-1 and sVCAM-1.

      Completion of our project, will allow better understanding of the role of RAGE and RAGE
      ligand in SLE activity and will provide rationale for prospective study.

      Future perspectives will include assessment of the risk-benefit for the use of anti-RAGE
      strategies or recombinant sRAGE/esRAGE molecules as adjuvant treatment for SLE.

      Study Design : the investigators designed an retrospective, analytic, transversal,
      mulitcentric study. the investigators would like to use the serum and the clinical
      information collected in "Lupus BioBanque du Rhin Supérieur" (LBBR UF 9882) to measure
      soluble forms of RAGE, RAGE-ligands, cytokines, and sICAM and sVCAM. The investigators would
      like to include 150 patients in this study.

      Aim 1: The main objective of this study is to investigate the association between Systemic
      Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) activity as measured by the SLEDAI score and serum concentrations
      of sRAGE and esRAGE.

      Aim 2 : The study of the correlation between the activity of other activity markers of SLE
      and soluble forms of RAGE :

        1. the concentration of RAGE ligands (AGEs like CML, pentosidine and MG-H1) and soluble
           forms of RAGE (esRAGE, sRAGE)

        2. the cytokine profile (IL-6, IL-1α, IFN-γ) and soluble forms of RAGE (esRAGE, sRAGE)

        3. The concentrations of sICAM-1 and sVCAM-1 and soluble forms of RAGE (esRAGE, sRAGE)

      Methods :

      Inclusion criteria are :

        -  the LBBR inclusion criteria

        -  and Absence of immunomodulatory treatment,

        -  and preserved renal function (MDRD> 60ml/min).

      Exclusion criteria are :

        -  renal failure defined by MDRD clearance < 60 mL/min/m2,

        -  or neoplasia,

        -  or diabetes,

        -  or other autoimmune disease,

        -  or current immunosuppressive treatments.

      Data collection : About 500 μl of serum will be necessary for each patients to make all
      measurements.

      Mass spectrometry will be used for measurement of RAGE ligands (Advanced glycation end
      products such as CML, pentosidine and MG-H1).

      Commercially available ELISA kits will be used for measurement of sRAGE, esRAGE, sVCAM1.

      Flow Cytometry will be used for measurement of cytokines (IL-6, IL-1a, IFN-y) and sICAM1.
    
  