
    
      Hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia as a complication of gastric bypass surgery has been reported
      to occur between 6 months to 8-10 years after gastric bypass surgery. Although reported as a
      rare complication from surgery, the incidence is likely higher due to the condition being
      missed in many patients or being misdiagnosed as dumping syndrome. Unlike dumping syndrome
      which often presents early in the post-operative course and improves with dietary
      modification, patients with hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia have severe postprandial
      hypoglycemia and sometimes fasting hypoglycemia with symptoms worsening over time despite
      dietary modification. Calcium stimulation testing often localizes the area of the pancreas
      where hyperinsulinemia is occurring due to islet cell dysfunction. The pathophysiology of
      islet cell hypertrophy with Nesidioblastosis is poorly understood. One theory is an increase
      in glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) concentration may be responsible for islet cell expansion
      and subsequent hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia.

      Unfortunately, hyperinsulinemia hypoglycemia is incapacitating where patients are restricted
      from driving, are unable to work, and must always have someone present with glucagon due to
      the acute severe onset of neuroglycopenia. Surgery to resect the area of the pancreas with
      Nesidioblastosis has a low success rate of about 60% with many patients developing type 1
      diabetes as a result of pancreatic resection. Medical treatment options include calcium
      channel blockers, Diazoxide, and Octreotide yet patients often fail these treatments as well.
      Pasireotide would likely be a better option than the current medical therapy available. With
      Pasireotide, the inhibition of insulin release through inhibiting the somatostatin receptors
      as well as possible GLP-1 inhibition causing hyperglycemia should reduce hypoglycemic
      episodes in these patients.
    
  