
    
      Zinc bioavailability from a food or diet depends on the content of zinc and the presence of
      inhibitors of zinc absorption, e.g. inositol phosphate, also known as phytic acid (PA), and
      it is typically estimated with the phytate to zinc molar ratio (Phy:Zn). A zinc absorption of
      10-15% is estimated from diets containing mainly unrefined cereal grains or legumes with
      negligible amounts of animal proteins, which are dominant in developing countries
      (characterised by a Phy:Zn > 15). For comparison, a mixed animal and plant product diet
      (Phy:Zn ranging 5-15) is estimated to have an average zinc bioavailability of 20-30% whereas
      a diet with ample refined cereals and rich in animal foods (Phy:Zn < 5) would have average
      zinc bioavailability of 30-50% (12, 19). Fractional absorption from aqueous zinc sulphate or
      zinc chloride solutions taken in a fasting state has been shown to range 56-74% for doses of
      0.5-10 mg zinc (20-24) and decreasing to 37-62% for doses of 13-30.1 mg zinc (22, 24). Zinc
      from drinking water consumed away from meals appears to be substantially better absorbed than
      that from composite foods. Alternative strategies, designed for providing zinc through the
      water supply, could prove useful in the global effort to control zinc deficiency.

      To investigate whether zinc eluted from Lifestraw Family® (LSF) device via its specific zinc
      delivery system is more bioavailable than zinc from fortified cereals as zinc sulphate, we
      will perform a human absorption study based on the double isotopic tracer ratio technique.
      The fractional absorption of zinc (FAZ) from LSF-fortified water consumed with or without
      food will be compared to the FAZ from a fortified cereal. This will allow quantifying zinc
      bioavailability from the LSF eluted zinc 1) when LSF-water is consumed in fasting state 2)
      when LSF-water is consumed together with other foods 3) to compare the latter two with zinc
      absorption from a zinc fortified cereal.

      The results of this study will provide information on the potential advantages of LSF
      fortification over zinc food fortification, which is currently the recommended delivery
      vehicle for zinc in country fortification programs (25, 26). Furthermore, comparing zinc
      bioavailability from LSF-water consumed alone or in combination with food will instruct about
      the optimal way to consume it. This information can be used to optimally design the delivery
      strategy in the planned efficacy trials. In the future, this information could also be
      integrated in the information recommendations for use for prospective end-consumers.
    
  