
    
      Brief Background/Rationale: This study seeks to determine the feasibility of using antigen
      specific T cells isolated with the CliniMACS® Cytokine Capture System (CCS) for the treatment
      of adenovirus infections occurring after allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation
      (HSCT).

      Primary Objective: To determine the feasibility of the treatment of opportunistic adenovirus
      infection after HSCT with adenovirus-specific, antigen-selected T cells, using the CliniMACS®
      Prodigy System.

      Exploratory Objective(s)

        -  To describe the safety profile of the infusion of virus - specific, antigen selected T
           cells.

        -  To describe the toxicities related to infusion of virus - specific, antigen selected T
           cells.

        -  To describe the rate of eradication of opportunistic adenovirus infection after
           treatment with virus-specific, antigen-selected T cells using the CliniMACS® Prodigy
           System.

      Study Design:

      This feasibility study will include a single treatment cohort including subjects who have
      failed to respond, are intolerant or have contraindications to antiviral agents used for
      treatment of Human Adenovirus (HAdV) (ganciclovir, valganciclovir, foscarnet and cidofovir).

      Patients will be enrolled in a staggered pattern to ensure safety.

        -  Patient 1 will be enrolled and observed for 30 days after infusion of virus specific T
           cells before enrollment of a subsequent patient.

        -  Patient 2 will be enrolled ≥ 30 days after treatment of patient 1 and will be observed
           for 30 days before enrollment of a subsequent patient.

        -  Subsequent patients will be enrolled in 6 cohorts of 3 subjects each. A safety period
           between cohorts of 30 days (between treatment of the last subject of one cohort and the
           first subject of the subsequent cohort).

      Study Design: Staggered enrollment of patients with an observation period of 30 days after
      infusion. Safety monitoring points planned after patient No. 5 and No. 11
    
  