
    
      Colorectal cancer is the third leading cause of cancer death in the United States, with an
      estimated incidence of 130.000 cases per year. Oxaliplatin is the first-line chemotherapy
      regimen for gastro-intestinal cancers. Despite its efficacy, oxaliplatin causes peripheral
      neuropathy in 72% of the treated patients. Acute oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy
      [OIPN] is the most common dose-limiting side effect of oxaliplatin and characterized by
      profound cold allodynia in the extremities. In about 21% of the patients acute OIPN
      exacerbates into chronic neuropathic pain, which is treatment resistant to currently approved
      drugs, pointing towards a great need to identify an effective strategy in preventing OIPN.
      Recent literature suggests that certain methods of assessing sensory nerve function in
      neuropathic pain patients may provide a prediction to an individual analgesic response;
      however, no placebo-controlled studies have been performed with the primary goal of
      identifying treatment response predictors in preventing OIPN.

      In this pilot study we will both determine the tolerability and the efficacy of intravenous
      Lidocaine, for preventing oxaliplatin-induced cold hypersensitivity in the setting of
      mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy for advanced colorectal cancer.

      The proposed study will be conducted in two phases. The tolerability phase is an open-label
      study to determine the tolerable dose regimen of IV lidocaine in patients with advanced
      colorectal cancer receiving oxaliplatin chemotherapy. The efficacy pilot phase is a
      randomized, double-blinded, controlled study comparing the outcomes between IV lidocaine
      versus placebo in the same setting of colorectal cancer. Consented subjects will attend a
      screening visit and six intervention visits, during which they will undergo sensory testing
      and receive intravenous lidocaine or placebo infusion. Cold hypersensitivity and spontaneous
      pain will be assessed at baseline, daily for 12 weeks and at follow-up visits. At enrollment,
      each patient will be assigned a study number, which will match a previously prepared
      computer-generated list of randomization numbers to determine the interventions lidocaine or
      placebo. The participants and all other study personnel will be blinded to the treatment
      allocation.
    
  