
    
      The specific aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of
      divalproex extended release (DPX-ER) monotherapy in the treatment of ambulatory bipolar
      spectrum disorder with moderate-to-severe hypomania or mild mania in a randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group, 8-week trial in 60 outpatients with bipolar
      disorder, types I, II, or NOS by DSM-IV-TR criteria. Patients may have concurrent depressive
      and anxiety symptoms and syndromes, but not psychotic features or substance dependence. The
      primary outcome measure will be change in hypomanic/manic symptoms from baseline to endpoint.
      Secondary outcome measures will include change in depressive and anxiety symptoms, change in
      global severity of illness, concomitant use of adjunctive rescue anxiolytic and hypnotic
      medications, adherence with study medication, and degree and severity of side effects
      experienced.

      a) Methods and Procedures This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel
      group, 8-week study in 60 outpatients with bipolar disorder types I, II, or NOS by DSM-IV
      criteria (13), whose overall bipolar illness is mild to moderately severe defined as a score
      of > 2 but < 5 on the CGI modified for bipolar illness [CGI-BP] (14), and who also have
      moderate-to-severe hypomania or mild mania, defined as a YMRS > 10 and < 21 at study entry.
      Subjects may have concurrent depressive or anxiety symptoms or syndromes, but they may not
      have psychotic features. The primary outcome measure will be change in manic symptoms as
      measured by the change in the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS)(17). Secondary outcome measures
      will include the Inventory for Depressive Symptoms (IDS)(18), the Hamilton Rating Scale for
      Anxiety (HAM-A)(20), the Clinical Global Improvement Scale modified for Bipolar Disorder
      (CGI-BP), the (16) Global Assessment of Functioning Scale (GAF), and the Sheehan Disability
      Scale (DSD)(18).

      Medication Dosing:

      Divalproex ER will be administered at an initial dose of 15mg/kg/day and will be titrated
      upward to a dose considered optimal by the investigator based on the subject's clinical
      response and adverse events, but not to exceed 30mg/kg/day. As needed (prn) use of lorazepam
      (0.5-2.0mg/day) will be allowed for the management of affective symptoms for the first two
      weeks of the study; prn lorazpam (0.5-1.0mg/day) will be allowed for the next 2 weeks;
      subsequently (for the final 4 weeks of the study), no lorazepam will be permitted. Zaleplon
      (10-20mg/day) will be allowed for management of insomnia throughout the study.

      Screening Visit(s):

      The Screening Period will last a minimum of 3 to a maximum of 30 days. At the first screening
      visit (Visit 0), informed consent will be obtained. The Structured Clinical Interview for
      DSM-IV (SCID) will be performed to establish whether the patient meets DSM-IV criteria for
      bipolar disorder I, II, or NOS. The YMRS(17), IDS (18), and CGI-BP (16) will be performed to
      establish the presence and severity of bipolar affective symptoms. If subjects are currently
      on psychotropic medications, these will be tapered. Subjects will need to be off any
      psychotropic medications for at least 1 week prior to randomization, 2 weeks if you have been
      taking fluoxetine and 4 weeks if you have been receiving depot antipsychotic medication. Mood
      charts will be administered to subjects to help them in following their symptoms. Subjects
      will meet with the study staff weekly during the period after they have stopped their
      previous psychiatric medications and before they start study medication. Medical history will
      be reviewed, a physical exam performed, electrocardiogram (EKG) and laboratory studies
      (Complete Metabolic Profile, Liver Function Tests (LFT's), CBC with diff + platelets, and
      Urinalysis) will be obtained. Based on these evaluations, it will be determined whether
      subjects meet entry criteria; subjects meeting these criteria will continue in the screening
      process.

      Baseline Visit (last Screening Visit):

      At baseline (Visit 1), subjects whose screening evaluations continue to meet all
      inclusion/exclusion criteria may enter the study and be randomized. Baseline ratings will be
      obtained, including the YMRS, IDS, HAM-A, and the Clinical Global Impression (CGI-BP). The
      subject must be evaluated as having modest-to-severe hypomania or mild mania on at least 2
      occasions at least 3 days apart to be entered into the randomized phase. Also, the subject's
      bipolar disorder must be evaluated as mildly to moderately severe on at least 2 occasions at
      least 3 days apart, defined as a CGI-BP of > 2 and < 5, for the patient to be entered into
      the randomized phase. Subjects will also be evaluated with the Inventory for Depressive
      Symptoms (IDS), Hamilton Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A), Global Assessment of Functioning Scale -
      clinician rated (GAF-C), and the Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS). Blood pressure, pulse,
      height, and weight will be measured. Study medication will be dispensed by the Physician
      Investigator in the form of 500mg capsules. The dose starting range of divalproex ER will be
      15 mg/kg/day.

      Treatment Period:

      Study visits will occur every week for the first four weeks of treatment, and then every 2
      weeks until the 8th week of treatment. It is expected that divalproex ER will be adjusted to
      an optimal dose during the first month of treatment. The following procedures will be
      completed at each visit.

        1. Collect unused divalproex ER and perform study drug accountability. A subject's unused
           study medication can be redispensed back to the subject.

        2. Perform YMRS, IDS, CGI-BP, HAM-A, GAF-C, and SDS ratings.

        3. Assess and record adverse events.

        4. Obtain blood pressure, pulse, and weight.

        5. Record concomitant medication use (from mood chart)

        6. Adjust divalproex ER dose (if necessary) and dispense study drug.

        7. At study visits 1,2, and 4, laboratories will be obtained (complete metabolic profile,
           LFT's, CBC with differential platelets, urinalysis, and serum valproate level).

      Final Evaluation (week 8):

      The following evaluations will be conducted at the completion of, or early withdrawal from,
      the 8-week treatment phase. All psychiatric evaluations and all other final study procedures
      (including a repeat physical exam, EKG, and laboratory studies) will be completed prior to
      the discontinuation of divalproex ER.

        1. Collect unused divalproex ER and perform study drug accountability.

        2. Assess and record adverse events.

        3. Obtain blood pressure, pulse, weight, and determine BMI.

        4. Perform YMRS, IDS, CGI-BP, HAM-A, GAF-C and SDS ratings.

        5. Perform physical examination.

        6. Obtain laboratories (Complete Metabolic Profile, LFT's, CBC with/diff + platelets,
           Urinalysis, and serum Valproate level).

        7. Repeat EKG.

        8. Record concomitant medication use (from mood chart)

        9. Adjust divalproex ER dose (if necessary) and prescribe drug (if subject has responded
           and chooses to continue on divalproex ER), or dispense divalproex ER taper for
           discontinuation (if subject has not responded or if subject chooses to discontinue
           divalproex ER for any reason).
    
  