
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate the safety and efficacy of a new preparative regimen of yttrium Y 90
           ibritumomab tiuxetan in combination with high-dose etoposide and cyclophosphamide
           followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) for treatment of patients with
           poor-risk, relapsed, or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan which can
           be given with high-dose etoposide and high-dose cyclophosphamide followed by ASCT in
           patients with NHL.

        -  To perform dosimetry study to estimate the radiation dose delivered to the tumor and
           normal organs.

        -  To evaluate the short-term and long-term complications of this new preparative regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I does-escalation study of yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan
      followed by an open-label phase II study.

        -  Preparation for transplantation: Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) are collected via
           leukapheresis. Samples are analyzed by cytogenetic studies, immunophenotyping, and gene
           rearrangement. Patients with an adequate number of collected CD34-positive cells (≥ 3
           times 10^6 /kg) proceed to radioimmunotherapy.

        -  Radioimmunotherapy: Patients receive yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV on days -21
           and -14. Patients undergo bone marrow biopsy and dose estimation on day -7.

        -  Chemotherapy: Patients receive etoposide IV on day -4 and cyclophosphamide IV over 2
           hours on day -2.

        -  Transplantation: Patients undergo reinfusion of PBSCs on day 1.

        -  Growth factor therapy: Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV beginning on day 1 and
           continuing until blood counts recover.

      Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.
    
  