
    
      Fear of dental pain, despite the modern analgesia methods, is still a trigger for many
      patients, resulting in fear of dentistry. Pain and anxiety during the oral surgery procedures
      are related to each other. Since fear is a multi-caused state, it is important to analyse
      each causing factor. Pain sensitivity, or fear of pain, in dental office is different in each
      person because of various psychological aspects, but also because of genetic code. Pain
      mechanism is a complex system with many different pathways, resulting in possibility to feel
      pain. It is interesting that despite the anxiety and stress having a positive correlation
      with perceived pain, high stress levels may reduce the pain sensation. Stress mechanism
      involves pain regulation, which may result in hyperalgesia or analgesia. During the stress
      many organ systems are activated, including the hypothalamic secretion of beta-endorphins,
      causing analgesia. Therefore, beta-endorphins are secreted by pituitary gland and then
      spreads to all body by diffusion. However, some studies suggest that beta-endorphins can be
      also produced by immune cells during the inflammation. Beta-endorphins act like natural
      morphines, binding the mu-receptors and activating the pain reduction system, therefore
      beta-endorphin plasma levels correlates with expressed pain. Various studies suggest that low
      level of peripheral plasma beta-endorphin levels act in chronic pain and trigeminal neuralgia
      development. Beta-endorphins have also been found as predictive factors to set the
      overtraining in sports, which result in muscles overloading because of euphoric and analgesic
      effects. Therefore, investigators have hypothesised that beta-endorphins could be a reliable
      factor determining patient's pain sensitivity or chronical non-painful processes. Also, since
      pain rating is usually based on self-reported questionnaires, beta-endorphins evaluation may
      be possible objective pain evaluation. However, most studies evaluating beta-endorphins
      levels are based on blood samples evaluation, and blood sampling is a painful and stressful
      event by itself. Beta-endorphins can also be assessed in saliva, however no previous studies
      have evaluated the relation between saliva beta-endorphins and plasma beta-endorphins in
      patients with different pain sensitivity. The aim of this study is to evaluate the
      relationship between plasma beta-endorphin and saliva beta-endorphin levels in patients with
      different pain sensitivity and patients with acute pain in maxillofacial region.

      Study design

        -  Assessment: Healthy participants will be assessed in two groups regarding the evaluation
           of pain in common procedures in oral surgery self-reported questionnaire. The
           questionnaire is composed from 10 items, including perception of pain during surgical
           procedures and perception of post-operative healing caused pain. Procedures, such as
           anaesthetic injection, wisdom tooth removal, mobile tooth extraction, stitches removal,
           implantation and incision are composed into questionnaire. All items must be rated in
           numerical rating scales (NRS) from 1 - no pain to 10 - extreme pain, according to
           patient's assumption. Participants to further clinical trial will be randomly selected
           to form two groups with low and high pain rating. Further involved participants will
           have to repeat pain rating questionnaires to avoid possible accidental items rating.
           Cold pressor test will be enrolled for both groups in further described method.

        -  Cold pressor test. Participants will have to hold their hand up to the wrist in 5°
           temperature water, since it was suggested as a medium temperature giving the results of
           appropriate test time and felt pain. The water temperature below 15°C is known to
           stimulate nociceptors and provoke pain, however the testing time is relatively to long
           and the minimum temperature to this test of -2°C quickly provokes pain and it encumbers
           time evaluation. Digital thermometer will be used to ensure even temperature during the
           test with error of 0,5°C. The time of first painful sensation (pain threshold) will be
           noted and patients will be asked to self-report the felt pain in 1-10 NRS, afterwards
           the time of hand withdraw will be also recorded (pain tolerance) and the pain will be
           rated as described before. The maximum time of the test will be 4 minutes. If at the end
           of 4 minutes patient is still continuing, he will be asked to rate pain felt at 4
           minutes moment in 10 points NRS and the test will be withdraw.

        -  Patients to control - acute pain group will be assessed randomly from those, coming for
           help because of acute pain in oral and maxillofacial region. Patients will be asked to
           voluntarily participate in research, with the aim of best patient's care and least
           interference to the needed treatment procedures. Only patients with clinically diagnosed
           cause of acute pain will be enrolled, even though it is stated that pain is present for
           patient, whenever a patient reports pain, with the aim to avoid any psychogenic pain.
           Also, patients will be asked to rate their present pain in NRS and only those assessing
           pain not less than 4 out of 10 points will be further included, since it is described as
           moderate pain at 4-6 points and severe pain at 7-10 points. Also, NRS is known as
           appropriate numerical method, if pain is empirically tested.

        -  Β-endorphins evaluation. Participants from non-acute-pain group will be tested the other
           day than cold-pressor test to eliminate the effect of pain pressor test stimulated
           stress, resulting in sympathetic system activation, including β-endorphins production.
           Before the sampling patients will be asked to calm and stay still until they feel
           relaxed to avoid possible stress effect on results. The saliva samples will be collected
           by participants with researcher's supervision in sterile test-tubes. It is known that
           β-endorphins can be found in saliva, however it is not commonly used in pain evaluating
           researches. Afterwards the blood sampling will be provided with the aim not to produce
           blood collection caused stress before saliva sampling. Blood samples will be used as
           control samples to ensure the presence of β-endorphins in organism at exact moment and
           to rate the blood β-endorphins concentrations relation with saliva β-endorphin levels.

        -  Β-endorphins sampling in control - acute pain group will be provided at the same day as
           acute pain is felt. This group will be used as control, since it is presumed that acute
           pain and stress increases β-endorphins levels. Saliva sample will be collected by
           participant under the researcher's supervision. Afterwards the blood sample will be
           collected.

        -  Laboratorial examination. Will be performed according to manufacturer's recommendations.
    
  