
    
      This is a Phase 3, two-part, multi-center, open-label study designed to evaluate the PK and
      safety profile of EXPAREL in pediatric subjects aged 6 to less than 17 years when
      administered intraoperatively at the end of surgery via local infiltration. 90 pediatric
      subjects undergoing spine and/or cardiac surgeries are planned for enrollment.

      Part 1 is a multicenter, randomized, open-label study in subjects aged 6 to less than 17
      years undergoing spine or cardiac surgeries. There will be 2 treatment groups: Group 1 will
      include subjects aged 12 to less than 17 years, while Group 2 will include subjects aged 6 to
      less than 12 years

      Part 2 is a multicenter, randomized, open-label, safety study in subjects aged 6 to less than
      17 years undergoing spine or cardiac surgeries. There will be 2 treatment groups: Group 1
      will include subjects aged 12 to less than 17 years, while Group 2 will include subjects aged
      6 to less than 12 years.

      Subjects will be screened within 30 days prior to study drug administration. During the
      screening visit, subjects will be assessed for past or present neurologic, cardiac, and
      general medical conditions that, in the opinion of the investigator, would preclude them from
      study participation.

      Subjects will undergo their pre-planned spinal or cardiac surgeries per the institution's
      standard of care. On Day 1, eligible subjects will receive the study drug intraoperatively at
      the end of surgery via local infiltration into the surgical site. Dosing of EXPAREL will be
      based on body weight, with a starting dose of 4 mg/kg (maximum 266 mg).

      There is no required length of stay in the hospital; subjects may be discharged based on the
      medical judgment of the treating physician.

      A follow-up phone call will be scheduled for all subjects on Day 7. A final follow-up visit
      will be made on Day 30 to all subjects who would have received the study drug.
    
  