
    
      Diagnosis with a potentially fatal illness is distressing and can provoke anxiety that
      further reduces quality of life, and a treatment that reduces anxiety when facing
      deteriorating health and mortality will improve quality of life for people with such
      illnesses. Forty to fifty years ago, researchers investigated lysergic acid diethylamide
      (LSD) in combination with psychotherapy to treat anxiety when facing advanced stage cancer.
      This psychedelic (hallucinogenic) drug can produce transformative or mystical experiences and
      insights that can help in anxiety reduction. This study will be a randomized, active placebo
      controlled,double-blind pilot study of the safety and efficacy of LSD-assisted psychotherapy
      as a way of reducing anxiety in people with potentially fatal illnesses. This study will
      examine whether two sessions of LSD-assisted psychotherapy scheduled two to four weeks apart
      will reduce anxiety and improve quality of life for people experiencing anxiety as a result
      of a potentially fatal illness.

      Study subjects will receive either 200 or 20 mcg (micrograms) LSD during two day-long
      psychotherapy sessions scheduled two to four weeks apart. Subjects in this study will have a
      66% of receiving the full dose of 200 mcg LSD, and they have a 33% chance of getting the
      active placebo dose of 20 mcg LSD. Neither the researchers nor the subject will know whether
      he got 200 or 20 mcg LSD. Upon participant agreement, all psychotherapy sessions will be
      recorded to audio and video.

      The randomized part of the study will last three and a half months (14 weeks).

      People who learn they got the active placebo dose of LSD during the randomized phase can go
      on to to take part in an "open label" study phase, where they will get the full dose of LSD
      during two day-long psychotherapy sessions scheduled two to four weeks apart. "Open label"
      means that they and the researchers will both be aware that they are getting the full dose of
      LSD.

      Participants who received the full dose of LSD and took part in all study visits will be
      assessed for symptoms of anxiety and depression and quality of life 12 months after their
      final experimental session.
    
  