
    
      Thyroid hormone action is an important regulator of the metabolism and the function of many
      organs. The active form of thyroid hormone is T3, and its blood and tissue levels are the
      result of the secretion of T3 and its precursor, thyroxine (T4), from the thyroid gland, of
      the peripheral conversion of T4 into T3, and of the degradation of these hormones. In
      hypothyroid patients (particularly patients who underwent total thyroidectomy), the levels of
      T3 are entirely dependent on the exogenously administered T4 (Levothyroxine, L-T4) which is
      converted to T3 or to the inactive form, rT3, by enzymes called deiodinases. This complex
      system has only been partially studied in humans and very little is known about the
      correlation between circulating levels of T3 and end-organ target tissue thyroid hormone
      action.

      The aim of this protocol is to characterize the contribution of the two activating
      deiodinases (type-1 and type-2) to the blood levels and biological effects of T3. To achieve
      this goal we intend to study hypothyroid patients treated with adequate replacement of L-T4
      therapy while simultaneously blocking the activity of the type-1 deiodinase with
      propylthiouracil (PTU).

      Twenty hypothyroid patients who underwent total thyroidectomy or are affected by
      hypothyroidism and are on L-T4 therapy with normal TSH values will be recruited. After
      enrollment in the study, the patients eligibility will be determined during an outpatient
      visit. Patients will be admitted to the NIH Clinical Center for a 9-day period and will
      receive PTU at a dose of 200 mg four times daily for seven days. During the hospitalization
      for this research protocol, the following studies will be performed: serial blood sampling
      for circulating thyroid hormones to obtain pharmacokinetic parameters of T3, lipids, glucose
      and insulin; body composition; resting energy expenditure at room temperature and during
      exposure to mild cold; echocardiogram and EKG; skeletal muscle strength measurement and
      cardiac MRI.

      The results obtained from this study will help in further characterizing the effects of
      thyroid hormone on metabolism, and may lead to important information on how to optimize the
      thyroid hormone replacement therapy for the treatment of hypothyroidism.
    
  