
    
      Research shows that automatically maintained self-injurious behavior (ASIB) is comprised of
      treatment-responsive (Subtype 1) and treatment-resistant subtypes (Subtypes 2 and 3). The
      primary objective of the clinical trial is to compare two behavioral treatments for the
      treatment-resistant subtypes of ASIB: Subtypes 2 and 3. Noncontingent Reinforcement (NCR)
      with competing stimuli (toys that reduce occurrence of SIB) is widely used, but its outcomes
      are not optimal for most cases with Subtype-2 and -3 ASIB. Noncontingent reinforcement (NCR)
      includes two phases: 1) Pre-Treatment Assessment to identify competing stimuli and 2) NCR
      Treatment. Combination Treatment (CT) is based on the same principles as NCR (reinforcer
      competition), but increases the amount and varies the sources of alternative reinforcement to
      more effectively reduce ASIB and self-restraint. CT involves the use of competing stimuli,
      competing tasks (activities that reduce SIB), and self-control training to reduce
      self-restraint or teach alternative, more adaptive forms of self-control. CT includes three
      phases: 1) Pre-Treatment Assessments, 2) Intensive Training, and 3) Combination Treatment.
      Pre-Treatment Assessments will identify competing stimuli, tasks, and self-control equipment;
      and Intensive Training will strengthen skills needed to fully access available reinforcement
      to compete with ASIB, and establish self-control skills to replace debilitating
      self-restraint. Following the Intensive Training phase, CT combines noncontingent access to
      competing stimuli with differential reinforcement of alternative behavior (DRA) to reinforce
      engagement with competing tasks, and use of alternative self-control equipment.

      Each study participant will be randomly assigned to first receive either NCR or CT using
      randomly permuted block randomization, stratified by subtype. Each approach includes more
      than one phase, but both end with a treatment phase. If the first treatment applied is
      ineffective, based on defined criteria (including the level of improvement and number of
      treatment sessions), a 3-day washout period will follow where no treatment is applied, and
      then the second approach will be initiated culminating in the application of that treatment
      (either NCR or CT).

      Following a demonstration of treatment efficacy (for either the first or second treatment
      that is applied), any additional non-reinforcement treatment components that were added will
      be withdrawn to determine whether those components remain necessary. If a strong treatment
      effect does not maintain, the additional components will be reapplied. Treatment
      generalization will be initiated, and if the effects are maintained the trial will end.

      If the first treatment that is applied is effective, that treatment will continue to be
      applied and generalization will be conducted (and the participant will not crossover to the
      other treatment approach).
    
  