
    
      Many schizophrenia patients currently take oral antipsychotic medications daily, but
      long-acting injectable formulations may eliminate this need for the daily medication. This is
      an open-label study of a flexible does of a long-acting formulation of risperidone injected
      into the muscle at 2 week intervals over 12 months in patients with schizophrenia or
      schizoaffective disorder. A comparator group will receive daily tablets of olanzapine, a
      psychotropic agent available for the treatment of schizophrenia and schizoaffective
      disorders. This is a two-part trial. Patients will be titrated to the most effective dose of
      trial medication during the first 13 weeks and analyzed for short-term efficacy and safety of
      treatment at Week 13. Patients will be then assessed for maintenance of efficacy, safety, and
      resource use at Week 52 (second part of study). Efficacy assessments include the Structured
      Clinical Interview - Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (SCI-PANSS), overall severity of
      illness measured by the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scale, and quality of life assessed
      by Wisconsin Quality of Life Index (W-QOLI). Safety evaluations include incidence of adverse
      events, Simpson and Angus Rating Scale for extrapyramidal symptoms, physical examinations,
      clinical laboratory tests (biochemistry, haematology, and urinalysis), and electrocardiograms
      (ECGs). The primary study hypothesis is that treatment with long-acting risperidone injected
      intramuscularly every 2 weeks is not inferior to treatment with daily olanzapine in terms of
      short-term efficacy and is well tolerated by patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective
      disorder. Risperidone injections (25mg or 50mg) every 2 weeks for 12 months. Investigator may
      decrease or increase dosages (max 50mg) or supplement risperidone injections with risperidone
      tablets (4mg/day max.). Control group receives olanzapine tablets (5mg) daily, adjusted as
      necessary (max 20mg).
    
  