
    
      Aging is associated with impaired skeletal muscle function. This is evident not only by a
      reduced capacity to generate force and power at the whole muscle level, but also by a decline
      in individual muscle fiber contraction velocity and force generation. Combined with muscle
      atrophy, these changes lead to reduced muscle strength and quality and loss off physical
      function with age. Clinically, muscle quality may be a better indicator of overall functional
      capacity than absolute muscle strength. Thus, identifying the mechanisms underlying the
      age-related loss of muscle quality is of high relevance for the prevention of functional
      impairment with aging. The explanation for the loss of muscle quality with aging seems to be
      multifactorial, with alterations in voluntary muscle activation, muscle architecture, fat
      infiltration and impaired contractile properties of single muscle fibers being likely
      contributors. Single fiber specific force seems to be related to myosin heavy chain (MHC)
      content, which is thought to reflect the number of available cross-bridges. The reduction of
      single fiber specific force with aging may thus be a consequence of reduced synthesis of MHC
      and/or increased concentration of non-contractile tissue (e.g. intramyocellular lipids).

      Some studies in mice also indicate attenuated activity in some of the pathways responsible
      for degradation of muscle proteins with aging (especially autophagy). As a result, damaged
      proteins and organelles are not removed as effectively as they should, which could ultimately
      compromise the muscle's ability to produce force. In addition, reduced efficiency of
      mitophagy and lipophagy (two specific forms of autophagy), may indirectly affect single fiber
      specific force, through oxidative damage by reactive oxygen species (ROS) and increased
      levels of intramyocellular lipids, respectively. Although animal studies indicate attenuated
      autophagic function, exercise seems to restore the activity in this pathway. Whether this
      also is the case in humans is unknown. Thus, the purpose of this study is to investigate how
      the different factors contributing to reduced muscle quality in frail elderly individuals,
      with emphasis on the relationship between muscle quality and autophagy, may be counteracted
      by a specific strength training program targeting muscle quality and muscle mass.

      In this randomized controlled trial the investigators will aim to recruit frail elderly
      individuals, as muscle quality is shown to be low in this population. As a consequence, the
      potential for improved muscle quality is expected to be large. Subjects will be randomized to
      two groups; one group performing strength training twice a week for 10 weeks in addition to
      receiving daily protein supplementation. The other group will only receive the protein
      supplement. Several tests will be performed before and after the intervention period,
      including a test day where a biopsy is obtained both at rest, and 2.5 hours following
      strength training + protein supplementation or protein supplementation only. This will
      provide information about the regulation of muscle protein breakdown in a resting state,
      following protein intake and following strength training in combination with protein intake.
      As this will be done both before and after the training period, it will also provide
      information on how long-term strength training affects the activity in these systems.
    
  