
    
      The overall objective of the research strategy will be to characterize circadian system
      dysfunction in BED and its potential as a therapeutic target. The central hypothesis is that
      a circadian system dysfunction (phase delay) plays a role in the pathophysiology of BED, and
      that advancing the circadian phase will improve BED symptoms. To attain the overall
      objectives, the following specific aims will be pursued in two phases:

      Specific aim 1) To characterize circadian system dysfunction in BED (Phase 1). Circadian
      system function will be evaluated in 80 adult (18 to 50yrs) obese subjects, 40 with BED and
      40 without BED as a control group matched by age, body mass index (BMI), and gender, during a
      two-week observational phase. Based on preliminary data, the working hypothesis is that DLMO
      (the primary outcome measure) and secondary circadian parameters (i.e., locomotor activity
      acrophase) will occur later in the BED group compared with the control group, and a later
      circadian phase will be associated with worse BED clinical features.

      Specific aim 2) To evaluate circadian phase as a predictive biomarker for response to a
      chronobiological intervention and evidence of circadian system target engagement in BED
      (Phase 2). A mechanistic clinical trial with a 4-week double-blinded, randomized,
      sham/placebo controlled study design will evaluate the effect of a combination of morning
      lights+Melatonin/placebo on the circadian system and eating behavior on 40 BED subjects that
      complete phase 1. Subjects will be randomized to receive a combination of morning lights at
      usual wake time + Melatonin(3mg) or placebo (3hr before DLMO). Based on preliminary data, the
      working hypothesis is that a chronobiological intervention will induce a greater DLMO advance
      (primary outcome measure), greater decrease in binge eating days/week (secondary outcome
      measure), and change in exploratory metabolic outcomes. In addition, a later baseline DLMO
      (secondary outcome) will predict change in binge eating days/week and metabolic parameters in
      response to a chronobiological intervention.
    
  