
    
      Hyponatremia is the most frequent electrolyte disorder encountered in clinical practice and
      is often associated with increased mortality, morbidity and risk of hospitalization. The
      patient approach, however, is still problematic, above all because hyponatremia is a
      manifestation correlated to various pathological conditions, with complex etiopathogenesis.

      The most commonly used classification of hypotonic hyponatremia is, nowadays, the one
      described in a famous review by Kumar and Berl (see Bibliography). Probably the most crucial
      point in this classification is represented by the correct assessment of Extracellular Fluid
      Volume Status (i.e. hypovolemia, euvolemia, hypervolemia).

      Even though some algorithms have been proposed to correctly assess hyponatremia subtype
      classification and patient volume status, there is no single parameter that has proven to be
      able alone to perfectly achieve this result.

      In the current study, the reference test (gold standard) for the definitive assessment of
      hyponatremia subtype classification and patient volume status was a post-discharge
      re-evaluation of all the available evidence (with the exception of plasma copeptin levels)
      carried out by two independent neuroendocrinologists with specific expertise in sodium
      disorders. In case of disagreement, the experts proceeded to a discussion and comparison of
      their opinions, in order to produce a shared one.

      Using this gold standard, the main aims of this observational prospective study were:

        1. to estimate the diagnostic accuracy of the clinicians in identifying the subtype of
           hyponatremia at the first evaluation of the patients in the ED and then at the admission
           to the wards;

        2. to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the most important methods suggested by the
           literature (clinical, imaging, biochemical) for the assessment of Extracellular Fluid
           Volume.

      In addition to this, in recent years copeptin has been shown to be a promising parameter for
      the evaluation of sodium disorders and water imbalances, but its diagnostic role in the
      setting of hyponatremic patients is still largely unknown. Therefore, a secondary objective
      of the study was to specifically evaluate the utility of copeptin (whose values - as
      specified before - were hidden to the neuroendocrinologists in charge of defining the gold
      standard diagnoses for each patient) for the assessment of hyponatremia subtype
      classification and patient volume status.
    
  