
    
      Foot and ankle surgery is typically very painful for the first two days postoperatively due
      to surgical oedema. This pain is difficult to control with systemic analgesics. Pain relief
      with systemic analgesics requires high doses of intravenous opioids and is associated with
      breakthrough pain and adverse effects of opioids (sedation, nausea, vomiting, obstipation,
      urinary retention, mouth dryness, respiratory depression, pruritus, vertigo and visual
      disturbances).

      Single-shot technique provides analgesia for two to 30 hours even using analgesics with
      prolonged effect (bupivacaine, levobupivacaine, ropivacaine). The duration of the block
      depends on the local analgesic and the anatomical location. Popliteal block with bupivacaine
      last up to 24 hours. Continuous, peripheral nerve block with catheter technique for two days
      minimizes the need for systemic analgesics and their adverse effects. Continuous, peripheral
      nerve block has gained popularity for foot and ankle surgery, because better analgesia is
      obtained compared to intravenous opioids, and similar analgesia with fewer adverse effects
      compared to epidural catheter technique.

      Today the nerve stimulation technique is the most prevalent technique to introduce catheters
      for peripheral nerve blocks. The success rate for postoperative analgesia after foot and
      ankle surgery with popliteal catheters is variable - typically 70% in our department. The
      patients with catheter failure have severe postoperative pain, high opioid dosages, cognitive
      blurring, nausea, vomiting, reduced ambulation, increased surgical stress response and
      increased morbidity. Pain problems and adverse effects prolongs postoperative observation
      time and maybe also time to discharge.

      Ultrasound technique was employed for peripheral nerve blocks for the first time in 1978.
      However the utility was technically limited. In recent years, the evolution of high-frequency
      transducers and mobile ultrasound units have facilitated the application of ultrasound-guided
      peripheral nerve blocks. This technique allows dynamic visualization of nerves, needle tip
      location and spread of local analgesic in real-time.

      The empirical basis supporting the theoretical advantages of ultrasound-guided regional
      anesthesia consists mainly of observational studies. A few, randomized, controlled trials
      comparing ultrasound- and nerve stimulation technique favour the benefit of ultrasound
      concerning success rate, sensory onset time, duration of block, patient satisfaction and
      quality of block.

      The purpose of this study is to establish whether ultrasound technique has higher success
      rate, better patient satisfaction and higher cost-effectiveness compared to electrical nerve
      stimulation using popliteal, sciatic catheters for postoperative analgesia after foot and
      ankle surgery.
    
  