
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety and feasibility of infusing autologous granulocyte colony-stimulating
      factor (G-CSF) (filgrastim) mobilized stem cells transduced with a Phoenix-gibbon ape
      leukemia virus (GALV)-pseudotype vector expressing methylguanine methyltransferase (MGMT)
      (P140K).

      II. Define the dose of BCNU (carmustine) that results in efficient engraftment of gene
      modified cells when given with peripheral blood stem cell support.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the engraftment of gene-modified cells after conditioning with BCNU.

      II. Determine the ability to select gene-modified cells in vivo with this regimen.

      III. Evaluate the molecular and clonal composition of gene-modified cells after chemotherapy
      with temozolomide.

      IV. Observe patients for clinical anti-tumor response.

      V. Determine the correlation of the level of MGMT (P140K) marking with toxicity, temozolomide
      dose achieved, and response.

      VI. Characterize the toxicity associated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of temozolomide followed by a phase II
      study.

      PART I: Within 35 days of surgery, patients undergo 3 dimensional (3D) conformal
      intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or proton beam radiation therapy daily 5 days
      per week for 6 weeks. Patients receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on days -7 to -3 and
      begin stem cell collection on the 4th day of filgrastim administration (up to 3 apheresis).
      Patients may also receive plerixafor SC on days -5 to -3. The CD34+ stem cells are separated
      from the patient's stem cells and they are transduced with Phoenix-RD114 pseudotype vector
      (retrovirus). One day after apheresis is completed, patients receive carmustine intravenously
      (IV) over 3 hours followed 2 hours later by temozolomide orally (PO). At least twenty-four
      hours after completion of carmustine and temozolomide, patients undergo reinfusion of
      genetically-modified stem cells.

      PART II: Beginning approximately 4 weeks after completion of Phase 1 of the study, patients
      receive O6-benzylguanine IV continuously over 48 hours followed by temozolomide PO within 1
      hour. Treatment may repeat at least every 28 days for a total of 24 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 1-3 months for 2 years,
      every 3-6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter for 10 years.
    
  