
    
      The objective of the current study is to evaluate gastric residual volume in obese patients
      versus healthy controls scheduled for elective surgery, using gastric ultrasound.

      This prospective observational study was performed on 100 patients undergoing elective
      surgery from July 2019 to June 2020 at Fayoum University hospital after approval of the local
      institutional ethical committee (M420). A detailed informed consent was signed by the
      eligible participants before enrollment.

      Our study adheres to the CONSORT guidelines. The study was conducted on 100 Patients were
      assigned to one of two groups of (50) patients in each group. Group obese ASA II from( 30-40)
      BMI, ASA III above 40 BMI without other comorbidities and group non obese ASA I control.Obese
      patients whose BMI >30 and healthy patients whose BMI = 18-24.9 who was scheduled for an
      elective surgery were included in this trial. All patients were enrolled in the study aged
      above >20 y. This study included patients scheduled for elective surgery after 8-hour
      overnight fast after a light meal.

      Ultrasound scanning:

      Focused gastric ultrasound by was performed by a trained physician in semi-sitting position
      then right lateral position using low frequency (2-5MHz) mindray curved transducer and
      mindray DP-20 ultrasound system. The antrum of the stomach was located in the epigastrium
      after a sweep of the probe from left to right subcostal margins. This could be done using
      left lobe of liver as an anterior landmark and descending abdominal aorta as a posterior
      landmark.

      The antrum was considered to be empty if flat with juxtaposed anterior and posterior walls,
      fluid-containing if distended with thin walls and hypoechoic contents, solid -containing if
      distended with a content with mixed echogenicity according to antral shape and contents .

      The antral cross sectional area (CSA) was measured using the two antral dimensions,
      craniocaudal (D1) and anteroposterior (D2) dimensions, according to the following equation: π
      [D1×D2]/4 provided that π = 22/7.

      The gastric residual volume was calculated according to patient position as follows:

      Bouvet and colleagues equation for semi-sitting position: gastric residual volume (ml) =215 +
      57 log CSA (mm2) - 0.78 age (year) - 0.16 height (cm) - 0.25 weight (kg) - 0.80 ASA.

      Perlas and colleagues equation for right lateral position: gastric residual volume (ml) =
      27.0 + 14.6 × right-lateral CSA - 1.28 × age.

      Using the classification of Ven de Putte and perlas, the study could asses the risk of
      aspiration as follows: (a) low risk of aspiration: patients with empty antrum and patients
      with gastric residual volume less than 1.5 ml/kg.(b) high risk of aspiration: patients with
      solid contents and patients with gastric residual volume more than 1.5 ml/kg.

      Nasogastric tube (18-french) was inserted after induction of anaesthesia and endotracheal
      intubation. Aspiration of gastric contents was performed through gentle suction using 50 ml
      syringe with synchronous epigastric massage and gentle movement of nasogastric tube in and
      out for 10 minutes after confirmation of nasogastric tube position.

      Statistical Analysis The collected data were organized, tabulated and statistically analyzed
      using SPSS software statistical computer package version 22 (SPSS Inc, USA). Numerical
      variables were not normally distributed and were presented as median and interquartile range
      (IQR); Mann-Whitney U test was used as a test of significant. Qualitative data were presented
      as numbers and percentages, and the chi-squared test was used to determine significance. A
      two-sided P-value of <0.05 was considered statistically significant.

      Sample size Sample size calculated using G-Power© software version 3.1.7 results with effect
      size (0.57), two sided (two tails) type I error 0.05 and power of 80%, each group should
      include at least (50) Subjects. the authors expected no dropout rates or missing data.
    
  