
    
      Non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTEACS) is a syndrome encompassing a spectrum of
      clinical manifestations between ischemic heart disease and acute myocardial infarction. It
      represents an important cause of morbidity and hospitalization in western countries: its
      incidence is estimated around 2/1000 subjects/year and about 10% of patients with acute
      coronary syndrome develop an acute myocardial infarction within 6 months. Another reason of
      concern is that patients require an invasive treatment, usually PTCA or CABG. ACS encompasses
      features of both an inflammatory and thrombotic disease; their abnormalities could be
      critical for evolution and complication of acute coronary syndrome.

      Many inflammatory and coagulation indicators have been investigated, although the critical
      factors responsible for complications in NSTEACS remain elusive.

      Matrix remodeling and consequent erosion or fissuration of the unstable plaque is supposed to
      be a key step of the development of acute coronary syndromes.

      Neutral matrix metalloproteinases 1, 3 and 9 have been demonstrated to be actively produced
      in atherosclerotic tissue, compared to unaffected arteries. Mechanisms responsible for such
      increased expression might be related to inflammation, but also genetic regulation could
      account for an increased expression leading to a different clinical outcome of the syndrome.

      Genetic polymorphisms are described for all three MMPs involved in ACS. MMP-1 insertion of a
      G in position creates an ets binding site that induces an eight times increase of the
      synthesis rate. For MMP-3 (stromelysin) polymorphism, a deletion of an A (adenosine) in
      position -1171 doubles the transcription activity and has been recently associated with acute
      myocardial infarction and progression of coronary stenosis. In MMP-9 a more complex
      polymorphism involves a microsatellite (AC) repeat in position -90 to -131. The mechanism
      leading to increased MMP-9 expression is probably related to the transition to Z-DNA within
      the microsatellite, which eases transcription. In vitro studies show that the longer the
      tandem repeats sequence, the higher the transcription.

      No studies on metalloproteinase polymorphism in NSTEACS have been carried out, so far.

      This study has been planned to assess if patients admitted to the hospital for NSTEACS could
      be associated to a different in hospital clinical outcome according to the genetic
      polymorphism of these proteases.
    
  