
    
      This study will use the licensed HPV vaccine, an alternative STI vaccine, as a proxy for an
      HIV vaccine and thereby identify potential challenges to the inclusion of adolescents in HIV
      prevention trials. The study will allow for site capacity building in terms of recruiting and
      retaining an HIV-negative high-risk adolescent cohort, and assessing the acceptability of an
      STI vaccine to adolescents and their parents or guardians. Correlates of vaccine uptake,
      refusal, retention and attrition will be determined. In addition, the study will document the
      incidence of HIV, other sexually transmitted infections (STI's) and pregnancies and
      circumcisions in this age group. Different methods of assessing understanding in adolescents
      will be tested, to ensure that informed consent is being achieved. Experiences of privacy and
      confidentiality issues for adolescents in such research will be explored. Finally,
      psycho-social correlates of sexual risk and protective behaviour will be examined.

      The study is designed as a longitudinal cohort study with a self-selected intervention and
      control group. Adolescents and parents will be recruited through community outreach and
      invited to attend a Vaccine Discussion Group (VDG) to learn more about the HPV vaccine.
      Parental/ legal guardian consent and adolescent assent will be obtained prior to screening.
      After screening to ensure volunteers meet inclusion criteria, 1400 participants will be
      enrolled across seven sites. At this point, they will decide whether or not they want to
      receive the HPV vaccine. Those who do will receive three doses, at 0, 2 and 6 months. All
      participants will undergo HIV and pregnancy testing, receive risk reduction counseling and
      complete questionnaires at 0, 2, 6 and 9 months. Recruitment and retention will be monitored
      and data as described above will be collected throughout the course of the study.
    
  