
    
      The coronavirus disease 2019 (Covid-19) pandemic is currently the main challenge facing
      healthcare providers. Data are lacking to guide clinical decision.

      The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is a key process in cardiology. Its
      inhibition using angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi) and angiotensin II type
      1-receptor blockers (ARBs) is a cornerstone of the long-term management of arterial
      hypertension, heart failure and acute coronary syndrome. Severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) uses the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) as a cellular
      entry receptor. ACE2 is part of the RAAS and is likely to be modulated by the use of ACEi and
      ARBs. Therefore, there is concern that patients who are treated with ACEi and ARBs may be at
      higher risk for Covid-19 infection.

      However, little is known regarding how ACEi and ARBs could affect Covid-19 infection and
      severity. First, ACE2 may have a protective effect against lung injury because it degrades
      angiotensin II to angiotensin-(1-7). Second, the effect of RAAS inhibition on ACE2 expression
      has been poorly studied in humans. Third, ACE inhibitors and ARB have different effect on the
      RAAS and therefore their interaction with Covid-19 may differ.

      The COVHYP study is designed to address part of these issues. This is an analytical
      retrospective observational study that will collect and analyze data regarding patients
      hospitalized with suspected Covid-19. We planned to screen for inclusion all consecutive
      patients referred form 10/03/2020 to 15/04/2020 to the emergency department of the Versailles
      Hospital, a tertiary center located in greater Paris area - one of the region most affected
      by Covid-19 in France through this period. The inclusion criteria are as follows: 1) Clinical
      presentation suggestive of COVID-19 pneumonia, at least fever or influenza-like syndrome AND
      cough or dyspnea; and 2) Test of the presence of SARS-CoV-2 RNA by RT-PCR in nasopharyngeal
      or sputum samples. Two groups of patients will be defined, those with confirmed Covid-19
      pneumonia, and those without Covid-19. Hospital data will gathered, and patients or relatives
      will be contacted by phone for a one-month follow-up. We will compare baseline
      characteristics of patients, especially the previous treatment by ACEi or ARBs, in the two
      groups of patients, and evaluate whether these characteristics can be associated with
      diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2 infection and severity.

      We hope that this study will provide a better understanding of the effect of RAAS inhibitors
      on Covid-19 pneumonia and its severity.
    
  