
    
      The aim of this study is to determine if a multifaceted pharmacist intervention based on
      medication review, medication interview and follow up with patient, general practitioner and
      pharmacy can reduce the number of readmissions and death and or if the time to next admission
      can be postponed. The combination of the full pharmacist intervention is compared with
      medication review alone in comparison to non-intervention.

      Pharmacist intervention:

      Usual care group: the patients received no intervention by the clinical pharmacist.

      Basic intervention group: A structured, patient centered medication review (MR) was conducted
      by the clinical pharmacist. The following was considered during MR: Were there untreated
      diagnoses, has the goal of treatment been reached, was the treatment compliant with current
      national guidelines regarding dose, choice of drug and time of treatment. Focus was at
      certain drugs most commonly implicated in causing admission. Furthermore, all drugs on the
      medication list were assessed according to the following: Indication for treatment, drug
      dose, considering i.e. kidney insufficiency, age, etc., adverse drug events, therapeutic
      duplication, dosage time and interval, drug formulation and strength, interactions,
      contraindications, precautions and specific patient characteristics.

      Advice on drug selection, dosages, monitoring needs and possibly side effects were given to
      the physician in charge of the patient, and written in the electronic patient journal (EPJ).

      Extended intervention group: MR was conducted according to the same terms and conditions as
      for the basic intervention group. Upon discharge medication reconciliation was conducted. The
      pharmacist provided a motivational interview (MI)-based patient interview including a
      comprehensive summary of changes in the drug therapy during the hospitalization.

      Post discharge any drug related problem not dealt with during hospitalization was mailed or
      faxed to the general practitioner (GP). When needed, the GP, care giver and primary care
      pharmacy were contacted by phone (approximately five working days after discharge).

      Follow-up interview by phone was performed twice. The first was conducted one week post
      discharge and the second six months after discharge. When needed additional follow-ups could
      be made. The follow-up interviews had an motivational interview approach.

      All interventions were conducted according to a defined standard operating procedure and all
      interventions were performed by qualified clinical pharmacists from the involved sites. In
      order to minimize the risk of cultural differences and variations in routine's the regions in
      between, all data pharmacists were trained prior to entering the study.

      Data was analysed after the intention-to-treat method. Data was analyzed after a proportional
      hazard cox regression with the randomization group as the only variable.
    
  