
    
      Partial breast irradiation (PBI) is becoming a new paradigm for breast cancer radiation. No
      type I or II evidence is currently available to demonstrate equivalence to standard whole
      breast radiotherapy, and a prospective randomized trial jointly sponsored by NSABP and
      Radiation therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) (NSABP B-39 and RTOG 0413) has completed accruing
      patients, comparing whole breast radiotherapy to PBI, either by brachytherapy or external
      beam techniques (EB): results of this trial are pending. Until results of this or similar
      trials are available, PBI remains a research domain, and it should be offered to patients
      only in the context of a clinical experimental protocol. Despite the fact that less extensive
      experience than that of brachytherapy is available, PBI delivery through an external-beam has
      many advantages. First of all, it is likely to be more acceptable to the patient since it is
      non-invasive and it does not require a surgical procedure or anesthesia. Moreover, since it
      is delivered after surgery, the pathological analysis of the segmental mastectomy specimen is
      available to inform the selection of the best candidates. In addition, EB-PBI is likely to
      become more widely reproducible, since it does not rely on the experience and skills of the
      radiation oncologist performing the brachytherapy implant. Besides, once the technique is
      established, it can be widely applied at any facility provided with a linear accelerator,
      without the risk presented by some brachytherapy approaches that cannot be completed because
      of the unfavorable interplay of patient's anatomy with the technical limitations of the
      applicator. Finally, in terms of health care economics, an external beam approach spares the
      costs of an extra surgical procedure and several days as inpatient (in the case of Low dose
      Rate (LDR) brachytherapy).

      A prone approach for partial breast radiation has been tested at NYU in a clinical trial
      sponsored by an IDEA grant of the Department of Defense (NYU 00-23). Results of the first 47
      patient accrued originally demonstrated feasibility. Eligibility to this study was limited to
      post-menopausal women with non-palpable, mammographically detected tumors. In addition, the
      protocol required patients to have first refused to undergo standard six-week radiotherapy.
      Five fractions of 6 Gy were delivered to the Planning Target Volume (PTV) over ten days
      (Monday-Wednesday-Friday, Monday-Wednesday). The dose and fractionation was based on
      radiobiological modeling, aimed at determining a dose to deliver in five fractions that would
      achieve equivalence to the tumor control estimates of 50 Gy in 25 fractions, while
      maintaining a risk of fibrosis at the tumor bed comparable to that of a standard regimen of
      60 Gy in 30 fractions. An α/β = 4 for tumor control was used, and its validity has been
      recently confirmed by the results of a prospective randomized trial comparing accelerated to
      standard whole breast radiotherapy.
    
  