
    
      Differentiated thyroid cancer has been rising in incidence and is expected to be a leading
      cancer by the year 2030 . However, the rise has been mostly attributed to an increased
      detection of incidentally-discovered papillary thyroid microcarcinoma (PTMC). PTMC is a
      papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) measuring ≤ 10mm in its greatest dimension. Previous
      screening and autopsy studies have confirmed these lesions are common and could be found in
      up to 15% of normal healthy individuals.

      However, since the incidence of clinically-significant PTC has historically been <0.5% (i.e.
      100 times less than the occult rate), most occult PTMCs probably do not cause harm in one's
      life-time and could be safely observed without immediate surgery.

      As a result, several groups of investigators worldwide began evaluating the feasibility and
      safety of observing PTMC without surgery. Rather than offering immediate surgery, well
      selected patients with low-risk PTMC (i.e. no extrathyroidal extension, nodal and distant
      metastases) were followed with regular ultrasound (USG) alone and only proceeded to
      definitive to surgery when the PTMC showed progression. As expected, >90% PTMCs did not
      progress and of those who progressed and had surgery, all were cured. This meant even when
      the initial surgery was deferred, there was no compromise in the chance of cure.

      With a recent shift towards a more conservative approach in the management of PTC, it has
      become increasingly accepted that perhaps active surveillance (AS) might be a safe
      alternative in well selected low-risk PTMCs.

      However, despite the fact that AS is a viable alternative, there are issues and challenges.
      First, although the majority of occult tumors do not progress initially, the accumulative
      risk of tumor progression increases with time. From an analysis of the 1479 PTMCs observed
      over 5 years, 212 (14.3%) eventually met the progression criteria (such as tumor enlargement,
      local invasion, new lymph node metastasis or becoming clinical disease) and had surgery.
      Therefore, with longer observation, a greater proportion of patients would end up having
      surgery. Second some patients tend to find it difficult to accept AS as a treatment. Even if
      they do initially, the "wait and see" approach may distress patients leading to
      non-compliance. To date, little is known how this may affect patients' well-being and
      health-related quality of life (HRQOL) over time. Third, since there are no clinical or
      molecular parameters to predict which tumors are more likely to progress, patients often need
      life-long follow-up. However, this may be challenging because patients may move to different
      places. Lastly, there are now less invasive, non-surgical options available to potentially
      eradicate PTMCs. Image-guided thermal ablation (IGTA) using laser ablation or radiofrequency
      ablation appears promising. With technological advances, they may eventually replace surgery
      in the future. However, reports have so far been non-randomized, uncontrolled and short
      follow-up. Furthermore, despite being less-invasive, they still require a small skin
      incision.

      High intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is a form of IGTA that needs no skin incision or
      needle insertion and so, is a truly noninvasive treatment. Under USG guidance, it is able to
      cause irreversible tissue destruction deep to the skin and subcutaneous layer. Apart from
      being non-invasive, it is less dependent on the operator's skill as the treatment could be
      controlled by an automated program. In fact, HIFU is highly successful in a number of solid
      cancers. In the thyroid, it induces tissue damage via the cavitation and thermal effects. To
      date, several groups (including us) have confirmed that HIFU ablation is highly effective in
      inducing shrinkage of benign thyroid nodules.
    
  