
    
      Hypertension, also known as high blood pressure, is one of the most common health problems
      among adults, particularly African Americans. If left untreated, it can lead to heart
      failure, kidney failure, or stroke. High blood pressure can be caused by many factors,
      including stress, diet, diabetes, kidney disease, or obesity. Typical treatments include
      taking medication, losing weight, and quitting smoking. Meditation may also be an effective
      way to decrease stress levels and lower blood pressure. This study will examine the effects
      of a specific type of meditation, Transcendental Meditation (TM), on stress and blood
      pressure levels. In previous studies, TM has been shown to have a positive effect on reducing
      blood pressure levels, but more research is needed to confirm these benefits. This study will
      compare the effectiveness of a TM program with an enhanced health education (EHE) program for
      reducing stress and blood pressure levels in African Americans with high blood pressure.

      This 4-month study will enroll African Americans with early stage hypertension. First,
      participants will take part in 3 days of baseline testing, including a medical history
      review, blood pressure and heart rate measurements, an echocardiogram to obtain images of the
      heart, and blood and urine collection. Over a 24-hour period, blood pressure and heart rate
      will be measured continuously and participants will wear a pedometer to keep track of the
      distance they walk. Participants will also complete a stress test; a treadmill exercise test;
      and questionnaires on mental health, physical health, and lifestyle.

      After the 3-day baseline period, participants will attend an informational meeting with the
      study staff and other study participants. They will then be randomly assigned to either the
      TM group or the EHE group. Participants in the TM group will learn a simple meditation
      technique over a 6-day period. They will be expected to meditate for 20 minutes twice a day
      for 4 months. Participants will attend follow-up meetings with a meditation instructor every
      2 weeks throughout the study, and they will record their progress in a daily diary.
      Participants in the EHE program will take part in 14 events during the study, including
      watching educational films, listening to guest speakers, and participating in other
      instructional activities that will provide health information about blood pressure
      regulation. In addition, all participants will attend standard health education classes every
      2 weeks. These classes will provide information about reducing the risk factors related to
      heart disease and stroke. Once a month, participants will attend a study visit and undergo
      blood pressure and heart rate measurements. At the end of the 4-month study period, all
      participants will undergo repeat baseline testing.
    
  