
    
      N/E is a community-based participatory research (CBPR) multi-level, multi-component sexual
      and reproductive health (SRH) intervention, constructed on Ecological Systems Theory. N/E is
      based on Fort Peck tribal members' desire to implement a holistic SRH intervention for AI
      youth. N/E includes: 1) A school-based SRH curriculum called Native Stand, designed to
      address individual-level factors that lead to sexual risk behaviors; 2) a family-level
      curriculum called Native Voices, tailored to increase communication between adult family
      members and youth about SRH topics; 3) a cultural mentoring component at the community level
      that pairs AI youth with adults and elders to discuss traditional AI beliefs and practices
      about SRH; and 4) a mobilizing strategy to activate a multi-sectoral network of
      youth-servicing organizations at the systems level in Fort Peck to coordinate SRH services
      for AI youth. The overarching aim of this proposal is to refine, tailor, and finalize the
      components of N/E and evaluate its efficacy. We will use a cluster-randomized stepped-wedge
      design (SWD), in which 5 schools that AI youth from Fort Peck attend are the clusters to be
      randomized into the intervention 1 at a time, with all schools eventually being randomized to
      the intervention. The 5 schools are located in separate communities, mitigating the potential
      for cross-contamination. N/E is a 5-year study involving 456 15- to 18-year-old AI youth.

      Our specific aims are:

      AIM 1: Refine, tailor, and finalize the components of N/E. Our community advisory board and
      the Fort Peck-based and MSU-based research team will design culturally appropriate
      adaptations for N/E's 4 levels during the first year of the study, based on the analysis of
      our recently completed qualitative and quantitative research (focus groups, interviews, and
      surveys), as well as discussions with elders and community stakeholders.

      AIM 2: Test the efficacy of N/E for 15- to 18-year-old AI youth. Our hypotheses are:

      H1: AI youth who participate in N/E will demonstrate increased condom use at 3, 9, and 12
      months. (12 months will be used in the Primary Outcome analysis; 3 and 9 months will be used
      in the Secondary Outcomes analysis.) H2: AI youth who participate in N/E will demonstrate
      increased use of other birth control at 3, 9, and 12 months. They also will demonstrate a
      decrease in sexual risk behaviors as measured by reduced number of sex partners, delayed
      onset of sexual intercourse, and decreased substance use during sex, at 3, 9, and 12 months.
      (Secondary Outcomes) H3: N/E parents/legal guardians and youth will demonstrate significantly
      increased communication about topics related to SRH at 3, 9, and 12 months. AI youth who
      participate in the cultural mentoring program will demonstrate significantly increased
      understanding of cultural values related to traditional AI beliefs regarding SRH at 3, 9, and
      12 months. And AI youth who participate in N/E will report significantly increased use of SRH
      services at 3, 9, and 12 months as a result of improved coordination among education, health
      care, and social service agencies on the Fort Peck Reservation. (Tertiary Outcomes) AIM 3:
      Evaluate the fidelity and acceptability of N/E. N/E's fidelity and acceptability will be
      evaluated using qualitative methods, including focus groups, activity logs, and staff field
      notes and meetings.
    
  