
    
      Study Design: A single-center, two-arm, parallel group with standard of care controlled trial
      with a balanced 1:1 randomization will be conducted at University Hospital Inselspital,
      Berne, Switzerland. A total of 120 women (60 participants per study arm) who are scheduled
      for first- line Anthracycline based chemotherapy (Anth-bc) presenting either at the
      Inselspital or Lindenhofspital Berne, the Spital AG Thun or the B端rgerspital Solothurn will
      be enrolled. After baseline assessments, eligible participants will be randomized to one of
      two arms including the exercise rehabilitation programme during chemotherapy or the control
      group (exercise training intervention after conclusion of chemotherapy).

      Patient Population: Women and men aged 18 years and older with histologically confirmed
      breast cancer or lymphoma who are Anth-bC na誰ve and are scheduled for first-line Anth-bC,
      Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) grade 0-2, curative or palliative approach with
      reasonable life expectancy and a willingness to attend exercise sessions twice per week for
      12 weeks (24 sessions in total).

      Procedures: The following measurements will be collected at the beginning (T0), following the
      12 week intervention (T1) and after another 12 weeks (T2). Participants will also be expected
      to attend two weekly supervised exercise sessions integrated in a multidisciplinary oncology
      rehabilitation programme at the Inselspital Bern, Spital AG Thun, and B端rgerspital Solothurn,
      and will be expected to complete one additional exercise training session at home or in the
      community each week.

      T0: All participants will undergo baseline assessments at the University Hospital
      Inselspital, Berne. This includes cardiac assessment by a skilled clinical cardiac
      sonographer to obtain left ventricular (LV) global longitudinal strain (GLS) and aortic
      distensibility. Further, cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) will be completed on a cycle
      ergometer to obtain VO2peak and to calculate corresponding training zones. Standard measures
      conducted during the intake process including height, weight, body composition (assessed by
      bio-impedance- measurement) and waist circumference will also be collected. Blood samples
      will be obtained from each participant and analyzed for biomarkers of myocardial injury as
      well as lipid profile and HbA1C. Following each visit, twenty-four-hour ambulatory blood
      pressure monitoring and 24h Holter ECG will be performed. The questionnaires for physical
      activity patterns (GPAQ) and fatigue (FACIT-F), a health history questionnaire and the
      activity tracking devices will also be administered by the research coordinator upon their
      initial visit.

      T1: All measurements from T0 will be repeated. Additionally, patients from the ExEarly
      (experimental) group will be interviewed by the study coordinator to assess barriers for
      missed exercise sessions. Simultaneously, patients from the ExStandard group will be asked to
      anticipate barriers which may impede their participation in regular exercise training during
      the next 12 weeks. It will further be assessed whether it would have been feasible for them
      to complete the exercise programme concurrently to chemotherapy.

      T2: All measurements from T0 will be repeated. Additionally, patients from the ExStandard
      (active comparator) group will be interviewed by the study coordinator to assess barriers for
      missed exercise sessions. Simultaneously, patients from the ExEarly group will be asked to
      indicate their preferred time point for the completion of the exercise programme.

      Throughout the programme: Information regarding adherence to the exercise programme will also
      be collected by the research coordinator each month via the exercise training diaries and
      activity tracking devices from each participant. The study coordinator will also assess
      reasons for missed exercise sessions. Lastly, chemotherapy adherence will be assessed by dose
      adjustments in percent of the intended dose and reason for adjustment.

      Intervention (ExEarly): The 12-week exercise training programme will be integrated in a
      multidisciplinary oncology rehabilitation programme at the Inselspital Bern, Spital AG Thun,
      and B端rgerspital Solothurn. The exercise programme will comprise 2 weekly exercise sessions
      lasting 90 min, supervised by experienced exercise therapists. The sessions start with
      approximately 40 min cycling on an ergometer at moderate intensity, increasing on a weekly
      basis if possible. After the cycling training, patients continue the exercise session with 40
      min of strength training, stretching, relaxation, coordination and balance training. In
      addition, patients will be instructed to perform at least one additional endurance-related
      activity per week in their own time with a duration of 30-60 min at moderate intensity levels
      (e.g. walking, bicycling). In the ExEarly group, patients start in the week preceding the
      first dose of Anth-bC. They perform exercise training therapy for 12 weeks during which they
      will normally have 4 cycles of Anth-bC.

      Control Group (ExStandard): Participants who are randomized to the control group will undergo
      baseline and follow up assessments at 13 and 26 weeks. They will be encouraged to continue
      with their regular physical activity routine and will be medically managed as per standard of
      care by their Cardiologist and Oncologists. All participants will also complete the GPAQ
      Questionnaire to determine if there are potential increases in physical activity in the
      exercise and control group, which may account for changes in all outcome measures. 1-4 weeks
      after completion of their last dose of Anth-bc the participants will commence exercise
      training. All participants in both groups will also be asked to wear an activity-tracking
      device, namely a step counter (Fitbit Zip) during the intervention and control period (25
      weeks) to objectively quantify their daily physical activity.

      Randomization: Randomization will occur at the central site, the University Hospital,
      Inselspital Berne, using minimisation based on strata recruiting center, age, therapy
      (adjuvant/ neoadjuvant), Global Longitudinal Strain (GLS), HER2 status and metastases, with
      an allocation ratio of 1:1.

      Blinding: The participants will not be blinded to their intervention arm. Assessors of
      outcome data and analysis will be blinded to the study arm.

      Analytical Plan: The primary outcome, change in global longitudinal strain (GLS) from before
      Anth-bC to immediately after Anth-bC (T1 vs T0), will be compared between the two groups
      (ExEarly and ExStandard) by independent one-sided t-test (or Wilcoxon two-sample test as
      appropriate) with alpha set at 0.05. Values from baseline (before Anth-bC, T0), completion of
      Anth-bC (week 13, T1), and follow-up (T2) will be compared between groups using ANCOVA with
      repeated measures (or mixed models in case of missing data) including baseline values as
      covariate and post-hoc testing for different time points. Intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis
      will be performed with group allocation according to randomization to assess the
      effectiveness of ExEarly in the clinical setting. Per-protocol analysis will be performed
      with patients allocated with regard to time period they completed more supervised sessions
      in, with a minimum requirement of 15 of the 24 (60%) scheduled training sessions within one
      or the other time period to assess the potential effects of an optimal training. Linear
      models will be performed to find independent baseline parameters to predict negative outcome
      of cardiac function (LV GLS, NT-proBNP, hsTnT). Secondary endpoints will be analysed
      accordingly. Statistical analyses will be performed using the software R (Version 3.3.1, R
      Core Team, 2016).

      Significance: Outcomes from this project will improve long term care of patients with early
      breast cancer and lymphoma as well as other cancers, such that patients can be offered the
      possibility of active involvement towards mitigating undesirable side effects of a very
      effective cancer treatment. The assessment of barriers to training therapy may help to adapt
      the offered physical training programmes to reduce these barriers.
    
  