
    
      Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is an autoimmune disease characterized by low platelet counts
      with or without mucocutaneous bleeding (McMillan 2007).

      Like the majority of autoimmune diseases, ITP is an organ-specific disease and abnormalities
      in the regulation of immune system have been shown to play an important role in the
      initiation and/or perpetuation of the disease Autoantibodies reacting against platelet
      glycoproteins can mediate platelet destruction by the monocyte-macrophage system as well as
      suppress megakaryocyte proliferation and maturation Although auto reactive B lymphocytes
      secreting antiplatelet antibodies are considered as the main defect, substantial evidence
      suggests that a generalized dysfunction of auto reactive T cells is the critical
      immunopathological cause of ITP and the antiplatelet autoantibodies are under the control of
      T cells and the cytokines they produce Lymphocyte function associated antigen-1 (LFA-1)
      belonging to the integrin family is composed of the alpha chain CD11a and beta chain CD18
      heterologous dimers , and expressed on the surface of T lymphocytes, B lymphocytes,
      monocytes, macrophages and neutrophils. Its major ligand, intercellular adhesion
      molecule-1(ICAM-1) , belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily, distributed on the surface of
      antigen- presenting cells (APCs) The combination of LFA-1 and ICAM-1 can provide coordinated
      stimulus signal and promote lymphocyte activation, proliferation and differentiation. In the
      interaction of T cells with antigen- presenting cells (APCs), LFA-1 and its adaptor ICAM-1
      directly participate in the formation of immunological synapse that promotes costimulatory
      function, leading to increased T cell proliferation and cytotoxicity CD11a is critical for
      lymphocyte entry into the lymph nodes and normal development of hematopoietic intermediates
      The disruption of LFA-1 activity strongly affects the stability of immune interface .

      The expression of ICAM-1 and LFA-1 is significantly higher on lymphoid cells and vascular
      endothelial cells in rheumatoid arthritis (RA), indicating that the combination of LFA-1 and
      ICAM-1 may play an important role in the progression of RA The excessive expression of LFA-1
      can induce the formation of auto-reactive T cells, resulting in lupus disease in mice. By
      using LFA-1 monoclonal antibodies in lupus mice the production of autoantibodies could be
      reduced, the development of autoimmune reaction stopped, and the symptoms of lupus nephritis
      alleviated. Therefore, LFA-1 may play an important role in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus
      erythematosus.

      In ITP patients CD11a could facilitate the survival of CD19+ B cells and promote
      antibody-mediated platelets destruction .Therefore, blocking ICAM-1/LFA-1 interaction can
      suppress T-cell activation in autoimmune diseases. Many types of inhibitors (i.e. antibodies,
      peptides, small molecules) have been developed to block ICAM-1/LFA-1 interactions, and some
      of these molecules have reached clinical trials.
    
  