
    
      CABG is still the treatment of choice for ischemic heart disease. However, restenosis or
      occlusion may occur to graft vessels, leading to postoperative myocardial ischemia and
      subsequent clinical events. Long-term angiographic follow-up demonstrated that vein graft
      restenosis and occlusion are common among those receiving CABG, with a vein graft patency of
      less than 50% at 15 years postoperatively. Besides, it is found that graft occlusion may
      occur as early as 3 months after the surgery. It is, therefore, a major priority to improve
      the short-term postoperative vein graft patency so as to achieve better prognosis for
      patients.

      Saphenous vein, the currently most frequently used graft material, occupies over 70% of all
      graft vessels.

      Multiple factors may contribute to the early restenosis or occlusion of the vein grafts,
      including anastomosis technique, graft vessel quality, target lesion site and degree of
      stenosis, perioperative coagulating function, etc. The No-Touch technique focuses on
      saphenous vein graft harvesting, featured by preserving the surrounding tissue of the vein
      while at the same time avoiding manual distension. This technique has been reported
      associated with better short and long-term vein graft patency. However, these results mostly
      came from small-scale, single-center studies, therefore could hardly be recognized as
      high-level evidence for generalization of the technique.

      This prospective multi-center study aims to compare the short-term saphenous vein graft
      patency harvested by the No-Touch technique and the conventional approach. This study will
      consecutively enroll 2000 patients undergoing isolated on-pump/off-pump CABG in 7 hospitals
      of China. After obtaining informed written consent, participants will be randomly allocated
      to either the No-Touch harvesting or conventional approach group. At baseline, participants
      will be interviewed to collect detailed information about on demographics, socioeconomic
      status, cardiovascular risk factors, clinical characteristics, treatments, in-hospital
      outcomes, general and disease-specific quality of life, function and mental status. During
      the follow-ups, the investigators will collect information about clinical outcomes events,
      long-term treatments, function, quality of life, symptoms, and medical care during the
      recovery period. All participants will be invited for 64-slice multi-slice computed
      tomography angiography (MSCTA) analysis at 3 months post-operatively for graft patency
      evaluation.

      The patients, data adjudicators and CT reviewers will be blinded to the study. Due to the
      nature of this study, the operating surgeons, anesthetists and other operative room staff
      will not be blind in this study.

      By comparing the short-term graft patency between the No-Touch and conventional vein
      harvesting groups, this study will contribute major evidence of the possible superiority of
      this technique, so as to improve patient outcomes after CABG surgery.
    
  