
    
      This will be a randomised clinical trial looking at the impact of wearing or not wearing
      compression stocking following endovenous ablation using foam sclerotherapy.

      Patients will be randomised to group A (compression) and group B (no compression).

      Target Population Patients referred to the Imperial College NHS Trust for treatment of
      symptomatic varicose veins will be recruited if they are found to have varicose veins
      suitable for foam sclerotherapy on colour duplex scan.

      Intervention

      Patients will be randomised to have compression (group A) or no compression (group B). This
      will be done by using an online randomisation software (Sealed Envelope Ltd).

      The compression therapy used will be Class II compression stockings. The treatment offered
      will be foam sclerotherapy of varicose veins using either Polidocanol or Sodium Tetradecyl
      Sulphate (STS) with the concentration used left to the discretion of the clinician.

      Patients randomised to group A will be asked to wear compression stockings for 1 week.

      Patients randomised to group B will be provided with bandages to wear for 24 hours only, with
      no further compression afterwards.

      At baseline, patients will be asked to fill validated quality of life questionnaires (EQ-5D,
      AVVQ and CIVIQ) and will have their clinical scores assessed using a validated scoring system
      (CEAP and VCSS). On discharge after their varicose vein intervention, they will then be
      provided with a diary to record their post-procedural pain every day for 10 days using a
      validated visual analogue scale (VAS) as well as to record when they return to their normal
      activities and are back to work. They will also be asked to attend a follow-up in 2 weeks and
      at 6 months.

      Patients' GP will also be sent a letter to inform them of their patient's participation in
      the study.

      Follow-up

      Patients will be followed up in the outpatient clinic at 2 weeks and 6 months.

      Follow-up at 2 Weeks

      At the 2 weeks' follow-up, the diary containing details of the pain scores and how soon
      patients were able to return to normal activities/work will be collected. In addition,
      patients will be asked about any phlebitis they have had in the two weeks after their
      procedure and how compliant they have been with the compression. They will be examined and
      the Venous Clinical Severity Score (VCSS) will be recorded. They will also be asked to fill
      in the EQ-5D, AVVQ and CIVIQ scores.

      Follow-up at 6 Months

      At the 6 months follow-up, patients will be examined and their VCSS will be recorded. They
      will also be asked to fill the EQ-5D, AVVQ and the CIVIQ scores. They will have a venous
      Duplex scan to determine occlusion of the treated vein.

      Sample Size and Study Duration

      We estimated the sample size needed to observe a difference of at least 10mm in the VAS
      score, with a standard deviation of 20mm. With power at 80% and 5% significance equivalence,
      we would need to recruit 128 patients (64 per group) to show a difference.

      Previous studies looking at compression stockings have shown drop out rates close to 37% at 3
      months10. Therefore, if we estimate a drop out rate of about 40% by 6 months, we would need
      to recruit at least 180 patients. If we recruit at least 2 patients per week, this will be
      approximately a total of 208 patients that could potentially be randomised over the course of
      two years.

      With 6 months follow-up, therefore, the study will be running for 24 months with a target
      recruitment of 180 patients.
    
  