
    
      Persistant insomnia is a common sleep disorder that affects approximately 20% of the French
      population.

      The standard treatment for chronic insomnia is Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy (CBT). This
      therapy is based on 4 components: sleep restriction, stimulus control, cognitive therapy and
      sleep hygiene education. Unfortunately, there are an insufficient number of trained CBT
      experts especially in France.

      Online programs based on CBT principles (e-CBT) have been proved to be effective in improving
      the sleep and daytime functioning in this population. Thus e-CBT can be an effective
      alternative to conventional CBT.

      Behavioral measures, however, remains difficult for patients to implement alone at home.

      Spa therapy with psychosomatic orientation allows to implement hygiene rules and structure
      rhythms of life. In addition, recent studies have shown that spa treatment, including
      crenotherapy, is effective in somatic complaints related to anxiety and benzodiazepine
      withdrawal.

      In this context, spa treatment with psychosomatic orientation appears conducive to implement
      hygiene rules and structure rhythms of life. The spa treatment could therefore provide ideal
      conditions for the implementation of behavioral measures of insomnia management (sleep
      hygiene, stimulus control and time in bed restriction) and could have a very beneficial
      effect on persistent insomnia disorder.

      This non-pharmacological therapy could also reduce hypnotics consumption (especially
      benzodiazepine).

      The main hypothesis of the study is that behavioral measures of insomnia management delivered
      by an internet software program combined to a spa treatment will be more effective on
      insomnia complaints (evaluated at 8 weeks) than the same program implemented at home.

      Patients will be followed during 6 months after the beginning of the program. Subjects'
      recruitment will be carried out from the list of patients registered for a spa treatment in
      one of the five spa centers participating in the study (Les Thermes de Saujon, Les Grands
      Thermes de Bagnères de Bigorre, Les Thermes de Divonne-les-Bains, Les thermes de
      Néris-les-Bains, Les Thermes d'Ussat-les-Bains).

      Study visits will be conducted by the coordinating center (CHU Bordeaux) by telephone
      interviews or video calls with participants.
    
  