
    
      Introduction: Breast cancer is the most common cancer seen in women. 1.7 million new cases
      have been reported in the world and have been shown as the fifth cause of death among
      women.There are many risk factors in etiogenesis, including gender, family history, age,
      obesity, malnutrition in postmenopausal period, hormone therapy, after 30 years of first
      birth, alcohol consumption and physical activity inadequacy. Pain and functional disorders
      are common complications after post-mastectomy in upper extremity. After mastectomy surgery
      ,pain in the shoulder, fatigue, decrease in range of motion, restriction of daily living
      activities, decrease of muscle strength, postural inbalance,, neuropathy and lymphedema may
      occur in the acute and chronic period.

      Patients with breast cancer need a multidisciplinary and ongoing physiotherapy program.New
      technologies provide more motivational involvement for patients according to regular care and
      standard programs. Microsoft Kinect速 is a virtual exercise program that is an application. It
      has been in use for rehabilitation among physical therapists for different deseas.The Kinect速
      application is a special technological approach that allows to follow the movements of the
      body. Microsoft Kinect速 virtuel reality video games are promissing rehabilitation options
      because they involve upper extremity practise.

      Subjects and methods: A randomized clinical trial, the examiner being blinded unaware of the
      intervention group to which subjects were assigned. Participants will be randomly assigned to
      two groups:

      Experimental group- where the participants will be treated with standart exercise therapy and
      Kinect速 video-game-based technology

      Control Group - Standart exercise therapy and upper extremity rehabilitation-oriented
      physiotherapy program will be applied.

      The evaluations will be repeated at the beginning of the study and at the end of the sixth
      week. Data obtained from the study will be analyzed using appropriate statistical methods.
      Patients will be received to therapy which upper extremity rehabilitation or Kinect based
      video game play under physiotherapist supervision for two days a week for six weeks. Patients
      will be supported by the home exercise program, except during sessions. Participants' joint
      range of motion in the initial assessments will be measured by electro-goniometer, muscle
      strength assessment by JTech hand dynamometer at appropriate evaluation positions and grip
      force asssessment by Saehan Hydraulic Hand Dynamometer . In assessing pain, pain levels at
      rest and during activity will be questioned using Visual Analog Scale. Fear of movement of
      individuals will be assessed via Tampa Kinesiophobia Scale and functional levels will be
      assessed via Disabilities of the Arm Shoulder and Hand Anketi (DASH). Environmental
      measurement differences between upper extremities with and without operation will be assessed
      with made in the arm, forearm and the wrist. In assessing Quality of life will be assessed
      European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer EORTC QLQ-C30 - EORTC- BR23 and
      finally fatique of individuals will be assessed via Cancer Fatigue Scale -CFS.

      Sample size: 17 women for each group. Data Analysis:Data obtained from the study will be
      analyzed using appropriate statistical methods.
    
  