
    
      The goal of this research protocol is to conduct a randomized clinical trial to assess the
      benefits and risks of incorporating whole genome sequencing (WGS) as a first line diagnostic
      test in various genetic and sub-specialty clinics within a large, tertiary medical center.

      The investigators will enroll 500 participants within the Partners HealthCare system (e.g.
      Massachusetts General Hospital, Massachusetts Eye and Ear, etc.). The study will be enrolling
      from multiple genetics and sub-specialty clinics, including but not limited to: cardiology,
      GI cancer genetics, medical genetics, ataxia, endocrine genetics. Participants are eligible
      if their provider orders genetic testing for diagnosis of symptoms suspicious for a genetic
      disorder. Participants must not have had a genetic workup in the past.

      At the time of enrollment, a small blood sample will be obtained at the time of the
      participant's blood draw for standard-of-care testing. All participants will be subject to
      1:1 randomization, in which 250 will receive a WGS report, and 250 will be randomized to the
      arm that receives standard of care testing only. Any WGS report that is generated will be
      incorporated into the patient's electronic medical record.

      For pediatric patients, the study team will attempt to collect blood samples from both
      biological parents when possible for trio analysis (WGS performed on the proband and both
      biological parents). The purpose of trio analysis is primarily for the purpose of
      interpreting the proband/child's results. For non-pediatric patients, saliva samples may be
      requested from living parents for confirmation purposes. No genetic testing reports will be
      generated for parents. The exception to this is if a parent of a pediatric patient (part of
      trio) opts to receive results from the ACMG 59 list.

      The participants are blinded to the arm in which they are assigned until 3-4 months from the
      time of consent. At that time, a study genetic counselor will call the participant to
      disclose the randomization assignment. If the participant was randomized to receive a WGS
      report, a plan will be made to review the WGS either by phone, video conferencing, or in
      person. After reviewing the results, the research team will write a letter to the participant
      summarizing the results and any relevant medical management recommendations. This letter will
      also include a copy of their WGS report.

      All participants (or their parents) will be surveyed at three points during their enrollment:
      baseline (at time of consent), immediately post-disclosure, and 6 months post-disclosure. The
      medical providers who offered the standard of care testing will also be surveyed.
    
  