
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the probability of developing chronic GHVD among patients who receive naive T
      cell (TN)-depleted peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) in each of the following
      groups: a) Arm A: patients who receive TN-depleted peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) from a
      human leukocyte antigens (HLA) matched related donor (MRD) following high-intensity
      myeloablative conditioning (total body irradiation [TBI] 1320 cGy, thiotepa, fludarabine
      phosphate [fludarabine]) and pharmacological immunosuppression with tacrolimus and
      methotrexate; b) Arm B: patients who receive TN-depleted PBSC from a MRD following
      lower-intensity myeloablative conditioning (TBI 400 cGy, thiotepa, fludarabine and
      cyclophosphamide) and pharmacological immunosuppression with tacrolimus and mycophenolate
      mofetil (MMF); c) Arm C: patients who receive TN-depleted PBSC from a HLA-matched unrelated
      donor (MUD) following high-intensity myeloablative conditioning (TBI 1320 cGy, thiotepa,
      fludarabine) and pharmacological immunosuppression with tacrolimus and methotrexate; d) Arm
      D: patients who receive TN-depleted PBSC from a MUD following lower-intensity myeloablative
      conditioning (TBI 400 cGy, thiotepa, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide) and pharmacological
      immunosuppression with tacrolimus and MMF.

      II. To estimate the probability of acute (a)GVHD grade II-IV following TN-depleted (TND)
      PBSCT with tacrolimus and methotrexate (Arm A) or MMF (Arm B) GVHD prophylaxis in MRD
      recipients.

      III. Estimate the rate of aGVHD grade II-IV following TND PBSCT with tacrolimus and
      methotrexate (Arm C) or MMF (Arm D) prophylaxis in recipients of MUD hematopoietic cell
      transplantation (HCT).

      IV. Estimate the probability of graft failure in recipients of CD45RA positive (+)
      TN-depleted PBSCT with tacrolimus and methotrexate (MTX) or MMF GVHD prophylaxis.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate the probability of transplant-related mortality by day 100.

      II. Estimate the probability of relapse.

      III. Evaluate immune reconstitution and pathogen-specific immune reconstitution.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

      CONDITIONING:

      ARMS A AND C (high-intensity myeloablative conditioning): Patients undergo total body
      irradiation twice daily (BID) on days -10 to -7. Patients also receive thiotepa intravenously
      (IV) over 4 hours on days -6 and -5 and fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -6
      to -2.

      ARMS B AND D (lower-intensity myeloablative conditioning): Patients receive cyclophosphamide
      IV over 1 hour on day -6, fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to -2, and
      thiotepa IV over 4 hours on days -5 and -4. Patients also undergo total body irradiation once
      daily (QD) on days -2 and -1.

      TRANSPLANT: In all arms, patients undergo allogeneic HSCT with granulocyte colony-stimulating
      factor (GCSF)-mobilized CD34-enriched PBSC and CD45RA-depleted cells on day 0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS:

      ARMS A AND C: Beginning day -1, patients receive tacrolimus IV over 22-24 hours or orally
      (PO) (BID if given PO) for 50 days with taper in the absence of GVHD. Patients also receive
      methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11.

      ARMS B AND D: Beginning day -1, patients receive tacrolimus IV over 22-24 hours or PO (BID if
      given PO) for 50 days and mycophenolate mofetil IV and PO every 8 hours on days -3 to
      approximately day 30, with or without taper at the discretion of the treating physician.
      Mycophenolate mofetil should be continued or resumed after day 30 if donor chimerism is low,
      after discussion with the principal investigator.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 80-100 days, 360 days, and
      then yearly for up to 5 years.
    
  