
    
      The present proposal is intended to answer the call for accelerating drug development by
      exploring the potential of a novel anticonvulsant, lacosamide as a candidate medication for
      the treatment of AUD. This drug, which is approved for the treatment of seizure disorders,
      has unique pharmacological actions that include enhancement of slow sodium channel
      inactivation and inhibition of collapsin response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2). Alcohol
      consumption in mice that had knockdown of CRMP-2 within the nucleus accumbens was decreased
      from levels seen in control animals. In rodent studies, lacosamide administration has
      produced reductions in 'excessive' drinking and has experimentally-induced decreased
      expression of the CRMP-2 protein. These findings implicate CRMP-2 as playing a role in the
      regulation of alcohol consumption. None of the FDA-approved AUD medications or medications
      commonly used off-label to treat AUD target this CRMP-2 pathway, making lacosamide a
      promising compound for AUD drug development. The aims of this study are to: 1) test the
      effects of lacosamide on alcohol self-administration and craving, 2) test the effects of 5
      days of lacosamide administration on cognitive function, and 3) test the effects of
      lacosamide on alcohol consumption and craving during a 8-day period of exposure. The effects
      of 8-days of locasamide (300mg) or placebo will be evaluated in a human laboratory using an
      alcohol self-administration methodology. In this within-subjects crossover design, heavy
      drinkers (N=28) will be randomized to the order of exposure (lacosamide or placebo) prior to
      completing two alcohol self-administration trials. Subjects will receive a priming drink of
      alcohol and will have access to 8 alcoholic drinks over a 2-hour period. The investigators
      anticipate that subjects will consume less alcohol during an alcohol self-administration
      trial when receiving lacosamide compared to when they are receiving placebo. Significant
      lacosamide-induced reductions in the quantity of alcohol self-administered will be considered
      to be an indication that this drug may have value as an AUD medication. This study may
      provide a rationale for phase II clinical studies testing lacosamide with a treatment-seeking
      AUD population. These results should also help to spur further pre-clinical investigation
      into the role play by CRMP-2 in regulating both alcohol consumption and alcohol seeking
      behaviors.
    
  