
    
      Internet-based self-help interventions have proved to have beneficial effects on a broad
      range of disorders including complicated grief disorder. Additionally, initial evidence is
      provided for the effectiveness of a cognitive-behaviorally-oriented online guided
      intervention for the milder grief symptoms. Unguided online interventions have a favorable
      cost-benefit ratio . French empirically supported online interventions are scarce, and to our
      knowledge, no such intervention exists for grieving individuals.

      The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of this unguided internet-based
      self-help intervention on distress and well-being.

      The secondary purpose is to assess the effects of the intervention on coping abilities,
      social integration and physical health after romantic bereavement or separation/divorce in
      adults. Additionally, the aim is to collect information about the users' perception of the
      program and their satisfaction with it. This information will be taken into account in order
      to develop an enhanced version of the program.

      The primary outcomes are: distress symptoms (grief, depression, and anxiety) and well-being
      (satisfaction with life and eudaimonic well-being).

      The main secondary outcomes are: coping abilities (grief-related avoidance, coping style),
      social integration (loneliness and social support), and finally the physical health state
      (physical symptoms and sleep quality).

      Additionally, information about the satisfaction with the program will be collected and taken
      into account to develop a second, enhanced version of the program.

      The design is a non-controlled evaluation pilot study with pre-, post- and follow-up
      assessments.

      Participants fulfilling all the following inclusion criteria are eligible for the study:

        -  Romantic bereavement or separation/divorce. Either of these events must have happened
           more than 6 months before participating in the study.

        -  Subjective distress and need for support to cope with the loss

        -  Age: 20 years or older

        -  Regular internet access

        -  Mastery of the French language

        -  Approved Informed Consent (Appendix Informed Consent Form)

      The presence of any of the following exclusion criteria will lead to exclusion of the
      participant :

        -  Moderate to acute current suicidality

        -  Severe psychological or somatic disorders which need immediate treatment.

        -  Concomitant psychotherapy (participants may take part in the self-help intervention, but
           will not be included in the study.)

        -  Prescribed drugs against depression or anxiety, if prescription or dosage has changed in
           the month prior or during the self-help intervention.

        -  Inability to follow the procedures of the study, e.g. due to comprehension problems

        -  Enrollment of the investigator, their family members, employees and other dependent
           persons.

      Measurements: online-questionnaires will be used to assess the effects of the intervention at
      three measurement points: at baseline, at 12-weeks directly after the intervention and at
      follow-up 3-months after the end of the intervention.

      Procedure: Participants will be recruited by contacting several grief-related associations in
      the French-speaking area of Switzerland, and by posting ads in the (social) media (see
      Appendices 9 and 10). First, interested persons will fill in a short questionnaire checking
      the participation criteria. Then, if eligible, they will approve the online informed consent
      and complete the baseline measures. Next, participants receive their login details for the
      internet-based self-help intervention. The 10 sessions will be self-administrated. The
      recommendation is to spend one week per session. Participants are free to go through the
      sessions as often as they wish.

      The intervention is a non-controlled unguided internet-based self-help intervention for
      adults who seek support for coping with prolonged grief symptoms after romantic bereavement
      or separation/ divorce. The self-help program consists of 10 text-based sessions based on
      cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy techniques.

      There will be no control intervention. However, the results (effect sizes) will be compared
      to the ones of the original authors of the program , who administered the same intervention
      to a German-speaking population (note however that the original program is an internet-based
      guided intervention, where weekly e-mail support was offered to the participants). The study
      will include at least 23 participants.
    
  