
    
      Patient selection for hormone therapy and anti-HER2 therapy is based on the presence of their
      respective targets, the ER and HER2, as currently assessed on tumor tissue by molecular
      biological techniques. In primary breast cancer, both ER and HER2 are powerful predictors for
      response to ER or HER2 targeting treatment, driving treatment decisions. If both receptors
      are absent, targeted hormone or anti-HER2 therapy will not be administered and chemotherapy
      is the only therapeutic option left. MBC management in oncology practice is often based on ER
      and HER2 status of the primary tumor. However, a biopsy of a metastasis is considered part of
      the standard work up for MBC, in view of the potential conversion of ER and HER2 during the
      course of the disease. In contrast to primary breast cancer, no prospective studies have been
      done to evaluate the impact of (converted) receptor status on metastases, on prognosis and
      prediction of response to subsequent targeted therapy. Although receptor conversion in MBC is
      a well known phenomenon, clinicians may refrain from having a biopsy taken, for instance when
      it would require a highly invasive procedure. Even if it is feasible, the biopsy will only
      reflect ER and HER2 status of a single lesion, and disregard the potential heterogeneity of
      expression of ER and HER2 status between and within metastatic lesions.

      Therefore, the current standard work up of MBC is not adequate enough or too invasive in a
      relevant proportion of MBC patients to drive treatment decisions. As a result, these patients
      incorrectly receive an ineffective treatment with potentially toxic effects. Meanwhile, an
      effective treatment for these patients may be delayed or even denied (such as chemotherapy or
      anti-HER2 based therapy) because of inadequate assessment of ER and HER2 status. This shows
      the need of obtaining up-to-date whole body information with information of characteristics
      of the different metastases within a patient. Non-invasive 18F-fluoroestradiol(18F-FES)-PET
      and Zirconium-89(89Zr)-trastuzumab-PET scan techniques are able to visualize the ER and HER2
      in metastatic lesions throughout the whole body, and may therefore - in a patient friendly
      way- provide comprehensive information (i.e. of the primary tumor and various metastatic
      lesions) on ER and HER2 status. Furthermore, optimal selection of the right treatment for the
      right patient may not only reduce unnecessary toxicity, but also health care costs. Although
      various studies have already indicated the clinical utility of 18F-FES-PET and
      89Zr-trastuzumab-PET, no prospective data are yet available assessing their predictive value
      (14-19). Therefore, it is clear that these new techniques, and also the aspects of
      cost-effectiveness, need to be prospectively evaluated within the framework of established
      assessments (including metastases biopsies and FDG-PET), to ensure their implementation in
      standard care.
    
  