
    
      Medical research over the last ten years has identified genitourinary (GU) infection, as a
      major risk factor for low birth weight deliveries affecting a very large number of women both
      in the industrialized and the developing world. It is estimated that up to about 1 billion of
      women are affected annually by urinary infections worldwide. Urinary tract infections (UTI)
      are also most common bacterial infections during pregnancy. In Bangladesh, there was a high
      incidence of UTI in 21-25 years age group (44.61%). The bottom line for GU infection is that
      lactobacilli, healthy bacteria lose their dominant.

      The role of normal vaginal micro-biota in urogenital health Recently, the protective role of
      the commensal microbiota has come into focus for its infection-inhibiting function.
      Lactobacilli are now the favourite probiotic ("health promoting") bacteria. There are
      clinical evidence to show that Lactobacillus strains GR-1 and RC-14 were shown to reduce UTI,
      BV and infections associated with yeast pathogens.

      Fructoligosacharride, a prebiotic agent At present, considerable attention is focused on
      determining ways to increase the number of probiotic microorganisms including lactobacilli
      that colonize the gastrointestinal tract or vagina. Prebiotics are substances that can either
      significantly modulate the colonic microbiota by increasing the number of specific probiotic
      bacteria such as lactobacilli and bifidobacteria or reducing undesired intestinal
      colonization of pathogenic bacteria by mimicking their attachment sites on the intestinal
      mucosa.

      Design and methods In a, double- blind, placebo- controlled study, 210 early pregnant
      community women (6-12 weeks gestation) will be randomized to either FOS or placebo,
      administered orally, 6g/day for 6 months. Vaginal smear and urine samples will be followed
      for LAB using Nugent's score and to exclude UTI respectively. Birth events including weight
      will be documented. Stool or nasopharyngeal samples from their infants will be obtained at
      week-24, 30, and 36 to see levels of LAB. Anthropometry and diseases morbidity will be
      monitored during infancy.

      Outcome measures/variables:

        -  Primary: 1. Incidence of LBW (birth weight below 2500 gram)

        -  Secondary 1. Rate of vaginal and intestinal colonization of LAB and/or GU infection at
           week 12, 24, 36 gestation and gain in z-score (weight for height, weight for age and
           height for age) of infant from birth
    
  