
    
      All patients between the ages 18-74 years referred to the Forzani MacPhail Colon Cancer
      Screening Centre (CCSC) in Calgary, Alberta, Canada for colonoscopy will be considered for
      inclusion. During pre-assessments at the clinic, patients are asked to consider a general
      research consent. If they agree to that, then they will be approached for consideration of
      participating in this study and presented with an "Invitation to Participate in a Research
      Study" form ; the study assistant will obtain final consent if they agree. Those not
      interested in participating will simply receive their physician's standard bowel preparation
      protocol. There will be no coercion of any sort. Enrollment of participants will be performed
      with block randomizations of 2, 4, 6 and 8 by using a computer-generated table, with
      allocation concealment maintained through the use of consecutively numbered sealed envelopes.
      Colonoscopists and investigators will be blinded to allocation groups. Patients will be
      allocated to one of two groups: (1) Split dose Polyethylene Glycol Based Lavage (2L + 2L)
      with Standard dietary instructions- a low fibre diet for 4 days prior to colonoscopy and
      clear fluids after a low-fibre breakfast on the day before procedure; (2) Split dose
      Polyethylene Glycol Based Lavage (2L + 2L) with Low Fibre Lunch dietary instructions- a low
      fibre diet for 4 days prior to colonoscopy and clear fluids after a low-fibre breakfast and
      low-fibre lunch on the day before procedure

      A study assistant will assign patients to their group based on the Randomization and instruct
      them on the proper use of their assigned bowel preparation method. Patients will be given a
      tolerability questionnaire, which has been modified from a previously used questionnaire, to
      be completed once their bowel preparation is finished and before coming to the CCSC for the
      colonoscopy (included in the appendix). Patient concerns or questions regarding the
      preparation will be directed toward the study assistant or clinic nurses as opposed to their
      endoscopist, so as to avoid un-blinding the Colonoscopist. The physician performing the
      procedure will then complete an Ottawa Bowel Preparation Scale, a validated Simplified Bowel
      Preparation scale and a New Bowel Prep Scale to assess colon cleanliness.
    
  