
    
      Background:

        -  3-deoxy-3-18F-fluorothymidine (FLT) positron emission tomography (FLT PET)/Compute
           tomography (CT) has been shown to correlate with the rate of cellular/tumor
           proliferation.

        -  The Imaging Subcommittee of the International Harmonization Project in Lymphoma
           recommends performing fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) at
           least 3 weeks, and preferably 6-8 weeks after chemotherapy or chemoimmunotherapy and
           8-12 weeks after radiation or chemoradiation therapy due to high FDG accumulation in
           inflammatory tissues.

        -  FLT uptake in inflammatory lesions is less prominent than FDG and it is likely that FLT
           PET/CT can better differentiate inflammation from tumor.

        -  FLT PET/CT imaging is expected to better differentiate between treatment induced
           inflammation and malignancy and should enable early prediction of therapeutic response.

        -  FLT PET/CT imaging is expected to differentiate between residual inflammatory residual
           masses from residual malignancy and therefore guide appropriate treatment.

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To estimate the diagnostic accuracy of FLT PET/CT as an early indicator of complete
           response to therapy in B and T cell lymphoma.

        -  To estimate the diagnostic accuracy of FLT PET/CT in the evaluation of residual masses
           after therapy.

      Eligibility:

        -  Participant must be enrolled in a lymphoma therapy study at the National Institutes of
           Health (NIH) Clinical Center OR be enrolled in the CALGB 50303 study at another site OR
           undergoing a new course of treatment of lymphoma at another facility. The National
           Cancer Institute (NCI) Laboratory of Pathology will confirm diagnosis for subjects
           enrolled at all CALGB study sites.

        -  Participants must have a clinical course consistent with lymphoma and have available
           documentation of lymphoma from either the NCI or from an outside pathology laboratory.

        -  Subjects enrolling in the early response arm must undergo baseline FLT PET prior to
           receiving a new course of lymphoma therapy.

        -  Subjects enrolling in the residual mass evaluation arm can be enrolled at the time the
           FDG avid residual mass is discovered (i.e. no pre-therapy FLT image is required).

        -  Subjects can enroll in both arms of the study.

        -  Participant must be 18 years or older.

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance score of 0 or 1.

        -  Serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT), serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase
           (SGPT) less than 5 times upper limit of normal (ULN).

        -  bilirubin less than or equal to 2 times ULN.

      Design:

      There are 2 arms in this study

        -  The first arm will assess FLT as an early predictor of tumor response to therapy
           (treatment naive or recurrent disease). Subjects are imaged with FLT and FDG PET
           pre-therapy, following 2 cycles of therapy and post therapy.

        -  The second arm will assess lymphoma patients with FDG PET positive residual mass.
           Subjects are imaged with FLT PET prior to standard of care biopsy of residual mass. If
           initial FDG PET data is not available in Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine
           (DICOM) format or is of suboptimal image quality, a repeat FDG PET/CT at the study site
           may be required.

             -  We will accrue 70 participants (40 in the early response arm and 30 in the residual
                mass arm) to this study.
    
  