
    
      The cause of liver damage in people with ASA is unknown. However, because ASA is the only
      urea cycle disorder that is characterized by both liver damage and elevated levels of
      argininosuccinic acid, researchers believe that the elevated acid levels cause the liver
      damage. Common treatments for urea cycle disorders include a low-protein diet and arginine
      supplementation, which, when combined, help to decrease ammonia levels in the blood.
      Buphenyl-TM may aid in lowering ammonia and argininosuccinic acid levels. Although
      Buphenyl-TM has been FDA-approved for use in people with some types of urea cycle disorders,
      there is little information on the effectiveness of the drug in children with ASA. This study
      will evaluate whether treatment of ASA patients with Buphenyl-TM in conjunction with lowered
      doses of arginine improves liver function as measured by short-term assessment of synthetic
      activity and the use of stable isotope tracers to assess ureagenesis and nitric oxide
      production.

      Initially, participants in this double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover study will
      undergo a 3-day washout period during which no Buphenyl-TM will be given. They will then be
      randomly assigned to one of two groups: either Buphenyl-TM (500 mg/kg/day or 10 grams/m2) and
      arginine (100 mg/kg/day or 2 grams/m2)), or arginine alone (500 mg/kg/day or 10 grams/m2).
      Participants will remain on this initial treatment arm for 1 week, at the conclusion of which
      an assessment of hepatic synthetic function, ureagenesis, and nitric oxide production will be
      performed. After this assessment, participants will undergo a second 3-day washout and then
      crossover to the other treatment arm for 1 week. At the end of the 1-week treatment period, a
      second assessment will be performed. During the washout period before each treatment period,
      no Buphenyl-TM will be administered, and arginine will be administered at the standard
      therapeutic dose of 500 mg/kg/day or 10 grams/2.
    
  