
    
      Tinnitus is the perception of a "ringing or hissing" sound in the absence of an acoustic
      stimulus affecting more than 40 million people in the United States. While the exact etiology
      of chronic bothersome tinnitus is unknown, current evidence based on numerous studies and
      neuroimaging results suggests chronic bothersome tinnitus involves the central nervous system
      with abnormalities in neural networks including attention and emotional networks. These
      neuroplastic changes in multiple neural networks may offer targets in the treatment of
      chronic bothersome tinnitus.

      The Brain Fitness Program® (Posit Science Corporation, San Francisco, California) is a
      cognitive rehabilitation program that has been used in the treatment of schizophrenia and
      geriatric populations, and has been shown to have favorable results by reorganizing aberrant
      neural networks. Preliminary results from our team have shown improvements in tinnitus
      severity and cognitive functioning for participants with chronic bothersome tinnitus using
      this cognitive rehabilitation program.

      Recent studies in numerous disorders have shown d-cycloserine (DCS) augments learning therapy
      programs by enhancing neuroplasticity. In addition, the adjuvant use of DCS with learning
      therapies has been found to accelerate symptom reduction decreasing the time-burden needed
      for learning therapies. Based on the belief that chronic bothersome tinnitus involves changes
      in malleable neural networks that can be targets of therapy and that DCS enhances
      neuroplasticity, the investigators hypothesize that adjuvant DCS with cognitive
      rehabilitation treatment may improve tinnitus severity and the cognitive deficits associated
      with chronic bothersome tinnitus.

      This randomized-controlled trial will use an abbreviated cognitive rehabilitation program
      given for 5 weeks with DCS or placebo to evaluate the impact of a neuroplasticity-sensitizing
      drug on tinnitus symptom severity and cognitive performance among patients with chronic
      bothersome tinnitus. A positive result on this study will have numerous implications,
      including offering a new treatment option for chronic bothersome tinnitus with few known side
      effects and limited time commitment or cost.
    
  