
    
      Pilot Study of Budesonide for Primary Biliary Cirrhosis with overlap features of Autoimmune
      Hepatitis Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is a chronic liver disease of unknown cause that
      may result in inflammation and destruction of the bile ducts inside the liver. Over time,
      cirrhosis and complications of liver failure may develop. Although treatment with ursodiol
      has been association with a reduction in liver enzymes (blood tests) and a reduction in the
      progression of the disease, some patients do not respond to ursodiol therapy. Patients with
      overlap features of Autoimmune Hepatitis (AIH) appear to be at higher risk of developing
      complications of disease even when on ursodiol. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the
      effects and safety of Budesonide in PBC with overlap features of AIH. Budesonide has unique
      effects on the immune system that may be helpful in the treatment of the disease.

      Eligible participants will include those patients with a diagnosis of PBC with overlap
      features of AIH and in whom liver enzymes have not sufficiently improved with ursodiol
      therapy (the alkaline phosphatase is not less than twice upper normal). At entry all patients
      will have a history and physical examination, blood tests, bone densitometry and complete
      quality of life questionnaires. Patients will be prescribed Budesonide 9 mg to take daily for
      one year in addition to the ursodiol. The medication can be taken with or without food. Blood
      tests and symptoms diaries will be completed every 3 months. Patients will be contacted by
      phone to assess tolerance of the medication and any new health problems. At one year,
      patients will return for a history and physical and repeat blood tests and bone densitometry.
      Possible side-effects include bone mass loss (bone thinning), diarrhea, indigestion, nausea,
      joint pains, dizziness, headaches, weight gain and Cushing's syndrome. Other side-effects are
      possible. The medication and the tests will be billed to the patient or patient's insurance.
    
  