
    
      Heart failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFPEF) is a distinct clinical heart failure
      syndrome and represents a critical unmet need in cardiovascular medicine. HFPEF patients have
      a marked increase in morbidity and mortality and a profound clinical disability. However, to
      date, no management strategies have been demonstrated to decrease morbidity and mortality or
      decrease the clinical disability suffered by HFPEF patients.Investigators have postulated
      that one pivotal reason that previous randomized clinical studies have failed to show
      efficacy in HFPEF trials centers around the incomplete understanding of the pathophysiologic
      mechanisms underlying the development of HFPEF. Studies in Veteran patients with HFPEF and in
      relevant animal models of HFPEF have demonstrated that one critical mechanism contributing to
      HFPEF are changes in the cardiac interstitium and extracellular matrix (ECM) fibrillar
      collagen homeostasis. Preliminary studies presented in this application demonstrate that a
      highly novel application of stem cell therapy to a rodent model of HFPEF results in
      regression of ECM fibrosis and reversal of LV diastolic dysfunction. These preliminary
      studies form the foundation for the 3 specific aims proposed in this application that targets
      HFPEF in Veterans.

      The primary and secondary objectives of this study are too determine the safety profile of
      CAP-1002 administered by intracoronary infusion in patients with Heart Failure and a
      Preserved Ejection Fraction (HFPEF) and to assess exploratory efficacy endpoints to determine
      whether treatment of HFPEF patients with intracoronary allogeneic CDCs affects clinical
      functional status (QOL scores), exercise tolerance (6 Minute Walk Test - 6MWT), exercise
      hemodynamics (supine exercise ergometry during right heart catheterization), myocardial
      interstitial fibrosis (MRI with native T1 mapping and calculation of extracellular volume
      [ECV] after gadolinium administration), macroscopic fibrosis by delayed gadolinium
      enhancement (DGE), and diastolic function (catheterization, echocardiography, BNP).

      If a patient fulfills the inclusion criteria of clinical HF, preserved EF, increased BNP, and
      increased LA size and has none of the exclusion criteria (see details below), they will be
      consented and undergo CT coronary angiography (to define the coronary anatomy) and
      donor-specific antibodies (DSA) screen. If significant CAD is identified by CT and confirmed
      by subsequent coronary arteriography and FFR, subjects will be referred to their physician
      for consideration of a revascularization procedure. If such subjects undergo a
      revascularization procedure, subjects may be reconsidered and rescreened for the study, minus
      a repeat CT, after a minimum of 3 months post-revascularization.

      All patients will have CAP-1002 or placebo delivered through a coronary catheter inserted in
      the right and left coronary arteries using standard techniques in the cardiac catheterization
      laboratory. A right heart catheter will be used to obtain baseline (pre-infusion)
      hemodynamics. All patients will receive 25 million cells (CAP-1002) or placebo in each of the
      3 coronary arteries. Sequential dose administration of 25 million cells each suspended in10
      mL of cryopreservation solution (CryoStor® CS10, BioLife Solutions, Inc.) containing 10%
      dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), and 1800 units heparin and 45 mcg nitro will be delivered via a
      coronary artery catheter. Additionally, four milliliters of an intermediate wash solution
      containing saline is also administered to each patient. Patients randomized to the placebo
      group will receive placebo injections consisting of CAP-1002 minus the active CDC
      constituent. Each 10ml bag of 25 million cells will be infused over 1 ml/min. All procedures
      will be performed by the cardiac interventionist (Dr Fernandes). The patient will receive
      local anesthesia +/- gentle conscious sedation if undue anxiety. During and in between
      infusions, multiple measures of gas exchange, hemodynamics, including blood pressure and
      heart rate and monitoring for any arrhythmias (ventricular and supra-ventricular). Fluids are
      permitted for hypotension during the procedure, as are low dose inotropes such as dobutamine
      and use of inhaled nitric oxide. VPCs or NSVT can be seen with insertion of the PA catheter
      as it traverses the RV and is easily remedied by catheter withdrawal. Oxygen will be used in
      those patients already on O2 therapy at baseline and if needed to treat temporary hypoxia
      should this occur. If significant adverse events occur, the cell infusion will be terminated.
      Pre-specified infusion related events include the following within 6 hours of CDC infusion:
      refractory hypotension requiring pressors and inotropes, significant hypoxemia requiring FiO2
      > 0.4 or an increment of > 0.2 from baseline, new cardiac arrhythmia requiring cardioversion,
      ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, asystole or pulseless electrical activity,
      acute severe transfusion reaction (immune or infection related).
    
  