
    
      The plan is to implement a clustered randomized placebo controlled trial with an infant phase
      (6-12 months of age) and a preschool phase (36-48 months of age). For the infant phase, the
      investigators will use ProPAN (Process for the Promotion of Child Feeding) in the development
      of the evaluation and intervention, with modifications as necessary for the Guatemalan
      context. ProPAN is a tool developed and distributed by the Pan American Health Organization
      to develop, implement, and evaluate interventions and programs to improve infant and young
      child diet and feeding. ProPAN includes four modules:

      Module 1: Assessment Module 2: Testing Recipes and Recommendations Module 3: Intervention
      Module 4: Monitoring and Evaluation

      For the preschool phase, the investigators will use an evidence-based school readiness
      intervention (Little By Little) that has been shown to be effective with Hispanic
      preschoolers. The intervention will be implemented through the Association for the Prevention
      and Study of HIV/AIDS who will train and supervise the community health workers. By working
      directly with a local non-profit organization, the project will be well positioned to inform
      strategies to scale up the intervention on a community wide basis, if beneficial effects are
      shown.

      The project examines the effects of an integrated intervention that includes both
      micronutrient powder added to food and responsive feeding for infants or school readiness for
      preschoolers. The primary aim is to examine how an integrated micronutrients + responsive
      feeding/school readiness intervention changes the development (primary outcome), growth and
      micronutrient status (secondary outcomes) of young children. The investigators will focus on
      infants (6-12 months) when the risk for micronutrient deficiencies is high, as they
      transition from breast feeding to complementary feeding and the family diet. The
      investigators will focus on preschoolers (36-48 months) to examine if micronutrients + a
      school readiness intervention can improve children's school readiness skills. The design
      includes neighborhood clusters randomized into four groups: 1) micronutrients plus responsive
      feeding/school readiness 2) micronutrients only, 3) placebo plus responsive feeding/school
      readiness, and 4) placebo only.

      The investigators will test the following hypotheses:

        1. Children in the two micronutrients groups have better change from baseline in
           development (primary outcome), growth and micronutrient status (secondary oitcomes),
           than children in the two placebo groups.

        2. Mothers and children in the two responsive feeding/school readiness groups have better
           change from baseline measures of child development than those in the two control groups.

        3. The impact of the responsive feeding/school readiness intervention is greater in the
           micronutrient groups than in the placebo groups. Children in the micronutrients plus
           responsive feeding/school readiness group have better change from baseline in
           development than children in any of the other three groups.
    
  