
    
      Anxiety - an important concept for describing human behaviors - is a condition in which a
      number of physiological responses are generated, accompanied by feelings of distress,
      anxiety, and depression in various scenarios where one feels threatened. Test anxiety
      experienced by nursing students around the world during their training is one of the most
      significant problems that hinder the acquisition of professional skills. Students in most
      nursing programs show poor exam performance due to anxiety caused by the OSCE exam. Studies
      on test anxiety also show a negative relationship between test anxiety and academic
      performance. When the literature is examined, it can be seen that stress reduction is very
      important in allowing students to maximize their learning of practical skills in the
      vocational education process. Techniques such as music therapy, cognitive therapy, emotional
      freedom technique (EFT), breathing techniques, mind cleansing, aromatherapy, and relaxation
      of muscles have been used to reduce the anxiety levels of nursing students . Based on prior
      research, the aim of the study to determine the effects of the music therapy and EFT
      (Emotional Freedom Technique), on situational anxiety and vital signs, before the OSCE
      (Objective Structured Clinical Exam) in nursing students.

      This study was conducted with 90 volunteer students studying at the Nursing Department of the
      Health Sciences Faculty at a foundation university in Medipol University. The data was
      collected prior to the OSCE on May 31, 2017. Students included in the study were required to
      meet the eligibility criteria of (a) being 18 years old or above, (b) taking the theoretical
      course of Nursing Principles I and II, and (c) entering the OSCE on May 31 as part of the
      Nursing Principles course. All students taking the exam were included in the study without
      reverting to the method of sample size selection (n = 90). A randomly ordered class list was
      prepared with the student numbers in the classroom list using the random.org program.
      According to the newly created list, students were notified in writing one day before about
      what time to arrive before the exam. Students who arrived on the day of the exam were
      assigned to the music therapy and EFT groups, and the control group. Each group consisted of
      30 students. The students were taken to a 90 m2 practice room. Each group was briefed for
      five minutes before obtaining their consent. The students had their vital signs measured by
      the investigators. They were asked to fill out the Student Identification Form and the
      Situational Anxiety Scale. Afterward, the methods (music and EFT) were applied for 15
      minutes. The methods were applied by the investigators who are experts in their fields. After
      the methods were applied, the students had their vital signs remeasured by the investigators
      and were asked to fill out the Situational Anxiety Scale. For the control group,
      pre-measurements were taken, 15 minutes of free time was given, and then post-measurements
      were taken.
    
  