
    
      Background:

      There is a growing belief that angiogenesis inhibition represents a potentially promising,
      novel therapeutic approach to highly vascular solid tumors like malignant gliomas.
      Thalidomide and Peg-Intron (IFN - Interferon) are attractive drugs to use in combination to
      test the hypothesis of combination anti-angiogenesis therapy inhibition given their proven
      activity as single agents in patients with malignant gliomas and their spectrum of largely
      non-overlapping toxicities.

      Given recent preclinical data describing more potent antiangiogenic and anti-tumor effects of
      low dose, continuous IFN administration, we are interested in evaluating the use of pegylated
      IFN in combination with thalidomide. Thus, we are proposing a phase II trial of pegylated IFN
      with thalidomide in patients with recurrent gliomas.

      Objectives:

      To obtain preliminary evidence of anti-tumor efficacy of PEG-Intron in combination with
      thalidomide in patients with recurrent high grade gliomas as assessed by prolongation of
      progression-free survival compared to historical controls.

      A secondary endpoint in this trial is to determine the response rate associated with the
      combination therapy in each of the two strata and to evaluate and document all toxicities
      from PEG-Intron in combination with thalidomide at the doses prescribed in this protocol in
      this patient population.

      Eligibility:

      Patients with histologically proven supratentorial malignant primary gliomas will be eligible
      for this protocol. These include glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), anaplastic astrocytoma (AA),
      anaplastic oligodendroglioma (AO), anaplastic mixed oligoastrocytoma (AMO), or malignant
      astrocytoma NOS (not otherwise specified).

      Patients must not have received prior therapy with Peg-Intron or Thalidomide.

      Design:

      Patients will be treated with weekly PEG-Intron plus daily oral thalidomide. All patients
      will be treated for 6 weeks following which patients will have a repeat MRI scan to assess
      disease response.
    
  