
    
      Strong clinical evidence supports the use of transdermal systemic testosterone (T) treatment
      for Hypoactive Sexual Desire Disorder (HSDD) in menopausal women. According to preclinical
      studies, T is necessary to maintain the functional machinery underlying clitoral arousal
      response. In hypogonadal men with erectile dysfunction, T replacement therapy is able to
      improve penile vasodilation as assessed by using color Doppler ultrasound (CDU). On the other
      hand, the regulation of clitoral vascularization by sex steroids is still under-investigated.

      We aimed to explore the effects of 6 months T therapy on clitoral CDU parameters and sexual
      function in pre- and postmenopausal women with female sexual dysfunction (FSD).

      Adult heterosexual women attending our clinic for sexual concerns were retrospectively
      recruited. A subgroup of sexually active patients with FSD (n=81) was divided into 4
      different groups according to different treatments followed as per clinical practice: women
      with Hypoactive Sexual Desire Disorder (HSDD) treated with off-label transdermal 2% T gel
      once daily (300 mcg T per day, n=23); women with dyspareunia due to moderate to severe
      vulvovaginal atrophy (VVA), treated with local estrogens (estradiol ovules) taken daily for 2
      weeks and afterwards twice a week (n=12); women with dyspareunia due to mild to moderate VVA,
      treated with non-hormonal moisturizers every 2-3 days (n=37); women with HSDD reporting also
      significant dyspareunia due to moderate to severe VVA, treated with combined therapy
      (transdermal T and local estrogens) (n=9). Patients underwent physical, laboratory, uterine
      and genital (clitoral and uterine arteries) CDU examinations, and completed the Female Sexual
      Function Index (FSFI). at baseline and after 6 months.

      Our main hypothesis is that systemic T treatment is able to positively modulate clitoral
      blood flow in basal conditions, specifically to increase clitoral artery Peak systolic
      velocity (PSV).
    
  