
    
      Chemotherapy has life-threatening or distressing side effects such febrile neutropenia,
      infections, mucositis, nausea, vomiting, fatigue. Mucositis is deﬁned as inﬂammatory and/or
      ulcerative lesions of the oral and/or gastrointestinal tract that can be caused by high dose
      chemotherapy, Infectious disease, immune deﬁciency and medications..

      Lesions of oral mucositis (OM) are often very painful and compromise nutrition and oral
      hygiene as well as increase risk for local and systemic infection. Mucositis can also involve
      other areas of the alimentary tract; for example, gastrointestinal (GI) mucositis can
      manifest as diarrhea. Thus, mucositis is a highly significant and sometimes dose-limiting
      complication of cancer therapy.

      OM leads to an increased risk of microbial infections and often entails parenteral nutrition,
      long-lasting intake of analgesics and extended hospitalization periods. This causes
      substantial costs to the health system and, also has a considerable impact on the patient's
      quality of life. Furthermore, dose reduction might become necessary, which limits the
      efficacy of the antitumor therapy.

      OM is characterized by an intense inflammatory reaction on the mucosa lamina propria cells,
      which results in activation of the transcription factor NF-kB. The activation of NF-kB leads
      to transcription of genes involved in the synthesis of pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as
      IL-1β, IL-6 and TNF-α, and agents known to attenuate the expression of cytokines have
      demonstrated efficacy in the prevention of experimental mucositis.

      Conventional chemotherapeutic drugs most frequently associated with mucositis include
      antimetabolites, such as 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), methotrexate, and purine antagonists.
      Anthracycline antitumor antibiotics (eg, doxorubicin) and taxanes (eg, paclitaxel and
      docetaxel) are other chemotherapeutic drugs that commonly cause mucositis.

      Over the last five decades, 5-fluorouracil (5-Fu) remains one of the most effective and most
      commonly used drugs to treat colorectal cancer. The commonly side effects of 5-FU include
      myelosuppression, dermatitis, cardiac toxicity, diarrhea, and mucositis. Among these adverse
      effects, gastrointestinal mucositis is a major complication that occurs in approximately 80%
      of patients receiving 5-FU and results in abdominal bloating as well as vomiting and
      diarrhea. 5-FU induces inflammation in the small intestine, characterized by the increased
      intestinal wall thickness and crypt length, the decreased villus height, and the increased
      myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity in tissues and pro-inflammatory cytokine production in sera..

      Statins are potent inhibitors of cholesterol biosynthesis and have been shown to decrease
      mortality from cardiovascular disease. In addition to their lipid lowering properties by
      inhibiting 3-hydroxy-3-methylgluteryl coenzyme A (HMG CoA) reductase. Statins possess various
      pleiotropic effects that include improvement in endothelial dysfunction, increased expression
      of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), enhanced bioavailability of nitric oxide (NO),
      potent antioxidant potential and anti-inflammatory properties.

      It has been reported that simvastatin had significant preventive effects on esophageal,
      gastric and intestinal damage in a rat model using 10 mg / Kg of simvastatin microemulsion by
      gavage, beginning one week prior to treatment with MTX, and during treatment with this drug.
      Animals received i.p. injection of atorvastatin (ATV; 1 or 5 mg/kg), saline or saline/ethanol
      30 min before 5-FU and daily for 5 days (5 days) or 10 days (10 days). in hamsters showing
      significant reduction the macroscopic and micro-scopic lesions induced by 5-FU in the OM of
      hamsters.

      The macroscopic protective effects of atorvastatin were associated with reduced production of
      TNF-α and IL-1β and decreased neutrophil infiltration evidenced by histopathological analysis
      and Myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. In addition, atorvastatin also reduced oxidative stress
      and induced an increase in non-protein sulfhydryl groups showing anti-inflammatory and
      immunomodulatory action.
    
  