
    
      This protocol is designed as a training study, to permit evaluation and treatment of subjects
      with critical illnesses. A data base, not otherwise obtainable, will be collected of disease
      processes related to critical illness. Observation of the short-term effects of intensive
      care interventions will also take place. Minimal studies scheduled for each admission will
      include a medical history and physical examination, monitoring of hemodynamic status, routine
      laboratory tests, and evaluation for possible causes of the critical illness. Treatment plans
      will be individualized for each patient's condition, and the number and length of additional
      visits and diagnostic evaluations will vary accordingly. Any medical care recommended or
      provided to the patient will be consistent with routine standards of practice as outlined in
      Clinical Center (CC) and Critical Care Medicine policies. In selected patients, blood samples
      may be stored for future research.

      The CC is a JCAHO-accredited medical facility with protocols both for standard medical care
      and also for research. The Critical Care team is made up of intensivists, critical care
      fellows, nurses, nurse practitioners, and a pharmacist. All of the intensivists are certified
      in one or more medical subspecialties including critical care and/or cardiology, infectious
      diseases, pulmonology, and anesthesiology. The CC Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU) is a
      state-of-the-art facility that provides comprehensive care for patients with multi-organ
      failure, sepsis, and medical emergencies. There are daily multi-disciplinary rounds.
      Attending physicians are in-house during normal business hours and on-call at home at night.
      A MICU Fellow is always available in-house.

      Suitable candidates for this study could include critically ill patients with a diagnostic or
      therapeutic dilemma, an unusual presentation of disease, or a disease requiring novel therapy
      available at the CC. Because inter-hospital transfer of the critically ill may increase
      patient risk, patients will be accepted only if there is a likely medical benefit that
      outweighs the risk of transfer and if the risk of transfer is thought to be acceptable by
      both the referring and accepting physicians.

      Critically ill patients represent a vulnerable population because of serious illness that may
      affect their ability to make decisions. They must have an identified durable power of
      attorney designated for decision making, prior to transfer to the CC.

      The risks of this study include the risk of transfer of a critically ill patient from one
      facility to another and the risks of standard or accepted medical care. There may be no
      benefit to participation in this study.

      In addition to the care available through enrollment in this protocol, patients may also
      enroll in other NIH protocols if they wish.

      The establishment of this protocol will provide a means to evaluate and treat patients, and
      to generate hypotheses and protocols based on this clinical experience in critical illness.
    
  