
    
      Primary Objective:

      1. To compare nonverbal communication score (NCS, range 0 - 4) between minority and Caucasian
      non-Hispanic patients. The score is a sum of four components, each contribute to a score
      range 0 - 1. The four components are: percent time spent with open body language, percent
      time spent interacting with the patient or surrogate, distance from the patient along the
      long axis of the patient's body (distance from the head), and distance from the patient along
      the axis perpendicular to the patient's body (distance from the handrail).

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the association between NCS and patient medical risk, defined by the
           Charlson Co-Morbidity Index, range 0 - 37).

        2. To evaluate the association between NCS and surgical risk. High risk surgeries will
           include intraperitoneal, intrathoracic, and suprainguinal vascular surgery, as
           classified by the Revised Cardiac Risk Index (RCRI). Lower risk surgery will include
           surgery in all other locations.

        3. To evaluate the association between NCS and anesthesia decision making. In particular
           the investigators will evaluate the association between NCS and the incidence of
           arterial line insertion, the incidence of 2nd peripheral intravenous line insertion, the
           incidence of foley catheterization, the incidence of regional anesthesia blocks placed
           for postoperative analgesia, and parenteral morphine equivalent administration during
           surgery.

        4. To evaluate the association between NCS and change in patient anxiety, as assessed by
           change in patient anxiety measured by the difference in anxiety on a Visual Analog Scale
           (VAS) score before preanesthesia anesthesia consult and after preanesthesia anesthesia
           consult.

        5. To evaluate the association between NCS and the duration of the preanesthesia anesthesia
           consult, defined between the time the anesthesia provider enters the Post-Anesthesia
           Care Unit (PACU) bay and the time the anesthesia provider leaves the PACU bay.

        6. To evaluate the impact of the observer to the study result, which will be assessed by
           recording the number of times the anesthesia provider looks at the outcome assessor.

      Feasibility assessment: Feasibility for future investigation will be assessed by analyzing
      the following outcomes. Success will need to be found in all of the following areas to
      conclude a larger prospective study is feasible.

        1. Is data collection by an observer technically feasible? Ability to obtain complete data
           to compute the primary outcome in > 95% of patients will be threshold for success.

        2. Is the patient consent rate reasonable? Ability to consent > 50% of eligible patients
           will be the threshold for success.

        3. Is there good agreement between raters? Mean NCS < 10% between raters will be the
           threshold for success.

        4. Is the sample size, based upon the found difference in NCS between minority and
           Caucasian non-Hispanic patients, reasonable?

      A sample size calculation yielding less than 500 patients will be the threshold for success.

      Population: Patients will be 18 years old or greater, undergoing surgery in the South
      Operating Rooms at Oregon Health & Science University and possessing the capacity for
      consent.

      Number of Sites: Single center trial

      Study Arms: Minority (case): Self-identified as being a member of group traditionally
      underrepresented in the medical profession relative to the proportion in the general
      population: African-American/Black, Mexican-American, Native American (American Indians,
      Alaska Natives, and Native Hawaiians), and mainland Puerto Rican.

      Control: Self-identified as Caucasian and non-Hispanic

      Study Duration: Institutional Review Board submission and approval is expected to take 3
      months. Study initiation, enrollment, and data collection is expected to take 12 months. Data
      analysis, manuscript writing, editing, submission and revision to a peer-reviewed journal is
      expected to take 12 months.

      In summary, the study should be completed in under 3 years.

      Subject Participation Duration: Individual subjects will be included the study for a portion
      of their time in the PACU for preanesthesia assessment. Total time of subject participation
      including time for recruitment, enrollment, data collection during the preanesthesia consult,
      and post-consult data collection will be less than 1 hour.

      Estimated Time to Complete Enrollment: Estimated time from enrollment into study of the first
      subject to enrollment into study of the last subject is 12 months.
    
  