
    
      Classification of Carotid Artery Occlusion:

      The radiographic imaging of 100 consecutive subjects with a diagnosis of chronically occluded
      cervical ICA (COICA) in the interval of 2009 - 2017 were evaluated at the University of Iowa
      Hospitals and Clinics were analyzed. Reviewers used morphology and location of occlusion, in
      addition to presence or absence of reconstitution of distal cervical ICA evident of MRA, CTA,
      and /or DSA to stratify this cohort of subjects into 4 categories. The rational for this
      classification was to evaluate whether it would potentially predict which COICA subjects
      could be viable candidates for the revascularization procedure using endovascular techniques.
      Of course this classification would need to be validated in larger cohort of patients.

      Type A: The occlusion of the cervical ICA is tapered with proximal ICA lumen patent. In
      addition, the cavernous and/or petrous segment is reconstituted by either collaterals from
      the ECA and/or retrograde filling from the supraclinoid segment. This type is thought to be
      the most technically feasible to revascularize using endovascular techniques.

      Type B: The occlusion of the cervical ICA is not tapered but there is a stump where the
      proximal portion of the cervical ICA lumen is patent. In addition, the cavernous and/or
      petrous segment is reconstituted by either collaterals from the ECA and/or retrograde filling
      from the supraclinoid segment. This type is thought to be the second best after type A to
      technically revascularize using endovascular techniques.

      Type C: The occlusion of the cervical ICA is at the common carotid artery bifurcation (the
      cervical ICA appears completely amputated at the bifurcation), and there is no ICA lumen
      observed. The common carotid artery continues as ECA. However, the cavernous and/or petrous
      segment is reconstituted by either collaterals from the ECA and/or retrograde filling from
      the supraclinoid segment. This type is thought to be technically difficult to revascularize
      using endovascular techniques.

      Type D: is the same as Type C except that there is no reconstitution of the cavernous and/or
      petrous segment. This type is thought to be the most difficult type to revascularize using
      endovascular techniques. This type should only considered for revascularization in acute
      ischemic stroke because this type could be encountered with tandem lesions during the acute
      phase.

      To test whether our proposed classification could predict the technical feasibility and
      safety of endovascular revascularization of symptomatic COICA, we will perform a pilot study.
    
  