
    
      Community coaching is a a strategy that helps community leaders plan for and overcome
      challenges to community development. Interventions at the community level are most effective
      when they are conceived and led by locals. Community coaches can aid the local community in
      the development of FPCs in rural communities. FPCs have the potential to improve the
      nutritional quality of available food, and connect a diverse network of food system
      stakeholders from the public, private and nonprofit sectors, which includes local food
      pantries. Food pantry users are food insecure and avoid hunger by consuming low cost and
      shelf stable food items. Guided client choice is a system of distribution that can be
      employed in food pantries and supported by FPCs. Guided client-choice is a model of
      distribution in which pantry clients choose the foods they would like from the pantry based
      upon family size and is formatted based upon USDA MyPlate. Guided client choice has been
      shown to meet the needs of the pantry client base better than the traditional model of
      distribution often found in food pantries. Food pantries have the opportunity to meet the
      nutritional needs of the food insecure population.

      Voices for Food is a multi-leveled socio-ecological, longitudinal, matched treatment and
      comparison study to develop food policy councils (FPCs), and improve food security and diet
      quality in rural communities. Voices for Food was conducted in 24 rural, high poverty
      counties in South Dakota, Indiana, Missouri, Michigan, Nebraska and Ohio. Counties were
      assigned to a treatment (n=12) or comparison (n=12) group.

      Intervention activities focus on three key components that impact food security: 1) community
      coaching by Extension Educators/field staff, 2) FPC development, and 3) development of a
      MyChoice (guided client choice) food pantry. Community coaching, along with the Voices for
      Food kit was only provided to treatment counties. Comparison communities only received the
      Voices for Food kit. Evaluation components focus on three levels of the intervention: 1)
      Community (FPCs), 2) Food Pantry Organization and Food Environment, and 3) Pantry Client &
      Families. Participants in this study were community stakeholders, food pantry directors,
      staff/volunteers and food pantry clients. Pantry food access/availability including pantry
      food quality and quantity, household food security and pantry client dietary intake are
      dependent variables.
    
  