
    
      Surgical site infections (SSIs) are a common problem and a significant cause of morbidity in
      surgical patients. They present a substantial burden to the health care system in the United
      States and contribute more than 1.6 billion dollars in excess cost and 1 million in extra
      hospital days in affected patients. SSIs are associated with a multitude of complications
      including an increased risk of incisional hernia and prolonged hospital stay. Despite optimum
      surgical care there remains an inability to significantly reduce SSI rates following
      colorectal surgery and this field represents a critical priority for study. When one examines
      the control arms of recent high quality randomized controlled trials, the SSI rate following
      colorectal surgery ranges from 22.0-26.1%, emphasizing the prevalence of this complication.

      Many strategies have been attempted to reduce SSI rates. The Centers for Medicare and
      Medicaid Services introduced the Surgical Care Improvement Project infection project with the
      aim of reducing SSI incidence and morbidity. These measures include prophylactic intravenous
      antibiotics administered within 1 hour of skin incision, appropriate prophylactic antibiotic
      selection, discontinuation of prophylactic antibiotics within 24 hours after surgery,
      appropriate hair removal, and maintenance of perioperative normothermia. Despite the
      enforcement of these measures through quality reporting and pay-for-performance measures,
      significant controversy exists as to their overall effectiveness, especially in the high-risk
      colorectal surgical population. Laparoscopic surgery has been shown to improve SSI rates in
      the colorectal population; however, not all patients are appropriate candidates for this
      approach and the inability of promising interventions such as wound edge protection6 and
      gentamicin sponges4 to improve SSI rates following colorectal surgery mandate the
      investigation of novel techniques.

      Initiated in the orthopaedic literature, a new technique of wound dressing has been described
      to reduce SSI. Incisional negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) using devices such as the
      Prevena™ involves applying a wound vacuum sponge over a standard wound closure (including
      fascial closure and skin closure with staples). The incisional NPWT dressing is then left in
      place for 5 to 7 days before removal. A recent retrospective study by Bonds et al. described
      the ability of incisional NPWT to reduce SSI rates in open colorectal surgery from
      29.3-12.5%.

      The aim of the current study is to assess the clinical effectiveness of incisional NPWT to
      reduce SSI rates in open, re-operative colorectal surgery. The primary endpoint of this study
      is the occurrence of superficial SSI within 30 days after surgery and the secondary endpoints
      include, length of hospital stay and cost effectiveness.
    
  