
    
      Study Hypothesis:

      Investigators hypothesize that edoxaban initiation within five days of ischemic stroke will
      not be associated with increased HT rates, relative to patients in whom anticoagulation is
      delayed. Serial imaging using CT will be utilized to determine the rate of radiological HT
      after edoxaban initiation. Incident radiological HT rates will be assessed as objective
      performance criteria for the safety of early versus delayed edoxaban initiation.
      Investigators also hypothesize that RNA expressed in leukocytes at time of stroke can
      stratify risk of HT in patients treated with edoxaban. Investigators will assess the rate of
      recurrent ischemic stroke, but recognize any differences between groups will be hypothesis
      generating only due to the small trial sample size.

      Study Design:

      LASER is a randomized controlled, parallel-group, two-arm, assessor-blinded trial with an
      associated registry. Patients with previously known or newly diagnosed AF-related ischemic
      stroke within five days will be randomized 2:1 to early (≤ 5 days) or delayed (6-14 days)
      edoxaban initiation. Ischemic stroke will be defined as evidence of acute focal cerebral
      infarction confirmed on CT/MRI and/or focal hypoperfusion/vessel occlusion on multimodal CT,
      or by sudden focal and objective neurological deficits (i.e NIHSS ≥ 1) of presumed ischemic
      origin persisting > 24 hours. A total of one hundred fifty patients from a comprehensive
      Canadian stroke center will be enrolled. Eligible patients will be randomized within five
      days of symptom onset after baseline imaging. Patients with spontaneous parenchymal
      hemorrhage (PH) (European Cooperative Acute Stroke Study (ECASS) grade PH1 or PH2 on the
      baseline imaging will not be eligible for randomization. These patients will be included in
      the registry portion of LASER and follow-up will be identical to that in the trial. The
      timing of edoxaban initiation in these patients will be at the discretion of the treating
      physician.

      Eligible patients will be randomized 2:1 following open label simple randomization procedure
      to early (≤ 5 days) or delayed (6-14 days) edoxaban initiation via a centralized web-based
      randomization process, Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap, Vanderbilt university).
      After randomization to early or delayed arms, the decision to time the edoxaban initiation
      within the specific arm will be at the treating physician's discretion. The rationale for the
      specific timing of treatment, within the randomization window, will also be recorded by
      surveying the treating physician in each case.

      All randomized patients will be followed for 90 days after edoxaban initiation. A National
      Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score will be assessed at baseline, 7 and 90 days
      after edoxaban initiation. Functional outcome will be assessed with a modified Rankin Scale
      (mRS) score at baseline, 7 and 90 days after edoxaban initiation. Montreal Cognitive
      Assessment (MoCA) will be performed at baseline, and day 90 after edoxaban initiation. RNA
      will be used to stratify risk of HT. Functional outcome at 90 days will be dichotomized as
      favourable (mRS score 0-2) and unfavourable (mRS score 3-6). Quality of life will be assessed
      with the EuroQol-5 Dimension (EQ-5D) and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) at day 90.

      In addition to diagnostic imaging, all patients will have a non-contrast, axial CT scan at
      baseline (within 24 hours from study recruitment) and at 7±2 days after edoxaban initiation.
      Therefore, all patients will have a minimum of two scans (diagnostic and
      pre-randomization).In the event of clinical deterioration, CT scans will be repeated. The
      original LASER protocol included MRI acquisition in all patients. Following diagnostic CT,
      all patients were to undergo MRI including diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI to assess the
      acute infarct volume), Fluid Attenuated Inverse Recovery (FLAIR to assess chronic infarct and
      white matter ischemic change volumes) and susceptibility weighted imaging (SWI to assess for
      acute HT and chronic cerebral microbleeds) prior to randomization. Shortly after trial
      initiation, however, COVID-19 restrictions limited access to research MRI protocols. The
      protocol was therefore amended and both baseline and day 7 imaging data are limited to CT.

      Administrative Structure:

      Case report forms and data monitoring will be completed on site. All imaging data will be
      read centrally at the Stroke Imaging Laboratory at the University of Alberta.

      Procedures:

      Randomized patients will be treated with edoxaban 60 mg once daily. The edoxaban dose will be
      reduced to 30 mg once daily if any of the following characteristics are present at the time
      of randomization or during the study: estimated creatinine clearance (CrCl) of 30 to 50 ml
      per minute using Cockcroft-Gault Equation or body weight ≤ 60 kg. Prior to edoxaban
      initiation, all patients will be treated as per the clinical standard of care using
      antiplatelet(s) and anticoagulation for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis. Any
      antithrombotic therapy prior to randomization will be recorded.

      Imaging Procedures and Analysis:

      Anonymized dicom CT data will be assessed by two independent raters, blinded to treatment
      group, for the presence, number and total volume of regions with infarction. Infarct volumes
      will be measured using planimetric techniques. Any HT, as well as other intracranial
      hemorrhage, seen at baseline and day 7 will be graded using the Heidelberg Bleeding
      Classification (HBC). Incident HT seen on follow-up CT scan is defined as new or progressive
      HT. Progressive HT will be defined as any increase in the severity grade between the baseline
      and follow-up scan. Two raters will rate the HT using the Heidelberg criteria.

      RNA Analysis:

      A blood sample will be drawn into a PAXgene tube for RNA analysis at the time of the baseline
      CT. RNA will be isolated and measured by RNA sequencing and reverse transcription polymerase
      chain reaction (RT-PCR). Genes different between patients who develop HT compared to those
      without HT will be identified by analysis of variance adjusted for covariates as previously
      described. A prediction model will be developed using the identified genes. The ability of
      the developed gene model to predict HT will be compared to other factors associated with HT
      including age, stroke severity, infarct volume.

      Endpoints:

      The primary study endpoint is the rate of incident (new or progressive) radiological HT. The
      secondary endpoint is the rate of symptomatic HT, defined as intracerebral hemorrhage within
      and beyond infarcted brain tissue with PH >1/3 the volume of the ischemic infarct (Class 2 in
      HBC) associated with clinical deterioration (worsening of NIHSS score by ≥ 4 points) within
      30 days of treatment initiation. Other secondary endpoints are recurrent ischemic stroke
      within 90 days of randomization, recurrent sub-clinical infarcts on follow up CT at 7±2 days
      post edoxaban initiation, systemic hemorrhagic complication rate within 90 days of
      randomization, NIHSS at day 7 and 90, mRS score at day 7 and 90, favourable mRS at day 90,
      and mortality within 90 days, quality of life at 90 days assessed by (EQ-5D) and Visual
      Analog Scale (VAS), and ability of leukocyte RNA to predict HT.

      Investigators will report serious adverse events (SAE) within the study period using
      standardized event, resolution and association codes, and they will be reported to the local
      Human Research Ethics Board.

      Sample Size:

      Based on previous open label studies of DOAC use in acute stroke, the rate of symptomatic HT
      is likely to be nil, which is why we have made this a secondary endpoint. We have previously
      demonstrated the rate of asymptomatic HT in serial imaging studies to be as lower as 3% in
      CT-based studies and up to 13% in MRI based studies. There are no data related to the
      difference in asymptomatic HT rates in patients randomized to early versus late DOAC
      initiation. Our aim is to determine the event rates in these two groups with reasonable
      precision.

      A sample size of 150 patients, randomized 2:1 (≤5 days:6-14 days) will allow detection of an
      asymptomatic hemorrhage rate of 3% (95% CI 0.6-8.5%) in the early treatment arm (n=100) and
      4% (95% CI 0.5-13.7%) in the late treatment arm (n=50). Thus, we will have confidence
      interval width of a maximum of 13.7%, allowing enough precision to demonstrate the safety of
      early treatment. The rationale for adopting a 2:1 randomization approach is to increase the
      precision around the estimate of safety in the early treatment arm, without substantively
      losing power.
    
  