
    
      This is an investigational clinical study trialing the safety and efficacy of the Esko device
      in the SCI population. Participants with a variety of spinal cord injury diagnoses (e.g.
      motor complete/incomplete, paraplegia/ tetraplegia) or diagnoses presenting with similar
      neurological weakness will be included to best determine the criteria for using the Ekso
      device within this population. The Ekso is an anthropomorphic mobile exoskeleton that is
      intended for spinal cord injury rehabilitation and mobility. The device is used to drive the
      patient's lower extremity joints through a desired trajectory in order to obtain a user
      specified motion.

      The device is electrically powered by two motors at the knee and hip joints of either leg of
      the user. The flexion and extension directions at the hip and knee are only actuated degrees
      of freedom on the device. The device is equipped with mechanical hard stops at the limits of
      healthy subject ranges of motion to prevent powering the joint of the user to a position that
      the joint cannot reach. The device operates using a number of sensors. Some of these sensors
      are dedicated to maintaining proper function of the mechanical system and some are devoted to
      determining the user intent while using the device. The user focused sensors are foot
      pressure sensors at the heel and toe of both feet to determine the forces between the user
      and the ground at those locations.

      The control code in the device behaves by creating an internal estimate of the subject's
      current position and then coordinating the motion of the four actuated degrees of freedom to
      take the desired motion. The desired motion is specified through an attached user interface
      that can be used by the patient or a therapist. The device can currently stand from a seated
      position, walk, and turn and sit down. In actual operation the device is triggered by one of
      two modes. The first mode is used early in training where the therapist manually triggers the
      steps of the user using the graphical interface; for advanced users, the machine interprets
      their motions to determine when steps are desired and the therapist is only responsible for
      starting and stopping the motion.

      Complete and incomplete SCI patients as well as patients with similar neurological weakness
      will be recruited from inpatient, day rehab and outpatient clinics. Participants will be
      scheduled from 1-40 sessions. The amount of sessions provided will be dependent upon
      compatibility with device, ability to tolerate device use and ability to safely ambulate
      using the device. A participant will continue with each phase of the study as deemed
      appropriate by research staff:

        -  A.Phase 1 (1-3 sessions): To determine if participant is compatible with device use. If
           participant is not compatible with device the study will stop here. If participant is
           compatible with device, subject will move into phase 2.

        -  B.Phase 2 (4-10 sessions): Assessment and training of participant with device to
           determine safety and efficacy of subject with device. If subject is unsafe with device
           or does not tolerate device well then the study will stop here. If participant is safe,
           comfortable and efficient with device, participant will move into phase 3.

        -  C.Phase 3 (11-40 sessions): Continued training with participant to determine functional
           ability of patient to use device within a lab or clinical environment.

      All testing and training sessions will be under supervision of a licensed physical therapist.
      Manual assistance or cueing will be provided as necessary for safety and balance. Vital signs
      will be monitored before and after physical exertion. All subjects will be permitted to stop
      physical activity or rest at any time during the study. Adverse events will be recorded.

      We anticipate this study will help to determine if the Ekso device is a feasible option to
      initiate ambulation in the motor complete SCI population, motor incomplete SCI population and
      other similar diagnostic populations unable to ambulate over ground. We do not foresee any
      potential pitfalls.
    
  