
    
      Patients admitted to the ICU may have delayed awakening after their critical illness has
      resolved. Though most either are due to metabolic causes or delayed elimination of sedative
      medications, more serious pathologies such as intracranial hemorrhage, ischemic stroke, and
      vasogenic edema may also be the cause of coma. These pathologies all result in increases in
      intracranial pressure (ICP) with cerebral edema. At this stage, the usual workup includes
      brain CT scans, MRI or EEG. These tests require transporting the patient from the ICU to the
      Radiology department, a process that may not be possible for an unstable, critically ill
      patient. Identifying elevated intracranial pressure elevations have so far, relied on
      invasive monitoring techniques requiring placement of an intracranial or intraventricular
      catheter.

      The optic nerve attaches to the globe posteriorly and is wrapped in a sheath that contains
      cerebrospinal fluid. The optic nerve sheath is contiguous with the dura mater and has a
      trabeculated arachnoid space through which cerebrospinal fluid slowly percolates. Pressure
      increases around the brain are therefore transmitted to around the optic nerve and increase
      the diameter of the optic nerve sheath. This optic nerve sheath diameter (ONSD) has been
      described as a highly sensitive (88-94%) and specific (85% - 94%) noninvasive technique of
      identifying increased intracranial pressures in patients with brain trauma, intracranial
      bleeding or stroke[1-4]. This method requires placement of an ultrasound probe on the
      patient's closed eyelid and then a direct measurement of the diameter of the optic nerve
      sheath at a pre-specified distance from the globe. A value greater than 58 mm has been shown
      to correlate significantly with an increased ICP (> 20 cm H20); r = 0.71, p<0.001 [5].

      We hypothesize that bedside ultrasound measurement of the ONSD is a simple screening test for
      increased intracranial pressure and can be used to rapidly and efficiently identify patients
      in the ICU who have coma due to an increase in intracranial pressure.

      Objectives:

      To determine the role of bedside ONSD measurement by ultrasound in the evaluation of comatose
      patients in the ICU.

      METHODS:

        -  Study Design: Prospective, Observational study

        -  Study Sample:

             -  Inclusion criteria: Consecutive, adult patients already admitted to the critical
                care service and in whom a cause of coma is not determined.

             -  Exclusion criteria: obvious ocular trauma, patients on sedative or narcotic
                infusions.

      Variables to be measured:

      Independent variables:

      Demographic identifiers; age, gender, comorbidity, admitting diagnosis, APACHE II scores,
      SAPS II scores

      Dependent (Outcome) variables:

        1. Diagnosis of cerebral edema/ elevated intracranial pressure as measured by Optic nerve
           sheath diameter

        2. Diagnosis of cerebral edema/ elevated intracranial pressure as measured by neuroimaging

        3. ICU mortality

      Materials & Methodologies:

        1. Screening & Enrollment of patients:

             1. All ICU patients will be screened for enrollment.

             2. For patients meeting the inclusion criteria, informed consent will be obtained from
                the patient or family members at bedside.

             3. Demographic information will be collected in Case Record Forms (Appendix 2: Sample
                CRF)

             4. Ultrasound examinations will be carried out and results entered into a CRF.

        2. Technique of ONSD ultrasound measurement from Reference 6.

             -  A high resolution 7.5 -10 MHz linear array ultrasound transducer probe will be
                used. A large amount of standard water-soluble ultrasound transmission gel will be
                applied to the patient's closed eyelid. The globe will be scanned in the transverse
                plane.

             -  The ONSD will be measured at a predefined point 3 mm posterior to the globe in both
                eyes.

             -  Measurement of the ONSD for both eyes will be done and the average the two
                measurements will be taken.

             -  A value > 58mm (from reference 1) will be considered as indicative of increased ICP
                and the primary ICU team will be informed for rapid measures to decrease ICP or
                urgent imaging of the CNS.

        3. Statistical Methods:

             1. Sample size & Sampling: Consecutive admissions to the ICU will be enrolled. Since
                this is a proof of concept study, the projected sample size is 40 patients. An
                interim analysis will be carried out after 20 patients are enrolled and a further
                20 will be enrolled as necessary

             2. Analysis: Categorical variables will be reported as proportions or percentages,
                continuous variables as means or medians. Differences between groups will be
                estimated using CHI2, student t test or Mann-Whitney U test, as appropriate. A p
                value =0.05 will be considered significant. SPSS version 22.0 will be used for all
                analysis.

      Ethical considerations:

        -  Informed Consent for ultrasonographic examination. The use of use of ultrasound for the
           assessment and management of critically ill patients in the ICU and emergency room is
           considered as standard of care and is routinely practiced in ICUs around the world.
           Since ultrasound evaluation has become incorporated into usual ICU practice, written
           consent is not required in its routine use. We therefore ask for a waiver of informed
           consent since we will not be performing any deviation from usual ICU care and our study
           is simply a collection of practice into a protocolized form.

        -  Research Advisory Committee (RAC) Review This protocol will be reviewed and approved by
           the hospital Research Advisory committee responsible for oversight of the study.

           2. Subject Confidentiality & Protection of Rights of Control Subjects All case record
           forms, reports and other records will be identified only by the Study Identification
           Number (SID) to maintain subject confidentiality. All records will be kept in a
           password-protected file. All computer entry and networking programs will be done using
           SIDs only.

           3. Study Modification/Discontinuation The study may be modified or discontinued at any
           time by the primary investigators and or Research Advisory Committee as part of their
           duties to ensure that research subjects are protected.
    
  