
    
      Healthy blood circulation is important to overall health and well-being, as strong and steady
      local blood flow delivers fresh nutrients to the cells and prevents accumulation of waste
      materials within the cells necessary to maintain healthy cell function. Conversely, poor
      local blood circulation can cause numerous acute and chronic health problems, and can
      manifest itself in symptoms of pain, numbness, weakness and swelling, and can exacerbate
      these symptoms in co-existing acute and chronic conditions. Chronic conditions that may
      result from poor blood circulation that is untreated and persists over a long period of time
      include varicose veins, kidney damage, stroke and heart attack. Memory loss, frequent
      headaches, dizzy spells and slowed mental response can also result.

      Therefore, improving local blood circulation has significant positive implications for both
      the overall health and well-being of an individual and for improving, relieving and
      preventing symptoms and long-term complications of poor blood circulation. Treatment to
      improve blood circulation include simple options such as changes in dietary and exercise
      habits, and alternative treatments such as acupuncture and herbal remedies. Medications may
      be prescribed to assist with contributory conditions such as high blood pressure or
      cholesterol. In more progressed cases, surgical options such as angioplasty or bypass may be
      performed to treat narrowed or blocked arteries.

      However, less invasive options are usually minimally effective, medication has its own risks
      and side-effects and surgical procedures are invasive and carry significant procedural risks
      and potential complications. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of low
      level laser therapy as a means of increasing local blood circulation as it is related to
      reducing chronic heel pain arising from plantar fasciitis that is simple, non-invasive and
      risk-free.

      Low level laser therapy is believed to effect various physiological mechanisms of change that
      include improved blood flow and increased cell metabolism, advanced healing,
      anti-inflammatory actions and stimulation of the immune system. The laser directs light
      energy into the body's cells. The cells then convert this light energy into chemical energy
      to promote natural healing and pain relief. The laser also allows photons to enter the tissue
      and become absorbed in the cells mitochondria within which the photonic energy is converted
      to electromagnetic energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). This additional ATP is
      energy the cell uses to trigger positive physiological responses from the body such as
      increased cell metabolism and development of muscle tissue and collagen, improvement of blood
      circulation, stimulation of tissue repair, wound healing and stimulation of the nervous and
      immune systems.
    
  