
    
      The Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare Partnership (AMPATH) was initiated in Kenya
      in 2001. In 2009, AMPATH was designated as a Center of Excellence for Cardiovascular and
      Pulmonary Disease Research by the NHLBI, and the program's research portfolio includes CVD,
      diabetes, and risk factors. Population-based prevalence of diabetes and hypertension in Kenya
      is not well known, and estimates vary according to technique, definitions, and geography.
      Prevalence rates range from 1% to 12% for diabetes, and 5% to 24% for hypertension. The lower
      ranges of these figures are self-reported disease and likely underestimate true prevalence
      due to low awareness of and screening for chronic diseases in this region.

      In response to this substantial and growing burden of diabetes and hypertension, AMPATH has
      formed a Chronic Disease Management (CDM) Program , and established productive partnerships
      with the Kenyan government and local communities, in order to optimize care delivery for
      chronic diseases, such as diabetes and hypertension. AMPATH has a Memorandum of Understanding
      with the Kenyan Ministry of Public Health and Sanitation and the Ministry of Medical Services
      to test and evaluate innovative approaches to chronic disease management. The CDM Program
      developed a robust diabetes and hypertension management protocol derived from the
      International Diabetes Federation, World Health Organization (WHO), and Joint National
      Commission 7 and 8 guidelines for diabetes and hypertension management, using drugs contained
      in the Kenyan national formulary. The CDM program's interventions are delivered at Ministry
      of Health facilities with associated personnel. In addition, AMPATH has developed innovative,
      community-based solutions to ensure a consistent and secure supply of essential medicines.
      The CDM Program has enrolled over 2,000 patients with diabetes and 3,100 patients with
      hypertension, who are being cared for at nine rural health centers and 30 rural dispensaries.
      However, achieving BP control has been challenging; preliminary analysis of CDM Program data
      indicates that despite an average reduction in systolic BP (SBP) of 9.3 mmHg, only 30-40% of
      the CDM patient population have controlled BP. Thus, the program is actively seeking out
      innovative approaches to optimize care delivery and outcomes for patients.

      AMPATH is also sensitive to the economic reality of its catchment population, recognizing
      that the average daily income for a substantial proportion of its clients is less than one US
      dollar per day. AMPATH has created a Safety Net Program to improve the economic security of
      clients without encouraging dependency, by promoting income-generating activities. The
      program has conducted preliminary work organizing microfinance groups, initially starting
      with HIV patients and pregnant women, and recently expanding to patients with diabetes and
      hypertension. Based on the model of Village-Level Savings and Loan Associations, AMPATH's
      microfinance program is a client-driven model that involves the creation of community savings
      groups. Thus, microfinance group members mobilize and manage their own savings, provide
      interest-bearing loans to group members, offer a limited form of financial insurance, and
      contribute to a social fund that is used in cases of emergency or welfare issues of group
      members. AMPATH also provides group members specific training on agribusiness,
      entrepreneurship, financial literacy, accounting, marketing, and group dynamics, to support
      engagement in sustainable income-generating activities. Since the program was launched in
      November 2010, there have been a total of 9,969 clients (83.8% female, 16.2% male), 508
      groups, cumulative deposits of over $250,000 and social fund of nearly $23,000. The
      microfinance program has increased group membership by 14% with a retention rate of over 98%.
      An impact evaluation of the microfinance program revealed that group members have increased
      their monthly income by 10% and increased their weekly expenditure on food per household by
      18%.

      This research project will be conducted within the AMPATH catchment area, in six Divisions in
      western Kenya, each of which is geographically and administratively divided into Community
      Units (CUs) of approximately 6,000 individuals: Burnt Forest (4 CUs), Chulaimbo (8), Endebess
      (4), Kapsara (6), Matunda (4), and Moi's Bridge (6). Each Division has rural health
      facilities (rural health centers and rural dispensaries) staffed by clinical officers
      (mid-level practitioners) and nurses, while CHWs are in the villages. There has been a
      longstanding positive relationship among AMPATH, healthcare providers, and the communities.
      The CDM program has an established presence in all these communities.

      Conceptual Framework Both microfinance and group medical visits can improve health outcomes
      through many mechanisms. The research team hypothesize that both interventions can cause
      changes in social network characteristics, leading to improved intermediate factors (diet,
      physical activity, medication adherence, and retention in care), ultimately yielding CVD risk
      reduction. It is also possible that both interventions can impact the intermediate factors
      and health outcomes independent of social network characteristics. Likewise, changes in
      social network characteristics may mediate the relationship between the interventions and CVD
      risk reduction independent of the intermediate factors. In addition, the interventions may be
      related to the health outcomes by other independent pathways. Finally, baseline differences
      in social network characteristics may moderate the impact of microfinance and group medical
      visits on CVD risk reduction.

      Microfinance can increase savings (specifically health savings) and income, leading to
      increased ability to pay for healthier foods, medicines, diagnostic services, specialty
      consultation, and health insurance, thereby improving diet, medication adherence and
      retention in care. Microfinance can also lead to improved financial literacy,
      self-confidence, and decision-making agency, which can positively impact all of the
      intermediate factors, and subsequently CVD risk reduction. Likewise, group medical visits can
      increase the efficiency of care delivery, improve quality of care, encourage self-efficacy,
      and increase levels of clinician-patient trust, all of which can improve intermediate factors
      and thereby achieve CVD risk reduction. Both interventions can change social network
      characteristics within two to three months, and can create group cohesion, social support,
      and shared experiences, leading to a social environment more conducive to healthy behavior
      choices, medication adherence, and retention in care, maximizing their effectiveness. Social
      networks influence behavior through several theoretical mechanisms: information for behavior
      change, perceptions of social norms, how-to knowledge, and social comparisons. Through all of
      these mechanisms, individuals with diabetes or at increased risk of diabetes can achieve CVD
      risk reduction. It is likely that integrating group medical visits into microfinance groups
      may yield even better outcomes, through a combination of the mechanisms described above. To
      assess the independent effects of group medical visits, microfinance, and integrated group
      medical visits-microfinance groups, a four-arm trial is proposed. In addition, the
      investigators will assess whether changes in social network characteristics mediate the
      relationship between each intervention, the intermediate factors, and the primary outcome.
      Finally, the research team will assess if baseline differences in social network
      characteristics moderate the relationship between each intervention and the primary outcome.
      In sum, the Bridging Income Generation with GrouP Integrated Care (BIGPIC) study will be able
      to assess comprehensively the relationship between microfinance, group medical visits, social
      networks, intermediate factors, and CVD risk reduction among individuals with diabetes and at
      increased risk of diabetes.

      Subsidiary Aim 1.1: Develop a contextually and culturally appropriate integrated group
      medical visit-microfinance model for CVD risk reduction AMPATH's Community Strategy
      Initiative routinely engages with existing community-based governance structures to gather
      input and feedback on any community-based initiative. In addition, the AMPATH Safety Net
      Program routinely gathers feedback from community members, and the microfinance intervention
      has evolved as a result of that input. The research team will adhere to these same principles
      in this proposed project. A participatory, iterative design process will be pursed and create
      a "design team" consisting of one facilitator, two research team members, two clinicians, two
      CHWs, two patients, and the research assistant. The design team will meet for several design
      sessions over a period of four weeks. The design process will involve three phases:
      brainstorming, conceptualization, and creation. During brainstorming, the facilitator will
      first acquaint the team with the findings of the qualitative study and specify the criteria
      for the integrated group medical visit-microfinance intervention (i.e. prototype as described
      in Aim 2 below, while incorporating content from the focus groups and mabaraza). In the
      conceptualization phase, the team will evaluate advantages and disadvantages of ideas
      resulting from brainstorming, and will develop a more concrete model. The creation phase will
      involve the actual creation of the integrated group medical visit-microfinance model for CVD
      risk reduction among individuals with diabetes and at increased risk for diabetes.
      Educational materials will be developed in English, Kiswahili, and other local languages
      using standard approaches to translation and back-translation. Once the integrated group
      medical visit-microfinance model is developed, two FGDs will be conducted each with patients,
      microfinance group members, and health workers, in order to assess acceptability and
      feasibility. The investigators have previously used this type of approach with positive
      community feedback.

      Aim 2: Evaluate the effectiveness of group medical visits and microfinance for CVD risk
      reduction. The effectiveness of group medical visits and microfinance groups for CVD risk
      reduction will be evaluated among individuals with diabetes or at increased risk for
      diabetes, by conducting a four-arm cluster randomized trial . The primary outcome measure
      will be one-year change in SBP, and a key secondary outcome measure will be change in CVD
      risk score. Randomization will occur at the level of the CU (cluster), and will be stratified
      by Division. Each of the 32 CUs will be randomly allocated (eight CUs per arm).

      Preliminary Data As above, AMPATH's CDM Program has an extensive network of rural health
      facilities delivering care for diabetes and hypertension. Although there have been notable
      improvements in clinical measures, nearly 60% do not link to care and nearly 50% do not
      remain in care once enrolled. Women are twice as likely to engage in care as men. The CDM
      Program has piloted various forms of group care for diabetes and CVD risk factors and has
      determined that group care is feasible and acceptable in this setting. The program
      implemented diabetes self-management support groups providing community-based peer support as
      a supplement to health facility-based clinical care, education, and counseling. These groups
      included a peer leader with specific training, and they had regularly scheduled meetings
      during which members learned about behavioral modification, self-management strategies, and
      problem-solving approaches. Analysis of 148 subjects at three months revealed that 76% of
      members attended group meetings at least once per month. Median hemoglobin A1C improved from
      9.6% to 9.1%, but there were no significant changes in BP, body-mass index, or waist
      circumference.

      The CDM Program and Safety Net Program have also collaborated to integrate microfinance
      groups and group medical visits, and have demonstrated the feasibility of this integrated
      approach. One-year results of this preliminary work (BIGPIC Pilot) are now available and
      appear promising. Six integrated groups were newly formed comprising 160 members, of whom 90
      (over 50%) were patients with diabetes and hypertension. More women attended the initial
      screening (72%), and were therefore over-represented. After invitation to create integrated
      group medical visit- microfinance groups, women were slightly more likely to participate than
      men (83% vs. 74%).

      Linkage, retention, and change in SBP comparing usual care vs. BIGPIC Pilot. Model of Care
      Linkage to care Retention in care

      ∆ SBP after 1 year Usual Care 42% 50%

        -  9.3 mmHg BIGPIC Pilot 66% 66%

        -  21.0 mmHg At one year, members had accumulated deposits totaling $7,500, with a social
           fund of $1150. The loan repayment rate was 97.8%. Progress out of Poverty Index mean
           score increased from 36 to 44, in addition to other economic indicators. Table 1
           provides a summary of linkage, retention, and SBP change, comparing usual care and the
           BIGPIC Pilot. In year 2, membership has increased by 86.9%, indicative of a very
           favorable response by the community.

      Participants Within each CU, AMPATH has initiated home-based testing and community-level
      screening of glucose and BP, with a plan to cover one-third of each CU's population every
      year. Adult individuals with elevated BP (SBP ≥ 140 or diastolic BP (DBP) ≥ 90) or elevated
      random blood glucose (≥ 8.1 mmol/L) will be assigned a unique AMPATH Medical Record System
      identification number and referred to the local rural health facility for further evaluation
      and confirmation of disease status. At the health facility, each individual will have a
      repeat BP and fasting glucose measured, and those who meet the designated cutoffs (repeat SBP
      ≥ 140 or DBP ≥ 90; fasting glucose ≥ 7 mmol/L) will be entered into the CDM Program.
    
  