
    
      Suicide risk is much more prevalent among general emergency department (ED) patients than in
      the general community but this risk often goes undetected, especially among patients
      presenting with non-psychiatric complaints. By definition, universal screening is the only
      way to identify occult risk among patients presenting for non-psychiatric complaints. Until
      recently, however, little was known about how to implement universal screening in a clinical
      ED setting or whether doing so had any effect on detecting risk. The ED-SAFE has shown that
      it is feasible to implement universal screening and that the screening increases detection of
      suicide risk.

      Simply identifying risk is not sufficient; efforts must be taken to mitigate risk and prevent
      suicidal behavior. However, many studies have shown that even those patients identified as
      having clinically significant risk are often discharged home without receiving any kind of
      active intervention during the ED visit, with many not even receiving a psychiatric
      evaluation.1-3 Brief interventions that are a good fit for the ED are needed. One such
      intervention has received strong research support and has already been accepted as a best
      practice in the United States Department of Veterans Affairs: Safety Planning Intervention.4
      This intervention, however, has not been adopted in civilian EDs and little is known about
      how to effectively implement it, and whether doing so impacts suicide-related outcomes.

      This study will address the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: Test the long-term sustainability of nurse administered universal screening
      implemented in the original study across two new time periods. (a) The first is the period
      between the original ED-SAFE and the new study (ED-SAFE-2), which represents an ecologically
      valid "natural" state without any grant support, hereafter referred to as Baseline. (b) The
      second is the Maintenance phase of the new study, which will represent a time period spanning
      a minimum of four years after screening was initially implemented.

      • Primary hypothesis: Sites that sustained high screening rates (intervention target) will
      sustain improved suicide risk detection (patient outcome) during each time period examined.
      Sustained screening practices will be mediated through ED organizational characteristics and
      enabling infrastructure (mechanisms of action).

      Aim 2: Test the impact of implementing the new personalized Safety Planning Intervention for
      patients with suicide risk who are discharged from the ED.

      • Primary hypotheses: Clinician training in safety planning, combined with implementation
      guided by Lean, is expected to increase safety planning by clinicians (intervention target),
      which will result in reduced suicide and suicide-related acute healthcare in the 6-months
      post-visit (suicide composite outcome). This will be more likely in sites with organizational
      characteristics and infrastructure that supports safety planning (mechanisms of action).

      Aim 3: Test sustainability of safety planning during the Maintenance phase.

      • Primary hypotheses: Sustained safety planning will result in sustained reductions in the
      suicide composite outcome. Sustained safety planning will be mediated by strong
      organizational characteristics and a robust enabling infrastructure supporting safety
      planning.
    
  