
    
      Objective:

      In this pilot study, we wish to determine the effects of Raltegravir, a clinically approved
      HIV-1 integrase inhibitor, on HTLV-1 proviral load (PVL) in patients with HTLV-1 associated
      myelopathy / tropical spastic paraparesis (HAM/TSP). We will also provide safety and
      tolerability information on Raltegravir use in this condition and examine the correlation of
      immune activation markers in HAM/TSP with the effects of Raltegravir on the PVL.

      Study population:

      HAM/TSP, a relentlessly progressive and disabling myelopathy, occurs in up to 3% of HTLV-1
      infected subjects. It results from immune-mediated bystander damage of the neural tissues in
      association with an elevated PVL. In fact, a high PVL is considered to be the main risk
      factor for developing HAM/TSP as the risk of disease rises exponentially once the PVL exceeds
      1 %. Currently there is no effective treatment for HAM/TSP.

      There is evidence that active HTLV-1 replication, through the retroviral life cycle with new
      virus integration, is occurring in vivo and contributes to the total HTLV-1 PVL in infected
      subjects. Recently it was shown that Raltegravir could inhibit cell-free and cell-to-cell
      transmission of HTLV-1 in vitro. Given the substantial clinical experience with its use in
      HIV-1 infection and particularly its excellent safety profile, this agent is an attractive
      therapeutic option for patients with HAM/TSP, either alone or in combination with
      immunomodulatory treatment. In this pilot study we wish to determine the effects of
      Raltegravir in vivo on HTLV-1 PVL and immune activation markers in patients with HAM/TSP.

      Design:

      In this 15 months single center, single arm, open label, baseline versus treatment pilot
      clinical trial, sixteen subjects with HAM/TSP will receive Raltegravir at 400mg by mouth
      twice daily in an initial 6 months treatment phase, followed by an additional 9 months post
      treatment phase. Outcome measures will be collected every 3 months for the duration of the
      study.

      Outcome measures:

      The primary outcome measure is HTLV-1 proviral load, which will be measured by quantitative
      PCR. Secondary outcome measures include safety and tolerability of Raltegravir, which will be
      assessed by clinical exam and standardized neurological disability scales as well as clinical
      laboratory studies. In addition, viral and immunologic outcome measures investigating the
      impact of Raltegravir on HTLV-1 biology and its effects on immune function will be measured
      including HTLV-1 proviral load in different lymphocyte populations, the number of long
      terminal repeat (LTR) circles and HTLV-1 mRNA expression levels in freshly isolated PBMC,
      assays of spontaneous lymphoproliferation and T-cell phenotype analysis.
    
  