
    
      Osteoarthritis of the joint between the forearm bones at the wrist (distal radioulnar joint,
      DRUJ) is a common sequel of fracture and ligament injuries or degenerative disease of the
      wrist. Intact DRUJ is important for normal load transfer from the hand to the forearm. DRUJ
      osteoarthritis leads to pain and decreased lifting capacity and rotation of the forearm. The
      standard treatment is resection of the ulnar head, known as the Darrach procedure. After the
      resection there is no longer contact in the affected joint, however, some patients can
      experience instability or impingement between the forearm bones. With ulnar head implant
      replacement may the load transfer and the stability between the forearm bones less affected.
      Studies with good long term results are published with both resection and replacement.
      However, these methods were never compared and thus it is not clear, which of the methods
      gives the best clinical result and less complications.

      The aim of this study is to compare Darrach procedure with ulnar head replacement in a
      prospective randomized multicenter study. The study would be coordinated from Østfold
      Hospital Trust, and Oslo University Hospital, Haukeland University Hospital, Innlandet
      Hospital Trust, University Hospital of St Olav and University Hospital of North Norway would
      participate this study.

      Participants would be included among individuals seeking treatment for their stable but
      painful DRUJ joints. Informed consent will be gained from every participant. The group size
      was calculated to 20 participants in both groups.

      Participants will be randomized to either Darrach procedure or ulnar head implant. The
      procedures would be carried out standardized in every center. No further stabilization
      procedure for the ulna stump would be used in resection. Herbert UHP implant (Herbert Ulnar
      Head Prosthesis, KLS Martin, Germany) would be used for ulnar head replacement. Postoperative
      treatment and follow up would be identical between the groups.

      Range of motion and grip strength measures and functional scores would be registered by an
      independent hand therapist before operation, after 3 months, 1 and 5 years. Eventual
      complications and reoperations would be also registered.

      Patient related outcome measure scores, range of motion and grip strength would be registered
      as outcomes. The results would be checked for normal distribution and either parametric or
      non parametric statistical tests would be chosen for comparison of the two groups.

      The null hypothesis is that Darrach procedure and ulnar head replacement with implant gives
      similar functional results, similar frequency of complication and reoperations.
    
  