
    
      Fibromyalgia (FM) is a complex and difficult-to-treat painful medical condition and is marked
      by chronic widespread musculoskeletal pain, decreased pain threshold, and comorbid
      symptomatology (e.g. fatigue, trouble thinking). Several factors appear to play a role in the
      pathophysiology of FM: abnormal pain processing, abnormal autonomic nervous and
      neuroendocrine system function, genetics, and environmental triggers. The prognosis for
      recovery in traditional medicine is generally poor and current pharmacological treatments for
      FM are often insufficient to control persistent symptoms. As such, complementary medicine and
      alternative lifestyle approaches are needed. Heat therapy, such as saunas and hot tubs, has
      been used historically for its presumed therapeutic benefits, and emerging research
      highlights the benefits of heat therapy on metabolic and cardiovascular disease risks.
      Finnish saunas, which result in total-body heating, have shown beneficial clinical effects
      for rheumatic patients and new studies are needed to determine if heat therapy could improve
      pain symptoms in patients with FM.

      The short-term goal of the investigators is to determine, in a pilot clinical study, that
      heat therapy intervention via hot water immersion is a safe and efficacious treatment for
      pain in patients with FM. The overall hypothesis is that heat therapy intervention will
      improve clinical pain severity and associated dysfunction in a cohort of FM patients and that
      the anti-inflammatory actions of heat shock proteins may mediate this improvement. The
      proposed interdisciplinary study will provide data regarding treatment efficacy and will
      explore potential molecular and physiologic processes that may underlie improvement in pain
      symptoms after heat therapy intervention for FM. Furthermore, these key pilot studies will
      provide important preliminary data for future studies.
    
  