
    
      The proposed 2-year study will be a block, stratified, randomized controlled trial. Once
      consented and enrolled, participants will be randomly assigned to either the peer-enhanced
      intervention or referred to standard clinical care. The investigators will enroll 80 former
      inmates with chronic HCV who have been released from incarceration within the past 6 months.
      Those eligible will also be over the age of 18 and fluent in English or Spanish. If they have
      a life expectancy of less than one year they will be deemed ineligible. During the first year
      the investigators will recruit and enroll 80 former inmates of the NYC jails or NYS prisons
      with chronic HCV into the HCV-ACCELERATE intervention. It is expected that enrollment will be
      completed by the fourth quarter of the first year. This will allow sufficient time for HCV
      treatment uptake, completion, determination of SVR, and assessment of reinfection. Individual
      participant follow-up will be 3 months on average for treatment, 3 months for SVR, and 3
      months to assess for reinfection.

      Our primary outcome, linkage to care, will be defined as a visit with an HCV treatment
      provider. Secondary outcomes will include time to HCV treatment initiation (# of days
      following release from the correctional setting), treatment completion, sustained virologic
      response (SVR), HCV risk behaviors/substance use as determined by ACASI (Audio Computer
      Assisted Self Interview) interviews, re-incarceration (as determined by Department of
      Corrections, DOC, inmate lookup system), ED utilization, and hospitalizations. Elucidating
      the barriers and facilitators in the re-entry care cascade (as well as how they may be
      overcome) will be critical in designing sustainable models of care for HCV-infected former
      inmates.

      The investigators hypothesize that a peer-enhanced strategy will be more effective than
      standard referral in improving linkage to, and retention in, HCV care among individuals
      recently released from correctional settings.
    
  