
    
      Patient-ventilator asynchrony is common in patients under invasive mechanical ventilation,
      present between 10 and 80% of all respiratory cycles, and is associated with adverse clinical
      outcomes, such as delay in the weaning process, increased complications of mechanical
      ventilation, with possible impact on survival. The objective of this study is to estimate the
      incidence of asynchrony and to assess its relationship with respiratory mechanics. This will
      be a prospective cohort study, including all patients under invasive mechanical ventilation
      admitted at Respiratory ICU at Hospital das Clínicas da Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade
      de Sao Paulo (USP), during the study period. Within 48h post intubation, the investigators
      will record the values of intrinsic positive end-expiratory pressure, pulmonary compliance
      and resistance. Participants will be followed up from intubation to mechanical ventilation
      liberation. The investigators will register clinical signs of asynchrony and record
      ventilator waveforms continuously. The ventilator waveforms will be captured directly from
      ventilator and processed by dedicated software, without direct contact with patients. Later,
      ventilator waveforms will be analyzed to quantify patient-ventilator asynchrony. The
      investigators will calculate the total asynchrony index (AI) and of each asynchrony type
      (ineffective triggering, double triggering, auto triggering, short cycling and prolonged
      cycling). Participants will be followed up until hospital discharge, and the investigators
      will record duration of mechanical ventilation, the use of non-invasive ventilation
      post-extubation, reintubation, tracheostomy, ICU and hospital length of stay and survival.
      With this project, the investigators will estimate the incidence and magnitude of
      patient-ventilator asynchrony and its association with clinical outcomes
    
  