
    
      Study Rationale:

      Although 90Y increasingly used in clinical practice, there is no high quality clinical
      evidence to justify this. Most of the comparison studies are retrospective. Three studies
      compared TACE with 90Y retrospectively. The first was by Kooby et al in which patients
      treated with TACE were retrospectively compared to those treated with 90Y suggested that both
      treatment modalities have similar effectiveness and safety profiles in patients with
      unresectable HCC. Earlier Carr et al carried out a similar retrospective analysis and
      concluded that Chemoembolization or Radioembolization appeared to be equivalent regional
      therapies for patients with unresectable, non-metastatic HCC. More recently Salem et al
      retrospectively compared 122 HCC patients who received chemo-embolization with 123 patients
      who received Radioembolization and concluded both patient groups had similar survival times.
      Radioembolization resulted in longer time-to-progression and less toxicity than
      chemo-embolization.

      A study on down-staging of HCC beyond Milan criteria compare 90Y with TACE of and concluded
      that 90Y outperforms TACE for down-staging HCC to within transplant criteria.

      TACE-DEB is the standardized form TACE with better efficacy and safety profile and will be
      ideal to use to define the position of 90Y in the of locoregional treatment of HCC.

      To date, no prospective studies have been performed comparing both treatment modalities in a
      randomized setting. This randomized controlled trial is designed to prospectively compare
      TACE and 90Y for treatment of patients with unresectable (BCLC intermediate stage) HCC.

      Known Potential Benefits:

      Chemo-embolization is the standard treatment for intermediate HCC with known efficacy and
      predicted toxicity. The arrival of TAC-DEBs made TACE more efficient, less toxic and more
      standardized. Y90 Radioembolization is of known efficacy and minimal toxicity base on cohort
      studies. Head to head comparison has never been conducted.
    
  