
    
      Background:

      A substantial portion of patients in routine care suffer from a recurrent preoccupation with
      physical symptoms, which often leads to substantial suffering and impairment. Exposure-based
      treatment - where the patient systematically seeks out that which gives rise to unwanted
      sensations, cognitions, or behavior - has been found to lead to beneficial effects in several
      types of symptom preoccupation. Yet, this form of treatment is rarely offered in routine
      care. This may be partially because existing treatment protocols have been developed for
      specific symptom clusters (e.g., functional somatic syndromes such as irritable bowel
      syndrome and fibromyalgia) or specific unwanted responses to symptoms (e.g., the fear of
      having a severe illness), and that many clinics do not have the resources to offer all these
      specialized protocols in parallel. An alternative approach could be to base exposure
      treatment on a more general protocol that may be tailored to suit a larger variety of patient
      groups who suffer from a recurrent preoccupation with physical symptoms. However, it is yet
      unclear if the use of such a general treatment protocol for symptom preoccupation would be
      feasible, for example in terms of patient-reported credibility, adherence, identification
      with the rationale, and general client satisfaction.

      Aim:

      To investigate the feasibility of delivering exposure-based treatment using a general
      protocol for clinically significant symptom preoccupation, without selecting patients based
      on any specific symptom cluster (such as a functional somatic syndrome) or specific unwanted
      response to physical symptoms (such as a frequent fear of illness).

      Design:

      This is a prospective single-group feasibility study based at Karolinska Institutet,
      Stockholm, Sweden, where 40 adults with somatic symptom disorder according to the Diagnostic
      and statistical manual of mental disorders 5 (DSM-5) are enrolled in 8 weeks of
      therapist-guided exposure-based treatment that is delivered via the Internet. Various aspects
      of feasibility are assessed; most notably: patient-reported credibility and expectancy,
      adherence to the treatment protocol, client satisfaction, and negative events. Within-group
      effects are also quantified.
    
  