
    
      Patients admitted to Cambridge University Hospitals (CUH)with COVID-19 have undergone routine
      clinical documentation and specific investigation and testing for COVID-19. The pathway for
      these patients ranges from supportive measures on the ward to deterioration requiring
      Intensive therapy Unit (ITU) admission and ventilatory support. Patients are also at risk of
      developing complications such as Acute Kidney Injury and thromboembolism. Identification of
      the risk factors for these and other outcomes such as the requirement for ventilation remain
      a challenge and reviewing the clinical data for these patients is critical in the
      understanding of the relationship between patient characteristics and outcomes.

      There is data available in structured fields in the EHR, however, this is sometimes
      incomplete and inaccurate. An assessment of the free text clinical notes provides an
      opportunity to fill in the gaps and provide a much richer dataset for evaluation. We plan to
      use Natural Language Processing (NLP) (a field of machine learning that allows computers to
      analyse human language) to review Discharge Summaries of patients admitted to hospital with
      COVID-19 and convert free text data into structured data for analysis.

      The NLP techniques developed by Dr Collier's team include methods for coding of free texts to
      SNOMED CT and other biomedical ontologies. These methods, based on statistical machine
      learning from human annotated texts, have been benchmarked for scientific texts and social
      media. In this project we intend to adapt these techniques for patient records. The
      techniques will require a number of human annotated patient records in order to adapt. The
      NLP output will be combined with structured data from the EHR and undergo statistical
      analysis to identify the rates of complications in patients with COVID-19 and risk factors
      associated with these. This may help to guide management decisions by earlier intervention to
      prevent poor outcomes in these patients.
    
  