
    
      This study will utilize a Sequential Multi-Assignment Randomized Trial (SMART) design.
      College students seeking counseling services through the College Counseling Centers (CCCs)
      will be recruited.

      In Stage 1, student participants will be initially randomized into either treatment as usual
      (TAU) or Collaborative Assessment and Management of Suicidality (CAMS). Student participants
      receiving TAU will receive the customary treatment they would receive at the CCC at a
      frequency typical to the site (e.g., once a week). Student participants receiving the CAMS
      intervention will receive CAMS through weekly sessions with a counselor that will last for
      50-60 minutes.

      Responders to either CAMS or TAU may stop intervention after three consecutive weeks of
      non-engagement in suicidal acts combined with the ability to cope with suicidal ideation, if
      present, based on counselor's clinical global impression ratings of improvement and severity.
      Stage 1 has an intended duration of between 4 and 8 weeks.

      Non-responders to Stage 1 treatments, will be re-randomized to one of two Stage 2 treatments:
      CAMS or Dialectical Behavior Therapy (DBT). Student participants receiving DBT will engage in
      individual therapy and a skills training group. Stage 2 has an intended treatment duration
      between 4 and 16 weeks.

      All treatment in Stage 1 and Stage 2 (TAU, CAMS, and DBT) will usually be administered in
      person.

      Counselors will provide TAU, CAMS, and DBT to study participants. They will also participate
      in CAMS and DBT trainings and ongoing consultation teams for each.

      The project estimates 36 months (3 years) total duration from beginning of recruitment until
      final data collection.

      The duration of treatment will vary from 4 to 24 weeks and is based on response. Total
      participant duration in study, due to the assessments, is approximately 48 weeks (which
      includes the 24-week follow-up assessment).

      Counselor participants will participate for 1-3 years.
    
  