
    
      Objective. The purpose of the protocol is to identify the brain regions mediating the social
      cooperation involved in economic decision-making, including whether negative mood and
      perceived interpersonal similarity affect behavior or brain regions utilized.

      Study Population. Healthy, normal adult volunteers will play and observe two-person
      reciprocal trust games during functional neuroimaging against either real people or computers
      masquerading as real people.

      Design. A between/within-subject, rapid event-related fMRI design will be employed for two
      series of experiments. In the first experiment, two persons-each in a separate MRI
      scanner-will interact with one another playing two-person reciprocal trust games while their
      brains are simultaneously scanned. In the second experiment, a third person will later
      observe the played games while in a scanner, trying to predict the decisions of the two other
      players in the first experiment. In the third experiment, a sad mood will be induced in half
      of the participants to examine if it affects levels of cooperative behavior and patterns of
      brain activation in the two types of trust games described above.

      Four additional series of experiments will employ between/within subject designs in which
      subjects are scanned alone, but under the deception that they are playing simultaneously with
      another subject.

      Outcome Measures. The data collected will consist of behavioral measures of cognitive
      performance, self- and other-mental representation, trusting and trustworthy behavior,
      corresponding fMRI images, personality scales, ratings of relationship and status, and types
      of strategy used. The results gained from this protocol will be of value in identifying a set
      of neural regions mediating dynamic social interaction between people engaged in economic
      decision-making.
    
  