
    
      Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a major cause of mortality and morbidity worldwide. In the
      United States cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in people older than 65
      years. In the current era, a complete recovery after an acute myocardial infarction (AMI) has
      become the norm. Unfortunately, however, the mortality for some patients remains high. In
      particular, patients with cardiogenic shock after an AMI have less than a 50% chance of
      surviving their hospital stay.

      Cardiogenic shock in AMI may result from ventricular dysfunction or it may result from
      mechanical complications requiring emergency surgical treatment; these include: papillary
      muscle rupture, ventricular free wall rupture and ventricular septal defect.

      With the advent of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), there has been a significant
      drop in the incidence of post-infarction mechanical complications.The incidence of mechanical
      complications after acute ST elevation MI (STEMI) in the APEX-MI trial, where primary PCI was
      the reperfusion strategy, was 0.9%.

      Although the incidence has decreased in the last decades, mortality in patients who develop
      these complications after AMI still remains very high. Mechanical complications must be
      carefully searched for in any patient with an acute coronary syndrome and signs of
      cardiogenic shock. The diagnosis, or even the suspicion, requires urgent surgical referral
      and in most cases necessitates emergency surgery.

      The management of patients with postinfarction mechanical complications requires the
      consideration of several factors: (i) the extremely poor prognosis without surgical
      treatment; (ii) the higher mortality risk associated with emergency surgery; (iii) the
      potential rapid deterioration of initially stable patients.

      Data from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons National Database demonstrated an average 43%
      in-hospital/30-day mortality for surgical treatment of ventricular septal defect. Reports on
      outcomes in large free wall rupture and papillary muscle rupture cohorts are scarce; based on
      available data, in-hospital mortality after surgery is around 20-25% for acute mitral
      regurgitation and 12-36% for ventricular free wall rupture.

      In conclusion, because of the rarity of these post-AMI mechanical complications, the optimal
      evidence-based therapeutic strategies remain controversial, and little is know on the early
      clinical results and late follow-up.

      Owing to the paucity and limitation of available data, investigations and analysis are
      required to help clinicians make an early diagnosis of these devastating complications, and
      offer to patients the appropriate surgical treatment. "Mechanical complications of acute
      myocardial infarction: an international multicenter cohort study" (Caution Study 1) is a
      retrospective, international multicenter clinical trial aimed at evaluating the survival,
      postoperative outcome and quality of life of patients underwent cardiac surgery for
      post-infarction mechanical complications.
    
  