
    
      A "fresh tracheostomy" is a tracheostomy whose tract is not yet well formed and that has not
      yet been changed since the operative procedure. It is considered a "critical airway" since
      replacement following dislodgement may be difficult and at risk of forming a false tract.
      Thus, an infant or a child with a fresh tracheostomy is cared for in the intensive care unit
      and kept sedated to prevent accidental dislodgement. During this time wound care is often
      suboptimal due to fear of manipulating the neck. Patients are at increased risk of
      complications such as pressure ulcers and pneumonia related to being sedated for an extended
      length of time. Furthermore, prolonged sedation can lead to difficulties with withdrawal and
      delay recovery. Progression of the patient's care and the teaching of tracheostomy care to
      caregivers is also delayed. Thus, timing of the first tracheostomy change has great
      implications for prevention of complications as well as length of hospital stay. While in
      adults is it accepted that the first trach change can be done as early as post-operative day
      3. In pediatrics no good evidence or clear guidelines is available as to when the first
      tracheostomy change should occur. It is common to wait until days 5-7 which allows
      establishment of a mature tract however, there is no biologic reason to think that a
      pediatric tracheostomy tract should take any longer to epithelize than in an adult. Several
      studies have reported safe tracheostomy change in pediatric patients as early as
      postoperative day 3 (Deutsch 1998, Lippert 2014, Van Buran 2014). Currently at CHOP our
      standard of care is to perform the first tracheostomy change on post-operative day 7. The
      investigators aim to compare tracheostomy tube change at post-operative day 4 by randomizing
      patients undergoing tracheostomy at CHOP to day 4 (treatment) or day 7 (control) groups.
    
  