
    
      In this protocol, we will investigate the mechanisms by which PTH(1-84) treatment improves
      bone quality in patients with hypoparathyroidism. Detailed imaging, cellular and biochemical
      studies will be performed on subjects with hypoparathyroidism who are also participating in
      the NPS Pharmaceutical Company's studies known as REPLACE, RELAY, RACE studies, and
      IND70449's HEXT Study. The parent NPS trial, being conducted under NPS's IND #76,514, is a
      multi-site, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of PTH(1-84) in
      hypoparathyroidism. In the REPLACE Study, hypoparathyroid subjects are assigned to either
      placebo, 50, 75 or 100 mcg of PTH(1-84) a day, in a dose-titration design, for a 26 week
      period. In RELAY Study hypoparathyroid patients are randomized to 25mcg or 50mcg PTH1-84 for
      8 weeks. In the RACE Study hypoparathyroid patients utilize 25, 50, 75, or 100mcg PTH1-84 for
      52 weeks. The primary efficacy endpoint is a 50% reduction in calcium and calcitriol
      supplementation. The Columbia site is one of the investigative sites for the NPS protocol. A
      letter from NPS accompanying this document certifies that Dr. Bilezikian is a subinvestigator
      in the NPS project.

      The protocol described in this proposal is different from the NPS study. It is being
      conducted under IND #70,449 to Dr. Bilezikian. It will pursue a number of additional studies
      that are not being sponsored by NPS or covered by their IND. Under IND #70,449 assigned to
      Dr. Bilezikian, we will investigate the effects of PTH(1-84) administration in
      hypoparathyroidism on bone quality in hypoparathyroidism. In addition to the biochemical
      hallmarks of hypoparathyroidism, it has been found that the microarchitectural structure of
      the bone and the entire bone remodeling system are markedly abnormal in this disease. The
      studies outlined in this add-on protocol are designed to elucidate the specific ways in which
      PTH(1-84) replacement restores to normal bone microstructure and bone metabolism in
      hypoparathyroidism. These mechanistic studies are beyond the scope of the parent NPS study,
      which is designed to assess only the safety and efficacy of PTH(1-84) in hypoparathyroidism.
      These special studies are being conducted only by Dr. Bilezikian's group at Columbia. In the
      summary which is provided here, we present the three major studies that will be conducted.

      PROTOCOL #1: THE EFFECT OF PTH(1-84) ADMINISTRATION ON SKELETAL MICROSTRUCTURE AS DETERMINED
      BY HIGH RESOLUTION IMAGING OF THE SKELETON.[(PERIPHERAL QUANTITATIVE COMPUTED TOMOGRAPHY
      (HR-PQCT)).

      Protocol. For all subjects enrolled at the Columbia site, we will perform HR-pQCT. Baseline
      measurement will be obtained twice at Visit 4 of the NPS protocol (2 weeks prior to
      randomization) and at Visit 16 of the NPS protocol (the final injection day). The reason for
      the duplicate measurements at each time point is to minimize any variance, thus improving the
      accuracy further of the data to be obtained.

      Anticipated Results. Based upon our preliminary data, we expect that the abnormalities that
      we have observed at baseline in subjects with hypoparathyroidism will be improved by
      administration of PTH(1-84). The improvement in skeletal microstructure will be associated
      with greater bone strength as determined by finite element analysis and by individual
      assignment of strength to the specific orientation of trabecular plates and rods in the
      forearm and the tibia. In addition, the remarkable abnormalities in cortical structure will
      be a specific focus of attention, particularly in view of the fact that in a disease
      characterized by excessive secretion of PTH (primary hyperparathyroidism), cortical thinning
      is observed. Thus, with this add-on protocol, we will be able to test the hypothesis that PTH
      regulates the spatial distribution between cortical and trabecular bone. This anticipated
      result will add great value to the protocol and give us insights that would not otherwise be
      possible to make.

      PROTOCOL #2: THE EFFECT OF PTH(1-84) ADMINISTRATION ON OSTEOBLAST CELLS AS DETERMINED BY
      MEASUREMENT OF CIRCULATING OSTEOGENIC PRECURSORS

      Protocol. For all subjects enrolled in the NPS protocol at the Columbia site, we will perform
      measurements of peripheral circulating osteoblast cells. The assay will be performed at Visit
      5 (randomization) of the NPS Protocol, then again at 4, 8, 12, and 24 weeks after
      administration of PTH(1-84).

      Anticipated Results. Based upon our preliminary observations, we expect that PTH(1-84) will
      stimulate the recruitment, in the circulation, of cells with an osteoblastic phenotype. We
      expect that PTH(1-84) will also stimulate the maturation of cells as defined by ligand
      markers that can date the chronological age of these cells. The ability to demonstrate a
      specific osteoblastic effect on circulating cells will be correlated with changes in
      structural parameters to be obtained in these patients using HR-pQCT.

      PROTOCOL #3: THE EFFECT OF PTH(1-84) ADMINISTRATION ON SCLEROSTIN, A KEY MEDIATOR OF PTH'S
      OSTEOANABOLIC ACTIONS.

      Protocol. We will measure sclerostin levels at Visit 5 (randomization) of the NPS Protocol,
      then again at 4, 8, 12, and 24 weeks post-randomization. This will be the first time ever
      that sclerostin levels will be measured in hypoparathyroid subjects being replaced with
      PTH(1-84).

      Anticipated Results. We expect that the administration of PTH(1-84) in subjects with
      hypoparathyroidism will be associated with acute reductions in sclerostin. By virtue of the
      experimental design of the study, we will be able to test further the kinetics of change,
      namely whether the anticipated acute fall in sclerostin levels will be sustained over time.
      The results can be related to the cellular actions of PTH to recruit and to activate the
      osteogenic cells that will be conducted in Protocol #2 as well as to the osteoanabolic
      effects we expect to demonstrate in Protocol #1. .

      GENERAL STUDY FEATURES RELATED TO ALL PROTOCOLS

      Enrollment and Eligibility Criteria. The enrollment criteria follow the protocol being
      sponsored by the NPS IND. They can be provided as an Appendix if requested. Study subjects
      who are enrolled in the NPS study will automatically be eligible for the protocols described
      above and will constitute the study population for these additional studies. We expect to
      enroll 16 patients for each of the remaining three years of the grant period.

      Safety Measures. The safety measures to be conducted are identical to the NPS protocol
      sponsored under its IND #76,514. They can be provided as an Appendix if requested. They have
      been sent to the office of Dr. Mary Parks.

      Overall Summary and Significance. These add-on protocols will be done uniquely at the
      Columbia site under the sponsorship of IND #70449 assigned to Dr. Bilezikian. They hold the
      promise of defining, in ways not possible by the standard protocol being sponsored by NPS,
      the mechanisms by which PTH(1-84) is therapeutic in subjects with hypoparathyroidism.

      Funding Source - FDA OOPD
    
  