
    
      This is an open-label, single center, PK study to assess valacyclovir pharmacokinetics and
      pharmacodynamics in neonates and compare to the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of the
      standard of care treatment dose of intravenous acyclovir. Only those babies with
      virologically confirmed neonatal HSV disease will be enrolled in the study. The decision to
      initiate valacyclovir for 2 (up to 7) days will be made by a physician based on
      inclusion/exclusion criteria, and those who meet entry criteria will be eligible for the
      study. Those enrolled in the study will have daily random parenteral acyclovir PK levels
      drawn during the first week of treatment (drawn only at times of other lab draws). These
      infants will also have a pharmacokinetic sampling profile obtained on or after dose 22 and
      before dose 42 of intravenous acyclovir. The PK samples for the sampling profile will be
      collected just prior to the next dose of intravenous acyclovir (within 30 minutes prior to
      the start of the infusion), within 15 minutes of completion of the infusion, and 3-4 hours
      after infusion. Upon completion of the recommended treatment course duration with intravenous
      acyclovir determined by disease classification (skin, eye, and mouth; central nervous system;
      or disseminated disease), the infant will be started on enteral valacyclovir 20 mg/kg every 8
      hours.

      On day 2 and no more than day 7 of valacyclovir 20 mg/kg every 8 hours, a pharmacokinetic
      sampling profile will be obtained. The PK samples will be collected just prior to the enteral
      dose of valacyclovir (hour 0; 8 hours after previous dose and immediately before next dose),
      1-2 hours after dose, and 3-5 hours after dose. Primary objective is to define the
      pharmacokinetics of valacyclovir and assess its safety in neonates 2-12 weeks of age who are
      ≥ 34 weeks gestation. Secondary objectives are to: 1) assess the pharmacokinetics of
      high-dose parenteral acyclovir in neonates ≥ 34 weeks gestation with virologically confirmed
      neonatal HSV disease who are receiving acyclovir as standard of care, 2) compare the
      pharmacokinetics of high-dose parenteral acyclovir to the pharmacokinetics of the proposed
      study dose of valacyclovir (20 mg/kg every 8 hours).
    
  