
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational drug combination to learn whether the drug
      combination works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that drug
      combination is being studied.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Utomilumab as a treatment
      for any disease.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved Avelumab as a treatment for
      other diseases.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved trastuzumab as a treatment
      option for this disease.

      The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved vinorelbine as a treatment for
      other diseases and is commonly used as a treatment option for this disease.

      The immune system is the body's natural defense against disease. The immune system sends a
      type of cells called T cells throughout the body to detect and fight infections and
      diseases-including cancers. One way the immune system controls the activity of T cells is
      through the PD-1 (programmed cell death protein-1) pathway. However, some cancer cells hide
      from T-cell attack by taking control of the PD-1 pathway and this stops T cells from
      attacking cancer cells. Avelumab is a type of drug, known as an antibody which is designed to
      block the PD-1 pathway and helps the immune system in detecting and fighting cancer cells. An
      antibody is a protein produced by the body's immune system when it detects harmful
      substances. Previous studies show that the administration of antibodies which block the PD-1
      pathway can lead to tumor destruction.

      Utomilumab is an antibody designed to stimulate the body's immune system to fight cancer
      cells. Previous studies have shown that the administration of this type of antibody may help
      to prevent tumors from growing.

      In the laboratory, adding avelumab and Utomilumab to trastuzumab appears to improve
      effectiveness. It is not known whether this is true in humans.

      In this research study, the investigators are evaluating the activity of 3 different
      combinations: (a)trastuzumab and vinorelbine combined, (b) trastuzumab, vinorelbine and
      avelumab combined, and (c) trastuzumab, vinorelbine, avelumab and utomilumab combined in
      participants with metastatic HER2- positive breast cancer.
    
  