
    
      Patients who have Chronic Thromboembolic Pulmonary Hypertension (CTEPH) can treated
      surgically or by undergoing minimally invasive balloon pulmonary angioplasty (BPA). However
      not all patients have resolution of their pulmonary hypertension following these procedures,
      and some patients who don't have pulmonary hypertension derive substantial benefit
      nonetheless from surgical clearance of their thromboembolic disease.

      Thus better understanding of the interaction between the blood vessels, the right heart
      workload, and symptoms and outcomes is required to predict treatment response.
      Ventriculo-arterial coupling is one such measure, quantifying the efficiency of transfer of
      energy from the right ventricle to the pulmonary arteries. Traditionally this has required
      invasive procedures involving intracavity conduction catheterisation of the right ventricle
      to simultaneously measure flow and pressure whilst altering preload. Not only is this
      invasive, but it is not routinely performed in clinical practice due to its complexity and
      requirement for specialised expertise and equipment. As CMR can simultaneously assess right
      ventricular and pulmonary function it may be able to assess function and ventriculo-arterial
      coupling non-invasively and allow for a more detailed and accessible mode of disease
      quantification and stratification.

      The investigators will measure how the right heart function changes during BPA in patients
      with inoperable CTEPH, measured using a conductance catheter placed within the pumping
      chamber on the right side of the heart (right ventricle). This will generate pressure volume
      loops to detect intra-procedural changes of ventriculo-arterial coupling that can be used to
      quantify treatment success. The investigators will also monitor the levels of a newly
      discovered vessel inflammatory marker in the blood (Angiopoietin 2), and NT-Pro BNP that may
      also be useful in identifying responders to treatment and help define the optimal treatment
      protocol for BPA.

      This participants will have CMR as standard of care. Data from CMR and invasive measurements
      of ventriculo-arterial coupling will determine the best CMR measures of coupling efficiency.
      These measures will then be applied within a large well-characterised cohort with long term
      follow-up to determine its association with symptoms, and outcomes following surgical
      intervention.
    
  