
    
      Study Description:

      Longitudinal online survey of adults living with sickle cell disease (SCD) in the United
      States. The objective of the study is to examine the extent and impact of life changes
      induced by the COVID-19 pandemic on individuals living with SCD. It is our hypotheses that
      adults living with SCD will be adversely impacted by COVID-19 in terms of stress, anxiety,
      coping and sleep. Individuals living with SCD will have higher fear, isolation, anxiety and
      stress if they have higher clinical severity. In-person healthcare utilization for
      individuals with SCD will be reduced during the COVID-19 pandemic. Virtual healthcare
      utilization will increase for SCD individuals but satisfaction with healthcare quality will
      decrease.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective: The primary objective of the study is to examine the extent and impact of
      life changes induced by the COVID-19 pandemic on individuals living with sickle cell disease
      (SCD). These objectives are: (1) To assess how the COVID-19 pandemic affects the
      psychological well-being of individuals living with SCD; (2) To examine the association
      between clinical severity of SCD and an individual s response to the COVID-19 pandemic; (3)
      To investigate whether news and other media consumption during the COVID-19 pandemic
      influence individual psychological well-being; (4) To determine the extent of COVID-19
      induced trauma in individuals living with SCD, and its effect on health behaviors and
      psychological well-being; (5) To investigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on
      healthcare utilization for SCD individuals.

      Secondary Objectives: Our secondary objectives broadly examine the attitudes and viewpoints
      of individuals with SCD on issues of trust and the future of medical advancements for
      COVID-19 treatment(s). These will be examined in conjunction with the primary objectives and
      are: (1) To examine the role that medical and government mistrust may have on the experiences
      and behaviors of individuals with SCD during the pandemic; (2) To assess community attitudes
      towards clinical trials for COVID-19.

      Endpoints:

      The endpoints for the study are divided into psychosocial measures as well as physical
      measures and are: (1) Stress; (2) Anxiety; (3) Depressive symptomology; (4) Sleep; (5) Pain
      episodes and clinical severity; (6) Healthcare utilization (primary care, emergency

      department, telemedicine, other). The secondary endpoint is an examination of the receptivity
      of SCD individuals to future health recommendations and medical treatment(s).

      Study Population: Sample up to 1000 adults living with SCD in the United States, 18 years of
      age or older.

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      Two cohorts will be recruited for this study: (1) Participants in the INSIGHTS study
      (NCT02156102) (2) Participants recruited by Sickle Cell 101 and/or from the NIH Study
      (NCT01633021), and/or from other advocacy groups or doctor s offices. Sickle Cell 101 (SC101)
      is a Silicon Valley-based non-profit organization that specializes in sickle cell education
      for the patients, caregivers, healthcare professionals, and other key stakeholders affected
      by sickle cell disease and trait globally.

      Study Duration: Proposed enrollment opening June 1, 2020 - proposed end of data analyses from
      fourth wave of the study June 2022.

      Participant Duration: Each participant will be invited to take the online survey every
      six-nine months for four data collection periods. Each survey will last 30-45 minutes.
    
  