
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of CoQ10 administration with respect
      to its effect on the rate of aneuploidy of oocytes and cumulative live birth rate.

      Study Design This is a prospective randomized placebo controlled study. Study participants
      will undergo up to 3 cycles as part of this protocol. All clinical assessments will be
      conducted at the participating infertility clinics.

      The study will be organized on an outpatient basis at the Toronto Centre for Advanced
      Reproductive Technology (TCART). The study will involve 54 women aged 35-43 years undergoing
      IVF treatment. All women will collect 2 mL of saliva in a 5 mL polyethylene tube for baseline
      measurement of coQ10 activity by arNOX assay (described below).

      Study participants will be randomly assigned to either placebo or COQ10 capsules, (AOR -
      Advanced Orthomolecular Research Inc. 19 St NE Calgary, Alberta, NHPD registration codes
      135307). Study participants will take 600 mg of CoQ10 orally once a day with breakfast or
      identical placebo capsules for 2 months prior to an IVF cycle and up to 3 cycles if pregnancy
      does not occur. On cycle day 3, subjects will start the ovarian stimulation for in vitro
      fertilization while continuing the consumption of the supplements. The controlled ovarian
      stimulation (COH) will consist of the microdose GnRH agonist flare protocol, which is the
      clinic's standard protocol for older women. COH will be done using recombinant FSH (Puregon;
      Schering-Plough Inc.,Mississauga, ON, Canada) or human menopausal gonadotropins (Menopur,
      Ferring Inc, Oakville, ON, Canada) 150 units twice daily S.C. and Buserelin Acetate (
      Superfact, Sanofi-Aventis Canada Inc, Laval, Quebec) 0.05 mg subcutaneously B.I.D, and will
      continue until the day prior to 10,000 units human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) (Pregnyl,
      Organon). The dosage will not be changed and must be maintained for the duration of the
      study. Both drugs will continue daily until follicular development is considered adequate (at
      least 3 follicles >17 mm, and the E2 level is acceptable for the number of follicles present)
      at which time the hCG will be injected to trigger final follicular maturation. Oocyte
      retrieval will be done 36 hours later by vaginal ultrasound guided needle aspiration and with
      the use of local anesthesia and mild sedation. At the time of retrieval, subjects will
      collect 2 mL of saliva, in addition, 2 mL of follicular fluid will be collected from the
      first follicle aspirated from each ovary for determination of coQ10 activity by arNOX assay.
      AS it is not possible to measure CoQ10 levels in a single cells (e.g. oocytes), FF represents
      direct cellular environment that can reflect the metabolical profile of this cell. After
      retrieval, the oocytes will be fertilized with ICSI in order not to contaminate the maternal
      DNA during polar body biopsy sample with sperm DNA. On the following day, all the oocytes
      with 2 pronuclei will undergo a biopsy of one or both polar bodies.

      Polar body biopsy The oocyte is then inseminated using the intracytoplasmic sperm injection
      (ICSI) technique and is kept in culture in an incubator. In order to biopsy the polar body,
      the oocyte is held by the holding pipette with the polar body at the 11-12 o'clock position.
      An opening is made in the zona pellucida and a polished glass needle is introduced into the
      perivitelline space and the polar body is carefully removed.

      The embryo transfer is performed on the morning of the third day after egg retrieval.

      Polar bodies are washed in droplets of isotonic HEPES-buffered saline and then transferred to
      hypotonic solution, fixed in methanol: acetic acid on a glass slide, and dehydrated in
      methanol for further genetic analysis. The whole procedure does not adversely affect either
      fertilization or cleavage rates in biopsied oocytes, as the polar body is not involved in the
      above processes.Karyotyping:

      The polar bodies will be transferred to the UHN microarray center for chromosome number
      determination. The analysis will be done with a commercial kit from Advalytix ( Olympus Life
      Science Research, Munich, Germany). This is a multiplex PCR based kit that provides a fast
      and accurate count of all 23 chromosomes and is tailored to polar body chromosome count.
      After 2 days a single embryo with a normal karyotype will be transferred to the uterine
      cavity under ultrasound guidance using a Cook transfer catheter (Cook, Sidney, Australia).
      The rest of the viable embryos with a normal karyotype will be frozen (Slow freezing). Luteal
      support will consist of progesterone suppositories 100mg (Kingsway Pharmacy,Toronto, Ontario
      Canada) vaginally 3 times a day starting on the day of transfer and will continue for 2 weeks
      until the end of each cycle when serum beta hCG will be drawn and if pregnant, CoQ10/ placebo
      will be discontinued. If pregnant, luteal support will continue until 10 weeks gestation. If
      the patient is not pregnant she will have a cycle of endometrial stimulation with micronized
      estradiol, followed by progesterone once a sufficient endometrial thickness has been
      measured. Four days afterwards, 1-2 embryos will be thawed and transferred. Luteal support
      will include estradiol and progesterone which will be maintained up to 10 weeks if pregnant.
      These cycles of frozen embryo transfer will be continued as long as there are frozen embryos
      from the same retrieval.

      The study endpoints will be:

        1. Primary outcome measure will be the number and percentage of euploid eggs per retrieval

        2. Secondary outcome measures will include:

             -  Ovarian response

             -  Embryo quality

             -  Cumulative pregnancy rate / retrieval

             -  Cumulative live birth rate / retrieval

             -  CoQ10 activity in saliva and follicular fluid by arNOX assay

      Coenzyme Q10 assay arNOX is a coenzyme Q10-inhibited, aging-related external NADH oxidase
      (ECTO-NOX) protein of the cell surface that is also present in sera and saliva. It is capable
      of superoxide generation measured as superoxide dismutase-inhibited reduction of
      ferricytochrome c (Oxidaised cytochrome C). arNOX activity of saliva of older individuals is
      inhibited by coenzyme Q10. The activity first appears after age 30 to a near maximum at about
      age 55.

      arNOX activity is assayed from measurements of superoxide production based on the standard
      method where reduction of ferricytochrome c by superoxide is monitored from the increase in
      absorbance at 550 nm with reference at 540 nm. As a further check for the specificity of the
      arNOX activity, superoxide dismutase (SOD) is added near the end of the assay to ascertain
      that the rate returned to base line. The assay consists of 150 μl (2 mg/ml) oxidized
      ferricytochrome c solution and 200 μl of saliva added to 2.5 ml assay buffer (8.06 g NaC1,
      0.2 g KC1, 0.18 g Na 2HPO4, 0.26 g KH2PO4, 0.13 g CaCl2, 0.1 g MgCl2, 1.35 g glucose
      dissolved in 1000 ml deionized water, adjusted to pH 7.4, filtered and stored at 4◦C). Rates
      are determined using a spectrophotometer in the dual wavelength mode with continuous
      measurements (over 1 min every 1.5 min). After 45 min, 60 μl (containing 60 units) SOD is
      added and the assay is continued for an additional 45 min.

      Salivary arNOX was found to be a convenient and non-invasive method to monitor arNOX levels
      in clinical coenzyme Q10 intervention trials with the response levels paralleling those seen
      with serum and cellular arNOX (Morre and Morre 2008).

      Study population

      A total of 54 female patients desiring pregnancy will be enrolled in this study at TCART-
      Toronto Center for Advanced Reproductive Technology. Each subject must meet study inclusion
      and exclusion criteria

      Power calculation:

      A total of 54 patients will enter this two treatment parallel-design study. The probability
      is 90 percent that the study will detect a treatment difference at a two sided with p-value ≤
      0.01, if the true difference between the treatments in aneuploidy rate is 25 %. This is based
      on the assumption that the standard deviation of the response variable is 0.180.

      Assignment to treatment and randomization:

      Patients will be assigned in chronological order on the day of study enrollment to a computer
      generated randomization. Each enrolled participant will receive a pre-assigned package
      containing either placebo or CoQ10 for the duration of the study. The physician will be
      blinded as to assignment of the patients. Randomization will be done prior to starting the
      first cycle.

      The investigators will keep a separate record relating the names of the subjects to their
      code numbers, to allow easy checking of data in subject files when required.

      Statistical analysis will be done with student t-test to camper between the treatment and
      placebo group for all the outcome measures. Power analysis was calculated for alpha < 0.01.

      Anticipated outcomes and potential pitfalls. The number of patients needed for the study is
      reasonable and we do not expect it to be an obstacle. If the results in this study will be to
      the animal study we should be able to show a significant difference in the number of euploid
      embryos between the test and control groups, as well as with the other outcome parameters. We
      have been working for several months with the UHN microarray lab to optimize the use of the
      Advalytics multiplex PCR kit which currently works very well. We do not expect any problems
      with this component of the object.
    
  