
    
      The goal of the project is to define the optimal learning environment and protocol for dvSS®
      simulation activities using medical students as robotic-naïve research participants. The
      investigators propose to accomplish this goal through the following aims:

      Specific Aim #1: to investigate the total training time and the total number of repetitions
      required for participants to achieve proficiency (as defined on the dvSS® as 91%) for each of
      the selected exercises in selected dVSS activities.

      Specific Aim #2: to measure the transferability of skills acquired through a robotic
      simulation to live porcine models compared to nonintervention controls. The study will
      compare the effect of training with the dVSS to similar nonintervention controls by grading a
      suturing procedure on a live porcine model.

      Findings generated from this study will provide new insight into the efficacy of the dVSS as
      a simulation- based training tool for medical practitioners. Collectively, this work will
      build upon the narrow knowledge base on how to develop a nationally accredited
      simulation-based robotics curriculum.

      This study undoubtedly furthers the GWU SMHS mission of education, research, and healing. The
      study seeks to understand the learning curve students can achieve by simulation-based
      training and then to directly apply that training to a safe in vivo model in order to
      determine training interventions that can inform a robotic curriculum both locally at GWU and
      throughout the country. Additionally, this study is innovative in that it is the first of its
      kind to correlate skills acquired on a robotic-simulation gynecology based tool to a live
      porcine model. It seeks to enhance the current GWU GYN robotics- curriculum and assist with
      the development of a specific curriculum within the next year. Although the immediate goal is
      for planning toward a gynecology robotic curriculum, results of this study could also inform
      development of robotic programs in other disciplines such as general surgery and urology.
      Considering, the limited development of simulation-based robotics curriculum, further
      refining the curriculum would allow GWU to continue "to be globally recognized as a medical
      center that embraces the challenge of…transforming health care, and expanding research to
      enrich and improve the lives of those [served]." It also serves to "leverage the SMHS brand
      to enhance opportunities for recognition, distinction..& marketing." Preparing a generation
      of well-trained and confident gynecologic surgeons will allow providers to administer safe
      care to women.
    
  