
    
      Not all contraceptive methods are appropriate for all situations, and the most appropriate
      method of birth control depends on the woman's overall health, her age, the frequency of her
      sexual activity, her sexual partners, her desire to have children in the future, and personal
      or family history of certain diseases.

      A special interest should be paid to women aged over 40 years. Decreased fertility, increased
      cardiovascular risks and greater exposure to gynecological disorders during perimenopause
      have led to reassess the contraceptive methods in this age group. Official guidelines allow
      the use of any contraceptive method - including combined estrogen progestin contraceptives
      (COCs) - that it had been well tolerated previously.

      However, more frequent contraindications during perimenopause can lead women to switch to
      other methods, such as the intrauterine device, the progestin-only contraception or
      sterilization. In this context, local contraception with spermicides represents an attractive
      alternative for perimenopausal women. Being totally safe, particularly metabolically, the use
      of spermicides in this age group is not restricted by national and international guidelines
      except in HIV high risk women or women with HIV clinical disease.

      Furthermore, the lubricating effect of a galenic formulation of spermicides, such as cream,
      is particularly useful in cases of vaginal dryness, which is common in perimenopausal women.
      Lastly, spermicides may be used in combination with other local methods of contraception.
      Considering the contraindications to other contraceptives, particularly hormonal
      contraceptives, and the greater risks associated with these methods during perimenopause,
      spermicides could be an appropriate alternative for a large number of perimenopausal women.

      Today, in spite of many advantages of spermicides, there is no contraceptive efficacy study
      conducted with any spermicide in women aged over 40 years. That is why the aim of this study
      is to evaluate contraceptive efficacy, tolerance and acceptability of a spermicide with
      benzalkonium chloride (Pharmatex® cream) in women aged over 40 years.
    
  