
    
      Memory impairment is the most frequently reported cognitive symptom in people with
      depression. However, research in this area has presented mixed findings in terms of the type,
      severity and specificity of memory deficits. One finding that has been well established is
      the impairment in episodic memory (memory for a specific past experience in one's life) with
      a sparing of semantic memory (present knowledge of universal truths such as "the sky is
      blue"), and short-term memory. Behavioural and neuroimaging studies investigating the stage
      of the memory deficit in people with depression have found that both the encoding and
      retrieval processes are impaired. Although the neural underpinnings of impaired memory in MDD
      are not completely understood, the majority of evidence implicates abnormal activity in the
      hippocampal region critical for normal memory formation.

      Exercise for depression has been a common research theme for the past several years however
      its mechanism of action remains unknown. Many studies have reported higher levels of
      cardiorespiratory fitness and increased habitual physical activity being associated with
      lower depressive symptomatology and greater emotional well-being, while lower levels of
      cardiorespiratory fitness being associated with increased risk of developing depressive
      illness. Exercise alone or in combination with other treatment options, such as
      pharmacotherapy or cognitive behavioural therapy have all been effective in treating
      depression with response rates for exercise being comparable to these mainstream therapies.
      Exercise protects against the development of neurodegenerative diseases delays the negative
      effects of aging and improves sleep quality. Exercise also reduces inflammation, normalizes
      cortisol secretion, increases hippocampal neurogenesis, increases cerebrovascular perfusion,
      improves the structure and function of the hippocampus, facilitates neurocognitive recovery
      from traumatic brain injury reverses brain volume loss in elderly and schizophrenic
      individuals and improves learning and memory. These findings suggest that the relationship
      between fitness and cognition is partly mediated by processes that involve cerebral
      circulation. These positive effects of exercise on neuroanatomy and vascularization can be
      partly explained by the interactive cascade of growth factor signalling associated with
      exercise that increases the ability of cerebral blood vessels to respond to demand. Habitual
      exercise is an effective way to improve endothelial function by increasing arterial
      compliance and decreasing arterial stiffness, oxidative stress, and vascular inflammation.

      The overall goal of this research study is to investigate the effects of a well-defined,
      structured, supervised exercise program on brain function in healthy and clinically depressed
      individuals. This research aims to fill the gaps in the literature by elucidating the
      anti-depressant mechanisms which exercise targets and if these effects parallel young healthy
      sedentary individuals.

      To investigate the effects of a moderate-intensity structured, supervised 8 week exercise
      program in people with MDD when combined with a Mental Health Day Treatment (MHDT) program,
      as compared to the MHDT on its own. All outcome measures will be assessed at baseline and 8
      weeks. A non-depressed exercise control group will be used to compare the effects of exercise
      in depressed and non-depressed individuals:

      i. depressive symptoms ii. anxiety iii. sleep quality iv. plasma IL-1β, IL-1ra, IL-6, IFN-γ,
      TNF-α and IL-10, BDNF v. salivary cortisol vi. performance on an associative memory task and
      concomitant fMRI hippocampal activation.
    
  