
    
      In December, 2019, an outbreak of pneumonia with unknown cause occurred in Wuhan city, in
      China. On January 7th, the scientists succeeded to isolate a novel coronavirus, severe acute
      respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). WHO nominated it as coronavirus disease 2019
      (COVID-19) in February, 2020. COVID-19 has a wide clinical spectrum ranging between
      asymptomatic infection, mild upper respiratory tract symptoms, and severe viral pneumonia
      that may result in respiratory failure and finally death. There is currently no clinically
      proven specific antiviral agent available for SARS-CoV-2 infection. Supportive treatment,
      including oxygen therapy, conservation fluid management, and broad-spectrum antibiotics to
      cover secondary bacterial infection, remains the most important management strategy.

      Lactoferrin is a highly conserved pleiotropic iron-binding 80-kDa glycoprotein of the
      transferrin family that is expressed and secreted by glandular cells and found in most body
      fluids with especially high concentrations in mammalian milk. Since its discovery,
      lactoferrin and its related peptides are mainly considered to be important non-specific host
      defense molecules against a broad range of viruses including SARS-CoV, which is closely
      related to SARS-CoV-2 that causes COVID-19. Lactoferrin has been found to experimentally
      inhibit viral entry in murine coronavirus, and human coronaviruses hCOV-NL63 and pseudotyped
      SARS-CoV. Given the homology of SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 spike protein structures, as well as
      both viruses depending on the same ACE2 receptor for cell entry, it is likely that
      lactoferrin can inhibit SARS-CoV-2 invasion as in the case of SARS-CoV. Besides reducing
      viral entry, lactoferrin can also suppress virus replication after the viral entry as in the
      case of HIV.

      Another major aspect of lactoferrin bioactivity relates to its immunomodulatory and
      anti-inflammatory functions. Current thinking suggests that mortality from COVID-19 is not
      simply due to viral infection but is a result of a cytokine storm associated with
      hyper-inflammation leading to acute respiratory distress and subsequent mortality. A cytokine
      profile in severe COVID-19 cases is characterized by increases in cytokines and acute phase
      reactants such as interleukin IL-6, tumor necrosis factor-a (TNFa) and ferritin. In this
      regard, lactoferrin was demonstrated to reduce IL-6, TNF a, and downregulate ferritin in
      experimental settings simulating sepsis.

      In this study, we aim to study the antiviral properties and immunomodulatory mechanisms of
      lactoferrin within the context of its potential applications against SARS-CoV-2 and propose
      the possibility of supplemental lactoferrin as a potential preventive agent for COVID-19.
    
  