
    
      Background:

      Antidepressant medications and evidence-based psychotherapies are effective treatments for
      depression. However, antidepressant medication adherence continues to be suboptimal and
      offering access to and retaining patients in evidence-based psychotherapies for depression is
      challenging. The VHA has made major efforts to expand access to and capacity for depression
      focused evidence-based psychotherapies. However in 2012, only 35% of VA patients with
      depression completed any psychotherapy visit and only 6% completed 8 psychotherapy visits in
      14 weeks, a proxy for an adequate trial.

      Initiation and engagement in depression treatment may be increased if patients are offered
      timely access to a highly flexible, evidence-based treatment options, such as a tailored,
      web-based computerized cognitive-behavioral therapy (cCBT) program. cCBT has sufficient
      evidence for effectiveness to be a covered benefit in United Kingdom National Health Service,
      but has much larger effects when it is supported by clinicians or other trusted individuals.
      VA peer specialists, an increasing workforce in VHA mental health, are ideal candidates to
      support patients' engagement in depression treatment and in cCBT. Peers have been shown to
      promote use of Internet self-management tools, and peer specialist support for cCBT may
      enhance its completion and overall effectiveness through regular "check ins" and also through
      providing peer specific experiences, such as sharing of lived experiences and modeling of
      self management and recovery.

      Objectives:

      We are conducting a Hybrid Type I RCT of Peer-Supported cCBT versus enhanced usual care (EUC)
      for 330 patients with new episodes of depression in primary care at three VA sites and their
      associated CBOCs. Our specific aims are to compare PS-cCBT versus enhanced usual care (EUC)
      on: a) patient symptomatic, functional, and recovery-oriented outcomes, b) depression coping
      skills, antidepressant medication adherence, and initiation and completion of more intensive
      traditional psychotherapy (contingent on symptom level). Our secondary aims are to assess
      patient, peer, and providers' experiences in PS-cCBT versus EUC using mixed methods. Finally,
      our exploratory aim is to assess potential mediators of improvements in depressive symptoms
      or functional status.

      Methods:

      This is a Hybrid I randomized controlled trial (RCT) of peer-supported cCBT compared to
      enhanced usual care (EUC) among Veterans with new diagnoses of depression in primary care.
      The cCBT program consists of 8 modules and will be supported by VA peer specialists with
      weekly contact for 12 weeks. We will assess patient symptomatic, functional and
      recovery-oriented outcomes at 12 and 24 week following randomization. We will also assess
      potential mediators of these outcomes. Bivariate and multivariate study analyses will assess
      the impact of the two study arms at each assessment point and over time.

      Status:

      Study is currently ongoing, study recruitment and follow-up is active.
    
  