
    
      Nicotine dependence, like other addictive disorders, can be characterized as a chronic,
      relapsing disease (Leshner, 1997). Although there is significant morbidity and mortality
      associated with this disorder, the majority of smokers are not treated adequately to the
      widely accepted goal of complete long-term abstinence from smoking. This may be due to the
      under-utilization of accepted pharmacotherapies for the treatment of tobacco dependence.

      Bupropion (Zyban) Bupropion is the first line of non-nicotine-based pharmacotherapy for
      smoking cessation. Several large-scale clinical trials have shown bupropion to be an
      efficacious smoking cessation aid (Hurt et al., 1997; Jorenby et al., 1999; Ahluwalia et al.,
      2002). In one such study, a 44% abstinence rate was reported for seven weeks of treatment
      with bupropion at 300 mg/day, compared to 19% for placebo (Hurt et al, 1997). A recent
      meta-analysis has reported that bupropion monotherapy approximately doubles the rate of
      smoking cessation (OR 1.94) (Hughes et al, 2007).

      Despite its efficacy, bupropion's mechanism of action is unclear. Attenuation of
      abstinence-associated increase in craving and withdrawal symptoms has been suggested as
      possible mechanisms of bupropion's effect on smoking behaviour in a few randomized clinical
      trials (Jorneby et al., 1999; Shiffman et al., 2000; Lerman et al., 2002; Durcan et al,
      2002). However, these effects are not universally demonstrated (Hurt et al., 1997; Shiffman
      et al., 2000). Other possible bio-behavioral mechanisms have remained largely unexplored.
      Using positron emission tomography (PET) it has been shown that in contrast to untreated
      smokers, when bupropion-treated smokers were exposed to cigarette-related cues there was less
      metabolic activation in their anterior cingulate cortex, a region of the brain previously
      shown to be activated by cigarette cues (Brody et al., 2004;Brody et al., 2002).

      STOP Study Background and Rationale

      Treatment with pharmacotherapy such as nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) or Zyban is a safe
      and effective smoking cessation strategy that can double the chance of quitting successfully
      over the long-term (Cornuz, 2007). However, research has shown that most smokers who are
      interested in quitting do not use pharmacotherapy to aid in their quit attempt.
      Misconceptions about the harmful effects of nicotine are a strong barrier to the use of
      pharmacotherapy. The cost of pharmacotherapy may also be a significant contributor to the
      under-utilization of smoking cessation aids such as NRT and Zyban. Karnath (2001) suggested
      that the high cost of successful pharmacotherapy treatment for smoking cessation may be a
      barrier for some individuals. Moreover, Cokkinides et al (2005) reported that smokers with
      private insurance were more likely to use smoking cessation pharmacotherapies than smokers
      without insurance. The addition of free NRT to a group behavioural cessation program
      substantiated these claims by showing an increase in quit rates from 38% to 65% (Alberg et
      al, 2004). These studies suggest that economic barriers may prevent smokers from using
      pharmacotherapy in their attempts to quit smoking.

      The study proposed herein will introduce free bupropion as another treatment option for
      smoking cessation for Ontario smokers. Community Health Centres and Aboriginal Health Access
      Centres are interdisciplinary health models that are able to help individuals who would
      otherwise be prevented from accessing health services due to social and geographic barriers.
      As they aim to eliminate these other barriers and consequently control for them, they are an
      ideal health model for determining whether eliminating the economic barriers of smoking
      cessation improves smoking cessation rates. Family Health Teams are more recent health models
      that provide integrated and interdisciplinary primary health care. Since they are able to
      treat large and diverse populations, they are an ideal health model for accessing Ontario
      smokers.

      Objectives

      1. To evaluate the effectiveness of 8-weeks of free bupropion in combination with brief
      counselling through family health teams, community health centres and aboriginal health
      access centres in Ontario for smoking cessation.
    
  