
    
      Weight gain is an important issue for young adults. Throughout the transition from
      adolescence to early adulthood, young adults encounter multiple stressors and influences that
      can contribute to weight gain. In turn, weight gain leads to increased risk of cardiovascular
      disease, diabetes, and other health issues. Thus, there is a critical need to advance our
      understanding of how to develop and deploy multimodal, technology-based weight-loss
      interventions that have the potential for long-term effects and widespread dissemination
      among young adults.

      The SMART 2.0 study is a 24-month (96 week) parallel-group randomized control trial designed
      to evaluate the impact of the interventions on objectively measured weight in kg over 24
      months compared to a control group. The study will recruit 642 overweight/obese young adults
      aged 18-35 at universities in San Diego, CA. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of
      three groups for a 24-month study period. The three groups include: 1) SMART 2.0 with a
      consumer-level wearable and scale, text messaging, social media, and technology-based health
      coaching; 2) SMART 2.0 with a consumer-level wearable and scale, text messaging, and social
      media; and 3) a control group with a consumer-level wearable and scale alone. Theory- and
      evidence-based content will be framed around a minimum goal of 5-10% weight loss through
      increased energy expenditure, decreased energy intake, and adequate sleep. Additionally,
      participants will be encouraged to lose 1 to 2 pounds per week until they reach a body mass
      index (BMI) below 25 kg/m2. Once a participant reaches a BMI less than 25 kg/m2 the goal will
      be to maintain their weight loss.

      SMART 2.0 uses a fully integrated system of modalities that includes: 1) a popular
      consumer-level wearable (e.g., Fitbit Charge 3), wireless scale (e.g., Aria Scale), and
      corresponding app (e.g., the Fitbit app); 2) a highly tailored and interactive text messaging
      system; 3) multiple social media streams (e.g., Facebook, Facebook Messenger, Instagram, and
      Twitter); and 4) social network mechanisms of influence. The consumer-level devices and app
      will be used to self-monitor behavior, and their data will be passively acquired in
      real-time. Algorithms will be used to automatically deliver text messages to support
      individually tailored goal setting, performance feedback, and goal review in a highly dynamic
      style that reflects participants' behavioral progress towards achieving a minimum goal of 5%
      weight loss. Participants will be encouraged to share their data and behavioral progress with
      others via social networking tools. Social network mechanisms of influence will be used both
      within the study-space, to elicit participant-to-participant and health coach-to-participant
      support, as well as outside the study-space, to invoke social support and accountability from
      strong ties known to be important for long-term behavior change. Additionally, one group will
      receive monthly technology-mediated and real-time personal health coaching that is theory-
      and evidence-based.
    
  