
    
      Study design It is a bi-center, randomized, open-label prospective study. Investigators will
      enroll the ischemic stroke patients who received IV-thrombolysis with rt-PA. Those who meet
      inclusion criteria will be randomized either to the high dose group (atorvastatin 80mg) or
      the moderate dose group (atorvastatin 20mg) within 24 hours after IVT. The initial dose of
      atorvastatin will last at least 2 weeks, and then be adjusted according to the stroke risk
      stratification and tolerance. All patients will be followed at 0, 1 month, 3 months, 6
      months, and 12 months, and evaluated the neurological deficits and some patients will be
      randomly assigned to perform multimodality MRI scan. Other standard secondary prevention of
      stroke and life-style guidance will be provided according to 2014 AHA/ASA stroke secondary
      prevention guidelines. All patients will be followed up in stroke prevention clinic or on
      phone by trained investigators.

      Study Endpoints Primary endpoint The percentage of patients with mRS (modified Rankin Score)
      equivalent to or less than 2 between high dose groups and moderate dose groups at 90 days.

      Secondary endpoints NIHSS score at 7 day, 1 month mRS at 6,12 month Inflammation biomarkers
      at 6 month Imaging outcomes include the neuronal and vascular morphological changes indicated
      by multi-model imaging.

      Safety and tolerability will be evaluated by recording the incidence and severity of adverse
      events, abnormal physical examination findings, and abnormal laboratory values through the
      study. Especially monitoring the patients who have any the following events:

      Hemorrhagic complications including intracranial, digestive tract. New stroke or TIA Death
      from all-cause death, stroke events or cardiovascular events The patients having muscle
      symptoms such as myalgia, fatigue, weakness, creatinine kinase values 10 times the upper
      limit of normal, or rhabdomyolysis, and having persistent elevation in alanine
      aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), or both (defined as two consecutive
      measurements obtained 4 to 10 days apart that is more than three times the upper limit of the
      normal range).
    
  