
    
      The overarching aim of this line of research is to develop effective ST interventions that
      can be disseminated. In order to accomplish our aims, the investigators will enroll 1011 ST
      users in a multicenter, randomized controlled trial.

      The primary aims and hypotheses to be tested in this study are the following:

        1. To evaluate the effectiveness of a ST intervention combining the nicotine lozenge and
           assisted self-help (LASH) for increasing both prolonged and point prevalence all tobacco
           and ST abstinence rates at 6 months follow-up compared to an assisted self-help
           intervention (ASH)among ST users who are interested in achieving tobacco abstinence.

           Hypothesis: The LASH intervention - adding the lozenge as nicotine replacement
           therapy(NRT)- will significantly increase both the prolonged and point prevalence all
           tobacco and ST abstinence rates compared to the ASH intervention at 6 months among ST
           users who are interested in achieving tobacco abstinence.

        2. To evaluate the effectiveness of a ST intervention combining the nicotine lozenge and
           assisted self-help (LASH) for increasing both prolonged and point prevalence all tobacco
           and ST abstinence rates at 6 months follow-up compared to a lozenge plus self-help
           intervention (LSH group: no telephone counseling) among ST users who are interested in
           achieving tobacco abstinence.

      Hypothesis: The LASH intervention will significantly increase the point prevalence abstinence
      rates of all tobacco and ST at 6 months compared to the LSH intervention among ST users who
      are interested in achieving tobacco abstinence.

      Secondary aims to be tested in this study:

        1. To evaluate the incremental cost-per-quit of adding the nicotine lozenge to an assisted
           self-help intervention (or of adding an assisted self-help intervention to a nicotine
           lozenge intervention)for increasing tobacco abstinence rates.

        2. To evaluate changes in self-efficacy and other theoretically-relevant measures related
           to the use of the nicotine lozenge as potential mediators of tobacco abstinence.

      The investigators will also examine an exploratory aim:

      1. To evaluate the relationship between the nicotine metabolite ratio (i.e., ratio of
      trans-3'-hydroxycotinine to cotinine) and the number of lozenges used and and ST abstinence
      among ST users receiving the nicotine lozenge in the LASH intervention.
    
  