
    
      Participants who had ongoing epistaxis and met the inclusion criteria where enrolled in the
      pilot study . Bleeding severity was not recorded. All participants enrolled were clinically
      stable with active epistaxis. Participants who were unstable or were ineligible were not
      referred to the recruiting doctors by A&E triage. Following informed consent the Hilotherm
      mask was fitted for an initial period of 20 minutes. If the bleeding had improved or stopped
      following 20 minutes of treatment the Hilotherm mask remained fitted for a 20 further minutes
      . A subjective decision was made by the supervising doctor and the participant to whether the
      flow of epistaxis had improved after the initial 20 minutes of hilotherapy.

      The mask was removed if there was no improvement after the initial 20 minutes of hilotherapy,
      40 minutes of total hilotherapy treatment, participant preference, worsening observations or
      profuse bleeding. Participants received conventional epistaxis management simultaneously,
      this involved continued nasal pressure application during hilotherapy. Following hilotherapy
      if epistaxis continued then either nasal cauterisation or packing was performed. Participants
      who were packed cessation of epistaxis was determined at the time of packing if bleeding had
      ceased. Bleeding time was accurately assessed by the recruiting doctor from the time of
      hilotherm mask application to the time of complete epistaxis cessation. All of the
      participants were treated in the sitting position.

      Participants were free to withdraw from the trial at any time and no further data was
      analysed from the individual. Clinicians recorded anticoagulant and antiplatelet use,
      duration of bleeding and patient demographics. All participants completed a questionnaire
      following their hilotherapy treatment independantly.

      A similar protocol was devised for nasal fractures.
    
  