
    
      Inflammatory non-lactating breasts diseases encompasses a large spectrum of diseases ranging
      from infective diseases to autoimmune diseases, which cause considerable morbidity and
      difficulty in diagnosis. In daily practices, exclusion of possible diagnosis of breast
      carcinoma is the most important step. Aetiological factors for non-lactational mastitis
      include bacterial infection, tuberculosis, auto-immune disorders, etc. Treatments for these
      patients including antibiotics, anti-tuberculosis therapy, and corticosteroids treatments.
      Many of these patients were pathologically diagnosed as periductal mastitis (PD) or
      idiopathic granulomatous mastitis (IGM). The current treatment for PD or IGM include
      corticosteroids treatments, antibiotics and surgical treatments. Based on literature review,
      the complete response (CR) rate of corticosteroids and surgical treatment ranged between
      63-87% and 89-100%, respectively. Time to CR ranged between 2-8 month for corticosteroid
      treatment.

      Pathological findings of patients of IGM or PD revealed infiltrating inflammatory cells and
      neutrophilic microabscesses around the lobular units and partial ductal obstruction, we
      hypothesized that ductal lavage therapy will be able to relieve the symptom by dilating the
      lactiferous duct followed by irrigation solution flushing, with shorter recovery time and
      satisfactory CR rate. In our institution(Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital,Guangzhou, Guangdong,
      P.R.China), it is our routine practice to perform ductal lavage therapy to patients with
      non-lactating breasts diseases, especially for patients with IGM or PD, before we start
      corticosteroid or antibiotics treatments. For patients with evidence of bacterial infection,
      antibiotics was added into the irrigation solution. In our experience, many patients had
      short recovery time and low relapse rate, sparing the use of corticosteroid or antibiotics
      treatments. However, there is no concrete data to quantify the efficacy of ductal lavage
      therapy for IGM or PD patients. This observational study aims to prospectively enroll
      eligible patients and investigate the efficacy of ducal lavage therapy in IGM or PD patients.
    
  