
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a genetic disorder of the hemoglobin in which the course of
      acute pain from vaso-occlusion and its sequelae vary widely across genotypes and individual
      patients. SCD pain often begins during childhood and can progress to chronic pain for
      approximately 23% of children and adolescents. Youth with chronic SCD pain, that is pain that
      is present on most days per month and persists for at least 6 months, report high levels of
      functional disability, elevated depressive and anxiety symptoms, and reduced quality of life
      relative to youth with SCD without chronic pain. The complex, multifactorial nature of
      chronic SCD pain can also contribute to increased healthcare utilization for pain. The most
      effective management and treatment of chronic SCD pain likely requires individualized,
      multimodal, multidisciplinary treatments that go beyond pharmacological management alone. A
      range of evidence-based non-pharmacological treatments, such as behavioral health,
      complementary, and integrative health approaches, are recommended for chronic pain management
      and are gaining greater awareness and integration into comprehensive chronic pain care.

      Behavioral health treatment, such as cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) for pain, focuses on
      improved daily functioning and coping through several core treatment components such as
      psychoeducation about how the body processes pain, relaxation skills training, and cognitive
      strategies. Youth with chronic SCD pain need an evidence-based, culturally informed, adaptive
      treatment. Behavioral treatments that are tailored to patient and family needs are beneficial
      when patients may require different levels of care. Adaptive designs are more effective in
      improving health outcomes, satisfaction with treatment, and reducing healthcare use than
      standard protocols where patients receive a fixed "one size fits all" treatment that is not
      personalized to their needs; adaptive designs are also recommended for tailoring
      evidence-based interventions with culturally diverse populations. Adaptive treatments can
      integrate evidence-based strategies to address common co-morbid problems associated with
      chronic pain, such as elevated anxiety or depressive symptoms or sleep disturbance. Teaching
      parents problem-solving skills can reduce caregiver stress among families managing chronic
      pain and illness.

      This study will utilize an adaptive behavioral treatment to target psychosocial risk factors
      for youth with chronic SCD pain as a first step towards developing a stepped care model for
      SCD pain.
    
  