
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM) accounts for approximately 1% of all malignancies and 10% of
      hematological tumors, representing the second most frequently occurring hematological
      malignancy in the United States. At any one time, 50,000 people suffer from MM, and
      approximately 15,000 are diagnosed each year. The median age is approximately 65 years,
      although occasionally MM occurs in the second decade of life. Myeloma is a disease of
      neoplastic plasma cells that synthesize abnormal amounts of immunoglobulin or immunoglobulin
      fragments. Myeloma is the only hematological malignancy associated with bone disease. Myeloma
      is a B-cell neoplasia characterized by clonal expansion of plasma cells in the bone marrow.
      It is the most malignant stage of plasma cell dyscrasias, which also include the precursor
      stages of MGUS and indolent or smoldering myeloma. Myeloma is frequently associated with
      lytic bone disease that is responsible for the most debilitating manifestations of the
      disease, including bone pain and fractures.

      Bone disease in myeloma results from the activation of osteoclast and suppression of
      osteoblast activity in the myelomatous bone marrow. Change in bone turnover rates, expressed
      as increased osteoblastic and osteoclastic activity, precede the progression pf MGUS or
      smoldering myeloma to overt myeloma by as long as three years.

      Treatment with bisphosphonates reduces bone resorption and also to some degree, bone
      formation, and over the long-term moderately increases bone density. Other approved
      antiresorptive therapies have been shown to reduce the risk of fracture in osteoporotic
      women, but none have been shown to restore normal bone mass or strength. As a result,
      treatments that directly stimulate bone formation may overcome these limitations, increase
      bone mass, and improve the quality of life of myeloma patients. Bone disease is responsible
      for the most severe complications associated with multiple myeloma. As treatment and survival
      of myeloma patients improve, new therapies to improve complications are important and vitally
      needed VELCADE™ (bortezomib) for Injection is a small molecule proteasome inhibitor developed
      by Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., (Millennium) as a novel agent to treat human
      malignancies. VELCADE is currently approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration
      (US FDA) and it is registered in Europe for the treatment of multiple myeloma patients who
      have received at least one prior therapy.

      The clinical response to bortezomib observed in a 63-year-old woman with multiple myeloma and
      the parallel increase in alkaline phosphatase (ALP) has led us and other groups to evaluate
      the correlation between bone anabolism and myeloma response to bortezomib. After similar
      elevations were noted in patients responding to bortezomib, thalidomide, dexamethasone
      combination, ALP levels were analysed in two large bortezomib trials (Roodman, 2008).
      Giuliani and coworkers (2007) found that bortezomib significantly increased the activity of
      the critical osteoblast transcription factor, RUNX2, in human osteoblast precursors and
      stimulated bone nodule formation in vitro. Importantly, they found a significant increase in
      the number of osteoblasts per mm2 of bone tissue and the number of RUNX2 positive
      osteoblastic cells in marrow biopsies from myeloma patients that responded to bortezomib.
      Again, the effect on osteoblasts was only seen in patients whose myeloma responded to
      bortezomib, making it difficult to distinguish if the increase in osteoblast activity was due
      to the anti-myeloma effects of bortezomib or direct effects on osteoblasts or both. Terpos
      and colleagues (2006) have reported that bortezomib also decreased DKK1 and RANKL
      concentrations and normalized bone remodeling indices in the serum of patients with relapsed
      myeloma. However, the majority of patients that showed an increase in bone formation markers
      also showed an antitumor response to bortezomib, making it unclear if the stimulatory effects
      on bone formation were secondary to the effects of bortezomib on myeloma or due to direct
      effects on osteoblast differentiation After similar elevations were noted in patients
      responding to bortezomib, thalidomide, dexamethasone combination, ALP levels were analysed in
      two large bortezomib trials.

      We first completed a retrospective analysis of large Phase 3 trials comparing ALP levels in
      responders (≥PR) vs nonresponders (≤PR) patients.

      Data obtained from the APEX Crest and Summit protocols, have shown that a total of 85 myeloma
      patients were treated with bortezomib at the dose of 0.7 mg/m2 for different reasons with
      significant antimyeloma efficacy for multiple cycles. This dose (0.7 mg/m2) will be used in
      this trial to test if the antimyeloma activity of bortezomib is still associated to bone
      anabolic effect. Data for the APEX, summit, and CREST trials is on file at Millennium
      Pharmaceuticals.

      Given that this study is a continuation of a previous protocol (UARK 2004-22) when at the
      dose of 1.3 and 1.0 mg/m2 an antimyeloma effect and associated bone formation were observed.
      This trial will test the effect of 0.7 mg/m2 (which has been shown to be effective on
      antimyeloma treatment) on bone formation to determine the minimal dose associated to bone
      effect.
    
  