
    
      Study design We will use a cluster randomized study design with cross-sectional surveys at
      baseline and endline to examine the effect of an integrated intervention package consisting
      of BCC, food voucher system to feed the children homemade snack following a recommended
      recipe, MNP and tailor-made counselling on hand washing and food safety to improve child
      growth and feeding practices. The effect of the intervention package will be compared to a
      control group which will be an adjacent area (see diagram) with similar population demography
      receiving usual health messages. The primary outcome assessment will be done through
      comparing differences in nutritional status of the children (<2y) among intervention and
      control groups. Also the change in knowledge, attitude and practice (KAP) regarding child
      feeding practices among mothers from intervention and control groups will be assessed.

      Study site and participants The study will be conducted in Harirumpur sub-districts of
      Manikgonj. The study area is selected purposively in consultation with brac considering
      transportation and logistical issues. The Harirumpur sub-district has 13 unions and out of
      these, 3 unions will be selected randomly for intervention and the 3 unions will serve as
      control group (Control Group l). Random allocation of the intervention will be performed by a
      scientist from icddr,b who will not be involved with this study.

      Inclusion criteria for study participants

        1. Households having under two years children (6-12 mo during enrolment)

        2. Household listed as poor household following above mentioned criteria

        3. Not involved with any government/non-government microfinance programme

        4. Not participants of any IYCF programme Components of the intervention package The
           intervention package includes-

      1. BCC on child feeding practices 2. Food voucher to support feeding of a homemade snack
      (suzi Firni/Halua) and the recipe will be demonstrated to the mothers by SS and Pushti kormi
      (PK) in group sessions 3. Regular WASH messages PLUS new messages on risk and management of
      poultry faeces 4. Home-based fortification with MNP Description of the intervention package

      Development of Behaviour Change Communication (BCC) materials:

      Behaviour change communication (BCC) is an interactive process of any intervention with
      individuals, communities and/or societies (as integrated with an overall programme) to
      develop communication strategies to promote positive behaviours which are appropriate
      according to the context. This in turn provides a supportive environment that enables people
      to initiate, sustain and maintain positive and desirable behaviour. SSs and PK will use
      existing harmonized BCC tools (child feeding counselling packages including flip chart,
      videos) to inform mothers regarding optimum child feeding practice. However, considering the
      objectives of the proposed study some additional materials will be developed. The major topic
      of the BCC materials will be promotion of newly developed recipe and WASH. Adequate and clear
      message will be delivered to the mother regarding the new recipe so that it should be treated
      as snack only and must not replace any major meal of the day.

      Food voucher conditional on practicing recommended recipe:

      Each of the mothers of under two years children ( 6-12 mo) will receive voucher as coupon or
      piece of paper that can be exchanged for goods. The Vouchers will allow the mothers to
      purchase commodities for Suzi recipe from the participating vendors without using of cash.
      Participating vendors will be selected according to predetermined criteria. A mother will be
      given a voucher equivalent to a certain amount of cash which she can spend at any
      pre-approved vendor. A voucher will have to be spent out within a certain time period before
      becoming invalid ("redemption period") to maintain compliance which will be monitored by
      research staff. It is expected that this type of voucher will offer us to have control over
      the purchase of items and its use, because of the programmatic reason we need to restrict
      purchases to a specific, identified food commodity to feed the children.

      brac will provide monthly food voucher equivalent to BDT, 1100 (proposed) to feed prescribed
      snack recipe to their children in order to ensure daily consumption of some animal source
      protein and added energy along with their regular diet. The sole purpose of the food voucher
      is to improve dietary diversity of the children in the intervention areas. The amount of food
      voucher is estimated on monthly basis considering associated cost of buying all the
      ingredients for cooking of "Suzi firni/ halua" which should be consumed two times per day as
      snacks. Some of them, however, may have internal arrangement of serving this proposed food
      from their own capacity; in such case they will be suggested/encouraged to spend this food
      voucher to exchange nutritious complementary food especially animal protein for their
      children.

      Monthly feeding history, morbidity as well as anthropometric data of the children will be
      collected by the data collection tream of icddr,b. If it is reported that someone among the
      children from intervention group is not gaining weight in subsequent months, investigators
      will try to find out the valid reason. If required, the children will be referred to the
      local government, NGO or private hospital for further follow up for better diagnosis.

      Home fortification:

      The SS will distribute one-month supply of micronutrient powder (MNP) during home visits once
      at a time in the intervention group. A zip-lock bag will be provided to every mother to store
      the empty sachets to ensure compliance. Mothers will be asked to add MNP with complementary
      food. SS will demonstrate mothers to mix MNP with main meal by dividing the meal into two
      parts and mix the whole sachet of MNP with one portion and feed the MNP mixed part of food
      first and then the next portion. By using counselling card, they will provide instruction to
      feed MNP mixed food within half an hour to avoid metallic taste and also inform to use one
      sachet for one child. A child will be given at least 10 sachets at every month followed by 60
      sachets in six months and 120 sachets in a year.

      Child WASH:

      Hygienic practices and hand washing will be one of the major areas to counsel mother in terms
      of hand washing before food preparation, before and after child feeding and defecation.
      Frontline workers (SS & PK) will advise the mothers and caregivers to maintain personal
      hygiene e.g. cutting nails, use of footwear, washing hand before preparing food and feeding
      their children for prevention of infection and worm infestations during their routine visits.
      The SS and PK will provide tailored messages on hand washing focusing on sanitation and clean
      environment specially protecting child from ingestion of poultry feces, safe disposal of
      child feces, safe drinking water (collection, transport, storage, treatment). To inform and
      educate mothers regarding the hazardous effect of ingestion of poultry faces and subsequent
      environmental enteropathy, materials will be developed namely "CHILD WASH". Till date no such
      BCC material is reported in the country; therefore existing BCC materials on WASH used by
      government, development partner, local and international NGOs and used in other countries
      will be reviewed by IYCF experts and BCC martial specialist. According to their comments and
      opinions, draft BCC materials will be designed by a contracted agency. The draft materials
      will be tested in the field to find out its comprehensibility, clearness of the content by
      the mothers and caregivers in community setting. Pilot testing will not include the
      households those are included in the original study. Necessary changes will be done on the
      basis of feedback from field testing. The SS and PK will receive training on these newly
      developed materials so that they can deliver the message clearly and concisely to encourage
      mothers to adopt the practice. The control group will receive regular WASH messages focusing
      on hand washing and use of safe water.

      Home visits by SS and PK Scheduled home visits are carried out by SS and PK. SS registers all
      children 0-2 years in her area and visits at least once a month to counsel and demonstrate
      techniques of continuation of breastfeeding up to 24 months. During this study, special
      emphasis will be given on CF in terms of new recipes (Suzi firni/ halua), homemade
      complementary food, appropriate amount and frequency of complementary foods and consumption
      of protein from animal source according to age for children 7-24 months. Mothers will be
      advised to utilize the voucher to purchase ingredients for proposed recipe to feed her child
      by following any of the recipes according to her convenience. Importance will be given on
      hygiene and handwashing practice as well. Fortnightly courtyard session will be organized by
      SS and PK with a group of 10-12 mothers of study children for group counselling and practical
      demonstration of hand washing aid.

      Acceptability of the new recipe:

      The acceptability of the new recipe will be conducted among 50 children and their respective
      mothers/caregivers. The mothers will be requested not to give/allow any food and breast milk
      during the preceding 2 hours of observed meal time on the day of feeding observation which
      will be done under the direct supervision of trained study staff (2 observations). The
      feeding episode will last for maximum 60 minutes. The mothers will be asked to spoon feed
      their children the pre-weighed diet until the child refuses to eat further. Children will be
      considered as refusing further intake if they move their head away from the food, cry, clamp
      the mouth or clinch the teeth, or become agitated, spit out the food or refuse to swallow.
      The amount of food actually ingested will be calculated by subtracting the left over from the
      offered amount. Pre-weighed napkins will be provided; any food that is regurgitated, vomited
      or spilled will be swabbed, weighed and subtracted from the amount offered.

      Acceptability will be categorized as 'accepted eagerly' if they ate food readily, did not
      make a fuss, spit out, vomit or cry during the observed meal. Children will be categorized as
      'accepted but not eagerly' if they ate the offered food but either made fuss, spit out,
      vomited or cried during the observed meal. The third category will be children who will not
      consume the offered food at all. Perception and assessment of organoleptic characteristics
      (color, smell, taste, texture, etc.) of the prepared recipe by the respective
      mother/caregiver will also be assessed by using the 9-point Hedonic scale Intervention
      period: 12 months to ensure there is sufficient time to measure the IYCF practices and child
      growth.

      Process evaluation:

      To assess the fidelity of the program implementation, process evaluation will be carried out
      focusing on the program's operations, implementation, and service delivery. The process
      evaluation will identify the legibility of selecting study participants, implementation of
      voucher system, use of voucher, quality of the different awareness sessions carried out by SS
      and PK, satisfaction of the people involved in program implementation and probable
      challenges. Qualitative interviews, focus groups with the intervention recipients and family
      members (women, husbands, mothers-in-law), and implementers (i.e. project staff, SS/ PK/ PO,
      participating in the project) will be conducted.

      Timeline for data collection: Information regarding process evaluation will be collected once
      in every 1 month.

      Measurements Sample Size Calculation and Outcome (Primary and Secondary) Variable(s) To
      observe a difference of 0.4 in mean LAZ between intervention and control group (-1.4 vs -1.8,
      standard deviation 1.2) after 12 months intervention period, using a two-tailed t-test, a
      power of 80%, a significance level of 5%, and design effect of 1.3, the sample size for one
      arm is calculated = 184. With 10% attrition, the final sample size for intervention or
      control arm is 205 so the total sample size will be 205*2= 410 mother-child pairs.

      Data Analysis Analyses will be conducted at the mother-infant dyad level, but will be
      adjusted for the community-cluster randomization. The primary analyses will compare the mean
      difference of LAZ in children after 12 months of intervention period using independent sample
      t- test and 95% confidence intervals for the group difference, adjusted for clustering. We
      will report the results for 2-sided 5% tests for the primary trial outcome. Secondary
      analyses will examine each outcome variable (minimum meal frequency, minimum dietary
      diversity, minimum acceptable diet, weight-for-age, maternal knowledge) taking account of the
      repeated measurements within children by using separate mixed models. We will use linear
      mixed models for continuous outcomes (e.g. length-for-age Z) and generalized linear mixed
      models for non-continuous outcomes (e.g. logistic mixed models for binary outcomes e.g.
      percentage with minimum dietary diversity). Models will include treatment group as a fixed
      effect, infants as a random effect to account for the repeated measurements, and
      community-cluster as a random effect to account for the cluster effect.

      The models will be able to evaluate the impact of the interventions over time by testing for
      an interaction between time and intervention group. Analyses will be conducted to identify
      the baseline characteristics of mother-infant dyads who may benefit most from the
      intervention. Model assumptions will be checked and appropriate adjustments to the analysis
      will be made where necessary. STATA® software will be used for all analyses, with xtmixed
      command to fit linear mixed models and xtmelogit command to fit mixed-effects models for
      binary outcomes/responses. Also difference in differences analysis will be performed.
    
  