
    
      In our studies of brain function examining areas related to hunger and fullness, a part of
      the brain called the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) was found to be less active
      in obese versus lean individuals following a meal. Furthermore, in women who have lost and
      maintained weight loss, the activity in this area following a meal is similar to that of lean
      women, suggesting that the activity in this area may improve with weight loss. Two recent
      studies have demonstrated a lack of increase in food craving following non-invasive brain
      stimulation to the left DLPFC when compared to a sham control group that did not receive
      brain stimulation.

      The aim of our protocol is to investigate the effectiveness of one type of noninvasive brain
      stimulation technique, transcranial direct current stimulation (TDCS) on food intake in
      significantly overweight (BMI greater than or equal to 30 kg/m(2) individuals. In study 1, we
      enrolled individuals who previously participated in this study and examined how anodal
      (active) stimulation or sham (no stimulation) to the left DLPFC compared to their previous
      stimulation condition in terms of both weight loss and food intake. The aim of Study 2 was to
      compare active versus sham anodal left DLPFC stimulation in a new group of volunteers.

      Study 3 will be a 9 week double-blind parallel outpatient study where volunteers will come to
      the Clinical Research Unit 3x per week and be randomized to receive either active tDCS or "no
      stimulation" (sham) to the left DLPFC for stimulation sessions while being asked to follow a
      diet that is a 25% reduction from their calculated weight maintenance calories. The primary
      outcome measurement will be total food (kcal) intake during a snack food taste test, and
      weight change. Volunteers will also undergo 4 sessions of brain imaging (called functional
      MRI) to help us understand how the stimulation is working. Participants will also be asked to
      come back to the Unit after 6 months and 1 year for weight measurement. We will also examine
      appetitive hormones, neurocognitive and behavioral factors, which might also mediate
      potential changes in food intake and weight following TDCS to the left DLPFC. Positive
      findings from this study could demonstrate the utility of a novel and safe treatment for
      severe obesity. Future studies could include longer clinical trials of TDCS with extended
      follow-up durations.
    
  