
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine if the combination of radium Ra 223 dichloride (radium-223 dichloride) and
      paclitaxel improves progression-free survival (PFS) compared to paclitaxel alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the time to the first symptomatic skeletal event [SSE] (defined as 1st use of
      radiation therapy to relieve skeletal symptoms, new symptomatic pathologic vertebral or
      non-vertebral bone fractures, spinal cord compression, or tumor-related orthopedic surgical
      intervention).

      II. To measure the objective response rate (ORR). III. To determine the safety of radium-223
      dichloride with paclitaxel. IV. To measure overall survival (OS).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform molecular profiling assays on malignant and normal tissues, including, but not
      limited to, whole exome sequencing (WES) and messenger ribonucleic (RNA) sequencing (RNAseq),
      in order to:

      Ia. Investigate if molecular alterations in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair genes are
      associated with response to radium-223 dichloride, and.

      Ib. Investigate if loss of heterozygosity in triple negative tumors is associated with
      response to radium-223 dichloride.

      II. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data
      Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current
      and future research; specimens will be annotated with key clinical data, including
      presentation, diagnosis, staging, summary treatment, and if possible, outcome.

      III. To correlate change in level of total alkaline phosphatase, bone-specific alkaline
      phosphatase, and serum osteocalcin to response to radium-223 dichloride therapy.

      IV. To examine the radium-223 dichloride bio-distribution and absorbed dose in each bone
      metastatic lesions as well as elsewhere in the body including critical organs using
      dosimetry.

      V. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, blood, and nucleic acids obtained
      from patients at the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical Trials Network (ETCTN) Biorepository
      at Nationwide Children's Hospital.

      VI. To explore the symptomatic adverse events (AE) for tolerability of each treatment arm.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and
      radium Ra 223 dichloride IV over 1 minute on day 1. Treatment with radium Ra 223 dichloride
      repeats every 28 days for 6 cycles and treatment with paclitaxel repeats every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every
      28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months
      for 2 years.
    
  