
    
      In this study, effects of reformer pilates were evaluated by comparing with home mat pilates
      method. A total of 28 volunteer women who were diagnosed with FM according to the American
      College of Rheumatology (ACR) 2016 criteria were included in the study. Reformer pilates
      group had 14 participants, home mat pilates group had 14 participants.

      All individuals were evaluated by same physiotherapist according to standardized test
      protocols and in the same conditions at baseline and at the end of 6th week. Number of
      painful regions with Pain Location Inventory (PLI), disease activity with Fibromyalgia Impact
      Questionnaire (FIQ), lower extremity muscle strength with Chair Test, functional mobility
      with The Timed Up and Go Test (TUG), balance with Single Leg Stance Test, kinesiophobia with
      Tampa Kinesiophobia Scale, fatigue with Fatigue Severity Scale, sleep quality with Pittsburgh
      Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), biopsychosocial status with Cognitive Exercise Therapy Approach-
      Biopsychosocial Questionnaire (BETY-BQ) and quality of life with Short Form-36 (SF-36) were
      evaluated.

      Pilates exercises were performed by a certified and experienced physiotherapist in this field
      as two different methods (reformer group and home mat group) in 2 times a week for 6 weeks.
      Before starting treatment program, 5 key elements of clinical pilates exercises, which are
      breathing, focus, and placement of the rib cage, shoulder, head and neck, were taught to all
      patients. Participants were encouraged to focus and maintain these 5 key elements during all
      exercises.

      Data were assessed using SPSS (Version 21.0). Continuous variables were stated as average,
      standard deviation and percentage. When parametric test assumptions were provided the
      Independent Samples Test was used, when parametric test assumptions were not provided
      Mann-Whitney U test was used to compare the differences between the independent groups. When
      parametric test assumptions were provided, the Paired Simple T Test was used, when parametric
      test assumptions were not provided, Wilcoxon signed-rank test was used to compare the
      differences between the dependent groups. P value <0.05 was considered as statistically
      significant.
    
  