
    
      Von Willebrand's Disease (VWD) is the most common inherited bleeding disorder, characterized
      by a quantitative and/or qualitative deficiency of Von Willebrand Factor (VWF), that plays a
      major role in early phases of hemostasis. Type 3 Von Willebrand's Disease (VWD3) is due to
      virtually complete deficiency of VWF and, for this reason, has been also described as "severe
      VWD". Recurrent Gastro-Intestinal Bleeds (GIB) is one of the most challenging complications
      encountered in the management of patients with VWD. The commonest cause is angiodysplasia
      (ANGDYS), but often no cause is identified due to the difficulty in making the diagnosis. In
      recent years, research from several laboratories has identified multiple roles for VWF in the
      control of vascular function. Globally, these findings provide the first possible explanation
      for the presence of ANGDYS in patients with VWD. These vascular malformations in the
      gastrointestinal (GI) tract are characterized by fragile, leaky mucosal vessels. Combined
      with the hemostatic dysfunction, these can lead to severe intractable bleeding including GIB.
      VWD3 is inherited as a recessive trait and heterozygous relatives have mild or no bleeding
      symptoms. Even if the prevalence of VWD3 is very low, the highest rate is found in Iran and
      the lowest in southern Europe. However, the actual prevalence of VWD3 is still unknown in
      most countries, due to the lack of retrospective or prospective studies. Although rare, VWD3
      is of major interest because of its severe clinical presentation, the need for replacement
      therapy with plasma-derived and/or recombinant VWF concentrates and the risk of occurrence of
      anti-VWF inhibitors after the infusion of VWF concentrates, for which risk factors have not
      been systematically determined.

      The major objectives of the study are: to create an international network among European and
      Iranian Centers (ratio 1:1), the prospective enrollment of at least 250 VWD3 patients using a
      common database online, the collection of detailed information about previous bleedings and
      exposure to plasma-derived and/or recombinant VWF concentrates, the use of bleeding severity
      score of VWD3 calculated with a common questionnaire, the collection of plasma and DNA
      samples from all the identified VWD3 patients enrolled for centralized analyses, the
      confirmation of the local VWD3 diagnosis using centralized tests, Evaluation of VWF gene
      defects, VWF phenotype and risk of anti-VWF inhibitors through common methods, the evaluation
      of potential correlations between phenotypic results (including markers of angiogenesis) and
      GIB occurrence, the objective evaluation of severity of GIB in VWD3 patients, the assessment
      of frequency and sites of bleeding in VWD3 patients followed-up for 2 prospective observation
      periods (2 years each: 2017-2018 and 2020-2022), the efficacy assessment of the
      plasma-derived and/or recombinant VWF concentrates used to treat VWD3 (on demand versus
      prophylaxis) using the most objective criteria for efficacy during 2 prospective observation
      periods (2 years each: 2017-2018 and 2020-2022), the evaluation of the efficacy and safety of
      plasma-derived and/or recombinant VWF concentrates in the treatment of GIB during 2
      prospective observation periods (2 years each: 2017-2018 and 2020-2022), in comparison to the
      use of anti-angiogenetic agents within the standard clinical setting.

      To these purposes, a cohort of at least 250 patients with diagnosis of VWD3 will be enrolled
      using homogenous and standardized criteria.

      The work planned to achieve the objectives of the project will be divided in three parts:

        -  the first part deals with standardized criteria for enrolment and collection of
           retrospective clinical and laboratory data, to be confirmed by centralized laboratories;

        -  the second part involves a further characterization of clinical and laboratory
           parameters, collected in the retrospective phase, including prevalence of anti-VWF
           inhibitors, advanced laboratory tests to further identify VWD3, mutations analyses of
           the VWF gene;

        -  the third part of the study is divided in two parts: a first prospective observation and
           a second prospective observation. The third part for the first time deals with the
           prospective clinical observation in a large cohort of VWD3 patients all previously well
           characterized by an international panel of experts.
    
  