
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Cooperative Study of Sickle Cell Disease was initiated in 1977 to determine the natural
      history of sickle cell disease from birth to death in order to identify those factors
      contributing to the morbidity and mortality of the disease. Patients in the study had been
      followed previously in CSSCD.

      Follow-up of the newborn cohort provided data demonstrating that life-threatening septicemia
      can occur as early as four months of age, and that the incidence of septicemia in children
      with sickle cell disease is higher than previously reported. Serial measurements of pocked or
      vesiculated red blood cells determined the onset of splenic dysfunction. The loss of splenic
      function has been characterized by genotype and the observed patterns of loss of splenic
      function were different developmentally depending on the sickle hemoglobinopathy syndrome.

      Growth retardation, which becomes obvious around seven years of age, has no relationship to
      reported family income. Prophylactic oral penicillin can decrease morbidity and mortality
      associate with pneumococcal septicemia. The newborn infant cohort was unique in determining
      issues related to the natural history of the disease because the information was prospective
      and has been captured in the database. The complex database permitted an opportunity to
      determine outcomes, risk factors, and the application of the severity index to determine the
      spectrum of severity.

      Follow-up of the over-35 cohort is important because it was not so long ago that it was
      estimated that 50 percent of patients with sickle cell anemia in the United States died
      before their twentieth birthday. However, data accumulated over the past eight years by the
      CSSCD demonstrates that this is incorrect. Survival beyond the age of forty suggests that
      surviving patients are somehow different from other patients with a high mortality in the
      earlier years. Therefore, they constitute a cohort of special interest, and the reasons for
      prolonged survival in this disease remain to be well documented prospectively. Technology is
      now available to identify genetic differences which may influence survival.

      Based on the findings of the earlier CSSCD, the Blood Diseases and Resources Advisory
      Committee Red Cell Working Group recommended this initiative which was approved by the May
      1987 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council. The Request for Proposals was released
      in February 1988 and awards made in October 1988.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Follow-up of the newborn cohort continued in order to better understand the severity, onset
      of early organ damage, and risk factors. Patients were given an entry evaluation consisting
      of interim history, complete physical examination, complete blood count, urinalysis, blood
      drawn for haplotype determination and for the serum bank, magnetic resonance imaging of the
      brain, pulmonary function tests with arterial blood gas, and psychomotor tests. Patients had
      interim assessments at six months and annual assessments as well as an exit assessment in the
      fourth or fifth years. The exit assessment was the same as the entry assessment.

      Follow-up of the over-35 cohort continued in order to better understand factors that
      contribute to longevity. Entry evaluation consisted of interim history, complete physical
      examination, complete blood count, urinalysis, blood drawn for haplotype determination and
      for the serum bank, cardiac MUGA, and renal and pulmonary function tests. Follow-up was
      yearly with an exit evaluation in the fourth or fifth years.
    
  