
    
      A treatment monitoring instrumentation is highly demanded to maximize the benefits of
      hadrontherapy from the increased conformation of the released dose to the tumor volume with
      respect to the conventional radiotherapy.

      Since almost all the energy of the charged particles is deposited in the end of their track
      (Bragg Peak region), the verification of the particle range by experimental measurements,
      performed during treatment delivery, can help to increase the therapy effectiveness while
      better sparing healthy tissues.

      The INSIDE system is an innovative bi-modal instrumentation consisting of an in-beam Positron
      Emission Tomography (PET) scanner, to detect annihilation photons coming from positron
      isotope emitters, and a Dose Profiler to collect signals from charged particles emitted
      during treatment (e.g. protons in the case of carbon ion treatments).

      The in-beam PET scanner is composed by two opposite panels of detectors placed above and
      below the patient bed, respectively. The Dose Profiler is positioned above the patient with
      an angle of 60°, forwardly with respect to the beam direction.

      The INSIDE system is a passive instrumentation, i.e. no additional dose has to be released to
      the patient for particle range verification.

      The INSIDE detectors are mounted on a mobile support and, immediately before the treatment
      delivery, they will be placed around the patient in the acquisition position, thanks to a
      dedicated hooking system designed to guarantee the maximum precision and accuracy in the
      particle range verification.

      The INSIDE system mechanics is compatible with multi fields irradiation of patients affected
      by pathologies of Head-and-Neck and Brain districts.

      In the clinical trial, patients affected by four selected pathologies will be included:
      meningioma and nasopharynx cancers treated with proton beams, Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma (ACC)
      and clival chordoma treated with carbon ion beams. These were chosen in order to study both
      projectile particles available at the CNAO centre (i.e., protons and carbon ions), and target
      specific pathologies which should most benefit from the range monitoring provided by the
      INSIDE system. Among them are cancers for which an early response is commonly observed and
      tumors which are located near cavities that can be filled with either water-like material
      (such as cancerous mass and inflamed tissues) or air.

      The patients will undergo a longitudinal protocol of measurements in order to verify the
      agreement between the ongoing treatment and the prescription throughout the complete
      treatment period (lasting in average about 4-6 weeks for the selected pathologies).
    
  