
    
      Current study (Study 1) consisted of 103 men in a maximum-security prison in the Midwestern
      United States. The research aimed to demonstrate the necessity of introducing forgiveness
      concepts and Forgiveness Therapy within the prison. This study collected percentage and
      correlational data regarding the presence of hurtful unfair treatments and psychological
      compromises, recognizing the style of the story-recalling (e.g. repetitive angry retelling;
      focus on damage; focus on fear; focus on despair, and so forth), rating of the injury types,
      and severity and age of occurrence. Inmates' stories were coded and analyzed by up to five
      researchers. The first wave of data examined a) whether participants have been treated deeply
      unfairly prior to their crime and imprisonment and the degree of severity; b) the degree to
      which the participants' show both excessive anger and unforgiveness toward those who acted
      unjustly as well as their expressions in crimes-direct contribution to their choice of
      harming the innocent; and c) the relationship among the excessive anger, forgiveness, and
      related emotional sufferings and psychological distresses such as anxiety and depression.
      Case studies were also conducted. Reliability and validation of 30-Item Enright forgiveness
      inventory (EFI-30) in the prison context were also tested. In general, we tested the
      following hypotheses:

        1. Do most inmates in this maximum-security prison experience severe unfair treatment
           against them before their criminal perpetrations?

        2. Do most inmates in this maximum-security prison have low forgiveness towards the person
           who deeply hurt them?

        3. Do disproportional number of inmates in this maximum-security prison have clinical
           compromises (e.g. excessive anger, anxiety, and depression) related to their past
           injustice?

        4. Does higher degree of anger/anxiety in inmates correlates to the less forgiving behavior
           towards those who hurt them in the past, prior to their crime?

      Study 1 also provided participant matching data (criteria for eligible participants) for the
      Forgiveness Therapy experiments of subsequent interevtional study
    
  