
    
      In North America, ureteroscopic-guided lithotripsy with the holmium:yttrium-aluminum-garnet
      (Ho:YAG) laser has increased in clinical utility owing to its capacity to fragment stones of
      all compositions. However, with the application of the light energy, retropulsion of the
      stone is possible due to the combined effects of fragment ejection, water vaporization, and
      cavitation bubble expansion then collapse. Reducing the laser energy and using laser fibers
      with small diameters are options to address such a consequence, but these changes have the
      potential to reduce the efficacy of the laser treatment.

      Movement of stones and stone fragments during laser lithotripsy also can be caused by the
      application of irrigation during the procedure. Irrigation is necessary in order to maintain
      clear visualization of the targeted stone during lithotripsy, and yet irrigation flow
      pressure can push stones away from the laser tip, requiring repositioning of the laser, and,
      in the presence of hydrodilation of the ureter, cause the stone to float up to the renal
      pelvis or into the kidney itself. In such a situation the physician may be required to use
      more specialized instruments, adding to the complexity and cost of the procedure. As a
      result, physicians monitor irrigation closely and will reduce the flow if retropulsion of the
      stone or fragments occurs.

      Retropulsion of stones and stone fragments during laser lithotripsy has been reported in up
      to 24% of patients and can cause prolonged operative times due to near-constant repositioning
      of the laser fiber between firings, and as well as result in additional treatment methods,
      making available a flexible ureteroscope, with its associated costs, and additional cost
      associated with an extended procedure.

      A novel occluding guidewire, the Accordion Stone Management Device, has been developed that
      can be advanced up the ureter and past the stone. Once past the stone, an occlusion film is
      engaged within the lumen of the ureter in order to limit retropulsion of the stone and its
      fragments, irrespective of the laser energy, flow rate of irrigation, or dilation of the
      ureter. Reduction of stone fragment movement has the potential to reduce operative time and
      increase stone-free rates within this population.
    
  