
    
      Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy including preeclampsia are the leading cause of pregnancy
      related mortality in the United States. Timely and appropriate management of hypertensive
      disorders of pregnancy is critical to prevent complications such as kidney failure, HELLP
      syndrome, disseminated intravascular coagulation, placental abruption, intrauterine fetal
      demise, intracranial bleed, coma and death. (HELLP syndrome is a group of symptoms that occur
      inpregnant women who have: H -- hemolysis (the breakdown of red blood cells); EL -- elevated
      liver enzymes; LP -- low platelet count.) Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy include
      gestational hypertension (HTN), chronic HTN, preeclampsia and preexisting HTN with
      superimposed preeclampsia.

      Hypertensive disorders may also lead to significant maternal and/or fetal morbidity. Based on
      the severity of the disease process and gestational age of the fetus, decision needs to be
      made whether to proceed with immediate delivery or continue expectant management. Meanwhile,
      maintenance of optimal blood pressure, blood volume, and cardiac output are recommended to
      preserve placental perfusion and to prevent unfavorable maternal and/or fetal outcomes.

      Previous studies have demonstrated blood flow differences in pregnancies complicated by
      preeclampsia vs. healthy pregnant women evidenced by decreased arterial compliance, increased
      systemic vascular resistance and after load, and changes in blood volume and cardiac output.
      Additionally, various serum markers have been tried to identify women with preeclampsia.
      B-Type natriuretic peptide (BNP) has been consistently shown to be elevated in preeclampsia,
      and serves as a marker of heart function and intra vascular volume status.

      Continuous hemodynamic monitoring may play a crucial role in timely management of these
      patients with severe disease due to the dynamic nature of the disease process. Existing
      methods are not preferred in pregnancy due to their invasive nature, and there is lack of
      validated non-invasive means to provide real time information on various hemodynamic
      parameters including cardiac output in these critically ill pregnant women.

      Among new cardiac monitoring devices, the Nexfin device (BMEYE, Amsterdam, Netherlands) has
      recently been introduced. Nexfin device is a device approved by the Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) as a non-invasive reliable method of continuous measuring arterial blood
      pressure in pregnant women. However there are no preliminary data on preeclamptic patients
      using this device. The standard of care is to use a sphygmomanometer for blood pressure
      monitoring. Additionally there are no studies comparing the hemodynamics of healthy and
      preeclamptic women using Nexfin device. Nexfin is thought to be superior over other available
      non-invasive methods as it is a safe and a considerably accurate method. Nexfin provides
      continuous blood pressure, heart rate, cardiac output, stroke volume, systemic vascular
      resistance and left ventricular contractility indices.

      The study aims to determine if the non-invasive Nexfin device can be used to reliably
      distinguish hemodynamics in preeclamptic vs. healthy pregnant women with singleton
      pregnancies along with use of BNP levels. Investigators aim to recruit 33 healthy controls
      and 33 subjects diagnosed with preeclampsia (mild and severe). Subject's systolic and
      diastolic blood pressures will be measured using both the Nexfin device and a standard
      sphygmomanometer (blood pressure meter). Additionally hemodynamic measure such as: heart
      rate, cardiac output, stroke volume, systemic vascular resistance, and left ventricular
      contractility will be recorded using the Nexfin device. Investigators will perform a blood
      draw to measure BNP levels as an additional assessment of the hemodynamic changes in the two
      groups.
    
  