
    
      It has been proposed, that the receptivity status of the endometrium shifts among individual
      women and that repeated implantation failure is ascribable to an endometrial factor in up to
      25%. The endometrial receptivity analysis (ERA) is a diagnostic method that was developed
      based on the unique genomic signature of the endometrium during the window of implantation
      and classifies the endometrium as receptive, pre-receptive or post-receptive to guide embryo
      transfer.

      The purpose of this assessor-blind, randomized clinical study is to determine whether live
      birth from vitrified/thawed euploid embryo transfer is improved when transfer is timed
      according to endometrial receptivity analysis (ERA) results.

      Approximately 800 women (n=400 in each arm) will be enrolled according to the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria among patients of Shady Grove Fertility. Participants will
      undergo a standard in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycle, followed by preimplantation genetic
      screening (PGS) provided a high quality blastocyst is available. Participants with at least
      one PGS normal (euploid) embryo will be randomized (assigned by chance, like the flip of a
      coin) to one of two study groups. Women in both study arms will then undergo ERA testing and
      neither the patients nor their treating physicians will know to which group the women have
      been assigned to, or the ERA testing results. Up until this point there is no difference
      between the study and control group. The investigational aspect of this trial is described as
      follows: If the participant is assigned to the study arm, the single, euploid, frozen embryo
      transfer (FET) during the subsequent cycle will be performed at the time indicated by the ERA
      test results. If she is in the control arm, the embryo will be transferred according to our
      standard FET protocol.

      Patients enrolling in the study will receive PGS and ERA free of charge.
    
  