
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC) from colorectal cancer (CRC) treated with chemotherapy
           alone results in median survival of 5 to 13 months.

           .-Approximately, 55% of high risk patients (Patients presenting with synchronous PC,
           ovarian metastases perforated primary, and emergency presentation with bleeding or
           obstructing lesions) will develop PC.

        -  Early PC is undetectable by conventional imaging.

        -  Cytoreductive surgery (CRS) and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) for
           early PC from CRC resulted in median survival of 48-63 months and 5 year survival of 51
           %.

        -  This study is a prospective randomized trial designed to answer the question whether
           mandatory second look surgery (MSLS) with CRS and HIPEC will prolong overall survival
           when compared to the standard of care.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objective:

      - To compare the overall survival of patients at high risk for developing PC from CRC who
      undergo M SLS + HIPEC and CRS (if applicable) vs. similar patients who receive standard of
      care.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To determine recurrence-free survival in both arms.

        -  To investigate selection criteria for patient who might benefit from a strategy of MSLS
           with CRS + HIPEC.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients who have undergone curative resection f or CRC who are at high risk for
           recurrence

        -  Patients who shown no evidence of disease at the time of enrollment

        -  Patients with ECOG less than or equal to 0-2 and suitable candidates for laparotomy,
           HIPEC and CRS.

      DESIGN:

        -  High risk CRC patients for developing PC who underwent curative surgery and subsequently
           received standard of care and remained NED for 12 months after primary surgery will be
           randomized into MSLS/CRS/HIPEC or continuing standard of care.

        -  HIPEC will be done using Oxaliplatin/5-FU/Leucovorin.

        -  Up to 100 patients will be enrolled to allow for 35 evaluable patients in each arm;
           accrual is expected to last 5 years.
    
  