
    
      Study design and sample description of this study was performed at the Department of Oral
      Surgery of Clinical Hospital Dubrava, Zagreb, Croatia.

      Respondents are the patients who need to do the operation of both lower third molars and due
      to this they are in the Clinical Hospital Dubrava. All participants will sign informed
      consent for participation in the research. Their participation will be voluntary.

      The study is approved by Ethics Committee of the School of Dental Medicine, Zagreb, Croatia
      (03.2017). The identity of the subjects will be protected in all phases of the study.

      Respondents in this research will be exposed to the following risks:

      Risks related to the procedure: pain, swelling, trismus, inflammation, paresthesia of the
      mandibular nerve branches (alveolar, lingualis), bleeding.

      Drug related risks: allergic reactions, gastrointestinal symptoms (diarrhea). The study will
      be a double-blind, randomized, split mouth, placebo controlled trial.

      It will be carried out with two different oral forms of magnesium citrate:

        1. in tablet form,

        2. in the form of a lozenge. Each of these forms will have a same group

      1- tablet group, 2-lozenge group. Both of these groups will have a control placebo group.
      Before the anaesthesia, all principles of surgical sterility and asepsis with oral cavity
      flushing for 1 min. ( 15 ml. 0.12% CHX.-Chlorhexidine) will be performed Both sides (over a
      period of 14 days) will be anaesthetized with the same anaesthetic 3M ESPE,
      Ubistesin-articain (1ml injection suspension containing 40mg of articainchloridum and 0.005mg
      adrenalin in a form of adrenalinchloridium).

      For one side, which will be randomly selected, the patient will receive magnesium citrate
      tablets (Solgar tablets) / lozenges (Diasporal lozenges), and for other placebo tablets /
      lozenges, which will be identical to the right drug, so the same examinee will be a test and
      control group. The surgeon, assistant, surgical approach, surgery technique and instruments
      will be the same in all subjects regardless of magnesium citrate or placebo group of the
      same.

      The selection of anaesthesia combination with oral placebo or magnesium for each side will be
      determined by random selection, which will not be known to either the patient or the examiner
      until the test is completed. After the surgery, all patients will be given the same written
      and oral instructions for postoperative care.

      The same analgesics will also be prescribed: Ibuprofen tbl 400 mg which will be taken as
      needed, and magnesium citrate tbl. 200 mg / magnesium citrate lozenges 100 mg or placebo
      depending on randomized selection.

      Magnesium citrate tablets /placebo tablets patients will take 3 days postoperatively so that
      400 mg /per day magnesium citrate tbl (Solgar) / placebo will be taken at the same time that
      will correspond to the time taken for the first tablets, 2 hours preoperatively.

      In the group that will use lozenges the patients will take them 30 min. before the procedure
      a 100 mg. magnesium citrate lozenge (Diasporal) / placebo lozenge and continue to take up to
      4 pastilles per day over the next 3 days in the same time intervals as it was on the day of
      surgery.

      Therapeutic drug doses will be used far below the doses used in the previous studies where
      the magnesium citrate tablets were used.

      During the use of magnesium citrate / placebo (3 days after surgery) the patient will fill
      out a prepared written questionnaire that will be discussed thoroughly before the first
      operation.

      Postoperative follow-up will be done by the single experienced therapist and by the patient
      (see Outcome Measures).

      The following symptoms which will be assessed are: pain, swelling, maximum inter-incisal
      opening of mouth, total amount of analgesics taken after surgery, time occurrence and
      duration of anesthesia and personal experience of pain after surgery (see Outcome Measures).
      These symptoms will be evaluated on the day of operation and 3 days after surgery.

      The planned sample size is at least 40 molars in each group, that is 80 operations in a total
      of 40 patients using tablets, and equal to the group using lozenges.
    
  