
    
      Up to 10% of patients with neovascular AMD treated with ranibizumab respond poorly or worsen
      despite therapy. The reason for this lack of response is unclear. We have preliminary data
      that suggests abnormal autoimmune activity is apparent in these patients. Previous studies
      have shown evidence of retinal autoimmunity in AMD patients, but there is very little data
      describing any specific immunologic commonality that correlates with disease and/or poor
      response. (8,9) Perhaps just as significantly there is little data regarding the immunologic
      activity of age-matched normals, making published data hard to evaluate especially in this
      age group in which autoimmunity is known to increase. (8,9) While there are many known
      retinal antigens in autoimmune retinal disease, the role of these antigens is not well
      established in AMD and not all the antigens have been identified. (24) Moreover,
      RPE-reactivities are only beginning to be understood in ocular disease. (25-27) We intend to
      address humoral responses in AMD by making a systematic comparison of the immunologic
      activity of ranibizumab responders, ranibizumab initial non-responders, and a comparable
      population of age-sex-race matched normal controls. Data suggests that 5 groups of patients
      are evident after 3 treatments with ranibizumab: 1) rapid responders, 2) delayed responders,
      3) gradual responders, 4) acutenon-responders and 5) chronic non-responders. We hypothesize
      that non-responders and gradual responders may in fact be patients with complicating
      underlying autoimmune activity involving retinal and RPE antigens, which are exposed
      secondary to the breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier during CNV development. We will study
      this humoral response (antibody production) over the treatment period, as it likely is
      changing at different rates in the patients with different responses. In addition we will
      correlate underlying genetic phenotype in these patients.

      For this study, we plan to look at 2 treatment groups and 2 control groups:

        -  Group 1: patients with neovascular AMD who respond to ranibizumab after 4 consecutive
           injections with ranibizumab

        -  Group 2: age-sex-race matched normal population controls (without AMD)

        -  Group 3: patients with neovascular AMD who are acute non-responders to anti-VEGF
           treatment after 4 or more consecutive injections

        -  Group 4: age-sex-race matched dry AMD patients (AREDS category 2/3 ou) controls

        -  Group 5: patients with neovascular AMD who are chronic non-responders to anti-VEGF
           treatment after 4 or more consecutive injections

      This is an open-label study assessing antibody formation (anti-RPE and anti-retinal) in 5
      groups. Group 1 (n=40) will include neovascular AMD patients treated with ranibizumab.
      Patients will be included and receive 4 ranibizumab 0.5mg intravitreally at 4-6 week
      intervals and then twice more "as needed" (PRN) at 4-6 week intervals. After the 4th
      ranibizumab injection, if a Group 1 patient has not responded (persistent fluid on OCT), they
      will be moved into Group 3 (anti-VEGF acute non-responders) or Group 5 (anti-VEGF chronic
      non-responders). This will reduce the eventual number of subjects enrolled in Group 1 to
      approximately 36, as we anticipate approximately 4 subjects to have to move to either Group 3
      or Group 5 as a non-responder. Group 2 (n=40) will be an age-sex-race matched normal subjects
      from the population that does not have AMD. Group 3 (n=8) and Group 5 (n=7) (for a combined
      total of 15 subjects, approximately 4 of whom transferred from Group 1) include patients
      treated with 4 or more injections of anti-VEGF treatment at 4-8 week intervals without an
      initial response (Initial non-response is defined as < 100 microns of improved [decreased]
      retinal thickening by OCT). Group 3 patients, the acute non-responders, will be included
      after the 4th injection and followed for 2 more visits at 4-8 week intervals during which
      time they can receive "as needed" anti-VEGF treatment(s) at the investigator's discretion for
      any fluid on OCT. Group 4 (n=40) will be age-sex-race matched patients with Dry AMD as
      controls for immune response before there is a neovascular response. Group 5 patients, the
      chronic non-responders, will be included after the 4th injection and followed for one (1)
      visit at Month 4 during which time they can receive an "as needed" anti-VEGF treatment at the
      investigator's discretion for any fluid on OCT.

      NOTE: Only 10% of Group 1 (approximately 4 patients) are expected to be non-responders,
      therefore, 11 of the Group 3 and Group 5 subjects will be patients treated outside the study
      who are found to be non-responders by chart review. These patients will then be enrolled at
      the Month 4 visit to supplement the subjects transferred from Group 1 for a total of 15
      patients in Groups 3 and 5.

      We will use Western blotting for global assessment of all autoantibodies against the full
      complement of retinal proteins in both normal individuals (Group 2) and those treated for
      exudative AMD (Group 1), those initial non-responders to ranibizumab (Group 3), and patients
      with "dry" AMD (Group 4).

      Genotyping (CFH and HTRA1) will be performed on all Groups. Approximately 25 ml (2
      tablespoons) of blood will be sent to Dr. Khang Zhang of the Shiley Eye Center at the
      University of California, San Diego and he will perform the genetics analysis.

      This study will investigate if antibody production differs between nv AMD patients (Groups 1,
      3 and 5) and the normal population (Group 2), if it differs between ranibizumab responders
      (Group 1) and non-responders to any anti-VEGF treatment (Groups 3 and 5), and we will also
      see how patients with dry AMD (Group 4) compare with the nv AMD groups (Groups 1, 3, and 5).
    
  