
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major cause of global morbidity and is
      projected to become the third leading cause of death in the world by 2020. In Veterans, the
      prevalence is high; in VISN1 in FY 2012, 9% of outpatient Veterans had the ICD-9 diagnosis of
      COPD. In COPD, shortness of breath leads to physical inactivity and significant disability. A
      growing body of knowledge has identified physical activity and exercise as a modifiable
      factor that may impact COPD-related morbidity and mortality. Epidemiological and
      cross-sectional studies have shown that persons with COPD who are more physically active have
      better functional status and are less likely to be hospitalized and to die. A higher daily
      step count, when directly measured, is associated with lower risk of acute exacerbations
      (AEs) and mortality in COPD, independent of lung function. Despite the potential benefits,
      there have been few interventions to increase walking in persons with COPD. Although
      supervised pulmonary rehabilitation programs improve exercise capacity, they are not
      accessible to all who could benefit from them and have low adherence rates.

      Novel interventions that incorporate strategies for behavioral change and that are
      accessible, individualized, and sustained are needed to promote physical activity in persons
      limited by COPD. Funded by a RR&D CDA-2 Dr. Moy and her team have developed and piloted a
      novel exercise intervention that combines a website with a pedometer to promote walking in
      persons with COPD. The program, Every Step Counts (ESC) for Lung Health, accurately monitors
      walking, provides iterative feedback and individualized goal-setting, and delivers education
      and motivation.

      This study proposes a 2-arm randomized, controlled trial to study the efficacy of ESC to
      improve exercise capacity in persons with COPD, compared to usual care (verbal and written
      instructions to exercise).

      Primary Aim: Determine the efficacy of the ESC intervention to increase 6-minute walk test
      (6MWT) distance.

      Secondary Aims: Estimate the effect of the ESC intervention on (a) health-related quality of
      life (HRQL), as measured by the St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ), (b) dyspnea,
      (c) inflammatory biomarkers C-reactive protein (CRP) and interleukin-6 (IL-6), (d) risk for
      AEs and COPD-related hospitalizations, and (e) engagement in physical activity as measured by
      daily step count.

      185 subjects will be enrolled for a total of 12 months, with the interventional phase being 6
      months followed by an observational phase of 6 months. Subjects will be randomized (1:1
      ratio) to one of 2 arms: (1) verbal and written instructions to exercise at home (usual care)
      or (2) usual care plus pedometer and Internet-mediated walking program. Subjects will perform
      6MWTs, complete questionnaires, and have blood drawn at clinic visits at baseline, 3, 6, and
      12 months. Telephone contact will occur at 9 months. AE history and daily step count will be
      assessed at each contact. Analysis of variance will compare 6MWT distance in the intervention
      and usual care group at 6 months. Multivariate regression models will assess 6MWT distance as
      a function of treatment group, adjusting for baseline 6MWT distance, study site, season of
      enrollment, and any unbalanced baseline characteristics.

      This study hypothesizes that persons randomized to ESC will have greater 6MWT distance at 6
      months, compared to persons in the usual care group. It also hypothesize that persons
      randomized to ESC will have greater improvements in HRQL, dyspnea, daily step counts, and
      greater decreases in levels of inflammatory biomarker and risk for AEs and COPD-related
      hospitalizations, compared to control.

      The proposed intervention has the potential to (1) bring an exercise program to the vast
      majority of persons with COPD who cannot go to a hospital-based pulmonary rehabilitation
      program, (2) improve the effectiveness of current rehabilitation programs by sustaining
      long-term exercise, and (3) become an effective and integral part of COPD self-management
      programs. Ultimately, the intervention could decrease risk of hospitalizations, AEs, and
      COPD-related morbidity and mortality.
    
  