
    
      This is a prospective study that will enrol nurses, doctors and respiratory therapists of the
      Sultan Taboos university hospital,emergency departments from February 2018 until February
      2019. All participants will be verbally consented before enrolment. Participants can withdraw
      from the study at any stage. All subjects will be assessed initially for their baseline
      skills of CPR. Assessment will be through measuring the baseline performance of the subjects.
      This will be two minutes of CPR in which chest compression rate, depth, chest recoil,
      interruption and ventilation will be assessed. CPR meter device will be used in each CPR
      assessment throughout the study. After that, all participants will receive CPR training which
      includes 15minutes standard CPR video followed by five minutes instructor- led teaching in
      manikins. Individual CPR performance will be assessed for each subject and data will be
      collected using a standardized data collection sheet. Next, groups will be randomized into
      two different groups using stratified sampling method to account for the years of experience.
      Participants will be divided into groups based on experience; 0-5, 5-10, 10-15, 15-20 and
      more than 20 years. Research randomizer (https://www.randomizer.org) program will be used for
      this purpose. Then, subjects will be randomized into study(group1) and control(group2) group.
      Both groups will be called after 6 months. Pre-assessment test will be conducted, which is
      similar to the baseline assessment test, for both groups using the same standardized data
      collection sheet. Then, study group will receive refresher training of CPR while the control
      group will be released with no training. Six months later, both groups will be called and CPR
      skills will be assessed again.

      CPR performance will be monitor and assessed by using Little Anne manikin which has quality
      CPR (QCPR) monitoring through smart devises. This will provide data for each performer
      including chest compression rate and depth, chest recoil and adequate ventilation. Data of
      each subject will be stored in the devise and then will be transferred to software for
      storage and analysis.
    
  