
    
      The World Health Organization recommends exclusive breastfeeding to infants until 6 months of
      age in order to achieve optimum growth. The proportion of exclusive breastfeeding mothers at
      6 months is only 24.7 in Spain. The investigators believe it is important to increase the
      proportion of breastfeeding mothers in their population. Therefore, the investigators have
      developed a telephonic support protocol for mothers. The intervention will be performed by
      pediatric nurses in Primary Care.

      The main aim of this study is to evaluate in a randomized controlled trial the effectiveness
      of telephone-based breastfeeding support in exclusive breastfeeding. The secondary aim is to
      evaluate the effectiveness of the telephonic support in any breastfeeding.

      The investigators hypothesis is that this intervention will increase exclusive breastfeeding
      and any breastfeeding rates.

      The study will be carried out in Cornellà, a semi-urban area near Barcelona. Participants
      will include breastfeeding women who have full-term healthy infants. Mothers will be
      recruited upon their first arrival to Primary Care from hospital. Eligible mothers who
      consent to participate will be randomized into either the intervention group or the control
      group. The latter will receive standard postpartum care. The former will receive standard
      postpartum care, plus a weekly telephone call during the first two months and every 2 weeks
      thereafter between the second and the sixth month. The pediatric nurse responsible for
      monitoring the standard care of each and every patient will be the one responsible for
      contacting them via telephone. Therefore, the study is not blinded.

      The evolution of exclusive breastfeeding will be compared to artificial or supplemented
      feeding at 1, 2, 4 and 6 months. The effect of the intervention on breastfeeding supplemented
      with formula will also be valued. Classification into breastfeeding categories is based on
      24-hour dietary recall.
    
  