
    
      Background: Chronic autoimmune thyroiditis (AIT) is a common autoimmune disease that often
      leads to impaired function of the thyroid gland, increases in incidence with age, and has an
      8-9 time female preponderance. Quality of life is often impaired and complaints persist in a
      considerable number of patients, even after restoration of euthyroidism. The autoimmune
      component of the disease has been suggested as an explanation for this. Selenium is a micro
      nutritive essential for human health and the thyroid gland has the highest selenium
      concentration of all human tissues. Selenoproteins catalyse thyroid hormone metabolism and
      anti-oxidative processes in thyrocytes. In addition they are important to immune function. In
      Denmark, patients with AIT have lower blood selenium concentration than the background
      population. The majority of 13 randomised trials have shown that selenium supplementation
      decreases serum thyroid peroxidase antibody levels (TPO-Ab) in patients with AIT, when
      compared with placebo. We hypothesise that adjuvant selenium may be beneficial in the
      treatment of AIT.

      Objectives: To investigate if selenium supplementation versus placebo adjuvant to the
      standard treatment with levothyroxine (LT4) in patients with AIT will lead to improved
      thyroid specific quality of life, and reduced autoimmune activity.

      Design and trial size: The CATALYST trial is an investigator-initiated randomised, blinded,
      multicentre clinical trial of selenium supplementation versus placebo in patients with AIT.
      The trial will include 472 participants (2 X 236) from four clinical trial sites.

      Intervention and duration: The experimental intervention group will receive 200 μg
      selenium-enriched yeast as two oral tablets once daily for 12 months. The control group will
      receive two placebo tablets, identical in appearance, taste and smell, once daily for 12
      months. Six months additional follow-up leads to a trial duration of 18 months. The
      experimental supplement will be SelenoPrecise® by Pharma Nord ApS.

      Time schedule: July 2012 - February 2014: preparation, approval and trial registration .
      March 2014: first participant first visit. March 2016: last participant first visit.
      September 2017: last participant last visit. Autumn 2017: analysis of biological samples and
      data, preparation of manuscripts.
    
  