
    
      More than 70% of human breast cancers express the androgen receptor (AR), and in
      retrospective analysis, the expression of AR in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC) varies
      from 10-43%. Recently emerging preclinical and clinical data suggest that AR may play a role
      in tumor proliferation. For example, Hu et al (2011) analyzed AR expression in 211 TNBC
      cases. He found that AR is related with an 83% increase in overall mortality, when compared
      with AR-negative TNBC. McGhan et al (2014) also found that AR expression tends to exist in
      TNBC patients with higher tumor stage and lymph metastases.

      The role of AR has also been extensively studied in vitro. With targeting AR with small
      interfering RNA (siRNA) and treatment with anti-androgen bicalutamide, studies showed that AR
      has a proliferative role in TNBC cells. Robinson et al (2011) also clarified that AR can
      mimic estrogen receptor α (ERα) in a transcriptionally active manner directed by the forkhead
      box protein A1 (FoxA1). These indicate that, in ER-negative disease, AR can promote tumor
      progression, therefore, could serve as a therapeutic target in TNBC.

      Due to the demonstration of oncogenic role for the AR in TNBC, clinical trials are underway
      to study the role of inhibiting androgen signaling for the treatment for TNBC. For example,
      Gucalp et al (2013) performed a sing-arm phase II study to investigate the role of
      bicalutamide in AR-positive TNBC. A total of 26 patients were enrolled in the study, and the
      study demonstrated a general well tolerated effect and a 6-month clinical benefit rate of
      19%. Furthermore, future clinical trials are also designed to show the anti-androgen therapy
      such as Enzalutamide, the 17alpha-hydroxylase/C(17,20)-lyase inhibitor abiraterone acetate
      and orteronel for AR-positive TNBC. This study is investigated to study the role of
      bicalutamide for AR-positive TNBC, and it may help clarify the effect of bicalutamide for the
      specific breast cancer subtype. Furthermore, it may provide an additional therapy to treat
      the difficult to treat population.
    
  