
    
      A prospective randomized pre-test post-test design will be used. After obtaining informed
      consent, patients will be randomized to either: 1) Inhalational anesthesia with isoflurane or
      2) Total intravenous anesthesia(TIVA) with propofol. Randomization will be stratified by
      surgical type so that this variable is equally distributed between the treatment groups. All
      patients will be maintained at a standard depth of anesthesia (40-60) using a Bispectral
      Index (BIS®) monitor. Normocarbia will be maintained in the operating room using capnography
      monitoring. Normothermia will be maintained throughout the procedure.

      The anesthesia team providing care for these patients will be able to choose the
      premedication and muscle relaxant for the anesthetic technique. Patient controlled anesthesia
      or regional anesthetic techniques may be used for post-operative analgesia at the discretion
      of the anesthesia team providing care for these patients. Anesthesia will be induced with
      intravenous propofol and fentanyl in all patients, unless contraindicated. Patients will be
      mechanically ventilated with air/oxygen. Temperature will be maintained > 35º C and
      ventilation will be adjusted to maintain end-tidal carbon dioxide (CO2) at 35 ± 5 mmHg. Mean
      arterial pressure will be maintained ≥ 75% of baseline or ≥ 60 mmHg, whichever is greater, in
      both groups. After induction of anesthesia, the maintenance anesthesia will consist of
      either:

        1. Inhalational anesthesia group - isoflurane will be used for maintenance of anesthesia.
           Intravenous fentanyl and/or remifentanil will be used for supplementary analgesia. These
           agents will be administered to maintain a normal depth of anesthesia using the BIS®
           monitor and traditional signs of anesthetic depth.

        2. TIVA group - propofol and opioid infusions (fentanyl or remifentanil) will be used for
           the maintenance of anesthesia. The infusions will be adjusted to maintain a normal depth
           of anesthesia using the BIS® monitor along with traditional signs of anesthetic depth.

      All subjects will undergo pre-operative neurocognitive testing within two weeks of their
      surgery, and at 3 months post-surgery. The persistence versus resolution of cognitive
      deficits over time will be determined with a 1 year post-surgical follow-up assessment. Pre-
      to post-test change scores will be compared across groups on primary and secondary outcome
      variables (see below) while controlling for relevant demographic variables (age, education,
      sex).
    
  