
    
      Background:

      Appropriate airway management is the most critical point in pediatric resuscitation and
      pediatric critical care. It remains, however, a challenge for pediatric residents to learn
      and retain this critical skill. Recent report from our PICU showed pediatric residents
      participated only 28% of initial orotracheal intubation, and the rate of the first successful
      endotracheal tube placement was only 38% of all orotracheal intubation attempt. Repetitive
      poor-skilled intubation attempts may be associated with complication such as dental or
      laryngeal contusion, and prolonged intubation attempt may be associated with hypoxia and
      hemodynamic instability. In order to improve the operational performance in the efficacy
      (first attempt success rate) and safety (minimizing the associated events which could
      potentially lead to adverse events), a better training method is warranted.

      Objectives:

      To test the hypothesis that just-in-time training for pediatric airway management may improve
      patient safety and operational performance of orotracheal intubation and decreases intubation
      associated events in pediatric residents in the PICU. To test the hypothesis that high
      fidelity simulation may enhance the training efficacy and patient safety in simulation
      settings.

      Study Design:

      This is a prospective interventional study. During the eighteen months of study period, one
      of two on-call pediatric residents from 7 south PICU (24 beds) will receive 20 minutes of
      just-in-time pediatric airway management training. This training will occur before their
      shift starts before the morning round. This training will cover direct laryngoscopy
      technique, orotracheal intubation technique, confirmation of the tube placement and
      recognition of associated events. This training will be done with or without high fidelity
      simulation function. We will use SimBaby (Laerdal, Norway). The assignment will be
      randomized. The clinical data of orotracheal intubation are collected through NEAR-4 KIDS
      registry. Primary outcome is a change in a first attempt success rate by the residents in an
      overtrained group (7 South PICU) compared to standard training group (7 East PICU). The
      secondary outcome is the rate of resident participation in orotracheal intubation attempt,
      the number of intubation attempt before successful intubation by residents and the number of
      intubation associated events. The videotaped performance during the training is analyzed with
      Healthcare Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (HFMEA) and will be compared between high
      fidelity simulation training group and low fidelity simulation training group. The evaluation
      system developed by HFMEA will be validated by a performance of experienced and
      non-experienced intubators. Furthermore, the real orotracheal intubation team performance in
      both PICUs will be evaluated with scale by a research assistant. The demographic and training
      data of participants of real PICU intubations will be collected. No patient identifiable
      information will be collected. This data will also be kept in a password-protected research
      computer.
    
  