
    
      Definition. Idiopathic CD4+ T lymphocytopenia (ICL) is an immune deficiency first described
      in 1992 and characterized by the US Centers for Disease Control (CDC) as absolute CD4+
      T-lymphocyte count < 300/mm3 or < 20% of total T cells on more than one cell count; no
      evidence of infection with HIV-1/2 or human T-cell lymphotropic 1/2 (HTLV-1/2); and lack of a
      defined immune-deficiency disease or therapy for lymphocytopenia.

      ICL is a heterogeneous disorder often associated with deficiencies in CD8+, CD19+, and/or NK
      cells. Thus, ICL does not correspond to a unique disease but more probably to a number of
      different conditions with distinct underlying mechanisms. This is why the investigators
      decided to launch the Lympho-4 study, in which the investigators plan to include 200 patients
      with a suspected/proven diagnosis of ICL.

      The aim of the study will be to

        1. identify patients in whom the diagnosis of ICL is confirmed using an algorithm developed
           by a group of multidisciplinary experts.

        2. describe and compare clinical, immunological and follow up characteristics of patients
           in whom the diagnosis of ICL was confirmed vs patients in whom the diagnosis of ICL is
           not confirmed.

      The investigators will also investigate :

      Lymphocyte subpopulations including analysis of differentiation and activation of T and B
      lymphocytes, immortalisation of cell lineages with virus Epstein Barr virus, high rate genome
      wide genetic screening, investigation of mutations associated with identified primary immune
      deficiencies (adenosine deaminase et class II MHC), constitution of a biobank of frozen
      plasma and serum samples ; investigation of the thymic volume by performing a CT scan.

      Depending on clinical presentation and based on previous data obtained by our group, the
      investigators will investigate the immune responses against Human papilloma virus (HPV),
      Cryptococcus neoformans,implication of chemokines involved in lymphocyte migration (CXCR4 and
      CCR7 receptors) and signalisation in response to cytokines controlling LT CD4+ homeostasis
      (IL-7 et IL-2).
    
  