
    
      The SAVER pilot is a randomized, open-label pilot study to determine the feasibility of
      recruitment. In addition to feasibility data, the investigators will carefully collect
      clinical data to determine if rosuvastatin can reduce post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS) in
      venous thromboembolism (VTE) patients.

        -  SCREENING: Research coordinators at each pilot site will screen patients for eligibility
           and will complete detailed logs of all patients meeting inclusion (both enrolled and
           excluded). After providing informed consent, eligibility will be confirmed by the
           following tests : a lipid profile, A1C test/ CBC, transaminase (ALT) levels, Creatinine
           and pregnancy test (if a female of child bearing potential). Consenting participants who
           (following screening) do not meet eligibility criteria will be followed up to establish
           feasibility outcomes.

        -  RANDOMIZATION: Randomization will be conducted using an Interactive Web based
           Randomization System in a 1:1 ratio for treatment (20mg rosuvastatin od) or control (no
           study drug).

        -  STUDY DRUG DISPENSING: Participants randomized to the treatment arm will be dispensed x
           200 20mg tablets of rosuvastatin along with a medication diary.They will be educated on
           study drug dosing regimen (20mg tablet od), how to complete their medication diary and
           on the possible side-effects of rosuvastatin. They will be advised to contact either the
           study coordinator, investigator or go directly to the emergency department should they
           experience any symptoms in particular anything muscle related.

        -  BASELINE. Assessments include;

             -  Demographic data;

             -  Concomitant medications (antiplatelet, anti-inflammatories, anticoagulation);

             -  Type of index VTE;

             -  PTS Villalta leg assessment conducted by both the participant (Patient Reported
                Villalta [PRV] questionnaire) and a qualified blinded independent observer (The
                Villalta scale is the most extensively validated tool and is recommended by the
                ISTH) - (Primary Outcome);

             -  Risk factors for recurrent VTE, bleeding and arterial vascular events;

             -  Medical history including prior VTE, Arterial disease, Liver disease and Glucose
                Intolerance.

        -  90 DAY FOLLOW UP [Treatment arm only]: Participants randomized to treatment will be
           followed up via telephone or email at 90 days (+/- 21 days);

             -  Participants will be asked questions to screen for;

                  -  Study outcomes: Suspected VTE, Arterial, Bleeding and/ or Muscle Events
                     Patients who report any unexplained muscle symptoms will be asked to have
                     their Creatine kinase (CK) levels tested within 2 weeks of reporting the
                     symptoms. Study drug will be discontinued if CK levels are markedly elevated
                     (> 10 x ULN).;

                  -  Study Drug compliance

                  -  Adverse events.

                  -  Concomitant medication will be reviewed in case of any contraindications.
                     Changes or additions in concomitant anticoagulation therapy, anti-platelet or
                     anti - inflammatory medication will also be recorded.

             -  Study coordinators will log all follow up contact attempts.

        -  FINAL STUDY VISIT (180 days (+/- 21 days): All study participants will be asked to
           attend an in person study visit at 180 days (+/-21) for;

             -  Follow-up of study outcomes; VTE, Arterial, Bleeding and Muscle events;

             -  Study drug compliance;

             -  Relevant (S)AE(s).

             -  Repeat PTS leg assessment (using the Villalta scale) both by a qualified
                independent observer and the participant (Primary outcome);

             -  Study drug compliance: Medication Diaries and used medication bottles will be
                collected by the study coordinator. Coordinator will perform a pill count and
                reconcile with the participants medication diary. Coordinator will also ask
                participant reasons for any missed doses.

      ADJUDICATION OF STUDY OUTCOMES: All Bleeding, VTE and Arterial Suspected Events as well as
      deaths will be recorded on a suspected event CRF along with any diagnostic imaging/ tests and
      will trigger a more in-depth evaluation, and review by an independent adjudication committee.

      ADVERSE EVENTS: AEs will be elicited, monitored and recorded throughout the study.

      All events meeting the definition of an SAE (as per ICH-GCP) must be reported to the SAVER
      Trial Office in Ottawa, Canada within 24 h of awareness.
    
  