
    
      Patient information and the Informed Consent Form (ICF) represent a focal point for an
      informed and aware participation in clinical research. As required by the Declaration of
      Helsinki no medical experimentation, including research on identifiable human material, can
      be undertaken without the subject has previously been informed about many issues, including
      goals, methods, anticipated benefits, possible risks and discomforts, commitment required and
      the possibility of withdrawing from the study at any time without explanation. All this
      information is essential to guarantee that the decision to enter a clinical trial is free,
      well informed and aware. Only when patients have collected and understood all the information
      needed, they are able to give their agreement to participate at the study and sign the ICF.

      An interesting element that identifies a deficit of understanding is the so-called
      "therapeutic misconception". This term expresses the erroneous beliefs in which could incur a
      participant to a study, on the therapeutic value of the experimental therapy. Recent studies
      in the literature shows that a high percentage of patients agree to participate in order to
      derive a personal benefit. This view contrasts with the main objective of the clinical trial
      that has its own purpose just in obtaining new knowledge. While it is understandable that a
      person would expect a personal benefit is equally important that he would base his hopes on a
      solid rationale (i.e. expected benefits). Many other things, if not carefully understood, can
      lead to the "therapeutic misconception", including the concept of randomization, the risks
      related to the study, the time required to release his own informed consent, the reason for
      which has been asked to participate. Even the misunderstanding of just one of these elements
      may raise false hopes able to impact heavily on the final decision.

      During the Ethical Committee meetings of the Azienda USL di Bologna (local health authority)
      all these points have been often discussed through the process of the RCT approval. For this
      reason the Ethical Committee decided to carry out a survey aimed to better understand the
      value and the meaning of ICF.

      Initially, it has been conducted a literature review of studies, with particular attention to
      on those published from 2006 up to date. The common objective of these studies was to assess
      the understanding of the ICF by patients who were asked to participate in clinical trials
      (research Medline, keywords: informed consent, comprehension, clinical trials). These studies
      were in general survey conducted through interviews or questionnaires.

      These studies have been conducted in cardiology, oncology, surgery, or treatment of pain. The
      studies were phase I, II, III or IV. In general, the results from these studies raise doubts
      on about the understanding of some important elements of the ICF. These doubts have emerged
      also from an Italian experience reported in on a thesis of Master's Degree in Economics and
      Management of Health Services. More in details, two studies have investigated the
      understanding of the informed consent, with particular attention to the issue of the
      "therapeutic misconception": in the study "Joffe", although 90% of participants were
      satisfied with the process of informed consent, many of them would not have been able to
      recognize non-standard cares of experimental treatments (74%), the potential additional risks
      related from the trial (69%), and the scientific uncertainty of the benefits of experimental
      therapy (70%). In the study "Bergenmar", even though 80% of the subjects feels that they have
      understood the important elements of the research, it seems that 65% do not recognize the
      experimental nature (not standard) of treatment, the 80% are not aware of the potential
      additional risks, and 75% are not aware about the fact that the experimental treatment is not
      scientifically proven to be the best treatment available. More significant factors emerged
      from the literature review, for example a high percentage of patients (67%) who did not live
      the process of informed consent as an important step to decide whether to participate to the
      trial. A study of 21 patients revealed that many had recognized as the main objective of the
      research the increasing of knowledge for the benefit of future patients, but only for a few
      of them this altruistic motivation was an important element in the final decision to
      participate.

      The study promoted by the Ethical Committee of Azienda USL Bologna is observational,
      prospective and cross sectional. An ad hoc questionnaire has been developed on the basis of
      the literature available and through the discussion among Ethical Committee members, where
      also lay people are represented. The questionnaire has been discussed with the clinicians
      promoting clinical trials and tested with a group of patients enrolled in clinical trial. The
      self-administered questionnaire in 20 items long.

      The questionnaire will be proposed to a cohort of subjects who have signed the ICF for a
      participation in an interventional clinical trial, not earlyer than 30 days have passed since
      the ICF signature.
    
  