
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip
      of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. This is done because no one knows if one study group is
      better, the same, or worse than the other group.

      If you are in Group 1, you will receive light electrical stimulation to the wrist area during
      surgery. You will also receive standard of care drugs to reduce PONV. If you have nausea or
      you are vomiting after surgery, you will receive additional standard of care drugs for those
      symptoms. You may ask the study staff for information about how the drugs are given and their
      risks.

      If you are in Group 2, you will receive standard of care drugs to reduce PONV only (you will
      not receive electrical stimulation). If you have nausea or you are vomiting after surgery,
      you will receive additional standard of care drugs for those symptoms.

      Electrical Stimulation:

      The electrical stimulation is applied through a small sticky pad that is connected to a
      machine called a neuromuscular blockade monitor (NMBN). NMBNs are routinely used by
      anesthesiologists to monitor drug levels in muscles during surgery.

      The pad will be placed on your wrist after you receive anesthesia and removed at the end of
      surgery so you will not know what group you are in.

      Study Procedures:

      Both Groups:

        -  You will have blood (about 2 teaspoons) collected intravenously (through your IV) during
           surgery. This blood will be used for genetic testing that may explain why people respond
           differently to treatments for nausea and vomiting.

        -  You will complete a questionnaire about your pre-treatment expectations and your nausea
           every 15 minutes after you wake up after surgery until you leave the clinic. It should
           take about 2-3 minutes to complete the questionnaire each time.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over once you leave the clinic after surgery.

      This is an investigational study. The NMBM monitor is commercially available and FDA approved
      for use by anesthesiologists to monitor drug levels in the muscles during surgery. Its use in
      this study to control nausea/vomiting is investigational.

      Up to 176 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  