
    
      This is a Phase III, multicenter, double-masked, randomized, placebo-controlled,
      parallel-group study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of two doses and two dosing
      regimens of KPI-121 ophthalmic suspension versus placebo in subjects who require treatment of
      postoperative anterior ocular inflammation.

      Approximately 500 subjects will be screened and up to 402 subjects with one study eye each
      will be randomized in this study at approximately 25 centers located in the United States.
      Subjects who experience postoperative inflammation on the first day following routine,
      uncomplicated, cataract surgery and who meet all other eligibility criteria will be
      randomized to one of four study groups (0.25% four times daily or 1.0% two times daily) or
      Placebo A four times daily or Placebo B two times daily. Drug product or placebo will be
      initiated on the day following surgery and instilled as one to two drops in the study eye
      according to the assigned dosing regimen for 14 days.

      This study will include up to 7 clinic visits (including the surgery day) over 18 to 33 days
      total study duration. Visit 1 (Screening) will occur between 14 to 1 day(s) prior to surgery,
      and subjects who meet preoperative screening inclusion/exclusion criteria will be entered
      into the study. At Visit 2 (Surgery/Day 0) subjects will undergo routine cataract surgery
      according to the Investigator's normal procedures. Visit 3 (Randomization/Day 1) will occur
      on the day following surgery.

      Following randomization, subjects will be instructed to return to the clinic to be evaluated
      at Visit 4 (Day 3 +2 day), Visit 5 (Day 8 ±1 day), and Visit 6 (Day 15 ±1 day). The last dose
      of study product will be administered upon completion of 14 days of evaluation. Following the
      End of Study Product Use Visit (Visit 6; Day 15 ±1 day), subjects will be asked to return to
      the clinic on Day 17-19 for Visit 7 (Follow-Up) and will be released from the study.
    
  