
    
      1.0 Background

      1.1 Definitions of chronic kidney disease

      The Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (K/DOQI) of the National Kidney Foundation
      (NKF) defines chronic kidney disease as either kidney damage or a decreased glomerular
      filtration rate (GFR) of less than 60 mL/min/1.73m2 for 3 or more months.

      Whatever the underlying etiology, the destruction of renal mass with irreversible sclerosis
      and loss of nephrons leads to a progressive decline in GFR. The different stages of chronic
      kidney disease form a continuum in time. In 2002, K/DOQI published its classification of the
      stages of chronic kidney disease (CKD), as follows:

      Stage 1: Kidney damage with normal or increased GFR (>90 mL/min/1.73 m2)

      Stage 2: Mild reduction in GFR (60-89 mL/min/1.73 m2)

      Stage 3: Moderate reduction in GFR (30-59 mL/min/1.73 m2)

      Stage 4: Severe reduction in GFR (15-29 mL/min/1.73 m2)

      Stage 5: Kidney failure (GFR<15 mL/min/1.73 m2)

      1.2 Epidemiology

      There is a rising incidence and prevalence of kidney failure with poor outcomes and high
      costs. The Third National Health and Examination Survey (NHANES III) estimated that the
      prevalence of chronic kidney disease in adults in the United States was 11% (19.2 million).
      The prevalence of chronic kidney disease stages 1-4 increased from 10% in 1988-1994 to 13.1%
      in 1999-2004. This increase is partially explained by the increase in the prevalence of
      diabetes and hypertension, the two most common causes of chronic kidney disease. Data from
      the United States Renal Data System (USRDS) show that the prevalence of chronic renal failure
      increased 104% between the years 1990-2001 and incidence rates have risen 30 % between 1992
      and 2008.

      Diabetic nephropathy is one of the most devastating complications of diabetes. It remains the
      leading cause of end stage renal disease (ESRD), accounting for 44% of ESRD incident cases in
      the United States.

      1.3 Etiology

      The single most important factor responsible for the increasing incidence of CKD is diabetes
      mellitus. Renal affection includes albuminuria, hypertension and a decline in kidney
      function. Blood pressure control, which is difficult to achieve in diabetics, is mandatory
      for long term prognosis.

      1.4 Prognosis

      Many patients with chronic kidney disease might progress to ESRD. The rate of the progression
      depends on the underlying diagnosis, on the successful implementation of secondary preventive
      measures and on the individual patient.

      At every age, patients with ESRD on dialysis have significantly increased morbidity and
      mortality when compared with non-dialysis patients and individuals without kidney disease.

      1.5 Treatment

      The medical care of patients with chronic kidney disease usually focus on the following:

        -  Delaying or halting the progression of chronic kidney disease

        -  Treating the pathologic manifestations of chronic kidney disease

      However, no treatments are available to reverse the effects of CKD.

      2.0 Aim

      The aim of this study is to demonstrate that Low Energy Shockwave Treatment improves or
      stabilizes renal function in diabetic patients - thereby potentially reducing patients'
      morbidity and mortality.

      3.0 Hypothesis

      The investigators hypothesize that Low Energy Shockwave Therapy (LE-SWT) performed on
      diabetic patients' kidneys with the MODULITH SLX-F2 lithotripter:

        1. Increases glomerular function measured by chromium-EDTA clearance at 3, 6, and 18 months
           post treatment.

        2. Stimulates Nitric Oxide (NO) release measured as increased levels of NO metabolites,
           nitrate and nitrite, and cyclic Guanosine Monophosphate (cGMP) in patients' spot urine.

        3. Does not cause increased urinary levels of markers for tubular and glomerular damage,
           i.e. Neutrophil Gelatinase-Associated Lipocalin (NGAL) and albumin.

        4. Induces angiogenesis and prevents fibrosis in kidney tissue as shown by kidney biopsy
           histology. Furthermore, LE-SWT protects from destruction of the glomerular basal lamina
           as revealed on electron microscopy.

        5. Improves self-reported quality of life measured by using the Short Form 36 version 2
           (SF-36v2) health survey.

        6. Causes no clinical side effects

      The investigators test the hypothesis in an interventional study where 30 diabetic patients
      with moderate chronic kidney failure are to be treated with 6 sessions of LE-SWT on kidneys
      over 3 weeks.

      4.0 LE-SWT treatment

      Lithotripter: Treatment is carried out using the MODULITH SLX-F2 with B+W or Colour Doppler
      Ultrasound System.

      The patient lies on supine position during treatment, no need for analgesia as the energy
      level of the treatment is very low. Kidney will be localised in line ultrasound (no x-ray
      exposure).

      3000 shocks at a frequency of 4 Hz are applied to each kidney, per session. The kidney will
      be divided into three treatment areas including 1000 shock waves applied to each treatment
      area. Patients will receive 2 sessions per week for 3 weeks. Shock wave therapy takes
      approximately 15 minutes for each kidney. Total treatment time per session is approximately
      40 minutes (including 10 minutes for preparation and ultrasound localisation).

      5.0 Ethical considerations

      The investigators do not expect there will be any significant ethical problems with this
      study. Treatment with extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (ESWL) for kidney stones, using 10
      times the energy, has been used for more than 25 years worldwide. No kidney damage has been
      reported after these treatments except for a hematoma if the patient was given anticoagulant
      treatment. Participants will be closely monitored clinically including blood and urine tests.
      Blood pressure will be measured after each treatment and at the specified time schedules.

      Studies are planned, including chromium-EDTA clearance measurement, renography, and a kidney
      biopsy. The renal biopsy is done at the Department of Nephrology, Odense University Hospital,
      and will be performed after the department's approved instructions and, besides the risk of
      bleeding, is not associated with any greater risk.

      Chromium-EDTA clearance is associated with a minor radiation dose. The injected tracer
      contains a small amount of radioactivity, which results in a radiation dose equivalent to the
      absorption of a standard X-ray of the lungs. According to the Health Board regulation
      directives, this corresponds to 0.1 mSv, or what is equal to 1/10 of background radiation.
      The background radiation is the radiation dose man receives annually from the environment
      (for example space, earth, air, drinking water and food).

      Renography is also associated with a minor radiation dose. Radioactive dose is 0.7
      millisievert (mSv). Load is decreased when radioactive agent is excreted in urine.

      Patients have no immediate benefits of participation apart from a possible improvement of
      their renal function. Patients are informed both orally and in writing.

      6.0 Informed consent and patient rights

      Before inclusion into the project, the patient should provide written consent to participate
      in this clinical project after he/she has been informed both orally and in writing in a
      comprehensive way on the experimental important details, risks and drawbacks. The patient is
      also given the patient information and a copy of the signed consent form and an individual
      schedule for the project. Potential participants are recommended to have a third party
      present during the information process. They are advised that they are entitled to
      consideration before a final decision is taken and that the consent at any time can be
      withdrawn.

      The patient must consent in writing. The given written and oral information and the patient's
      consent are confirmed by the principal investigator Sune Møller Jeppesen and patient
      single-handed dated signatures.

      Investigator shall not undertake any study specifically required only for this clinical
      project before obtaining valid informed consent.

      The patients' names will be kept secret. Patients will be identified for assessment and
      documentation of the patient number allocated to them at the start. Patients are informed of
      confidentiality and patient rights through participation information.

      The signed informed consent forms remain with the investigator. The investigator is required
      to have these forms inspect on request. The investigator will keep a list containing the
      patients' numbers and names so that their records - if desired - could be provided at a later
      date. Both consent forms and the list of patient numbers must be kept for 10 years.

      7.0 Perspectives of the study

      The perspective of this study is to show that LE-SWT is a harmless treatment for CKD that
      will improve the degree of nephropathy. LE-SWT is a non-invasive and non-painful treatment
      and procedure is easy to perform. Currently, no treatment is available to reverse the effects
      of diabetic CKD and only long-term medical intervention may halt progression of the disease.
      Considering morbidity and mortality of affected diabetic patients and health care costs of
      CKD, there is a demand to explore new therapies for CKD. Given the simplicity of LE-SWT, the
      investigators believe there is a potential that treatment could be cost effective even for
      modest results although such analysis is beyond the scope of this study.

      8.0 Publication policy

      Results from this project are intended published in international and national medical
      journals. Principal investigator Sune Møller Jeppesen will be first author and Professor Lars
      Lund last author on the articles. Other participants will rank according to international
      guidelines.
    
  