
    
      Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis is an adult-onset neuro degenerative disease leading to muscle
      wasting, palsy and death due to respiratory failure within 3 to 5 years. The only effective
      drug (Riluzole) increases the life expectancy for about three months, knowing that on
      average, the diagnostic is given after a delay of one year in France. The identification of
      new biomarkers for early diagnostic is therefore of fundamental importance. This could
      improve the treatment efficacy but also give important clues about the prognostic, the rate
      of evolution and overall help identify new targets for future therapeutics. The
      investigators' goals are to find specific miRNA patterns expression associated to ALS in
      humans and use those patterns as diagnostic and prognostic tools.

      miRNA are non-coding small fragments of RNA that binds mRNA and can down regulate their
      expression. In humans, around 700 miRNA have been so far identified. The role of miRNA in
      human pathology is well established in various types of cancer, but recent works have
      emphasize their role in neuro degenerative diseases and their expression profile can
      considered specific for Alzheimer, Parkinson and Huntington diseases. Very few data are
      currently available about their expression pattern in ALS. Previous studies have however
      shown that down regulating of some miRNA in spinal cord Moto neurons can trigger an ALS-like
      clinical phenotype. A more recent work on transgenic murine model SOD1 G93A has demonstrated
      the role of the specific miRNA206 in regulating the re-innervation processes at the
      neuro-muscular junction. Mi206 have the ability to promote the re-innervation process and
      therefore to slow the disease progression.

      This research aimed to study the expression of more than 700 miRNA in four different groups
      (20 patients per group): ALS patients, normal control having a shoulder surgery during which
      they will have a muscle (deltoid) biopsy, patients explored for peripheral neuropathy with a
      blood sample, a lumbar puncture for CSF examination and neuro-muscular biopsy and patient
      explored for myopathy with a blood sample, a lumbar puncture for CSF examination and a
      muscular biopsy. The ALS group will be followed up every 4 months with ALSFRS scoring and
      blood sample and a second CSF sample only at M12. miRNA pattern expression will be compared
      and considered significant for a 2-fold change.
    
  