
    
      Chronic articular cartilage defects do not heal spontaneously. However, acute traumatic
      osteochondral lesions or surgically inflicted lesions extending into subchondral bone,
      spongialization, abrasion or microfracture by drilling causing the release of pluripotent
      mesenchymal stem cells from the bone marrow, may heal with repair tissue consisting of
      fibrous tissue, fibrocartilage or hyaline-like cartilage. There for Marrow stimulation
      techniques as subchondral drilling or microfractures represent ones of the most frequently
      used methods for chondral and osteochodral defects repair and considered as standard
      techniques. [10-12]

      It's well know and logical to understand that the high temperature around the drilling hole
      can lead to thermal injury. [1] Temperatures over 47 C degrees for one minutes are associated
      thermal osteonecrosis [2,3]. The presence of this necrotic bone may delay healing and
      predispose to infection.[1] Many studies evaluate the thermal necrosis of the drill into the
      bone [3-6]. In case of osteochondral lesion, drilling of the injury area is the most common
      practice in orthopedics surgeries for knee, hip, talus and others. In one study that evaluate
      the difference between drilling and microfractures and the impact in the cartilage healing
      revealed distinct differences between microfracture and drilling for acute subchondral bone
      structure and osteocyte necrosis {4] other study evaluate the healing difference between
      drilling and burring in rabbits knee, showing degenerative changes in both technique and
      histology longer lived repair the cartilage with 2 mm drilling[5] The main objective of this
      study is to evaluate for first time in humans, best to our knowledge, the difference between
      drilling with KWires compared to drill in terms of thermal osteonecrosis and
      histo-pathological damage.

      Methodes:

      The specimens will be achieved from 2 groups of patients. The first group correspond to
      traumatic subcapital fractures with previous non hip pain complains No osteoarthritis changes
      in the x-ray. The second group the specimens achieve from hip arthroplasty surgery due to
      osteoarthritic changes.

      The femoral head will be obtain during surgery. Drill will be performed in 3 contiguous
      areas. First Area by Nailing, Second by KW drilling and 3rd area drilled by regular drill
      obtaining a triangle with the three drilled epicenters. All will be tested with 2 different
      diameters - 3.5 mm & 1.75mm. All 3 methods will be checked with and without cooling - by
      laviation with saline during the drilling/nailing. Temperature measurements using
      Thermocouples having 1 mm wire diameter will be used for temperature measurement.

      Parameters as Drilling speed, Drilling depth and Orientation to line of sress- trabeculae-
      would be uniform.

      Histological aspect:

      The specimen will be fixed with adequate amount of buffered 4% formalin for 24 to 48 hours
      with subsequent gentle decalcification in ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid. Then, the specimen
      will be cut with a strong knife/ or scalpel into parallel slices 3 to 5 mm thick and washed
      in running water for 12 hours. And after this, the sections from abnormal areas, including
      articular surface will be submitted for paraffin embedding.

      The histological slides will be stained by hematoxilin-eosin (H&E), PAS, Masson trichrome,
      and Alcian blue. The lesions (degeneration, hemorrhage, necrosis and others) will be measured
      by micrometer in the microscope.
    
  