
    
      Background: Severe asthma has been defined as "asthma which requires treatment with high dose
      inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) plus a second controller (and/or systemic corticosteroids) to
      prevent it from becoming 'uncontrolled' or which remains 'uncontrolled' despite this therapy"
      (1), representing a most difficult group of participants to manage. It is a heterogeneous
      condition and the use of mathematical approaches led to the definition of clinical subtypes
      (phenotypes) from cohorts in Europe, USA and Asia. With the introduction of monoclonal
      antibody therapies such as anti-IgE antibody (omalizumab), anti-Interleukin (IL)-5/anti-IL5Rα
      antibody (Mepolizumab, reslizumab and benralizumab) and anti-IL4Rα (dupilumab), personalised
      medicine has been initiated as these therapies are effective in patients with allergic and/or
      in asthma patients with increased numbers of a particular type inflammatory cell called an
      eosinophil (eosinophilic asthma), respectively. Introduction of these targeted therapies has
      helped a proportion of participants with severe asthma particularly those with eosinophilic
      severe asthma, but further progress will come with a better understanding of all the driving
      pathways underlying these phenotypes.

      The biology and function of the Eosinophil Eosinophils are characterised by the presence of
      specific secondary granules, in their cytoplasm, containing toxic cationic proteins(2).
      Research studies on eosinophil biology indicate that eosinophils function in many ways
      including cytokine production and the development of airway inflammation. Under physiological
      conditions, only small numbers of eosinophils are released from the bone marrow. However,
      eosinophil production is dramatically increased as a result of so-called Th2 cell responses
      associated with allergic diseases such as asthma (2-4). There is also evidence that
      eosinophils contribute to homeostatic immune processes (4, 5). This increase in eosinophil
      production is driven by a dedicated set of cytokines, namely IL-3, IL-5, and granulocyte
      macrophage-CSF (GM-CSF) (2, 4). Amongst these, the Th2-associated cytokine IL-5 is the most
      specific cytokine for the eosinophil lineage and is responsible for the expansion of
      eosinophils from committed bone marrow progenitors, their release into the blood and their
      survival following migration into the tissues(2, 4, 6). At the site of injury, eosinophils
      can release their cytotoxic granule proteins as well as preformed cytokines and lipid
      mediators, to exacerbation of inflammation and tissue damage, which is particularly
      deleterious when Th2 responses are directed against allergens (2, 4).

      Recruitment of eosinophils from the circulation requires blood eosinophils to become
      activated, leading to their attachment to activated endothelium and movement of white blood
      cells from the capillaries to the tissues surrounding them (extravasation(7, 8)). Arrest of
      eosinophils in vessels and their extravasation into the airway wall and through the bronchial
      tissue and epithelium to the airway lumen are mediated by a set of proteins called
      integrins(7, 8). Blood eosinophils from subjects with allergy or asthma, have a greater
      degree of adhesion or migration compared to those from normal volunteers (9).

      Pharmacodynamic biomarkers for Mepolizumab treatment response Mepolizumablizumab binds with
      high specificity and affinity to human IL-5(10), the key T2 cytokine responsible for
      regulation of blood and tissue eosinophils(11). Mepolizumab prevents IL-5 from binding to the
      IL-5 receptor complex expressed on the eosinophil cell surface and thus inhibits IL-5
      signaling, blocking eosinophil survival and proliferation. Although the exact mechanism of
      action of IL-5 inhibitors is not fully elucidated, the desired goal is to neutralize the
      effect of activated eosinophils in blood and tissues and lung, particularly the lung for
      asthma in order to achieve therapeutic effect.

      In asthma, an association between eosinophil overexpression and asthma severity was made in
      1990(12) and subsequent studies have since repeated the view that blood, or sputum eosinophil
      counts can be used to characterize participants with severe eosinophilic asthma (13). In the
      SIRIUS trial Mepolizumab at a dose of 100 mg administered subcutaneously was shown to reduce
      the requirement for daily oral corticosteroids while at the same time improving asthma
      control, lung function, and quality of life and reduced exacerbations(14). In the MENSA trial
      participants treated with Mepolizumab reported significantly reduced exacerbations and an
      improvement in asthma control questionnaire scores(15). The Mepolizumab investigators
      identified blood eosinophils, rather than sputum eosinophils, as a good predictor of the
      clinical efficacy of Mepolizumab, providing an accessible biomarker for severe eosinophilic
      asthma. Moreover, secondary analysis(16) of the DREAM(17) and MENSA(15) studies identified
      clinical efficacy of Mepolizumab in severe asthma participants with baseline eosinophil
      counts of ≥150-300 cells/µl and ≥300 cells/µl.

      Subsets of eosinophils in asthma In mice subsets of eosinophils have been identified(18): i)
      lung resident eosinophils (rEos) that are IL-5-independent cells with a ring-shaped nucleus
      and ii) inflammatory eosinophils (iEos), which were defined as IL-5-dependent cells with a
      segmented nucleus. In a murine model of asthma, Mesnil and colleagues reported that the
      features of lung rEos remained unchanged but rEos were co-localised with iEos in the lung and
      that mice lacking rEos had an increased Th2 cell response to inhaled allergens. Studies in
      man reported that parenchymal rEos found in non-asthmatic human lungs were phenotypically
      distinct from the iEos isolated from the sputa of eosinophilic asthmatic patients. These data
      highlight the existence of distinctive circulatory and lung resident subsets of eosinophils
      in man.

      Eosinophils secrete many molecules involved in asthma pathology including cytotoxic granule
      constituents cytokines and chemokines such as, lipid mediators leukotrienes(2, 19). While the
      role of IL-5 is a confirmed in eosinophil activation and asthma, the comparative activities
      of other cytokines such as GM-CSF and IL-3, also implicated in asthma, are yet to be fully
      determined. Eotaxins (CCL11 and CCL24) are considered to be important chemokines involved in
      the recruitment of eosinophils into the airways while IL-4 and IL-3 are reported to be
      overexpressed in the airways of severe asthmatics(20, 21). In addition to these Th2-type
      cytokines, IFNs and TNFα also upregulate eosinophils and prolong their survival(22, 23).
      Furthermore, the receptors TSLPR, IL33R and CCR3 present on activated eosinophils were found
      to be elevated in severe eosinophilic asthma (24) Thus, an investigation of cytokine
      stimulation of subsets of eosinophils, the possible crosstalk between stimulated eosinophils
      and the resulting differential mediator release and protein expression will likely provide a
      better understanding of the underlying pathophysiological signaling pathways involved in
      severe asthma.

      Observational Study This will be an observational study of participants diagnosed with severe
      asthma being followed up and managed according to agreed UK guidelines for management of
      severe asthma. In this group, participants will have been treated with Mepolizumab according
      to the blood eosinophil count. These participants will be recruited and phenotyped according
      to eosinophilic molecular phenotype by analysis of blood and lung transcriptomics and
      proteomics. Participants will be evaluated at 0, 3 and 12 months. Incidental clinical finding
      will be forwarded to the clinical team and GP, as warranted.

      Study Rationale The relationship between subsets of circulating and lung resident eosinophils
      in severe asthma and anti-IL-5 therapy efficacy has not been explored.

      Objectives To determine the transcriptomic and mediator profiles of eosinophils from the
      circulation and the airway, specifically blood and tissue resident, in participants with
      severe asthma at baseline and on Mepolizumablizumab therapy.

      Study Model Unbiased study to identify all subsets of circulating and lung resident
      eosinophils in biologic naïve participants with severe asthma at baseline and at time-points
      post treatment with Mepolizumab (anti-IL-5 Rx). Severe asthma participants (Eos>300/ul) will
      be recruited from the Severe Asthma clinic at the Royal Brompton Hospital, and, as much as
      feasible, participants will not be on OCS therapy.

      Primary Objectives (i) Phenotype subsets of circulating eosinophils from participants with
      severe asthma at one time-point (ii) Phenotype subsets of circulating and lung eosinophils
      from participants with severe asthma on Mepolizumab therapy over one year.

      Study 1: Phenotype subsets of circulating eosinophils in participants with severe asthma at
      one time-point

      Recruit: 15 biologic naïve SA not on maintenance OCS and 15 SA currently on Mepolizumab
      therapy with good clinical response.

      Blood samples (90ml) will be taken from these participants. Blood eosinophils will be
      isolated from these samples which will then be subtyped (phenotype) by simultaneously
      measuring gene and cell surface protein expression in the same cell. Blood eosinophils will
      also be cell-cultured in the laboratory and stimulated with a variety of cytokines and
      chemokines the release of inflammatory mediators determined. Together, this will increase our
      understanding of the cellular heterogeneity in asthmatic eosinophils and identify the
      difference between peripheral blood eosinophil populations in untreated and
      Mepolizumablizumab treated participants .

      Study 2: Phenotype subsets of circulating and lung eosinophils from participants with severe
      asthma on Mepolizumab therapy over one year.

      Recruit 36 severe asthma participants appropriately characterised severe asthmatics
      (Eos>300/ul), not on OCS maintenance therapy, to achieve paired biopsy samples from 30
      participants

      Blood samples will be taken at baseline, 3 and 12 months post-Mepolizumab Therapy. Blood
      eosinophils will then be isolated and phenotyped by simultaneously measuring gene and cell
      surface protein expression in the same cell. Blood eosinophils will also be cell-cultured in
      the laboratory and stimulated with a variety of cytokines and chemokines the release of
      inflammatory mediators determined. Together, this will increase our understanding of cellular
      heterogeneity in asthmatic eosinophils post Mepolizumab Therapy.

      Bronchoscopy will be performed on 36 participants, sampling endobronchial lung biopsy at
      baseline and 1 yr post Mepolizumab Therapy; the second procedure will be performed within 2
      weeks of the last Mepolizumab injection. Single-cell RNA-seq 10xGenomics and bulk -RNA -seq
      will be performed, using the optimized protocol of the Gronigen group, on lung tissue
      eosinophils through enzymatic disassociation of lung tissue (at 4oC) at baseline and 1yr post
      Mepolizumab therapy. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) will also be performed to characterise
      cellular content and structure. Four biopsies will be reserved for RNA-seq and two for IHC.
    
  