
    
      Over 3 consecutive days, the subjects will be evaluated and will train on the rehabilitation
      robot REAplan® (http://www.axinesis.com/). They will practice 2 serious games on the robot.

      In order to differentiate the effect of motor control recovery from that of MskL, the acute
      stroke patients will be randomised 4/1 to "MskL" (n=120) or to "motor control recovery"
      (n=30) with a minimisation software. The experimental design will be similar except that the
      "motor control recovery" group will practice the serious game EASY instead of CIRCUIT (see
      below). The performances on both EASY & CIRCUIT will be compared between groups (subjects in
      both groups will perform the EASY & CIRCUIT tasks).The total time of rehabilitation will be
      the same.

      The motor skill learning setup (CIRCUIT + EASY) that we developed and successfully used in
      healthy individuals and stroke patients has already been implemented in the REAplan
      environment and will be used as innovative serious games based on a speed/accuracy trade-off
      (SAT), allowing a detailed analysis of motor skill learning components (speed, accuracy, SAT,
      movement smoothness, dynamics...). For the serious game CIRCUIT, who based on motor skill
      learning, the subjects will have to practice a complex circuit and move as a cursor quickly
      and accurately as possible by controlling the handle of the robot with their affected
      hand/arm. For the other task EASY (a brick busters serious game), the aim will be to go back
      and forth between walls presented in different locations.

      The subacute stroke phase is a unique opportunity to investigate the role of brain structures
      in motor learning/control. Compared to chronic impairments (> 6 months post-stroke), the
      subacute phase provides a window into how a lesion perturbs sensorimotor functions prior to
      reorganisation driven by plasticity and neurorehabilitation. To clarify the role of different
      brain structures in MskL, Voxel-based Lesion Symptom Mapping (VLSM) based on high-resolution
      brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, will be used to analyse the relationship
      between tissue damage and MskL scores on a voxel-by-voxel basis.

      In addition, several "classical" clinical scales and tests will be used to evaluate overall
      motor-sensory-cognitive functions. The subjects will practice serious games on the robot
      REAplan (R), requiring movements with the affected arm (unimanual tasks).

      And, we used a Dextrain® tool which allows quantification of key components of manual
      dexterity : forces, selectivity (independance of fingers movement) and coactivation of the
      fingers.

      In addition to the (sub)acute stroke patients, 3 others groups will be recruited for this
      study : a group of chronic stroke patients (stroke > 6 months) who will not be hospitalized
      and will not undergo MRI (N=30), a group of healthy individuals who will not undergo MRI
      (N=50) and a group of patients with a transient global amnesia which is a sudden, temporary
      episode (<24hours) of memory loss (N=15).

      Subjects in these 3 groups will be randomized 1/1 in the two arms ("MSkL" versus "motor
      control recovery" arms).
    
  