
    
      ARQ 501 is an investigational anticancer agent that consists of a fully synthetic small
      molecule version of β-lapachone (3,4-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-2H-naphtho[1,2-b]pyran-5,6-dione)
      in a stable formulation for intravenous (IV) administration. ARQ 501 selectively induces
      apoptosis in cancer cells by the direct activation of the cellular checkpoints without
      damaging deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or microtubules. This therapeutic approach is known as
      Activated Checkpoint Therapy (ACT)sm. ACTsm is a novel strategy for treating and preventing
      cancers. Cell cycle checkpoints constitute an internal surveillance system that detects
      cellular, especially genetic, damage and either allows the cells to repair the damage, or
      induces apoptosis when damage is not repairable. Cancer cells are selectively eliminated upon
      checkpoint activation due to presence of irreparable DNA damage. It is believed that the
      rapid and selective induction of apoptosis in cancer cells by ARQ 501 is caused by a
      correspondingly rapid and sustained increase of the pro-apoptotic protein E2F1.

      Preclinical studies have shown that exposure to ARQ 501 results in the activation or
      inactivation of a panel of 5 biomarkers. Time course changes in human tumor xenograft
      biomakers in athymic mice after exposure to ARQ 501 can be classified into 3 biomarker
      groups: those that changed shortly after exposure and returned to normal within 24 hours;
      those that changed shortly after exposure and remained for 24 hours or longer; and those that
      changed after 24 hours or later.

      The primary objective is to evaluate the response of biomarkers in patients treated with ARQ
      501. The exploratory study will help to illuminate the pharmacodynamics of these biomarkers,
      their roles in the cancer growth control, and their potential predictive or prognostic values
      for the disease and treatment of ARQ 501 in humans.
    
  