
    
      Symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after deployment have been shown to
      adversely impact family and close relationship functioning, including parent-child
      relationships. About 31% of U.S. Veterans are parents to children under the age of 18. In
      addition, a study of over 100,000 records of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans indicated those
      with dependent children were 40% more likely to carry a diagnosis of PTSD compared to those
      without children. Despite these large numbers and the known association between PTSD and
      parenting problems, there are no empirically validated parenting interventions within the VHA
      that address the unique needs of Veteran parents with PTSD, nor is there evidence that
      existing treatments for PTSD improve family functioning. This gap in both research and
      practice is significant given that parent-child functioning is a large component of recovery
      and reintegration into the community. Difficulties with parenting and the parent-child
      relationship are a vital influence on overall family functioning and quality of life. It
      follows logically that an intervention that improves parenting will have a significant
      downstream impact on overall family and close relationship functioning and the Veteran's
      quality of life.

      This proposal will conduct the research necessary to adapt, refine, and conduct an open trial
      of Strength at Home - Parents (SAHP) - the new intervention incorporates the core clinical
      components of the empirically validated Strength at Home (SAH) interventions for improved
      family functioning among Veterans and targets key parenting behaviors and interpersonal
      relationship skills that can be impaired when a parent suffers from PTSD.

      Given that parenting challenges are not typically addressed within VHA, one reason prior
      national pilot efforts may have had trouble with enrollment and retention is a failure to
      address motivation and goal setting at the outset. It can be difficult for clients to be
      ready to change a problem when few resources have historically been available to address it.
      Therefore this proposal will pilot the feasibility of including a pre-treatment Motivational
      Interviewing Assessment (MIA15) to assist Veterans with PTSD in strengthening and building
      motivation to change their parenting behaviors. The MIA can result in higher rates of
      treatment retention during the first 4 weeks of treatment compared to treatment as usual.
      Assessment approaches such as MIA that are personalized and collaborative have been shown to
      have a positive and clinically meaningful impact on treatment.
    
  