
    
      This is a double blind prospective randomized placebo controlled study with an enrollment
      target of 100 patients. All subjects with SCD that meet inclusion criteria while inpatient,
      will be eligible for the study and randomized to receive prophylactic LMWH or placebo.
      Treatment with either LMWH (dalteparin 5000 IU subcutaneously daily) or placebo will occur
      for the initial 7 days of hospitalization. Randomization will occur within Investigational
      Drug Services, which will dispense and label medications to all patients. All patients will
      be followed throughout their hospitalization as well as in the outpatient clinic. The initial
      blood sample will be obtained within 36 hours of admission.

      Following randomization, blood will be drawn to perform: D-dimer, prothrombin fragment 1.2,
      thrombin-antithrombin complex, and Thrombin Generation Assay (TGA). Blood will be drawn as an
      inpatient (at admission, day 3, and day 5), as well as during a single outpatient follow-up
      visit two weeks post discharge. Patients with prolonged hospitalization will only have blood
      drawn on admission, day 3, and day 5, with a final blood draw as an outpatient (at least 14
      days after discharge). Treatment by prophylactic LMWH or placebo will occur for the initial 7
      days of hospitalization or until discharge.

      Clinical pain scores will be performed twice daily throughout for the initial 7 days of
      hospitalization of all patients. The primary pain assessment tool will be a 10-cm horizontal
      visual analog scale (VAS), with "0" corresponding to no pain at one end and "10" indicating
      the worst pain at the other. The VAS test will be administered by the same blinded study
      coordinator or PI throughout the study, using standardized instructions. Pain will also be
      assessed during the follow up outpatient visit (to confirm patient's pain has returned to
      their baseline).

      Patients will be recommended to follow up in outpatient clinic approximately 2-4 week
      following hospitalization. At this time, patients will be examined, have their clinical pain
      score determined, and have final blood draw for testing as detailed above. Should patients
      not return within 4 weeks, patient will be contacted by phone to determine their clinical
      status.
    
  