
    
      In the main phase of the study, we used a 3-group randomized study to compare the efficacy,
      cost-effectiveness, and ethics of a (1) voucher-based CM intervention, (2) cash-based CM
      intervention, and (3) non-CM intervention. Two hundred thirty seven consenting
      cocaine-dependent clients were randomly assigned to one of the three conditions. In this main
      we examined outcomes related to (1) efficacy, including UDS-confirmed abstinence and
      counseling attendance; (2) cost-effectiveness; and (3) ethics, including the effects on
      intrinsic motivation, drug use, and other high-risk behavior. This investigation addressed
      practical issues pertaining to the transfer of CM interventions into community-based
      treatment programs, and provided empirical evidence refuting ethical criticisms that have
      been levied against the use of cash and CM interventions.

      The second phase expanded on the main study with a pilot examination of a probabilistic
      reinforcement CM schedule. Probabilistic methods are considered less expensive to implement
      yet equally efficacious, as a reward is not provided each time target behaviors are
      exhibited, yet similar outcomes result. In this pilot study, an additional 70 participants
      were randomized into either a traditional voucher-based probability reinforcement CM
      schedule, ("FishBowl" CM), a cash-based probability reinforcement CM schedule ("CashBowl"
      CM), or a standard non-CM intervention. As in the main study, we examined these conditions in
      terms of efficacy, associated costs and cost-effectiveness, and potential ethical risks.

      The third phase of this study is a pilot that seeks to examine the efficacy of a traditional
      "thinning" reinforcement schedule compared to an escalating reinforcement schedule or a
      treatment-as-usual (non-contingency management control) condition in improving the
      during-treatment and post-treatment outcomes of cocaine dependent outpatients in
      community-based treatment. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of three treatment
      conditions: Escalating CM Condition (n = 15), Traditional ("thinning") CM Condition (n = 15),
      and Non-CM Control Condition (n = 15). The intervention will last a total of 16 weeks.
      Participants assigned to each of the experimental conditions will receive different
      contingency and reward procedures during study weeks 1-12; they will receive identical
      contingency and reward procedures during study weeks 13-16. Participants assigned to the
      control condition will not receive any contingencies or rewards during the entire 16 week
      study. As in the main study, we will examine these conditions in terms of efficacy,
      associated costs and cost-effectiveness, and potential ethical risks.
    
  