
    
      Background

      Surgical procedures for upper gastrointestinal cancer (UGC) induce a considerable risk of
      morbidity and mortality, and more than half of all UGC patients die within one year of
      diagnosis. Radical surgery is crucial to survival, but is associated with a high risk of
      complications which contributes to a poor long-term prognosis. Despite advances in surgical
      techniques and perioperative management, postoperative complications frequently occur.

      An essential part of gastrointestinal cancer surgery is the reconstruction of the digestive
      tract by forming a gut-to-gut reconnection, an anastomosis. Especially during UGC surgery
      this reconstructive anastomosis is at high risk of insufficient healing and can thus leak
      intestinal contents into the surrounding tissues, causing life-threatening infections.
      Development of measures that can reduce the perioperative complications in these vulnerable
      patients is therefore of vital importance

      Patients undergoing surgery for UGC are subjected to a substantial trauma reaction termed the
      surgical stress response (SSR). SSR is characterized by activation of the sympathetic nervous
      system, the endocrine system, as well as by immunological and hematological responses leading
      to hypotension, systemic and local inflammation. In addition, surgical stress can cause
      immunosuppression in response to the complex interaction of various hormones, cytokines and
      acute phase reactants. Furthermore, it has recently been reported that perioperative
      immunosuppression increases the incidence of cancer recurrence, growth of metastases and
      reduces survival.

      A contributing factor to SSR, and possibly most importantly, to the rate of postoperative
      complications, may be the mesenteric traction syndrome (MTS). MTS arises when the organs of
      the abdomen are manipulated during surgery. One of the main symptoms is substantial
      circulatory changes (hypotension, tachycardia and subsequent flushing), which can potentially
      lead to surgical complications.

      Hypothesis and aim

      It is the hypothesis of this project that the Mesenteric Traction Syndrome (MTS) is a common
      event during UGC-surgery and that the induction of the syndrome is an important factor in
      provoking further peri- and postoperative complications and in worsening the SSR. In order to
      uncover the role of MTS in cancer surgery and the effects on the oncological patients, the
      aim of the project is:

      To characterize MTS in patients undergoing three common forms of UGC surgery using a new
      objective methodology and by recording biomarkers suspected of playing a role in the
      pathophysiology of MTS and postoperative development of complications.

      Methods

      75 patients undergoing UGC surgery (25 each of the three most common cancer types of UGC)
      will be included. This study will use a novel skin flushing measuring method called laser
      speckle contrast imaging (LSCI) to measure skin blood flow of the forehead. LSCI is a
      real-time and non-touch measuring device capable of measuring blood flow on a large field
      surface (15 cm x 20 cm). In parallel, inflammatory and hormonal stress biomarkers considered
      to be associated with SSR, will be measured. In this study, it is hypothesized, that by
      correlating a new method of quantifiable flushing measurement and known biomarkers, it is
      possible to relate the extent of flushing to the severity of hypotension and MTS and by proxy
      the extent of complications.

      Furthermore, the participants will be exposed to head down tilt at three pre defined time
      points with subsequent monitoring of haemodynamics and SSR. This intervention is done to
      assess the patients' fluid status in the end of surgery as well as postoperatively, as
      hypovolemia is associated with postoperative complications.

      Statistics

      The incidence of MTS in UGC patients was previously unknown and power calculations was
      performed based on previous reported cases of MTS during abdominal surgery (incidence of 30%
      and 85%). 15 patients are required in each group in order to obtain a statistical power
      greater than 0.90 with an α-level of < 0.05,. Groups of 25 patients are therefore chosen to
      ensure statistical significance.
    
  