
    
      Neurally Adjusted Ventilatory Assist (NAVA) is a new form of partial support wherein the
      machine applies positive pressure throughout inspiration in proportion to the electrical
      activity of the diaphragm (EAdi), as assessed by trans-esophageal electromyography (1).
      Because ventilator functioning and cycling are under control of the patient's respiratory
      drive and rhythm, NAVA has the potential to enhance patient-ventilator interaction ensuring
      synchrony and minimizing the risk of over-assistance. A high incidence of asynchrony events
      has been demonstrated to have a significant clinical impact by favouring weaning failure and
      longer duration of mechanical ventilation (2). NAVA has been implemented safely in animals,
      in healthy volunteers and in critically ill adults and has been shown to improve
      patient-ventilator synchrony, to limit excessive airway pressure and tidal volume, and to
      unload the respiratory muscles in tracheally intubated patients (1,3,4). Moreover NAVA was
      found to be effective in delivering non-invasive ventilation (NIV) even when the interface
      was excessively leaky (75% leak) with reduced positive end-expiratory pressure (3). With
      these conditions, NAVA was able to unload the respiratory muscles and preserve gas exchange,
      while maintaining synchrony to respiratory demand. Data from medical literature from our
      group demonstrate that the pediatric helmet was better tolerated than facial mask , required
      less sedation an allowed more prolonged ventilatory assistance due to better tolerance (5-6).
      To date, no data exist on the use of NAVA in infants during noninvasive ventilation. The aim
      of this physiological study is to compare patient-ventilator interaction in infants receiving
      NIV by NAVA and Pressure Support Ventilation (PSV). Equipment. NAVA and conventional PSV is
      provided by the Servo-I ventilator (Maquet Critical Care, Solna, Sweden). Electrical activity
      of the diaphragm (EAdi) is obtained using an array of nine miniaturized electrodes (spaced 6
      mm apart) mounted on a conventional (5.5F) feeding tube (Maquet Critical Care AB, Solna,
      Sweden; Neurovent Research Inc, Toronto, Canada), and positioned in the lower esophagus at
      the level of the diaphragm. Confirmation of appropriate placement is achieved by viewing the
      online electrical displays from the catheter. The presence of a good quality EAdi trace with
      p waves displayed by the central electrodes indicates optimal positioning, with the array
      spanning the diaphragm equally in both caudal and cranial directions. A pediatric helmet is
      used as interface between the patient and the ventilator. Tidal volume , airway pressure and
      flow trace are recorded with the Servo I NAVA Tracker acquisition system.

      Experimental protocol. Enrolled patients, after a stabilization period with oxygen therapy
      and standard medical treatment (antibiotics, steroids, Inhaled beta 2 agonists), receive two
      60-minutes ventilatory trials delivered by pediatric helmet.

      After a baseline trial on PSV conventional , children are allocated to receive 1 trial NAVA
      NIV and 1 trial PSV conventional. The sequence of the two ventilatory trials are randomized
      according to sealed opaque envelops.

      Ventilatory trials are as follows:

        1. NAVA-NIV

        2. PSV conventional . The first 15 mins of each period are considered as a wash out period
           and patients are carefully observed for any reactions or problems occurring for the
           technique. After the first 15 mins period, data recording for the study are started.

      NAVA and PSV level are set by the attending physician in order to obtain a Tidal Volume (TV)
      6-8 ml/kg, peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) > 94%, Respiratory Rate (RR) < +/-2 SD for
      age. Sedation and analgesia are provided according to standardized PICU protocols, if needed
      and are not changed during the two study windows for the same patient.

      Monitoring .All infants are monitored as follow: SpO2, and EKG continuously; arterial blood
      pressure every 15 min; arterial blood gases at enrolment and once for each trial. The total
      amount of drug needed for sedation and/or complications (intolerance to the interface, leaks,
      gastric distension) are also recorded.

      Statistics. No data are available at the moment in medical literature in infants. Based on
      retrospective data from adult literature, the predicted reduction in the primary end point
      (AI) with NAVA versus Conventional flow triggered PSV, is around 20%. The power analysis
      indicated a sample size of 12 patients was needed to demonstrate a 20% reduction in the AI
      between the two ventilator modes with an alfa and beta risk of 005 and 0.2 respectively.
      Sample size calculation has been performed with GPower3.1.2 software (Kiel University,
      Germany)
    
  