
    
      Patients will be imaged with the Vivascope 1500m multiwavelength coherence microscope during
      a single patient visit. The lesion will be photographed with high resolution photography and
      surface epiluminescence microscopy. The clinically uninvolved site will be imaged in the same
      manner.

      The lesion will then be prepped for RCM imaging. A skin contact device consisting of a metal
      ring and template will be applied to the skin surrounding the lesion of interest with a
      disposable medicalgrade adhesive plastic disc. A wetting solution will be placed into the
      metal ring. The wetting solutions include water, mineral oil and other over the counter
      products (e.g. hairstyling gel and moisturizing agents). Application of these agents
      diminishes artifacts caused by light scattering at the skin surface. RCM images of the lesion
      will be captured through the contact device using the Vivascope 1500m surface confocal
      microscope provided by Lucid Technologies, Inc. Two types of images will be collected,
      VivaBlocks and VivaStacks. VivaBlocks are a 4x4 mosaic of confocal images that measure 2mm x
      2mm in total area. These VivaBlock images are optically combined or "stitched" together by
      the VivaScope 1500m to create a seamless representation of 4 mm 2 area at a specific depth
      within the skin. VivaStacks are eight 0.5mm x 0.5mm confocal images taken at 3 micron
      intervals from the keratin layer to the superficial dermis. VivaStacks and VivaBlocks will be
      acquired for both the skin lesion and for the clinically uninvolved area of the skin. The
      total estimated imaging time for a patient in this study is about 30 minutes for the lesion
      and the clinically uninvolved site.

      The confocal imaging session and the dermatologic visit for the punch biopsy do not have to
      occur during the same patient visit. All lesion images will be saved on a network server for
      later review and analysis. All imaging will be completed by trained research staff familiar
      with confocal imaging.
    
  