
    
      Main Hypothesis: Overweight women with PCOS receiving motivational interviewing lose at least
      1.5 kg more than the control group during the 6 months.

      Hypothesis: weight loss leads to positive changes in biochemical parameters, quality of life,
      and the stress levels assessed by cortisol levels in hair.

      Research Plan:

      The project began on october 1, 2014 at Odense University Hospital, gynecological and
      obstetric department. Women referred to the gynecology outpatient clinic for examination of
      PCOS was examined in the gynecological clinic at the appointment. The women who subsequently
      are diagnosed with PCOS and have a BMI> 30 kg/m2, who said yes to participation in the trial
      was randomized to motivational interviews or normal course of treatment.

      Both groups: questionnaires and hair samples in both randomized groups. The investigators
      take about 150 strands of hair of 3 cm length twice in the experiment. Attendance for
      Biochemistry and objective examinations like the usual procedures for patients with PCOS, ie.
      this is performed whether the patient is involved in the trial or not. There will be two
      blood counts during the experiment, one at the start and one at 6 months. Blood sampling is
      carried out whether the patient is involved in the trial or not. Parameters measured at
      baseline and after 6 months:

      Study program as usual (all patients with PCOS):

        -  anamneses of menstruation, fertility, use of oral contraceptives, medicine and disease
           ect.

        -  anthropometry: height, weight, body mass index (BMI), waist and hip circumference. Blood
           pressure.

        -  Biochemistry: fasting blood glucose, HbA1c, insulin, Lutropin hormone (LH), folicle
           stimulation hormone (FSH), estradiol, free and total testosterone,dehydroepiandrosteron
           (DHEAS),sex hormon binding globulin (SHBG), prolactin, thyroid stimulating hormone
           (TSH), 17-OH-progesterone, lipid profile, hemoglobin, 25-OH vitamin D.

        -  gynecological assessment: Ultrasound scanning of the uterus and ovaries.

      Project participants:

        -  Questionnaires; SF-36, VAS score, major depression score (MDI), the world health
           organization WHO-five well-being index.

        -  hair sample for the detection of cortisol

      Practical course:

      First examination in the clinic: If the patient meets the inclusion criteria an in-depth
      information about the trial is given. If the patient wants to participate, the patient is
      issued a written statement of consent and is pre booked an appointment with a nurse At the
      first visit to the nurse: the consent form is signed, if wish for participation in the study
      is maintained the patient is randomized. The patient fill out questionnaires and a hair
      sample is taken. All patients are provided with information on weight loss from the Health
      Protection Agency advice about diet and exercise as above. Patients who are randomized to
      motivational interviews starts a course of interviews. Participant data is imported into a
      spreadsheet for later determination.

      Intervention: appointments of interview are scheduled individually, but should be around one
      interview every 14 days of about 20 minutes.

      After 6 months, all patients are examined again as mentioned above as part of the usual
      control of PCOS.
    
  