
    
      Groups, with and without music, will have the same visits and the same instructions
      throughout the study.

        1. Visit 0 (inclusion visit)

             -  Verification of inclusion and non-inclusion criteria

             -  Signature of consent

             -  Information gathering

                  -  Demographic information (date of birth, height, weight, activity, etc.)
                     professional).

                  -  Clinical information about the disease (age of onset and duration of the
                     disease, treatments and their distribution).

                  -  Medical history including present or past medical conditions and any other
                     conditions that may be relevant to the study and their treatment.

             -  Neurological examination with MDS-UPDRS (Movement Disorder Society - Unified
                Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale) and NFOG-Q (New Freezing of Gait-Questionnaire)
                scales

             -  Explanation and delivery of the agenda for the next 2 weeks

             -  "Feetme(c)" soles in place

             -  Remittance of self-questionnaires for a home refill before V1

        2. Base Line From the day of inclusion until visit 1 the patient will complete a diary to
           record the occurrence of falls and freezing, and to self-assess on a visual numerical
           scale their levels of pain, fatigue and motivation.

        3. Visit 1 (week 2)

             -  Run the 6 minutes test in silence.

             -  Actualization of the Battery for the Assessment of Auditory Sensorimotor and Timing
                Abilities (BAASTA).

             -  Collecting and checking the completeness of the different scales given at visit 0
                and helping to fill in incomplete scales.

             -  Information and training in the use of the BeatPark device (programmed with or
                without music according to randomization)

             -  Explanation of the self-education program (number of sessions, duration,
                location...) for the 4 weeks.

             -  Delivery of questionnaires to be completed within 3 days prior to the visit 2.

             -  MRI: morphological sequences (T1 3D, T2 FLAIR, T2*) and functional sequences
                (Resting state and with the different types of auditory indication) for the
                subgroup explored in imaging.

        4. Intervention phase

           *Self-reeducation program:

             -  This program will consist of walking outdoors for 5 sessions of 30 minutes per week
                for 4 consecutive weeks with the BeatPark device (set to deliver music or not,
                adapted music or random tempo).

                * Phone call:

             -  The clinical research associate (CRA) will contact the patient to ensure the proper
                functioning and compliance with the rehabilitation program, if any difficulties are
                encountered.

                *Self-assessment schedule:

             -  From the day of visit 1 through visit 2 the participant will complete a diary to
                record the occurrence of falls and freezing, and to self-assess on a visual
                numerical scale their levels of pain, fatigue, motivation and satisfaction.

        5. Visit 2 (end-of-study visit, week 4):

             -  Neurological evaluation with the MDS-UPDRS, NFOG and CGI (Clinical Global
                Impression) scales.

             -  Running the 6 minutes test in silence

             -  Achievement of the BAASTA

             -  Collection and verification of the completeness of the different scales submitted
                to V1 (and completed within the last 3 days) and helps to fill in incomplete scales

             -  Checking for no change in anti-parkinsonian treatment.

             -  Return the equipment to the investigation team.

             -  MRI: morphological sequences (T1 3D, T2 FLAIR, T2*) and functional sequences
                (Resting, T2 FLAIR, T2*). state and with the different types of auditory
                indication))) for the subgroup explored in imagery.
    
  