
    
      Hepatitis C (HCV) is a leading cause of cirrhosis worldwide. Most complications associated
      with cirrhosis are driven by an altered portal circulation and the development of portal
      hypertension. Bacterial translocation (BT) from the gut to the systemic circulation is
      considered a pivotal mechanism contributing to the development of life-threatening
      complications in end stage cirrhosis. Recent evidence suggests that the liver and systemic
      circulation may be exposed to gut derived microbial products at earlier stages of liver
      disease. This early exposure may trigger hepatic inflammation, modify immune host response
      and accelerate hepatic fibrogenesis; which, in turn, impairs portal inflow, alters the portal
      circulation, and leads to development of portal hypertension. The mechanisms resulting in
      systemic exposure to gut derived microbial products, and the subsequent host response to BT
      has not been studied in patients with early liver disease nor fully compensated cirrhosis.

      We therefore intend to enroll 30 chronic HCV patients with either cirrhosis (20) or minimal
      liver fibrosis (10). Study participants will undergo extensive evaluation with portal vein
      sampling and pressure measurements, dual cholate clearances, liver biopsy, serologic,
      immunologic, fecal microbiome and imaging studies. This will be followed by an optional
      second percutaneous liver biopsy and portal vein sampling 9-15 months after HCV treatment.
      The treatment protocol is a separate independent protocol, 15-DK- 0143 utilizing Sofosbuvir
      and GS-5816. The goals of our study are to characterize the extent of BT in early stages of
      cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic liver disease, explore the mechanisms contributing to its
      occurrence and identify potential serological, immunological and hemodynamic biomarkers
      associated with chronic infection. This, in turn, can aid in establishing a possible link
      between BT, subsequent host responses and severity of liver disease.
    
  