
    
      Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a deadly disease. This is due to overinfected chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease that progresses to end-stage respiratory failure. CFTR modulators should
      improve the prognosis of CF, as they may slow the progression of patients' lung disease.
      Assessing their impact in the paediatric population is becoming a major issue. Children and
      adolescents under the age of 18 are a target cohort because they have a lung disease that is
      still poorly developed. Early prescription of CFTR modulators is therefore a priority but
      requires evidence of absence of toxicity. Identifying patients under the age of 18 responding
      to CFTR modulators as well as detecting possible toxicity, is an important medical objective
      given the potential side effects and the high cost of these molecules.

      The outcomes previously used in Phase III studies (FEV1, frequency of exacerbations,
      nutritional status) are insufficiently sensitive in this population.

      Other criteria need to be analyzed to identify the response to CFTR modulators in the short
      and medium term. The investigators hypothesize that the assessment of pulmonary structural
      impairment by low-dose lung CT-scan as part of routine care could be a much more sensitive
      criterion for the development of lung disease under CFTR modulators.

      This observational follow-up cohort study is carried out as part of routine care. It does not
      involve a specific collection for research. Excess bronchial secretions and blood will be
      kept instead of being discarded in the event of a possible requalification for research.

      The main objective is to assess the evolution of pulmonary structural impairment by low-dose
      CF scan at the end of the first year of CFTR modulator therapy The secondary objectives are
      to assess following criteria

        -  Tolerance of modulators in this age group, including screening for bronchial reactivity
           at treatment, early liver toxicity

        -  Longitudinal evolution of pulmonary structural impairment by low dose scan at 3 years
           and 5 years of CFTR modulator treatment

        -  Evolution of respiratory functional parameters

        -  Measurement by spirometry and plethysmography

        -  Lung clearance index (if possible)

        -  Longitudinal evolution of bacterial colonization, compared to the year prior to
           modulating treatment

        -  Exacerbations: number, duration, days of antibiotics, hospitalizations, return to stable
           condition

        -  Colonization of bronchial secretions

        -  Changes in quality of life

        -  Evolution of the sweat test

        -  Longitudinal evaluation of pancreatic function

        -  Longitudinal evaluation of growth and puberty compared to the year prior to CFTR
           modulator

        -  Growth speed, and bone age

        -  Bone mineralization, body composition (if possible)

        -  Pubertal markers from 9 years in girls and 10 years in boys

        -  Evaluation of glycemic dysregulation if present

        -  Preservation of samples taken as part of routine care (serum, bronchial secretions) for
           possible research use
    
  