
    
      Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer worldwide. About two-thirds of the patients
      have a good therapeutic effect by combining surgical adjuvant treatment. But there are still
      30-40% of patients may relapse. Efficient relapse early surveillance and accurate treatment
      decisions can avoid excessive medical treatment，and keep timely intervention to tumor
      recurrence as well. That's very important to extend the survival of patients. Currently, the
      efficient surveillance tools recommended by surveillance guidelines include clinical
      assessment, serum carcinoembryonic antigen testing, colonoscopy and CT.

      Cell-free DNA(cfDNA)，the free form of DNA in the plasma，derived from the normal cells, the
      abnormal cells (such as tumor cells) or external (such as viral DNA). The plasma cell-free
      DNA derived from tumor cells is the circulating tumour DNA(ctDNA).

      As most solid tumors, including CRC, release ctDNA into the blood,precision medical
      applications of ctDNA liquid biopsy in colorectal cancer to predict recurrence and aid
      treatment decisions has become a hot topic.

      Recent research shows that substantially all of colorectal cancer patients have somatic
      genetic alterations, including both single-base mutation and larger somatic structural
      variations (SSVs). Mutations in these genes can be used as biomarkers to evaluate tumor
      burden, predict recurrence and supply information for treatment decisions through monitor and
      quantify ctDNA.

      In this program，sequencing the tissue from colorectal cancer patients by capture technology
      TM and next generation sequencing(NGS),the specific somatic mutations，the so-called
      biomarkers, can be found.The analysis results of sequencing can help to the study of tumor
      molecular pathology and supply information for targetable drug.The continuous monitoring of
      biomarkers in the plasma can predict recurrence and supply information for treatment
      decisions.

      In phase I trials， recruit 200 volunteers with colorectal cancer will be recruited.the
      investigators will test the recurrence predicting project through OncocareTM(method mentioned
      above). In phase Ⅱ trials，the colorectal cancer patients will be categorized into four groups
      on the basis of genetic risk judged by OncocareTM and clinical risk judged by Clinical
      routine method. Particular emphasis is on the group of low genetic risk but high clinical
      risk and the group of high genetic risk but low clinical risk.

      The purpose of the study is to determine the relationship between change of gene copies and
      recurrence，and the overall survival at 5 years after chemotherapy based on clinical prognosis
      compared to Oncocare detection prognosis.
    
  