
    
      TMC435 is a protease inhibitor (PI) and is being investigated for treatment of chronic
      hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, in combination with Peg-IFN (pegylated interferon) and RBV
      (ribavirin). The result of this study may provide dosing recommendations for TMC435 in
      patients with severe renal impairement. This is a Phase I, open-label (both participant and
      investigator know the name of the medication given at certain moment), to investigate the
      effect of severe renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics and safety of TMC435. Severe renal
      impairment will be defined by an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) = 29
      mL/min/1.73m2. Participants with severe renal impairment are only allowed in this study if
      they are not on dialysis. Normal renal function will be considered as an eGFR = 80
      mL/min/1.73m2. eGFR is a measured filtering capacity of the kidneys. The trial population
      will consist of a total of 16 male or female participants. Eight (8) healthy participants
      with a normal renal function and 8 participants with severe renal impairment will be
      included. A healthy participant will be matched to a participant with severe renal impairment
      with regards to sex, race, age (± 10 years), and body mass index (BMI) (± 20%). Dosing of the
      matched healthy participants can only start once the corresponding participants with severe
      renal impairment has completed Day 10 assessments (including physical examination). All
      participants will receive TMC435150 mg once a day (q.d.) for 7 days under fed conditions.
      Blood and urine samples, electrocardiogram (ECG) and vital signs (blood pressure and heart
      rate) will be taken at screening, on Day 1, Day 7, at the follow-up visit at 1 week after
      last dose of study medication and at the follow-up visit at 4-5 weeks after last dose of
      study medication. A physical examination will be performed at screening, on Day -1 (= day
      before first medication intake), on Day 10 and during the follow-up visits. A full
      pharmacokinetic profiles of bound TMC435 will be determined on Day 7 up to 72 hours postdose.
      In addition, unbound TMC435 plasma concentrations will be determined at specified timepoints.
      Safety and tolerability will be monitored throughout the trial. Participants will be admitted
      to the unit on Day-1 and discharged on Day10. Each participant will receive orally 150 mg
      TMC435, q.d. for 7 consecutive days.
    
  