
    
      This study is intended to gather additional information regarding the performance of a
      bipolar balloon electrode device (HALO360) utilizing radiofrequency (RF) energy in the
      micro-layer ablation of Barrett's esophagus, a precancerous, metaplastic change in the
      esophageal lining. The device has received 510(k) clearance for specific indications,
      including the treatment of Barrett's esophagus.

      This study is conducted in two phases and is intended to further evaluate the effect of
      micro-layer ablation of Barrett's metaplasia using a 510(k) cleared, bipolar, balloon
      electrode device. Phase I (n=30) is intended to provide additional information regarding the
      effects of three randomized treatment parameters (energy settings, Joules/cm2). Phase II
      (n=70) is intended to provide additional information regarding the effects of the optimal
      technique and energy density settings (Joules/cm2) determined from the 1-month endoscopy
      results of Phase I. Phase 2 primary endpoint was histological clearance of Barrett's (%
      patients). This trial incorporated an opportunity for persistent BE to be treated with a
      focal ablation device (HALO90), at the 2.5-year follow-up, achieving a CR in 98.4% of
      patients. Having additional follow-up (5 years) would add valuable information to the
      literature, thus aiding the physician in making patient management decisions about the
      appropriate follow-up interval after RFA. This study will allow collection of 5-year
      follow-up biopsies and, thereafter, offer RFA for any subject with persistent Barrett's.

      Upon approval of the present amendment to the protocol (B-200-5 year extension) and the
      informed consent form (ICF) at each study site, subjects who participated in B-200-2.5 year
      extension and had a biopsy at 2.5 years after initial enrollment will be offered
      participation in this extension.
    
  