
    
      Participants - inclusion criteria

        1. Adult patients ≥ 18 years.

        2. Diagnostic confirmation of de novo Ph+ ALL.

        3. Patients in first/second CR (assessed by cytology, karyotyping and/or FISH) at
           transplantation.

        4. Patients with sustained hematologic and cytogenetic CR at the time of study entry.

        5. Any modality of allogeneic SCT.

        6. Patients are in days between 120 until 180 after allogeneic SCT with stable graft.

        7. Ability to understand and voluntarily sign the informed consent form.

        8. Women of childbearing potential (WOCBP) must be using an adequate method of
           contraception to avoid pregnancy and have a negative pregnancy test, a maximum of 48
           hours prior to study drug start.

      Participants - exclusion criteria:

        1. Patients with ECOG 3-4 at study entry

        2. Any of the following laboratory abnormalities:

             -  Absolute neutrophil count < 1.5 x 109/l or platelets < 75 x 109/l

             -  Serum creatinine > 2.0 mg/dl (177 mmol/l).

             -  Serum glutamic oxalacetic transaminase (SGOT) or serum glutamate pyruvate
                transaminase (SGPT) > 5,0 x upper limit of normal (ULN).

             -  Total bilirubin > 3 mg/dl.

        3. Known HIV infection or any other uncontrolled infection at study entry

        4. Known pleural effusion of any grade at study entry.

        5. Morphologic or cytogenetic or molecular relapse at study entry

        6. Evidence of digestive dysfunction that could prevent administration of study therapy

        7. Prior therapy with dasatinib during >21 days

        8. Other concurrent malignancy at study entry

        9. Uncontrolled or significant cardiovascular disease, including myocardial infarction
           within 6 months, uncontrolled angina within 3 months, prolonged QT interval, congestive
           heart failure within 3 months and clinically significant ventricular arrhythmias

       10. Any psychiatric condition that could prevent patient from signing the informed consent o
           could put the patient at an unacceptable risk in case of participating in the trial

       11. Subjects enrolled in another clinical trial at study entry. If patients have received
           other investigational agent, a minimum of 30 days wash-out period must have elapsed.

      Primary Outcome measures

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of dasatinib maintenance in
      terms of Disease Free Survival at 2 years in patients with Ph+ ALL who receive maintenance
      with dasatinib after allogeneic SCT.

      Secondary Outcome measures

      .To assess the efficacy of maintenance with dasatinib in terms of duration of hematologic,
      cytogenetic and molecular remission, Relapse rate at 2 years, survival at 2 years, overall
      DFS, and Overall Survival (OS).

      ·To assess the safety and tolerability of dasatinib maintenance regimen after allogeneic SCT

      Regarding the secondary objective "To assess the safety and tolerability of dasatinib
      maintenance regimen after allogeneic SCT", such safety analysis includes the frequency of all
      adverse events and laboratory abnormalities as well as frequency of dose interruptions, dose
      reductions and treatment discontinuation for drug-related toxicity. Frequency tables will be
      reported using the "All treated subjects" dataset. Safety will be reported for all treated
      patients and assessed by baseline findings, AEs and SAEs (definition, pattern, seriousness
      and intensity according to NCI CTCAE v3.0, relationship with dasatinib and outcome).
      Hematologic toxicity will be analyzed separately.
    
  