
    
      Gemcitabine and doxorubicin are designed to disrupt the growth of cancer cells, which causes
      cancer cells to start to die. Bortezomib is designed to enter cells and interfere with a
      substance found inside cells that is responsible for allowing cells to divide. This helps to
      kill the tumor cells.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive doses of the
      study drugs based on when you join the study and how many people have started before you. Two
      (2) participants will be entered into each dose level. Additional participants may be added
      at a dose level if it is being well tolerated. The doses will increase until the highest
      tolerable dose is found.

      You will receive the 3 study drugs on the first day of each cycle. You will receive
      gemcitabine for up to 90 minutes. Next you will receive doxorubicin over 15-30 minutes.
      Bortezomib will be given last over 3-5 seconds. Every 14 days is considered a study "cycle."

      While on study, you will have a complete physical exam before each dose of study drugs. Blood
      (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn to check bone marrow and kidney function each week during
      the first month. The study doctor may decide to draw blood more often, if you are having side
      effects to the study drugs. Your vital signs will be measured before you receive the study
      drugs and 1 hour after the infusion.

      At the end of Cycle 3, your tumor status will be re-evaluated. You will have CT scans and a
      bone scan. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur. If
      you have stable disease, you may continue receiving therapy as long as your physician feel
      you are benefiting.

      Once you are off-study, you will receive a phone call every 6 months. You will be asked how
      you are doing, the status of the disease, and if you have had other treatments.

      This is an investigational study. Gemcitabine, doxorubicin, and bortezomib are all FDA
      approved and commercially available. Their use in this study is considered investigational
      because they have not been approved in patients with urothelial cancer. Up to 80 patients
      will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  