
    
      Eustachian tube dysfunction (ETD) and middle ear barotrauma (MEB) are common reported
      complications during hyperbaric oxygen treatment. The Phase I study data was the first to
      demonstrate a statistically significant decrease in the occurrence of symptomatic ETD and
      middle ear barotrauma (MEB) in specific compression profiles among those used as common
      standards of care in hyperbaric oxygen treatment. The Phase I Trial suggested the total time
      interval and rate (slope) of compression (ROC) may be a determining factor in ETD and MEB.
      The Phase II study investigated tested the robustness of these findings with a larger sample
      size and failed to determine an optimal rate of compression to reduce ETD and MEB when
      considering each multiplace treatment (with multiple patients) as the unit of observation
      collectively as a group, rather than for each individual patient. In this phase III trial we
      will increase sample size further to determine if the effect size of the rate (slope) of
      compression is smaller than anticipated in the phase I and II studies requiring a larger
      sample size and greater power. This study will be restricted to the two compression profiles
      limited to the 15 minute total time interval of compression which was found to be the time
      interval associated with the least number of treatment holds or stops.

      Data will be collected prospectively on group patient-treatment exposures. The investigators
      will randomly assign patient-treatment group exposures to a single identical time interval
      but different rates (slopes) of compression. These compression rates (slopes) were identical
      to those used in the Phase I and II trials. All patients experiencing symptoms of ETD and MEB
      requiring compression stops or holds will be evaluated post-treatment to confirm the presence
      of ETD and MEB using the O'Neill Grading System (OGS) for ETD/MEB.

      For approximately 10 years, the investigators hyperbaric center used a routine daily
      multiplace chamber treatment protocol to a depth of 45 feet of seawater (fsw) (modified U.S.
      Navy Treatment Table 9). The chamber was compressed over a 10-minute time interval
      representing a 4.5 fsw/minute uniform rate of compression. This 4.5-fsw/minute compression
      rate throughout the total 10-minute time interval of treatment was used as a baseline
      compression rate to compare all other compression schedules [total compression time
      interval/compression rates (slopes)]. The investigators will prospectively collect data on
      patient-treatment group exposures after formalizing two different compression schedules each
      including a unique compression rate (slope) linear vs. non-linear but using the same
      15-minute time interval of compression. This was similar to the Phase I and Phase II study
      but limited to two compression profiles.

      Data will be collected prospectively on all patients receiving treatment from February 28,
      2021, and February 8, 2023, and combined with the data obtained in the Phase I and II trials
      collected from September 8, 2014 to September 8, 2016; and February 11, 2019, and February
      10, 2020 respectively. This Phase III study defines the unit of observations as a multiplace
      patient-treatment group exposure rather than individual patient treatment exposures. This
      approach was considered appropriate as a treatment stop or hold in a multiplace chamber
      affects all other patient occupants in the same treatment group exposure. It results in a
      hold for all patients in the multiplace chamber during that respective treatment. The
      possible effects on the other patients in the same treatment group could possibly confound
      our outcomes. The effect of rate (slope) of compression on an individual patient can be
      better ascertained at the individual patient level in a monoplace chamber, without
      influencing the effect on other patients.

      To mitigate the risk of confounding, only the first stop will be used as the stop or hold
      indicator for that particular patient-treatment group exposure. Data will be collected on the
      patient(s) experiencing the stop or hold. All patients will undergo pre-treatment video
      otoscopy with baseline tympanic membrane (TM) photos and video of TM motion documenting the
      patients ability to equalize. This is used to assess potential Eustachian tube patency and
      proper equalization performance to help exclude individual patient technique as a confounding
      variable. Photos will be repeated at the end of treatment on any patient(s) complaining of
      symptoms referable to ETD/MEB that require a stop during compression.

      Multiple stops for the same patient on the same treatment will not be considered. Only the
      first compression stop or hold during each treatment exposure will be recorded or assigned as
      a patient-treatment stop representing that particular patient-treatment group exposure.
      Compression stops will be made when any patient experiences difficulty equalizing (requests a
      stop or complains of ear discomfort of any type).

      Repeat video otoscopy will be conducted on all patients complaining of symptoms referable to
      ETD or MEB to objectively document the grade of barotrauma at the end of the treatment. The
      O'Neill Grading System will be used to record the severity of the ETD or MEB. The depth of
      the stop, the treatment number for that particular patient, and the actions taken to
      alleviate the symptoms during equalization will be recorded.

      The depth of the compression stop will be recorded in feet of seawater (fsw) as will be the
      ascent (fsw) required for the patient to clear the middle ear pressure and relieve the
      symptoms. The patients symptoms must be resolved, rendering the patient asymptomatic and able
      to continue the treatment compression profile. All team members (physicians, nurses, and
      technicians) present and working on the day of the exposure, are responsible for viewing the
      patients pre and post tympanic membrane photos and determining the grade of barotrauma using
      the OGS criteria.

      All stops were categorized under the respective compression protocol used for that particular
      patient-treatment group exposure. Data will then compared using both descriptive and
      inferential statistical analysis including the risk difference, odds ratio (OR), two-tailed
      Chi Square analysis using α=0.05, and outcomes will be studied separately in a logistic
      regression analysis.
    
  