
    
      The study will be conducted in compliance with International Standard good clinical practices
      (GCPs) and the Declaration of Helsinki. The protocol was approved by local Institutional
      Review Board and registered in clinical trials.gov.

      Clinical and Laboratory Evaluation Blood counts and liver function tests (bilirubin, albumin,
      prothrombin time expressed as international normalized ratio (INR), serum transaminases,
      glucose, and creatinine) are measured at 12-week intervals. Patient's somatometric
      measurements (height and body weight), vital signs, and frequency of adverse events (AE) are
      recorded. Liver enzymes will be scored as stable, improving, or worsening.

      Study End Points The primary efficacy endpoint is a reduction of fibrosis score by at least
      30% either in Fibro Test units or kilo Pascals (kPa) according to hepatic elastography or a
      reduction of 1 point on the METAVIR scale. Secondary efficacy endpoints include improvement
      in alanine aminotranferase (ALT) and/or aspartate aminotransferase (AST), albumin, serum
      concentrations of TGFbeta, IL-1 and IL-6 and endothelin, and Child-Pugh and MELD scores.
      Worsening MELD is defined as switching from a lower-score to a higher-score and improving as
      switching from a higher-score to a lower-score, where Group 1 was MELD ≤ 9, Group 2 10-19,
      and Group 3 > 20.

      Primary safety endpoints include clinical side effects, blood profile abnormalities, overall
      survival, and pharmacokinetic (PK) findings. Secondary safety endpoints included quality of
      life scores.

      Evaluation and Classification of Fibrosis Outcomes Fibrosis-regression profile (FRP):
      decreases >30% in FT score or 30% in kPa in liver stiffness measurement (LSM) or decreasing 1
      point on the METAVIR score comparing baseline and M12 measurements.

      Fibrosis-stabilization profile (FSP): stable FT results or kPa measurements (variations lower
      than 30%) or METAVIR score.

      Fibrosis-progression profile (FPP): increases greater than 30% in FT score or kPa or
      increasing 1 point on METAVIR.

      Specific Evaluation and Classification of Biochemical Outcomes Biochemical markers: Blood
      parameters determined after overnight fasting include: albumin, prothrombin time, total
      bilirubin, ALT, AST, Alkaline phosphatase (AP), and gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT), measured
      in fresh serum within 8h of collection on an automated biochemistry analyzer (Hitachi 917;
      Roche Diagnostics).

      alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2M), apolipoprotein-A1, and haptoglobin levels will be assayed by
      nephelometry (Image; Beckman Coulter).

      Fibro Test®: blinded Fibrotest measurements will be performed on fresh serum and according to
      the recommended pre-analytic and analytic methods.

      Hepatic elastography: Transient Elastography (TE) is performed according to published
      recommendations using the Fibro-Scan® M probe. LSM is expressed in kPa. Only procedures with
      at least 10 validated measurements, >60% success rate, and an interquartile range <30% of the
      median will be considered reliable. Patients with ascites will be offered real time shear
      wave elastography (Aixplorer, Supersonic Imagine).

      Cytokines and pirfenidone: Serum concentrations of Interleukin 6 (IL-6), transforming growth
      factor beta (TGF-β1), endothelin 1 (ET-1), and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) will be
      quantified by ELISA in an automated enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (EIA) analyzer Coda
      Microplate System (Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc., Hercules, California, USA) and values
      normalized against serum of healthy volunteers with normal liver function and LSM <5 kPa
      (F0).

      Evaluation of Safety Profile Monitoring for safety and toxicity will be performed throughout
      the study. When necessary, appropriate medical intervention will be provided.

      Quality of life assessment: All patients will fill out the Euro-Qol Index survey, including
      the visual analog scale evaluation at baseline and at 12 months. Investigators incorporate
      the nonutility-based Short Form-36v2 survey, which provides a detailed profile of
      health-related quality of life.

      Ethical considerations. The study will be conducted in accordance with the Declaration of
      Helsinki and the E6 Good Clinical Practice Standards International Conference on
      Harmonization (ICH).

      Statistical Data Analysis: Investigators will be using the Statistical Package for the Social
      Sciences (SPSS) Statistical software 6.12 for Windows. Descriptive statistics include mean,
      standard deviation standard error. A paired or unpaired t Test will be used to compare means
      before and after study medication administration. Values <5% will be considered significant.
      Kaplan Meier survival analyses will include all patients on active study-medication treatment
      despite duration of exposure. Sample size calculation was based on the following assumptions:
      (1) mean expected baseline elastography score of 27.4 kPa, standard deviation of 15.7;
      expected estimated-fibrosis reduction rate higher than 30% (delta); (4) alpha error of 1%;
      (5) an accepted beta error of 10% (power = 90%); (6) two tails. The final number of patients
      required to find a significant difference using the G power statistical program was 61
      patients.
    
  