
    
      This is a prospective, single center, single-arm study that examines pre-procedural
      sonothrombolysis as an adjuvant to contemporary therapy in patients with ST-segment elevation
      myocardial infarction receiving PPCI.This study is to examine what effect adding emergent
      diagnostic ultrasound (DUS) guided high mechanical index (HMI) impulses (sonothrombolysis),
      applied both before and after primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PPCI) during an
      intravenous commercially available microbubble infusion (Definity), have on spontaneous
      reperfusion (i.e. pre PCI coronary artery patency rates), microvascular obstruction, left
      ventricular function and infarct size in patients presenting with their first ST-segment
      Elevation Myocardial Infarction.

      Patients will immediately receive an intravenous infusion of commercially available
      ultrasound contrast agent (Definity). After starting the infusion, myocardial contrast
      echocardiography will be performed. 4-, 2- and 3-chamber views will be recorded to document
      the size of the perfusion defect. Loops of 15 cardiac cycles will be recorded using low
      mechanical index (MI) ultrasound with a 'flash' delivered after the second cardiac cycle of
      the loop. The flash is a short impulse of HMI ultrasound which is transmitted to destroy the
      ultrasound contrast in the myocardium and then to assess the replenishment of myocardial
      contrast. These recordings will also be used to assess regional wall motion as well as the LV
      volumes and ejection fraction. Immediately after the diagnostic ultrasound, the therapeutic
      ultrasound will start using the same transducer by applying multiple HMI ultrasound impulses.
      The HMI are the same as those which are used for assessment of myocardial perfusion in
      diagnostic ultrasound. These pulses will be applied in the apical 4-, 2-, and 3-chamber views
      to the apical windows that contained the risk area. The intervals between HMI impulses will
      vary from 5 to 15 s depending on the time required for myocardial contrast replenishment.
      Diagnostic echocardiography will also be scheduled prior to discharge (Day2) and 90 days post
      procedure.

      If this study is successful, a larger study will be designed in order to collect the evidence
      for using contrast ultrasound for treatment of myocardial infarction in clinical practice.
    
  