
    
      The proposed study will be a randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled trial to
      investigate the safety, tolerability, clinical activity, pharmacokinetics and
      pharmacodynamics of single intravenous infusion (one dose on Day 1) of GSK1070806 or placebo,
      in patients with active, moderate to severe CD. The primary objective of the study is to
      assess the safety and tolerability of a single dose IV administration of GSK1070806. A
      secondary objective will be to evaluate the effect of GSK1070806 in change of CDAI over time.
      Further secondary endpoints will include assessment of endoscopic response in patients at
      week 12. (Other secondary endpoints are detailed in Section 2.3).

      30 patients will be recruited with randomisation of 2:1 active drug to placebo in multiple
      centres in the UK. After 30 patients have been recruited into the study the sample size will
      be reassessed and up to an additional 6 patients could be recruited (i.e. up to 36 patients).
      These additional patients will also be recruited with randomisation of 2:1 active drug to
      placebo.

      An initial screening shall take place to identify patients diagnosed with CD for at least 3
      months prior to screening, active disease based on CDAI score of 220-450 points and
      colonoscopic confirmation of active mucosal inflammation (SES-CD excluding narrowed component
      ≥6; or in patients with isolated ileal disease ≥4).

      Patients who do not have colonoscopically demonstrated mucosal inflammation will be excluded
      even if they have MRI evidence of Crohn's disease more proximally in the small intestine. For
      inclusion, CDAI criteria have to be fulfilled within 7 days prior to dosing and colonoscopic
      SES-CD criteria has to be fulfilled with 28 days prior to dosing.

      The induction of clinical activity will be assessed at week 12 by CDAI score, average
      clinical SF and/or AP scores as well as by colonoscopic assessment of baseline video images
      and week 12 video images.

      The first 5 patients randomised into the trial will be dosed at least 3 days apart. At the
      interim analysis time point, a safety decision will be taken on the subsequent recruitment
      and patient spacing out strategy.
    
  