
    
      The benefits of team treatment are widely accepted. Prior research has shown that how
      rehabilitation teams go about their work makes a difference in the patients they treat.
      However, there is little information about what, specifically, the team does that results in
      patients who are able to do more for themselves. The objectives of this clinical trial was to
      test whether a team training intervention in stroke rehabilitation was associated with
      improved patient outcomes. We conducted a cluster randomized trial of 31 rehabilitation units
      comparing stroke outcomes between intervention and control groups. in thirty-one VA medical
      centers with 237 clinical staff on 16 control teams and 227 staff on 15 intervention teams.
      There were 487 stroke patients treated by these teams before and after the intervention.

      The intervention consisted of a multiphase, staff training program delivered over six months,
      including: an off-site workshop emphasizing team dynamics, problem solving, and the use of
      performance feedback data; and action plans for process improvement; and telephone and
      videoconference consultations. Control and intervention teams received site- specific team
      performance profiles with recommendations to use this information to modify team process.

      The main outcomes measures consisted of three patient outcomes: functional improvement as
      measured by the change in motor items of Function Independence Measure (FIM), community
      discharge, and length of stay (LOS). For both the primary (stroke only) and secondary
      analyses (all patients), there was a significant difference in improvement of functional
      outcome between the two groups, with the percentage of stroke patients gaining more than a
      median FIM gain of 23 points increasing significantly more in the intervention group
      (difference in increase = 13.6%, P=0.032). There was no significant difference on LOS or
      rates of community discharge. Stroke patients treated by staff who participated in a team
      training program were more likely to make functional gains than those treated by staff
      receiving information only. This study is a randomized cluster trial which tested used
      workshops to train rehabilitation staff. Patients treated by trained teams were compared with
      patients treated by teams that did not have workshop training. Stroke patients
    
  