
    
      The diagnosis of Pulmonary Embolism (PE) in the Emergency Department (ED) is crucial. As
      emergency physicians fear to miss this potential lethal condition, PE tends to be
      overdiagnosed with potential source of unnecessary risks and no clear benefit in terms of
      outcome. PERC is an 8-item block of clinical criteria that can identify patients who can
      safely be discharged without further investigation in the ED for the diagnosis of PE. The
      endorsement of this rule could markedly reduce the number of irradiative imaging studies,
      length of stay in the ED, and rate of adverse event resulting from both diagnostic and
      therapeutic means. Several retrospective and prospective studies have shown the safety and
      benefits of PERC rule for PE diagnosis in low risk patients. However, no randomized study has
      yet compared the benefit/risk ratio of PERC based strategy with the standard diagnosis
      strategy and thus validated its endorsement in this setting. We hypothesize that in patients
      with a low gestalt clinical probability and a PERC negative, PE can be safely ruled out and
      the patient discharged with no further testing

      This is a controlled, cluster randomized trial in Europe (N=15). Each center will be
      randomized on the sequence of period intervention: 6 months intervention (PERC based
      strategy) followed by 6 months control (usual care), or 6 months control followed by 6 months
      intervention with 2 months of "wash-out" between the two periods.

      The primary objective of this study is to assess the non inferiority of a PERC based
      diagnosis strategy for PE low risk emergency patients, compared to the standard strategy of
      D-dimer testing, on the occurrence of non-diagnosed thrombo-embolic event.

      The primary outcome is the failure percentage of the diagnostic strategy, defined as
      diagnosed DVT or PE at 3 month follow up, among patients for whom PE has been initially ruled
      out. Exclusion of PE in the ED is made upon negative D-dimere result or negative CTPA in both
      groups, or negative PERC in the intervention group.

      Secondary objectives are :

      To assess the reduction of unnecessary irradiative imaging studies and adverse events. To
      assess the reduction in ED length of stay, undue onset of anticoagulation regimen and
      associated adverse events. To assess the reduction of hospital admission, readmission, and
      mortality at 3 months.

      Secondary endpoints include:

        -  Rate of CTPA and related adverse events

        -  Length of stay in the ED (hours)

        -  Anticoagulant therapy administration and adverse events

        -  Admission to the hospital following ED visit.

        -  All causes re hospitalization at 3 months,

        -  Death from all causes at 3 months

      The two groups will have a different work up for the diagnosis of PE in the ED as follows:

      Experimental group:

      PERC based strategy: work up for diagnosis of PE includes calculation of PERC. If all PERC
      criteria are negative, no further testing for PE is recommended. If at least one criterion is
      positive, then the patient undergoes sensitive D-dimer testing, with subsequent CTPA if
      positive. In case of negative D-dimer result, PE will be excluded.

      Control group:

      Standard strategy: conventional work up for diagnosis of PE. Every low risk patient will
      undergo sensitive D-dimer testing, with subsequent CTPA if positive. In case of negative
      D-dimer, PE will be excluded.

      All patients with chest pain or dyspnea will be screened and included in the ED by emergency
      physicians and research assistant. If the treating emergency physician or local investigator
      considers that the patient has a sufficient clinical suspicion of PE that he needs formal
      work up for this diagnosis, and that this suspicion is low enough to discard this suspicion
      in case of negative D-dimer, then the patient will be eligble and asked for written informed
      consent.

      When recruiting a patient, the emergency physician or local investigator will have to confirm
      in written that he answered "yes" to the two following sentences:

      This patient has a clinical suspicion of Pulmonary Embolism, and this diagnosis needs to be
      formally ruled out or confirmed before discharge I estimate the empirical clinical
      probability of Pulmonary Embolism as low

      After written informed consent has been obtained, the patient can be included in the study.

      Included patients will be followed up by phone interview or hospital visit at three months
      (13 weeks) by a clinical research technician. The time frame of three months could be subject
      to minor adjustement, and will occur between day 84 and day 98. Follow up visit or interview
      will seek the occurrence of thrombo-embolic event (DVT documented with ultrasonography of the
      lower limbs or venous CT, or PE documented with positive CTPA or high probability V/Q lung
      scan), death, return visit to the ED, hospitalisation.

      All medical record pertaining to the patient from this timeframe will be sought and analysed
      by the local investigator, to found report of thrombo-embolic event, or adverse events from
      CTPA or anticaogulation. In the cases of death, or report of a thrombo-embolic event, the
      file will be analysed by a comitee of three independent experts.

      This method of adjudication has been described and validated in all major previous diagnostic
      studies on PE.
    
  