
    
      Breast cancer is the most common cancer and the leading cause of deaths from cancer in women
      worldwide. Breast cancer patients with ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node metastasis are
      defined as Ⅲc stage (N3) according to the newly published 8th AJCC TNM staging system.
      Clinical outcomes are similar for patients with ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node
      metastases at first presentation and for patients with recurrent ipsilateral supraclavicular
      lymph node metastases. The survival rate was lower in patients with ipsilateral
      supraclavicular lymph node metastases than in patients with lower axillary or subclavian
      nodal involvement. No concrete guide line was supported to such patients. It is still pending
      whether to exert supraclavicular lymph node dissection to breast cancer patients with
      ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node metastasis. Patients with ipsilateral supraclavicular
      lymph node metastases who were treated with surgery or radiotherapy and achieved good neck
      control were reported to achieve better survival than those for whom surgical treatment or
      irradiation did not result in good local control.

      Patients with ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node metastases should be offered a combined
      modality approach, including systemic therapy, surgery, and radiotherapy. Furthermore, local
      treatment, usually including axillary and supraclavicular lymph node, either by surgical
      clearance or by radical radiotherapy, can prevent the tumor cells from drainage, might be
      play a more important role. However, the role of surgical removal of the supraclavicular
      nodes is uncertain compared with radical radiotherapy. To our knowledge, the available
      literature comparing these two local treatments of ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node
      metastases is scarce. Furthermore, the studies comparing the outcome of dissection of
      supraclavicular lymph node combined with local radiotherapy and radiotherapy of
      supraclavicular lymph node is also rare. All the related reports up to date have mixed them
      up.

      To evaluate the clinical significance and complication of supraclavicular lymph node
      dissection for breast cancer patients with ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node metastasis,
      we randomize patients into two groups, one group is supraclavicular lymph node dissection
      with radiotherapy group, the other group is radiotherapy group.

      Therefore, in addition to investigating the role of surgical removal of the supraclavicular
      nodes in Chinese patients, we also try to reveal the potential difference between these two
      treatments, hoping to bring more insight into clinical practice.
    
  