
    
      Many patients we encounter a month post TAVI, still complain of having symptoms limiting
      their daily activity. The investigators set out to study whether rehabilitation strategy
      early after the procedure contributes to reduction of the physical disability these patients
      suffer from.

      Cardiac rehabilitation (CR) is a well-established treatment in patients who underwent cardiac
      surgery. Patients after TAVI, are natural candidates for referral to exercise-based CR.
      Despite this, until 2013 no data have been available about the safety and the efficacy of a
      comprehensive rehabilitative period in these subjects. Nicola Russo et al. compared the
      safety and efficacy of a structured, exercise-based CR program in octogenarians after a
      traditional sAVR vs. TAVI, and concluded that a short-term, supervised, exercise-based CR is
      feasible, safe and effective in octogenarian patients after TAVI as well as after traditional
      surgery. An early CR program enhances independence, mobility and functional capacity and
      should be encouraged in all patients. Long-term effects and prognostic relevance should be
      evaluated in future studies. A similar comparison assessed the hypothesis that patients after
      TAVI benefit from CR, compared to patients after surgical aortic-valve replacement (sAVR).
      They too concluded that patients after TAVI benefit from cardiac rehabilitation despite their
      older age and comorbidities. CR is a helpful tool to maintain independency for daily life
      activities and participation in socio-cultural life. The same conclusion was made by Ivan
      Fauchère et al. letter to the editor - patients in the TAVI group were older and sicker than
      SAVR patients. Despite these differences, both patient groups did benefit in the same way
      from a post-acute in-patient rehabilitation program as assessed by 6-Minute Walking Tests and
      FIM scores.

      Another study, drawn from a cohort of 484 patients with severe symptomatic AS who underwent
      TAVI, evaluated the association between physical performance as estimated by the 6-minute
      walk test distance (6MWTD) and long-term prognosis after TAVI. They found that compared with
      those with 6MWTD above the median value, those who were unable to walk experienced a higher
      rate of death after TAVI. In contrast, patients who were unable to walk and those were slow
      walkers at baseline experienced an improvement in functional status after TAVI, whereas the
      fast walkers did not improve and actually experienced a modest decrease in 6MWTD.

      It has been shown that patients referred for rehabilitation after TAVI are often very frail,
      with a high grade of functional impairment, dependence on others and high risk of clinical
      complications. During a rehabilitation program, based on a multidimensional assessment and
      intervention, most patients showed significant improvement in functional status, quality of
      life, and autonomy, which remained stable in the majority of subjects during mid-term
      follow-up.

      To the investigators knowledge, no prospective study compared rehabilitation strategy to
      conservative treatment after TAVI. the investigators set off to test our hypothesize that CR
      may help in the short and long term prognosis of these patients.
    
  