
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of chronic disability in the United States, and lack of upper
      limb motor control is a major contributor to stroke-related disability. Physical and
      occupational therapy treatments are most commonly used to reduce long-term disability.
      Unfortunately, little scientific evidence exists to best target patients for therapy, define
      when such therapies should be provided, or even to identify the best therapies themselves. A
      recent National Institutes of Health consensus panel decided that there were only three
      therapeutic techniques with supporting scientific evidence, and for only one of these
      techniques, constraint induced therapy, was there evidence from a randomized trial.

      The imagination, probably our most under-utilized health resource, can be used to remember
      and recreate the past, develop insight into the present, influence physical health, improve
      creativity and inspiration, and anticipate possible futures. All of us have, to some extent,
      experienced the effects of the imagination on the body. In recent years, data have suggested
      that mental practice can improve the performance of motor skill behaviors. These studies have
      generally shown that healthy volunteers who train with their minds on a specific task usually
      show better performance compared with a those that did not practice, although less than those
      who train physically.

      To date, only a few small attempts to use mental practice in rehabilitation have been tried.
      A study in subacute stroke patients comparing the possibility and effectiveness of a program
      that combined imagery and physical therapy with a program of physical therapy only, showed
      that combining the two therapies is a clinically feasible, cost-effective addition to therapy
      that may improve functional outcomes more than participation in physical therapy only. Thus,
      mental practice in physical rehabilitation offers a potential way to improve motor recovery
      after damage to the brain.

      One approach to improve arm function among patients with stroke is intensive repetitive task
      practice (RTP). This treatment can take the form of functional training alone or also include
      other ways encouraged within constraint induced (CI) movement therapy. Repetitive activities
      often used in physical or occupational therapy may also improve health related quality of
      life. While intense treatment, such as CI therapy, to overcome arm impairment may prove to be
      helpful, such therapy is expensive because it relies on one-on-one interaction between the
      patient and rehabilitation therapist. New therapeutic treatments to help existing therapy
      that offer helpful and money saving alternatives must be developed to improve arm use, and
      also, stroke survivors' quality of life.

      While RTP and mental imagery may be promising treatments, we do not clearly understand the
      changes that may occur in the brain's of patients who have had a stroke following any
      physical rehabilitation. A few studies using positron emission tomography (PET) and
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measures have shown the blood flow changes in
      the brain during physical movement following CIT. If the way in which recovery of motor
      function after stroke were better understood, better decisions could be made regarding the
      best selection of specific treatment strategies.

      The primary aim of the proposed study is to collect data in an effort to estimate the
      clinical effectiveness of implementing RTP in addition to mental imagery training (MIT) to
      improve upper extremity motor function and the quality of life of chronic stroke patients.
      One group in this study will be asked to "mentally rehearse" a series of upper limb
      functional motor tasks for one and a half hours per day (3-30 minute sessions), with the
      guidance of an audio tape, for a total of 21 hours over two weeks. Another group will undergo
      10 days (6 hours per day) RTP with a licensed rehabilitation specialist as well as listen to
      the same MIT tape for one and a half hours per day (3-30 minute sessions. Motor function and
      quality of life will be measured on two occasions: before the intervention and immediately
      after the intervention. A unique aspect of this study will be to obtain the fMRI data on a
      subset of patients enrolled in each group. Everything involving this study will be done at
      the Center for Rehabilitation Medicine at Emory University School of Medicine and at the
      Emory University Hospital.

      This study represents one of the first tries at using mental imagery in addition to a
      physical rehabilitation for the recovery of movement after stroke and, to our knowledge, the
      first try to use fMRI to look at changes in the brain after mental training. The results of
      this study may allow us to learn more about the relationship between rehabilitation and brain
      function after stroke, as well as confirm the idea that actual changes in the brain are
      related to improving movement in the body.

      This study uses an new therapeutic method along with well accepted methods (RTP) in an effort
      to improve arm movement of patients who have had a stroke. A thorough approach will be used
      to determine how the use of mental imagery along with RTP can change movement of the arm and
      the quality of life of patients who have had a stroke using proven clinical tests to
      determine movement performance and patients' quality of life. Furthermore, precise brain
      functioning tests (i.e. fMRI) will be performed to better understand the actual changes that
      happen in the brain when stroke patients have improved movement in their arm.

      Should the use of MIT and RTP be better than RTP or MIT alone, a many year randomized
      clinical trial would be suggested to determine the helpfulness of using mental imagery
      training with RTP to improve arm function and the quality of life of patients with stroke.
      The benefits of this would be reduced costs for arm rehabilitation among certain patients who
      have had strokes and a better way for rehabilitation centers to prescribe and provide therapy
      targeting the arm. Because of shorter lengths of stay and fewer number of therapy sessions
      allowed for in- and out-patient services for stroke survivors, the use of additional and
      different delivery systems, such as mental imagery, become very important.
    
  