
    
      Erythropoietin (EPO) is the most widely prescribed cytokine, yet the benefits and potential
      side effects of different dosing regimens are poorly understood. It is now recognized that
      erythropoietin administered at high doses to patients with chronic kidney disease, results in
      an increased risk of morbidity and mortality from heart disease and stroke. However, the
      mechanisms that mediate this increased risk of cardiovascular disease is not known. There are
      two receptors for erythropoietin the homodimeric EPO receptor (EPOR) and the heterodimeric
      beta common receptor ( CR)/EPOR. The investigators have demonstrated that activation of the
      heterodimeric CR/EPOR only occurs with high doses of EPO. Our exciting, published,
      preliminary data also demonstrates that the CR is in a complex with vascular endothelial
      growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) and that high doses of EPO activate VEGFR-2 through the
      CR, resulting in the deleterious effects of VEGFR-2 activation on the cardiovascular system.
      This is particularly important in patients with kidney disease since they are already at a
      high risk of cardiovascular disease. Moreover in advanced kidney disease cyanate derived from
      the high urea levels can non-enzymatically form an amide bond with EPO. This carbamylated EPO
      (cEPO) has no effect on hemoglobin, but still activates the heterodimeric CR/EPOR. To date
      there have been no studies that have directly measured levels of cEPO or activation of the
      CR/EPOR in patients with kidney disease. Our hypothesis is that the administration of
      low-doses of EPO more frequently will result in lower levels of total and carbamylated
      erythropoietin decreased activation of VEGFR-2 via the heterodimeric CR/EPOR and consequently
      decreased inflammation and atherosclerosis. The investigators will directly test this
      hypothesis by randomly allocating 120 patients with chronic kidney disease to either low-
      dose EPO given thrice weekly or the same cumulative dose, a high-dose, administered once
      every 2 weeks. Our hypothesis predicts that low-dose EPO will be as effective at correcting
      anemia, but will demonstrate less progression of carotid artery plaque, as assessed by
      non-contrast magnetic resonance imaging, as compared to the high-dose, EPO given every 2
      weeks. To delineate how EPO affects blood vessels, the investigators will isolate endothelial
      cells from blood vessels in 20 patients who are assigned to low-dose EPO and 20 allocated to
      high-dose EPO. Within these cells the investigators will investigate the signaling pathways
      that are triggered by activation of CR/EPOR. In a substudy of 20 subjects with kidney disease
      randomized to low-dose EPO or to high-dose EPO, as well as 20 healthy controls receiving a
      single dose of high- or low-dose EPO, the investigators will determine how kidney function
      and dosing affects levels of total and carbamylated erythropoietin. The investigators' study
      will not only provide us with a thorough understanding of the mechanism by which EPO mediates
      the increased risk of atherosclerosis, but a clinical strategy to avoid the side effects of
      EPO therapy and a tool to quantify the cardiovascular risk of EPO and newer erythropoiesis
      stimulating agents by assessing activation of the heterodimeric CR/EPOR.
    
  