
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and toxicity profile of intravenous MK-3475 (pembrolizumab)
      administered in combination with stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) targeting 1-4
      liver or thoracic lesion(s) in patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
      (Phase I) II. To evaluate the safety and toxicity profile of intravenous MK-3475 administered
      in combination with non-stereotactic wide-field radiation therapy (WFRT) targeting 1-4 liver
      or thoracic lesion(s) in patients with metastatic NSCLC. (Phase I) III. To determine the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) of MK-3475 and SBRT
      combination therapy. (Phase I) IV. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose
      limiting toxicities (DLTs) of MK-3475 and WFRT combination therapy. (Phase I) V. To determine
      the rate of out-of-field objective responses (either complete response [CR] or partial
      response [PR]) of the non-irradiated disease sites. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine whether the addition of radiation therapy (XRT) to MK-3475 can improve the
      progression free survival (PFS) rate compared to MK-3475 alone. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of pembrolizumab followed by a phase II
      study.

      PHASE I: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

      GROUP I: Patients who exhibit a lung lesion of size and location amenable to SBRT receive
      pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive SBRT in 4
      fractions daily on days 2-5 or either intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), proton
      beam radiation therapy (PBRT), or 3 dimensional conformation radiation therapy (3D-CRT) in 15
      fractions total concurrent with pembrolizumab administration on days 1-19. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 16 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      GROUP II: Patients who exhibit a lung lesion of size or location not amenable to SBRT, but
      amenable to WFRT receive pembrolizumab as in Group I and either IMRT, PBRT, or 3D-CRT in 15
      fractions total concurrent with pembrolizumab administration.

      PHASE II: Patients for whom SBRT is recommended are randomized to Group 1 or 2, patients for
      whom conventional radiation therapy is recommended are randomized to Group 3 or 4, and
      patients with lesions amenable to SBRT or WFRT are assigned to Group 5.

      GROUP I: Patients who exhibit a lung lesion with size and location amenable to SBRT receive
      pembrolizumab IV on day 1 and SBRT on days 44-47 or IMRT, PBT, or 3D-CRT on days 43-61.
      Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 21 days for up to 16 courses in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP II: Patients who exhibit a lung lesion with size and location amenable to SBRT receive
      pembrolizumab IV as in Group I without XRT. At the first planned efficacy evaluation (5
      weeks), patients exhibiting progressive disease (PD) are treated with SBRT concurrent with
      the remaining cycles of pembrolizumab. In the event that lesion size has progressed to the
      point where the attending physician no longer considers SBRT safe, then the patient will be
      salvaged with IMRT, PBRT, or 3D-CRT and analyzed as part of the fourth treatment group.

      GROUP III: Patients who exhibit a lung lesion with size and location not amenable to SBRT,
      but amenable to WFRT receive pembrolizumab IV as in Group I and IMRT, PBRT, or 3D-CRT on days
      43-61.

      GROUP IV: Patients who exhibit a lung lesion with size and location not amenable to SBRT, but
      amenable to WFRT receive pembrolizumab IV as in Group I without XRT. The decision on when to
      start XRT will be assessed first at week 5 (after the second dose of pembrolizumab). If a
      patient has PD based on immune response related criteria (irRC) then XRT will be delivered
      after the third dose of pembrolizumab, while patients with stable disease (SD) or PR will not
      start XRT and will continue to be followed. These patients will then have follow up computed
      tomography (CT) scans 5 weeks after course 3 three and then approximately every 3 months for
      the remainder of the trial; any patient at this point with PD will then have XRT delivered
      with the sixth dose of pembrolizumab.

      GROUP V: Patients with lesions amenable to SBRT or WFRT receive pembrolizumab IV as in Group
      I. Patients also receive either IMRT, PBRT, or 3D-CRT in 15 fractions to the primary lesions
      and low dose radiation therapy to other lesions on days 43-61 or SBRT in 4 fractions to
      primary lesions and low dose radiation therapy to other lesions on days 44-47.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12
      weeks.
    
  