
    
      The objective of this observational prospective study is to collect safety and performance
      data relating to the use of injectable Calcium Phosphate Cements
      "GRAFTYS®HBS/GRAFTYS®Quickset (or their private labels)" in routine clinical practice from
      various international hospitals. Therefore this observational study will allow to support
      data about risk management (established at the end of the product development); and to
      enhance the current clinical evaluation of products with new clinical data (for longer
      follow-up). The collected data of this observational study will be "non-identifying data".
      The patient must have signed a Written Consent Form (for data collection) prior to any data
      being entered into the electronic Case Report Form.

      Patients will be followed as per local standard medical practices of the center for two
      years. Five follow-up visits/phone calls will be collected (at 3 months (+/-14 days), 6
      months (+/- 14 days), 9 months (+/-21 days), 12 months (+/- 30 days) and 24 months (+/-60
      days)). Each visit/phone call includes the collection of Adverse Events, the measurement of
      health status (quality of life and functional scores) and the X-ray scoring (if X-ray imaging
      is available). No additional exams (other than the routine clinical practice) are requested.
      The surgeons have to follow their usual practices (e.g. X-Rays have to be performed only if
      they are scheduled in the routine clinical practice).

      All Adverse Events will be collected and monitored at each follow-up visit or follow-up phone
      call. All Serious Adverse Events must be described via a Serious Adverse Event form in e-CRF
      and all Adverse Device Effects must be described via a "Product Complaint Form" in e-CRF.

      Descriptive analyses will be performed in order to describe: nature of adverse events, their
      distribution and frequency. Moreover, all factors which may appear predictive for the rate of
      adverse events will be analyzed (age, sex, amount of CPC injected, delivery system used,
      diabetes history, smoking habits, alcohol consumption, concomitant treatments/diseases…). For
      all time-dependent events, life-tables will be able to calculate using the Kaplan Meier
      estimate method, for a period starting on the date of the procedure up to and including the
      24-months follow-up visit.
    
  