
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Mithramycin, an anti-tumor antibiotic, underwent broad clinical evaluation in solid
           tumors and leukemias in the 1960s and demonstrated activity in some leukemias,
           lymphomas, and solid tumors. In particular, mithramycin was found to have activity
           against testicular cancers and was briefly used in the clinic for this tumor prior to
           the development of the currently used treatment regimen.

        -  The Ewing Sarcoma Family of Tumors (ESFT) is the second most common malignant bone tumor
           of childhood. There has been very little improvement in overall patient survival in past
           years, particularly for patients with high risk metastatic or relapsed disease.
           Therefore, there is a need for effective novel agents for the treatment of this disease.

        -  Multiple studies have shown that suppressing the expression of EWS-FLI1 effectively
           limits the tumorigenicity of ESFT cells. Laboratory studies have shown that mithramycin
           effectively suppresses the activity of EWS-FLI1 both in vitro and in vivo.

      OBJECTIVES (PRIMARY):

        -  Phase I portion of this study is to: determine the tolerability, toxicity, and the
           recommended phase II dose of mithramycin in children and adolescents with refractory
           extracranial solid tumors.

        -  Phase II portion of this trial is to: determine the objective response rate (complete
           response (CR) and partial response (PR)) of Ewing sarcoma to mithramycin in children and
           adults using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria when
           administered at 17.5 microgram/kg over 6 hours once daily for 7 days to be repeated
           every 28 days until unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

        -  Phase II portion of this trial to: evaluate if mithramycin inhibits NR0B1 in tumor
           tissue and determine changes in gene expression signature pre-treatment and at steady
           state on day +4 of treatment in patients greater than or equal to 18 years old with
           Ewing sarcoma and EWS/FLI1 fusion transcript with disease amenable to percutaneous
           biopsy.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Phase I Portion: children (greater than or equal to 12 months) and adolescents (less
           than or equal to 17 years) with recurrent or refractory extracranial solid tumors.

        -  Phase II Portion in adults: adults (greater than or equal to 18 years of age at
           enrollment) with recurrent or refractory measurable extracranial Ewing sarcoma and the
           EWS-FLI1 fusion transcript.

        -  Phase II Portion in children and adolescents: Once the adult dose is deemed safe,
           children

      (greater than or equal to 12 months) and adolescents (less than or equal to 17 years) with
      recurrent or refractory measurable

      extracranial Ewing sarcoma and the EWS-FLI1 fusion transcript will begin enrollment to the
      Phase II portion.

        -  Participants must meet safety laboratory criteria and prior therapy limitations.

      DESIGN:

      Phase I Portion: Mithramycin will be administered in escalating doses to children and
      adolescents intravenously over 6 hours once daily for 7 days to be repeated every 28 days
      until unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. The cohort at the recommended dose or
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be expanded up to 12 patients, and attempts will be made to
      enroll 6 patients that are greater than or equal to 12 years of age and 6 patients that are <
      12 years of age to gain experience with a broad age range of patients. A maximum of 18
      evaluable patients will be enrolled on the phase I portion.

        -  Phase II Portion: Using a Simon two stage design, mithramycin will be administered
           intravenously at 17.5 microgram/kg over 6 hours once daily for 7 days to be repeated
           every

           28 days until unacceptable toxicity or disease progression to children and adults with
           Ewing sarcoma with EWS-FLI1 fusion transcript. Up to 24 evaluable patients will be
           enrolled on the phase II portion.

        -  The Phase I and Phase II portions of the protocol will enroll patients simultaneously.
    
  