
    
      All interventions will involve 4 weeks of group treatment consisting of two 1-hour group
      sessions per week and additional practice at home between sessions. The Executive Training
      condition will consist of 50% of the session practicing computerized cognitive training
      exercises, and 50% of the session developing cognitive strategies to use in the computerized
      exercises. Participants are encouraged to complete 40 minutes of computerized training per
      day, and complete strategy worksheets, at home between sessions. In Computerized Cognitive
      Training only participants will spend the entire one-hour session practicing computerized
      training exercises. Between sessions participants will be encouraged to practice the
      computerized exercises at home for 40 minutes per day. There will be no strategy development
      in this condition. In Strategy Development only participants will engage in cognitive
      strategy discussions to develop new executive function strategies that can be used in daily
      life. Between sessions, participants will be encouraged to practice their cognitive
      strategies in their daily life and track their strategies using the strategy worksheet. There
      will be no computerized cognitive training in this condition. All interventions will be
      delivered virtually in the participant's home and group sessions will be conducted using the
      online platform Zoom.

      90 participants with schizophrenia-spectrum disorders will be recruited. Power analyses,
      conducted with GPower, indicate that 90 participants (30 per treatment condition), accounting
      for an upper limit of 25% attrition observed in my previous trials of ET, provides 80% power
      to detect a medium effect size (cohen's f = 0.2) difference between conditions.

      Primary and secondary outcomes will be examined using Linear Mixed Models on the
      Intent-to-Treat sample with missing data interpolated using maximum likelihood estimation.
      The primary endpoint is the 3-month follow-up assessment, and secondary endpoint of
      post-treatment will also be examined.
    
  