
    
      Smoking is the leading cause of preventable illness, disability, and death in the United
      States. The rate of smoking is disproportionately higher among Veterans with posttraumatic
      stress disorder (PTSD). Unfortunately, smoking cessation efforts that are effective in the
      general population have shown limited effectiveness in smokers with PTSD. The high smoking
      rate and difficulty with achieving abstinence indicate a critical need to develop effective
      interventions for PTSD smokers. The investigators' data indicate that negative affect and
      trauma reminders are a significant antecedent of relapse for PTSD smokers. Further, despite
      evidence that nicotine may exacerbate PTSD symptoms, many smokers with PTSD expect that
      smoking helps manage their symptoms. In this context, an ideal strategy may be to combine
      evidence-based PTSD treatment with intensive smoking cessation treatment to maximize quit
      rates in this at-risk population.

      Cognitive processing therapy (CPT) is a well-established evidence-based treatment for PTSD.
      The investigators have successfully developed a treatment manual that integrates CPT with
      guideline-concordant cognitive-behavioral counseling for smoking cessation. Contingency
      management (CM) is an intensive behavioral treatment that has demonstrated efficacy for
      reducing smoking in a range of difficult-to-treat populations, including individuals with
      psychiatric disorders. CM provides positive reinforcers (e.g., vouchers, money) to
      individuals misusing substances contingent upon bioverified abstinence from drug use. The
      primary goal of the current study is to evaluate the efficacy of an intervention that
      combines clinic-based CM using twice weekly monitoring with salivary cotinine test strips,
      cognitive-behavioral smoking cessation counseling, smoking cessation medication, and
      evidence-based PTSD treatment. Proposed is a randomized, two-arm clinical trial in which 120
      Veteran smokers with PTSD will be randomized to either: 1) COGNITIVE PROCESSING THERAPY with
      SMOKING ABSTINENCE REINFORCEMENT THERAPY (CPT-SMART) - an intervention that combines
      evidenced-based PTSD treatment with guideline-concordant cognitive-behavioral smoking
      cessation counseling, bupropion, and intensive behavioral therapy through CM; or 2) COMBINED
      CONTACT CONTROL: an intervention identical to CPT-SMART in PTSD and smoking treatment, except
      for using non-contingent payment (i.e., yoked CM) to control for compensation and monitoring.

      Specific aims include: AIM 1) To evaluate the efficacy of CPT-SMART on rates of short- and
      long-term abstinence from cigarettes (assessed with multiple measures including bioverified
      abstinence) measured at 1-week post-treatment, 3-months, and 6 months; AIM 2) To evaluate the
      impact of CPT-SMART on treatment engagement and utilization; and an EXPLORATORY AIM) To
      explore mechanisms of CPT-SMART on long-term smoking abstinence, including self-efficacy,
      salience of smoking, and psychiatric symptom reduction. The VA has already implemented CM for
      treatment of substance abuse. If shown efficacious, a combined PTSD treatment plus
      incentive-based approaches for smoking could be implemented into specialty PTSD programs. The
      positive public health impact of reducing smoking among Veterans with PTSD could be enormous
      as it would prevent significant smoking-related morbidity and mortality.
    
  