
    
      1.1. Introduction.

      Multidrug resistance towards gram-negative pathogens has been increasing dramatically over
      the last decades. Due to insufficient discovery of drugs acting on novel targets,
      re-examination of older compounds, such as temocillin, for which resistance is still low, has
      proven to be of great therapeutic interest.

      As all the β-lactams, temocillin efficacy depends primarily on the time interval during which
      the plasma concentration remains above the minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) of the
      antibiotic against the target organism(s) (Craig, 1998). It is generally accepted that the
      unbound concentration of the antibiotic must remain above the MIC for at least 40 to 70% of
      the interval between two successive administrations, and should even reach 100% for severe
      infections in patients hospitalized in Intensive Care Units (MacGowan, 2011).

      Temocillin (Negaban®), a ß-lactamase-resistant penicillin antibiotic, was first marketed in
      the 1980s but then abandoned due to a lack of activity against anaerobes, gram-positive
      bacteria and Pseudomonas aeruginosa (Livermore et al., 2006; Zykov et al., 2016). However,
      temocillin stability to ß-lactamases (including classical and extended-spectrum TEM, SHV,
      CTX-M enzymes and AmpC ß-lactamase) has found great appreciation amongst a large number of
      professionals in the field (Balakrishnan et al., 2011; Livermore and Tulkens, 2009). It is
      approved for intravenous and intramuscular administration at a dose ranging between 1-2 g
      twice - thrice - a day for the treatment of bacterial infections of the chest, the lungs, the
      kidney, the bladder, as well as bacterial infections of the bloodstream, abdominal infection,
      and wound infections (RCP Temocillin, 2014).

      Studies performed in critical ill patients show important variations in the level of plasma
      proteins and rapid and unpredictable fluctuations in renal function (Beumier et al., 2015;
      Goncalves-Pereira and Povoa, 2011; Roberts and Lipman, 2009), both of which are known to
      modulate the pharmacokinetics of β-lactams (Goncalves-Pereira and Povoa, 2011; Hayashi et
      al., 2013; Sime et al., 2012; Udy et al., 2012; Wong et al., 2013). As a consequence, the
      unbound concentration of β-lactams with high protein binding (Schleibinger et al., 2015;
      Ulldemolins et al., 2011; Van Dalen et al., 1987; Wong et al., 2013), and renal elimination
      (Carlier et al., 2013; Simon et al., 2006; Vandecasteele et al., 2015) such as temocillin
      will be markedly modified in these patients.

      The pharmacokinetics of total and unbound temocillin together with its plasma protein binding
      have been recently investigated in clinical studies performed in healthy volunteers and in
      critical-ill patients. The first results show that plasma protein binding of temaocillin was
      concentration-dependent in both populations but much more important in healthy volunteers
      compared to critically-ill patients), resulting in a lower unbound concentration of
      temocillin in healthy volunteers as compared to critically ill patients.

      These studies were conducted in two extreme populations, but temocillin is more widely used
      in patients who do not require hospitalization in an intensive care unit. It would therefore
      be of high interest to study the pharmacokinetics of temocillin in non-critically-ill
      patients, including its protein binding, in order to estimate whether the current dosing
      regimen is optimal to reach PK/PD targets predictive of efficacy.

      1.2. Study objectives.

      1.2.1. Primary objectives.

        -  To characterize the pharmacokinetics of total and unbound temocillin using population
           pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics modeling and to calculate and assess the values of
           key pharmacokinetic parameters (total clearance, volume of distribution, constants of
           elimination, plasma total and unbound maximal and minimal concentrations) in patients
           hospitalized in standard care wards.

        -  To propose optimized dosage regimens in this population, as compared to what could be
           proposed for patients hospitalized in intensive care units.

      Secondary objectives:

      1.2.2. Secondary objectives.

        -  To look for possible correlations between the plasma protein profile and the unbound
           temocillin concentrations;

        -  To investigate the impact of the level and nature of circulating plasma proteins on the
           unbound temocillin concentration.

      1.3. Study design.

      Non-randomized control trial, prospective, open label, interventional, monocentric,
      population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics.

      1.4. Study population.

      1.4.1. Sample size calculation.

      As a descriptive pharmacokinetic study without formal predefined hypothesis, no calculation
      of the size of the population has been made. Based on literature data and our own experience,
      a maximum of 60 patients should be sufficient to draw meaningful conclusions.

      1.4.2. Study groups and number of patients

      The population studied is divided according to their pathology into 3 groups

        -  Group 1: 15 to 20 patients with complicated urinary tract infection and pyelonephritis
           associated or not with bacteraemia.

        -  Group 2: 15 to 20 patients with lower respiratory tract infection.

        -  Group 3: 15 to 20 patients with abdominal infection.

      In a first step, each group will undergo a thorough pharmacokinetic study. In a second step
      we will study the pharmacokinetics of all pooled data and the results obtained will make it
      possible to compare the parameters.

      1.4.3. Inclusion criteria (see elsewhere)

      1.4.4. Exclusion criteria (see elsewhere)

      1.4.5. Reason for withdrawal of study: at the patient's own request; in case of lack of
      cooperation, change of medication, occurrence of adverse event(s), or other objections to
      participate in the study in the opinion of the investigator

      1.5. Study drug.

      Temocillin (NEGABAN®) 2 g will be administered as intravenous infusion over 30 minutes 2 or 3
      times a day. The patient's physician will decide on the duration of temocillin use.

      1.5.1. Indications.

      Temocillin is indicated for treatment of the infections mentioned in the protocol.

      1.5.2. Contraindications.

      The use of Temocillin (NEGABAN®) is contraindicated in patients with a history of allergic
      reactions to any of the penicillins or any other type of beta-lactam drug.

      1.5.3. Undesirable effects: diarrhoea, pain at site of injection, occasionally rash
      (urticarial or erythematous), fever, arthralgia or myalgia, sometimes developing more than 48
      hours after treatment initiation, angioedema and anaphylaxis. In patients suffering from
      renal failure, neurological disorders with convulsions have been reported following i.v.
      injection of high dose of penicillins.

      1.6. Study protocol.

      Upon signature of the informed consent form and provided that the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria are fulfilled, subjects will be enrolled in the study. Only the procedure of
      management of the patients of the hospital where the study will be conducted will be taken
      into account in this study. Only patients verifying inclusion criteria will be accepted.

      1.6.1. Study day.

      1.6.1.1. Study day 1.

      Control (Blood Sampling before dosing)

      1.6.1.2. Study day 2.

      Determination of total and unbound temocillin concentrations in plasma, will be performed
      after intravenous administration. Plasma samples will be collected at defined time points
      before the dose administration and during up to 8 hours (if the dose is 2g/8h) or up to 12
      hours (if the dose is 2g/12h).

      1.6.1.3. Study day 4.

      Determination of total and unbound temocillin concentrations in plasma, will be performed
      after intravenous administration of 2g of temocillin. Plasma samples will be collected at
      defined time points before the dose administration and during up to 8 hours (if the dose is 2
      g/8 h) or up to 12 hours (if the dose is 2 g/12 h).

      1.7. Study duration.

      The expected total duration of the trial (recruitment) is 24 months (or more if patient
      enrollment is slow).

      2. Methods.

      2.1. Sampling period's instructions.

      Blood sampling will be performed over 8 or 12 hours. Venous blood will be drawn from a
      suitable antecubital vein at defined time points before and after study drug administration.

      Time points will be as follows: If dose administration is 2g/8h

        -  Day 1: Control (before dosing),

        -  Day 2 and 4: T0 + 30 min, 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 hours after study drug administration.

        -  T0: time after end of infusion.

      Time points will be as follows: If dose administration is 2g/12h

        -  Day 1: Control (before dosing)

        -  Day 2 and 4: T0 + 30 min, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 12 hours after study drug administration.

        -  T0: time after end of infusion.

      2.2. Blood collection tube and volume.

        -  Blood collection tube: EDTA tube (plasma) without ball or gel

        -  Blood volume per tube: 5mL

        -  Total blood volume by kinetics: 45mL The blood samples will be placed on ice immediately
           after collection and subsequently centrifuged (2000g, 10 minutes, 4°C). Resulting plasma
           will be aliquoted and frozen at -80°C until analysis.

      Collection of bacterial strains from the patient All bacterial strains identified in the
      biological samples of each patient will be conserved

      2.3 and 2.4: Flow Charts (available on request).

      2.5. Total and unbound temocillin quantification.

      Total and unbound temocillin concentrations in plasma samples will be quantified using a
      validated liquid chromatography - tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method (Ngougni Pokem
      et al., 2015).

      For determination of the total temocillin,- concentration, assay will be performed after
      plasma protein precipitation with methanol. Unbound concentrations will be determined after
      ultracentrifugation of samples using Amicon filter Ultra-15 device; NMWL 30K; Merck Millipore
      Ltd) TMO.

      2.6. Demographic and Laboratory data.

      The following laboratory investigations will be collected

        -  Age,

        -  Body weight and body mass index (BMI),

        -  Calculated Glomerular filtration rate (GFR)

        -  Total protein and albumin level

      2.7. Labeling.

      2.7.1. Patient identification.

      Each enrolled patient will be identified by the first letter of the first name and the first
      letter of the surname. Patient numbers 01 - 60 will be used in a consecutive order.

      2.7.2. Sample identification.

      Each sample will be clearly and unequivocally identified with a label resistant to the
      storage temperature and containing the following information:

        -  Type of infection

        -  patient number

        -  Scheduled time of sampling (hh:min)

      2.8. Statistical and pharmacokinetic data analysis.

      Statistical analysis will be performed using commercially available softwares (JMP Pro and
      Graph Pad Prism). Primary pharmacokinetic outcome variables (area under the curve [AUC],
      volume of distribution [Vd], total drug clearance [Cl]), and maximal and minimal
      concentration [Cmax, Cmin] will be displayed as means ± standard deviation (SD) given normal
      distribution of the data, or as medians and interquartile range if data are not normally
      distributed. Normal distribution of the data will be assessed by means of boxplots, Q-Q
      plots. Graphs showing the concentration-time profiles of total and unbound temocillin will be
      presented.

      2.9. Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics analysis.

      2.9.1. Model building.

      The Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics (Pop-PK/PD) model of plasma total and
      unbound concentrations of temocillin will be analysed and fitted by Bayesian algorithms using
      non-commercially available software programs (Pmetrics software version1.4.1 ; LAPKB, Los
      Angeles, CA, USA.), driven by the predicted plasma total and unbound concentration.

      One-, two and three-compartmental pharmacokinetic models will be fitted to the plasma
      temocillin pharmacokinetic data set. The model which best describes the data will be selected
      to drive the unbound temocillin concentration pharmacokinetic model in plasma.
    
  