
    
      PCOS is characterized by hyperandrogenism, ovarian dysfunction and polycystic ovarian
      morphology. Obesity and IR are common features of PCOS. Under the current model of
      pathophysiology of PCOS, the compensatory hyperinsulinemia of IR is the primary driver of
      hyperandrogenism. This concept was born from the cross-sectional observation that insulin is
      positively correlated with androgens in obese women with PCOS, and is supported by reports of
      increased androgen production from theca cells obtained from obese women with PCOS following
      insulin exposure in vitro4 and increases in circulating androgens in women with PCOS
      following insulin infusion in vivo. However, these in vitro - in vivo responses were elicited
      with supraphysiological insulin concentrations. Physiological insulin infusion on the other
      hand does not augment androgen levels in PCOS. The current model also does not explain the
      cause of hyperandrogenism and ovarian dysfunction in the 30-50% of women with PCOS who are
      lean and lack IR. Thus, some other factor contributes to these abnormalities in PCOS.

      The investigators have shown that ingestion of glucose and saturated fat elicits an
      inflammatory response from circulating MNC in lean women with PCOS who lack excess abdominal
      adiposity. The hallmark of this response is increased activation of NFĸB, the cardinal signal
      of inflammation. These findings illustrate the separate and discrete role of MNC in
      manifesting inflammation in PCOS and that MNC are an excellent model to assess systemic
      inflammation in PCOS.

      The investigators have also shown that in PCOS, there is a link between molecular markers of
      inflammation from MNC and circulating androgens. Chronic suppression of ovarian androgen
      production does not ameliorate inflammation in lean women with PCOS. However, in vitro
      exposure of ovarian theca cells to proinflammatory stimuli upregulates CYP17, the androgen
      producing enzyme and increases testosterone.

      Salsalate is an inexpensive, safe, well-tolerated, well-understood anti-inflammatory agent
      that inhibits NFĸB activation when used at higher doses. The salsalate dose required to
      achieve a salicylate level in the upper therapeutic range is dependent on body mass. This is
      achieved in lean individuals using 3.0 gm/day as the maximum dose recommended in the
      salsalate package insert. Individuals across the obese range (30-40 kg/m2) require >3.0
      gm/day to achieve the same objective. Salsalate and other salicylates have also been shown to
      decrease IR. However, the ability of salsalate to decrease IR would not be necessary if the
      beneficial anti-inflammatory effect of salsalate to reduce hyperandrogenism is on the
      ovaries. In fact, we have shown that in lean insulin-sensitive women with PCOS, salsalate
      reduces HCG-stimulated ovarian androgen secretion by 44% and normalizes basal testosterone
      levels. Studies performed by the investigators in MNC also confirm the ability of salsalate
      to suppress NFĸB activation. Together these observations validate the use of these
      measurements as endpoints to assess the effects of salsalate to probe the pathophysiology of
      PCOS.

      Salsalate raises circulating insulin due to its ability to decreased insulin clearance from
      the liver which confounds the assessment of insulin sensitivity from post-treatment
      hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp studies. Performance of a novel minimal model-based
      analysis from an insulin-modified frequently-sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test
      (FS-IVGTT) is able to address this confounding factor. With this approach, hepatic and
      extrahepatic insulin clearance can be estimated before and after salsalate treatment to
      obtain measures of insulin sensitivity that take into account the salsalate-induced
      alteration in insulin clearance.

      In this context, the rationale for the proposed study revolves around the concept that in
      PCOS, inflammation contributes to ovarian dysfunction independent of excess adiposity or IR,
      and may also improve insulin sensitivity when IR is present. The investigators will undertake
      a 12-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial to test the link between
      inflammation and ovarian androgen secretion in PCOS unrelated to IR. If this study of
      pathophysiology demonstrates beneficial effects, this will pave the way for developing novel
      therapies for ovarian dysfunction in PCOS.

      The main objective of this proposal is to evaluate the ability of salsalate to reduce ovarian
      androgen secretion, induce ovulation and decrease lipid-stimulated inflammation independent
      of body composition and IR in women with PCOS; and to also improve insulin sensitivity in IR
      women with PCOS. Effects of salsalate will be assessed based on the following aims:

      Specific Aim 1. To examine the effects of salsalate administration on the ovarian capacity to
      secrete androgens, menstrual function, and insulin sensitivity in PCOS.

      The hypothesis for this aim is that salsalate treatment will decrease HCG-stimulated ovarian
      androgen secretion and induce ovulation in women with PCOS regardless of body composition or
      IR status; and may also improve insulin sensitivity in IR women with PCOS. The investigators
      will test this hypothesis in a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study. The ovarian
      androgen response to HCG administration will be evaluated in women with PCOS (15 lean with
      IR, 15 lean without IR and 15 obese) before and after administration of a therapeutic
      salsalate dose for ~12 weeks compared with women with PCOS receiving placebo for ~12 weeks
      (15 lean with IR, 15 lean without IR and 15 obese). Ovulation monitoring and assessment of
      insulin sensitivity during FS-IVGTT will be performed before and after salsalate or placebo
      administration. It is anticipated that salsalate will reduce HCG-stimulated ovarian androgen
      secretion, induce ovulation regardless of body composition or IR status when compared with
      placebo. It is also anticipated that salsalate will increase insulin sensitivity in IR women
      with PCOS compared with placebo.

      Specific Aim 2. To examine the effect of salsalate administration on the inflammatory
      response of mononuclear cells induced by lipid ingestion in PCOS.

      The hypothesis for this aim is that salsalate administration will down-regulate inflammatory
      signal transduction and cytokine production within MNC following lipid ingestion in women
      with PCOS regardless of body composition or IR status. The investigators will test this
      hypothesis using the study design described in Aim 1. The inflammatory response of MNC to a
      cream challenge test will be evaluated in women with PCOS before and after salsalate
      treatment. It is anticipated that lipid-induced inflammation will decrease with salsalate use
      regardless of body composition or IR status when compared with placebo.
    
  