
    
      Subclinical hypothyroidism (SCH) is a disorder characterized by high levels of thyrotropin
      (thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH)), accompanied by normal levels of thyroxine (T4). There is
      most probably an association between SCH and cardiovascular disease, however the relationship
      between SCH and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality is still in debate.

      Hak et al. and Walsh et al. found that patients with SCH have increased risk for ischemic
      heart disease. Female smokers over 50 years, with TSH levels above 10 mU/L, were at a higher
      risk. However, a study conducted by Rodondi et al. did not find that SCH increases the risk
      for cardiac ischemia, peripheral vascular disease or cerebrovascular disease.

      Among the risk factors for atherosclerosis in patients with SCH are hypertention, atherogenic
      lipid profile, high levels of c-reactive protein (CRP), changes in the clotting system,
      endothelial dysfunction and increased arterial stiffness.

      Studies have shown that patients with SCH suffer from increased arterial stiffness and
      endothelial dysfunction. One of the non invasive techniques to evaluate arterial stiffness is
      pulse wave analysis (PWA). PWA gives information of blood pressure at the aortic site rather
      than more peripherally. Recently, calculated AIx was suggested as an independent risk marker
      for cardiovascular adverse events. Obuobie et al. analyzed the pressure wave velocity in 12
      patients with overt hypothyroidism treated with levothyroxine. They concluded that
      hypothyroid patients treated with levothyroxine had a decrease in their arterial stiffness
      after treatment, although no difference in the lipid profile was found.

      Taddei et al. showed that patients with SCH are characterized by endothelial dysfunction
      resulting from a reduction in nitric oxide (NO); this alteration was partially independent of
      dyslipidemia and reversed by levothyroxine treatment.

      The aim of this study was to assess the effect of levothyroxine treatment on blood pressure,
      lipid profile, highly sensitive CRP (hs- CRP) and arterial stiffness in patients with SCH.
      Whether SCH is a "laboratory" disease only or it affects blood vessels is a question still in
      controversy. We do not know yet if levothyroxine therapy will reverse some of the "silent"
      problems of SCH.

      Methods

      Patients Thirty four patients with laboratory evidence of subclinical hypothyroidism (TSH
      levels 4-25 mU/L and normal T4 values) in at least two following tests (one month apart from
      each other) were recruited from an endocrinology outpatient clinic for this study.

      The protocol was approved by the local Helsinki Committee for experiments on Humans and all
      patients gave informed consent. The exclusion criteria were recent (less than 6 months)
      myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular event or angiography with stent placement, serious
      infection in the month before recruitment, any use of contrast media in the last 6 months,
      loss of more than 5% of body weight during the last 6 months, cardiac arrhythmias, ejection
      fraction of less than 40%, active malignant diseases, previous thyroid disease and pregnancy.

      Study design The patients were treated with levothyroxine (Eltroxin, Glaxo) at a starting
      dose of 50 mcg per day. The follow up was conducted in the Research and Development unit,
      Assaf Harofeh Medical Center at 1, 4 and 7 months post dosing. In patients who did not
      achieve normalization of TSH, the dose of levothyroxine was increased to 100 mcg per day.

      At each visit the patients underwent a physical examination including blood pressure, pulse
      and weight. Blood pressure was measured while the patient was in a recumbent position. Blood
      was drawn for TSH, Hemoglobin, renal and liver function, total cholesterol, high density
      lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL- cholesterol), triglycerides (TG), oxidized low density
      lipoprotein (ox-LDL) and hs- CRP. LDL-cholesterol was calculated and arterial stiffness was
      assessed. The patients' medication regimen was not changed throughout the study period.

      Arterial stiffness Assessment of arterial stiffness was performed by a noninvasive technique
      using the commercially available SphygmoCor System (AtCor Medical LTD, Australia). All
      measurements were performed while the patient was in a recumbent position at room temperature
      of 25۫ C, between 06:30 and 08:30 A.M. after an overnight fasting (8-10 hours) and after a
      short period of rest. Peripheral pressure waveforms were recorded from the radial artery at
      the wrist, using applanation tonometry with a high fidelity micromanometer. When sequential
      waveforms were recorded, a validated 16-18 generalized transfer function was applied to
      generate the corresponding central pressure waveform. The integral system software was used
      to calculate an average radial artery waveform and to derive a corresponding central aortic
      pressure waveform using a previously validated generalized transfer function. From these data
      the indexes of arterial stiffness were obtained. The augmentation of central arterial
      pressure is the difference between the first and second systolic peaks of the central
      pressure waveforms, and the central augmentation index (AIx) is the augmentation expressed as
      a percentage of the pulse pressure.

      This technology is easy to perform, non-invasive, simple, rapid (15 minutes per test) and
      repeatable.

      Oxidized LDL Blood samples were collected in EDTA containing tubes. Separation of plasma was
      performed by centrifugation at 2500 RPM for 10 minutes. In order to neutralize the effect of
      rheumatoid factor on test accuracy, 5% anti-interference reagent was added to the plasma.
      Concentration of ox-LDL was determined using an Elisa kit manufactured by Dyne Diagnostic.

      Highly sensitive CRP Level was measured using the latex immunonephelometry technique
      according to manufacturer protocols. Levels were determined with a concentration restriction
      of 0.0175 mg/dL.

      Cholesterol and HDL-cholesterol were measured by standard techniques.
    
  