
    
      Donation after cardiac death (DCD) is a method by which patients have the opportunity to
      donate organs following elective withdrawal of life-sustaining therapies (WLST). Often these
      patients have suffered a catastrophic neurological injury although not progressed to brain
      death or have a severe medical condition for which ongoing medical care is considered
      non-beneficial. DCD has become an increasingly significant source of organs for
      transplantation in a time of growing wait lists and organ shortfall.

      In order to donate organs through DCD, the potential donor must progress to death within a
      certain time window after withdrawal of life sustaining therapies. This timeframe varied but
      is usually less than 120 minutes following WLST. Up to 40% of potentially eligible DCD donors
      in Ontario do not proceed to organ procurement for these reasons (internal data from Trillium
      Gift of Life).

      The uncertainty and variability in the potential for successful organ procurement has an
      impact on families, health care teams and organ retrieval teams. It is important that this
      emotional and resource burden only occurs in candidates with a reasonable likelihood of being
      eligible to donate organs. The amount of time elapsing between WLST and circulatory arrest
      (and organ procurement) has important implications for the quality of the procured organs,
      and some organs are unable to be transplanted after death. Finally, maintaining organ
      procurement teams and an operating room on standby consumes valuable hospital resources and
      removes these human and physical resources from other clinical duties.

      Several different prediction tools have been proposed to predict time to death following WLST
      in potential DCD donors, but none has been proven useful. To derive a more generalizable
      prediction tool it is necessary to identify valid predictors that are common to a wide
      variety of patients undergoing WLST. We propose the addition of features that predict apnea
      or respiratory insufficiency in the development of a new predictive model.

      While previous studies propose important variables for prediction of time to death, we
      hypothesize that features that are focused on apnea (neurologic and non-neurologic) will be
      independently predictive of time of death following WLST.

      Neurological predictors of apnea: The previous studies have consistently identified one or
      two neurologic risk factors for apnea associated with time to death. These risk factors have
      been evaluated in isolation and have never been rigorously studied in a broader population or
      in combination. We wish to evaluate the following neurological risk factors for apnea which
      have been previously found to be associated with time to death in certain studies: Glasgow
      Coma Scale, absence of brain stem reflexes (corneal, pupil, cough, gag), and controlled mode
      of mechanical ventilation.

      Non-Neurological predictors of apnea: No studies to date have evaluated features focused on
      non-neurologic causes of apnea. Given that neurologic predictors of apnea have been the one
      consistent feature that has been identified across most studies, we hypothesize that
      evaluating additional predictors of apnea beyond neurologic causes could similarly have an
      association with time to death as they both result in profound hypoxia. While some
      researchers have evaluated the contribution of BMI and weight, we hypothesize that the
      addition of more definitive features of upper airway obstruction will strengthen the
      performance of our prediction tool. Neck circumference, absence of endotracheal tube cuff
      leak, fluid balance, and history of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) are novel and could improve
      the operating characteristics of prediction tools.

      Neck circumference has been found to be associated with airway obstruction and has been
      incorporated into numerous prediction tools for OSA. In a study evaluating prevalence and
      predictors of upper airway obstruction following stroke, neck circumference was independently
      associated with any upper airway obstruction that occurred 24 hours following acute stroke.
      In a pooled analysis, the absence of cuff leak has been shown to be predictive of post
      extubation stridor with 92% specificity, thus suggesting impending loss of airway patency.
      Fluid balance has also been found to be associated with post extubation failure.

      We will conduct a prospective, observational cohort study of all patients being considered
      for DCD in whom consent for donation is obtained to evaluate the association between
      neurologic and non-neurologic risk factors for apnea, other clinically important variables
      and time to death after WLST, and use these data to derive a generalizable predictive model
      for the prediction of the time to death following WLST in potential DCD donors.
    
  