
    
      This is a phase II pilot study comparing MPR rate between two neoadjuvant. This study is
      designed to evaluate a neoadjuvant regimen [nivolumab in combination with Toll-like receptor
      9 (TLR9) agonist CMP-001] of 20 patients as compared against nivolumab monotherapy. This
      study includes an integrated [18F]F-AraG imaging biomarker that aims assess the imaging
      biomarker in patients receiving either neoadjuvant CMP-001/nivolumab or neoadjuvant
      nivolumab.

      Patients with stage IIIB-IIID cutaneous (or unknown primary) melanoma with palpable nodal
      disease and/or in-transit disease who have yet to undergo definitive surgery are eligible to
      enroll. Patients with nodal and/or in-transit relapse including those who have received prior
      adjuvant IFN and/or ipilimumab are eligible to enroll.

      Suitable patients will be identified pre-operatively. Patients will undergo a 28 day
      screening evaluation including surgical assessment, clinical assessment, systemic/CNS staging
      scans, and laboratory studies to confirm suitability. Biopsies will occur pre-treatment, W4-5
      and the injected lesion(s) will be resected at the time of surgery.

      Eligible patients will be randomized 1:1 to receive Arm A (neoadjuvant Nivolumab/CMP) vs. Arm
      B (neoadjuvant Nivolumab) during the (Prime Phase) pre-operatively for 6-7 weeks. Patients
      randomized to Arm A will receive: Nivolumab 240mg IV q2 x3 and CMP-001 5mg SC 1st dose then
      10mg IT 2nd-7th doses (7 weeks). Patients randomized to Arm B will receive: Nivolumab 240mg
      IV q2 x3 (6 weeks). In the Prime Phase, CMP-001 will be administered weekly via sub-cutaneous
      injection (5mg SC; week 1) then intra-tumorally (10mg IT; weeks 2-7).

      [18F]F-AraG PET-CT scan (18-F PET) is an integrated biomarker and will be performed at 2
      imaging time-points: pre-treatment (pre-W1) and on-treatment (W4). At each imaging timepoint,
      [18F]F-AraG will be administered by a licensed nuclear medicine technologist under the
      supervision of a nuclear medicine physician on an outpatient basis. Each patient will receive
      a single bolus injection of 5 mCi [18F]F-AraG IV into a hand or arm vein. At pre-W1/W4
      imaging timepoints, following [18F]F-AraG injection, a 30-min static PET-CT scan will be
      performed covering the brain to the upper legs.

      Following the Prime Phase and restaging systemic scans, patients will undergo surgical
      resection.

      Post-operatively, patients will continue to receive maintenance therapy (Boost Phase) per
      randomization. In the Boost Phase, patients randomized to Arm A (neoadjuvant Nivolumab/CMP)
      will receive Nivolumab and CMP (480mg IV q4 x12; CMP-001 5mg SC q4 x12; 48 weeks); while
      patients randomized to Arm B (neoadjuvant Nivolumab) will receive Nivolumab (480mg IV q4 x12;
      48 weeks). In the post-operative period, CMP-001 will be administered subcutaneously.
    
  