
    
      Study Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a
      coin) to 1 of 2 groups. Group 1 will take minocycline. Group 2 will take a placebo.

      Neither you nor the study staff will know if you are receiving the study drug or the placebo.
      However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are
      receiving.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will take the study drug/placebo by mouth, every day during chemoradiation therapy.

      You may take the study drug/placebo with a full glass (8 ounces) of water. You may take it
      with or without food, but if it causes an upset stomach, you should take it with food.

      If you have trouble swallowing the dose of study drug/placebo, you can open the capsule right
      before you take it. You should not lie down for at least 30 minutes after taking the study
      drug/placebo to reduce the risk of side effects.

      You must bring the study drug/placebo container (along with any remaining drug) to every
      study visit.

      Study Visits:

      Before you start your chemoradiation treatment:

        -  You will fill out 4 questionnaires about pain and other symptoms, your tobacco history,
           your health status, and your quality of life. It should take about 15 minutes to
           complete all of the questionnaires.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for biomarker testing. Biomarkers are found in
           the blood/tissue and may be related to your reaction to the study drug.

      During chemoradiation treatment:

        -  During Week 1 of chemoradiation, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for biomarker
           testing.

        -  You will complete the symptom questionnaire in the clinic or by telephone 1 time each
           week. The symptom questionnaire should take about 5 minutes to complete each time.

        -  Each week you will be asked about any symptoms you may be having and how they may be
           affecting your daily activities.

      At about Week 4 of chemoradiation:

      -You will complete 3 questionnaires about pain and other symptoms, your health status, and
      your quality of life. It should take about 10 minutes to complete all of the questionnaires.

      During the last week of chemoradiation:

        -  You will complete 4 questionnaires about pain and other symptoms, your health status,
           your quality of life, and your satisfaction with the study drug/placebo. It should take
           about 15 minutes to complete all of the questionnaires.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for biomarker testing.

      After the last week of chemoradiation:

        -  The study staff will call you 1 time each week to check on you and to complete the pain
           and symptoms questionnaire at a time that is convenient for you. This phone call should
           last about 10 minutes. If you have had several side effects from the chemoradiation
           therapy, this phone call may take longer.

        -  At about Week 12, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for biomarker testing.

      End of Study Visit:

      Your last study visit will be the same day that you have your last clinic visit with the
      chemoradiation doctor (around Weeks 12-13). At this visit, you will complete the pain and
      other symptoms questionnaire, the health status questionnaire, and the smoking
      questionnaires. It should take about 10 minutes to complete all questionnaires.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for up to 13 weeks. You will take the study drug/placebo every day
      during chemoradiation treatment, and continue to complete the questionnaires until 12-13
      weeks. You will be taken off study early if you have intolerable side effects or the study
      doctor thinks it is in your best interest.

      This is an investigational study. Minocycline is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of bacterial infection. Using minocycline to treat side effects of
      chemoradiation treatment in patients with NSCLC is investigational.

      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  