
    
      Study hypothesis We hypothesize that NIV-NAVA would be superior to ASV in reducing the NIV
      failure rates in patients with AECOPD. In this study, we plan to compare the ASV with NAVA
      during NIV in patients with AECOPD.

      Methods All consecutive patients meeting the inclusion criteria will be screened and assessed
      for eligibility. Informed consent will be sought and those enrolled would be randomized to to
      receive NIV using either the ASV or the NIV-NAVA mode. The NIV will be delivered using a
      oro-nasal mask with supplemental oxygen as needed.

      Delivery of NAVA NAVA will be delivered using Servo-i ventilator (Maquet, Getinge Group,
      Sweden) with software to compensate for air leaks.

      NAVA initiation would involve calibration of the Edi module, placement of the nava catheter
      nasogastrically, verification of position and selecting appropriate nava level on the basis
      of required pressure support. In case a favourable response is not obtained, NAVA level will
      beincreased by 0.2 cm/µV until favourable response is seen (tidal volume 6-8mL/kg,
      respiratory rate < 25/min)

      Delivery of ASV ASV will be delivered using a Galileo GOLD ventilator (Hamilton Medical, AG,
      Switzerland).The patients will be ventilated with an initial setting of 100%-minute volume
      and will be titrated in increments of 10% as per clinical parameters (respiratory rate, tidal
      volume).

      Monitoring All the patients will be monitored every 15 minutes for respiratory rate, heart
      rate, blood pressure, Glasgow coma score, pulse oximetry, and signs of respiratory fatigue
      (paradox), fit of mask and any peri-mask leak. Arterial blood gas analysis will be done at
      initiation of NIV and then at 1 hour, 4 hours and 24 hours and then at least once a day till
      primary end point is met.

      All the subjects will receive standard of care for acute exacerbation of COPD regardless of
      their allotted treatment arm.

      Sample size and intervention In a previous study the NIV failure rate in subjects with AECOPD
      using ASV mode was 11% and in NIV-NAVA was 37% (unpublished data). Using these values a
      sample size of 100 subjects will be required for 80% power with a significance of 0.05. Once
      enrolled the subjects will be randomised to either of the two arms, ASV or NIV-NAVA. ASV arm
      will include patients who will receive NIV using the ASV mode of ventilation on the Galileo
      gold ventilator (Hamilton Medical, AG, Switzerland) and NAVA arm patients will be ventilated
      using the servo-i ventilator (Maquet, Getinge Group, Sweden). Patients in both arms will
      receive the standard medical care for acute respiratory failure in COPD in addition to the
      NIV.

      Randomization Randomization will be done by a computer-generated sequence with blocks of 8 to
      receive non-invasive ventilation using either the ASV or NAVA. The order of randomisation
      will be sealed in an opaque envelope, and opened by the physician not directly involved in
      the study or analysis, at the time of recruitment of patient.

      Statistical analysis Results will be presented in a descriptive fashion as mean ± standard
      deviation (SD), median (interquartile range) or number and percentage. The differences
      between means of continuous and categorical variables will be analysed using the
      Student-t-test and chi-square tests, respectively. For data that is not normally distributed
      the data will be analysed using non-parametric test (Mann-Whitney U).Trends in clinical
      (respiratory rate and mean arterial blood pressure), arterial blood gas parameters (pH, PaO2,
      PaCO2) and NIV parameters (peak inspiratory pressure, PEEP, tidal volume) will be analyzed
      using mixed model technique for repeated measures analysis of variance; the within-groups
      factor will be time (baseline, one, four and 24 hours), and the between-groups factor will be
      NIV success. A P value of <0.05 will indicate statistical significance.
    
  