
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Critically ill patients often require sedation for comfort and to tolerate mechanical
      ventilation. There are internationally accepted guidelines for sedation of critically ill
      patients, and dexmedetomidine and propofol are recommended as sedative agents over
      alternatives, such as benzodiazepines. There is now a worrying shortage of propofol in
      Canada, the European Union, and parts of the US. The supply of dexmedetomidine, an expensive
      alternative to propofol, is now considered to be at risk. It is unsuitable as monotherapy for
      deep sedation, and most hospitals in Canada limit use to 48h, due to high costs. This
      therefore makes it inadequate for COVID-19 treatment. Other sedative agents for mechanical
      ventilation include benzodiazepines (e.g. midazolam), but these are associated with higher
      mortality from sepsis, higher incidence of delirium, and longer length of stay in the ICU.
      That notwithstanding, midazolam is also currently in short supply. Shortages of sedative
      medications will be as impactful on critical care practice as shortages of mechanical
      ventilators; propofol, midazolam, and dexmedetomidine were all listed on March 31, 2020 as
      "Tier 3 Shortages" by Health Canada - having "the greatest potential impact on Canada's drug
      supply and health care system….based on low availability of alternative supplies, ingredients
      or therapies."

      In critically-ill patients, the sympathetic nervous system can become hyperactive, producing
      neurotransmitters such as norepinephrine (NE) to increase blood pressure and heart rate. In
      the brain, a pontine nucleus called the locus ceruleus (LC) provides the majority of brain
      NE. LC adrenergic input to the medial septal area and medial preoptic area of the forebrain
      mediates arousal.

      Sympatholytics have previously been prescribed to manage agitation in critical illness.
      Dexmedetomidine is one such example, an intravenous alpha-2 agonist, which readily penetrates
      the central nervous system. It has an anti-noradrenergic effect in the locus ceruleus,
      consequently increasing inhibitory GABA neuron activity in the forebrain. Clonidine, is an
      oral and intravenous agent that is highly lipid soluble, with good penetration of the Central
      Nervous System, has been well studied in the ICU environment. However a recent meta-analysis
      showed clonidine use did not reduce length of stay or length of ventilation for critically
      ill patients, and only led to a small reduction in the use of opioids. Propranolol is a
      non-selective beta-adrenergic antagonist, approved for treating hypertension, angina,
      arrhythmias, migraines and pheochromocytoma in Canada. It has also been used off label to
      treat anxiety disorders such as Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. It is a lipophilic molecule,
      crosses the blood brain barrier, and can block the locus ceruleus' ability to activate the
      forebrain, similar to alpha 2 agonists. In rat models, propranolol delays arousal from a
      state of anaesthesia.

      An extensive search of PubMed and Web of Science did not reveal published trials of
      propranolol as a sedative agent in critical illness or mechanical ventilation. However,
      propranolol was shown to significantly reduce agitation in a randomized controlled trial in
      patients with traumatic brain injury. Observational studies in traumatic brain injury have
      shown that propranolol use is associated with a shorter length of hospital and ICU stay, and
      possibly a lower mortality risk, without reports of significant side effects. A meta-analysis
      of 10 randomized controlled trials in severely burned patients found propranolol reduced
      hospital length of stay. Other studies have shown that propranolol may have beneficial
      effects on catabolism in critical illness, and improve cardiac function and survival in
      animal models of cardiac resuscitation. This study team published a single centre
      retrospective study of 64 mechanically-ventilated patients which found that the initiation of
      propranolol was associated with an 86% reduction in propofol dose, and an approximately 50%
      reduction in midazolam dose, while maintaining the desired sedation target.

      If propranolol reduces sedative doses required by mechanically ventilated patients (either
      with or without COVID illness) to the degree seen in this team's retrospective study, this
      would effectively reduce usage of sedatives two- to seven-fold. The cost of the average daily
      dose of propranolol used in the retrospective study (~120mg) would be $0.27 (pharmacy cost at
      The Ottawa Hospital), and propranolol is in abundant supply in Canada and around the world.

      Based on this data, propranolol may enable critical care providers to sedate mechanically
      ventilated patients using their usual approaches except with substantially lower doses of
      sedatives. This would not only extend the use of currently limited supply of sedatives, it
      would significantly reduce medication costs in critical care units in Canada and worldwide.

      Trial Objective:

      Does the addition of propranolol to a standard sedation regimen reduce the dose of sedative
      needed in critically ill patients requiring mechanical ventilation?

      Study Design:

      Open-label, Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT), 1:1 allocation

      Patient Population:

      Participants are adult patients admitted to an intensive care unit who are anticipated to
      require mechanical ventilation >48h, who are requiring intravenous sedatives to achieve a
      sedation goal that is anticipated to be stable for >48h.

      Intervention:

      Patients randomized to the intervention arm will receive propranolol enterally at a starting
      dose of 20mg every 6 hours for two doses, and then 30mg every 6 hours for four doses. This
      dose will be titrated upwards every 24 hours depending on clinical response (40mg every 6
      hours for four doses, 50mg every 6 hours for four doses, and 60 mg every 6 hours thereafter).
      The maximum dose to be used in the intervention group is 60mg every 6 hours. Daily dose
      titration will be guided by hemodynamic markers indicative of the expected sympatholysis from
      propranolol. Upward titration of propranolol should coincide with a downward titration in
      sedatives until a minimum level of sedative infusion is reached (propofol <0.5mg/kg/h or
      midazolam <0.5mg/h). For each participant, the intervention will be administered from
      enrollment until approximately 48h after the patient is liberated from the mechanical
      ventilator, and the study will continue until hospital discharge or 28 days after enrollment,
      if the patient is still alive. Enrollment can begin as early as 24h after the start of a
      sedative infusion in the ICU.

      Primary Outcome and Sample Size:

      The primary outcome will be a comparison of the change in primary sedative dose from baseline
      to Day #3 of the study in the intervention group compared with the same change in the control
      group- the difference in differences. Given the global need for a substantial reduction in
      sedative consumption for mechanically ventilated patients, this study assumes that a 70%
      reduction in sedative dose would be clinically meaningful, which corresponds to the
      difference between the sedative infusion doses required for study eligibility (ie. propofol
      >1.5 mg/kg/h or midazolam >1.5 mg/h) and the minimum doses below which propranolol would no
      longer be increased (ie. propofol <0.5 mg/kg/h or midazolam <0.5 mg/h). Based on the mean +/-
      SD daily dose of propofol at baseline (942 +/- 1629 mg) and on Day #3 (155 +/- 641mg) in
      observational study, this trial should enroll 98 patients in a 1:1 randomized controlled
      trial to have 80% power to detect a significant difference with a one-tailed alpha of 0.05.
      Allowing a 10% dropout rate (a previous study of sedation strategies at these sites reported
      a dropout rate of 3%), this study will aim to enroll 108 patients (54 control; 54
      intervention).

      Statistical Analysis:

      The primary outcome will be analyzed as a difference in differences- the change in sedative
      dose from baseline to Day #3 (defined as the 24h period starting 60h after enrollment) in the
      intervention group vs the same change in the control group. The Mann-Whitney U test will be
      used as a nonparametric test of independent samples for this outcome, as well as the
      secondary outcomes that relate to sedative dosing on Day #3 compared to baseline. For
      secondary outcomes, groups will be compared using unpaired statistical tests- Chi-square for
      proportions, and unpaired t-tests or Mann-Whitney tests as appropriate for parametric and
      non-parametric data. The effect of age, sex and gender, and pre-ICU beta-blocker prescription
      will be analyzed as planned subgroup analyses.

      Ethical Considerations:

      A No Objection Letter from Health Canada, Division 5, has been obtained to conduct this
      clinical trial. Research Ethics Board approval is pending. An established data safety
      monitoring committee will evaluate adverse events. An interim analysis will be conducted
      after 50 enrolled patients, and the study will be terminated if the data safety monitoring
      committee determines the risk of adverse events, based on the rate of adverse events reported
      in this clinical trial to the committee, outweighs the potential benefits. Informed consent
      will be obtained from each participant or their legal substitute decision maker.
    
  