
    
      The identification of a safe, effective treatment for individuals with early mild-to-moderate
      symptomatic COVID-19 that prevent progression to more severe disease would have immediate
      public health implications. A hallmark of severe COVID-19 disease is immune system
      dysregulation called cytokine storm. Multiple studies have reported that patients with severe
      disease demonstrate elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines early in disease, and
      elevated IL-6 plasma concentrations are predictive of poor clinical outcomes in COVID-19.
      Disulfiram, an FDA-approved drug for the treatment of alcohol dependence disorder is an
      appealing therapeutic option for COVID-19. It has a good safety profile, easy dosing
      schedule, and recent data suggesting multiple mechanisms by which disulfiram may act on
      COVID-19 (both as a direct antiviral agent as well as indirect effects on reducing
      inflammation). In addition disulfiram has been studied extensively with detailed available
      pharmacokinetic data; disulfiram has a short half-life ~7.5 hours with >90% of drug
      eliminated within 3 days post-dose, allowing quick reversal of any potential adverse effects.
      We will perform a phase 2 randomized (2:1), double blind placebo-controlled assessment of
      disulfiram in people with early mild-to-moderate symptomatic COVID-19. A total of 60
      symptomatic COVID+ individuals will enrolled to receive active drug versus placebo (with
      equal distribution of mild or moderate/severe within each dosing cohort and within each
      randomization arm). For cohort 1, N=20 will receive DSF 1000 mg/N=10 placebo, and for cohort
      2, N=20 will receive DSF 2000 mg/N=10 placebo. Drug/placebo will be administered using strict
      infection control protocols designed to support the study of people with acute COVID-19
      infection per the Center for Diseases Control (CDC) guidelines
      (https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/hcp/disposition-in-home-patients.html).
    
  