
    
      Study will evaluate safety of the investigational drugs ChAdOx1.HTI and MVA.HTI (referenced
      collectively as CCMM) with vesatolimod (also known as GS-9620) in participants with early
      treated HIV-1 infection.

      The current study will also investigate the immunogenicity of CCMM + vesatolimod treatment
      and the impact of CCMM + vesatolimod treatment on viral rebound and viral control following
      an analytical treatment interruption (ATI) in participants with early treated HIV-1
      infection.

      HIVACAT T cell immunogen (HTI) is a novel T cell immunogen covering the most vulnerable
      regions of HIV. The encoding DNA sequence that has been inserted in various vaccine vectors,
      including viral and non-viral vectors Administration of the HTI immunogen is implemented
      through a heterologous prime-boost approach that includes 2 vaccine components. The aim of
      the sequential administration of the therapeutic vaccines is to achieve a so-called
      "functional cure," in which HIV-infected participants can control viral replication in the
      absence of ART. In this double blind, randomised, safety and tolerability study (AELIX-003),
      the HTI immunogen will be administered in a prime-boost regimen consisting of vaccinations
      with ChAdOx1.HTI (prime) and MVA.HTI (boost).

      The treatment regimen in this study will also include a toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7) agonist,
      GS-9620, which is supported by a recent non clinical study where sequential administration of
      vaccines and a TLR7 agonist (GS-986, an analogue of vesatolimod) demonstrated efficacy in
      simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-infected rhesus monkeys on ART.

      HTI is currently being tested in the Phase I, double blind, placebo controlled clinical study
      AELIX-002 through a heterologous prime-boost vaccination employing 3 products expressing the
      HTI antigen, DNA.HTI and MVA.HTI and ChAdOx.HTI. The available clinical data from AELIX-002
      do not suggest a risk for serious adverse events (SAEs) from the products alone, used
      sequentially, or from the immunogen itself.

      The study will screen HIV-1 infected participants who have initiated ART within 180 days (6
      months) of the estimated date of HIV-1 acquisition and who have achieved virological
      suppression for at least 1 year prior entering AELIX-003. Participants who provide informed
      consent and meet study entry criteria will be randomised into 1 of 2 parallel treatment
      groups. The study will be conducted in 3 periods: Period 1 will last 48 weeks during which
      participants will receive blinded IMPs and will continue their ART regimen; Period 2 will
      last up to 24 weeks during which participants will discontinue their ART regimen; and Period
      3 will last 12 weeks during which participants will be monitored following the restart of
      their ART.
    
  