
    
      Lobectomy patients at University of Rochester Medical Center meeting the eligibility criteria
      will be screened and consented by members of the research team prior to surgery at their
      pre-operative clinic visit.

      Per standard of care, following surgery or extubation, and once no longer under the influence
      of anesthesia, the patient will meet with an RT, nurse, doctor, or research team member to
      receive an incentive spirometry device and training initiating the study. Routine respiratory
      care involves the use of a standard incentive spirometer that is not a digital device and
      does not include any built in reminder. As per routine care, the nurse or respiratory
      therapist will remind the subject to perform their respiratory therapy of at least 10 breaths
      per hour. The only questionnaire will be the standard of care pain scale questions.

      As part of the research, patients will also be provided with a ZEPHYRx incentive spirometer
      device connected to a Pad-in-Motion tablet. A respiratory therapist, nurse, doctor, or
      research team member will teach patients how to use the device and the tablet, and walk them
      through the first series of breaths. A built-in bell reminder in the device will ring once
      every hour between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. to remind patients to use the device,
      this feature is part of the research and a feature programmed into the device. Additionally,
      subjects will answer questions about pain level on a scale of 0-10 before and after each
      round of game play.

      On a daily basis, a member of the research team will check that the device is working
      correctly and answer any questions the subject may have regarding the study or device.

      At discharge, the subjects will return the ZEPHYRx incentive spirometer and tablet and will
      be issued a standard incentive spirometer to continue respiratory therapy at home, per
      standard of care.

      ZEPHYRx Respiratory Therapy SystemData: The device will record subject usage, including
      number of breaths, number of sessions, total time the device was in use, inspiratory volumes,
      and pain level (0-10) before and after each round of game play.

      Chart Review Data: Demographic data (age, gender, ethnicity), pulmonary function data and
      body mass index (BMI) will be collected. Information concerning the type of surgery, length
      of time in the operating room, length of time on a ventilator, and length of stay will be
      collected. Patients will remain on study until: patient discharge, return to the operating
      room or surgical intensive care unit, or receipt of medical prescription for directed chest
      physiotherapy. The study will track re-admissions within 30 days and results from chest
      x-rays (if any chest x-rays are ordered as part of the existing standard of care). There will
      be ongoing health surveillance until the study is completed, or the study is closed.

      Results: Patients will have access to the results of the study after publication or upon
      request if not published. No incidental findings are expected.

      Retrospective Cohort Chart Review:

      The retrospective comparative sample will include approximately 75 patients obtained from
      URMC's electronic database that underwent surgery between 1/01/2015 and 12/31/2018. Variables
      to be extracted from the medical record to be used in the analysis include: first name, last
      name, middle name, length of stay, age, weight, height, sex, race, ethnicity, employed,
      employment type, diagnoses, admission date & time, discharge date & time, surgery date &
      time, surgery type, treatment date & time, imaging (e.g. chest X-ray), pulse oximetry value,
      pulse oximetry date & time, adverse event(s), adverse event date & time, re-admission,
      re-admission date & time, pain scale value,pain scale date & time, comorbidities, pulmonary
      function tests, reoperation(s), mortality, and follow-up date.
    
  