
    
      Rapid delivery of the fetus by emergency cesarean delivery is usually necessary when there is
      risk to mother or fetus (1). Some maternal indications for emergency cesarean delivery
      include uncontrolled bleeding, high spinal block and cardiac arrest. For the fetus, minutes
      may count when there are abnormal fetal heart rate patterns such as accompanying uterine
      rupture or umbilical cord prolapse. Under these emergency circumstances published
      recommendations include that delivery should occur within 30 minutes from decision time (2).
      Thus, the time taken to achieve surgical anesthesia is important and should be kept as short
      as possible to minimize risk to the fetus (3).

      In the absence of a pre-existing labor epidural that can be rapidly extended for anesthesia,
      general (GA) or spinal (SA) anesthesia are usually administered to facilitate delivery in the
      urgent/emergent situation. Each technique has risks and benefits, but the choice of
      anesthesia will ultimately depend upon the circumstances. For example, severe maternal
      bleeding would favor GA because it is perceived to be quicker (although there are no studies
      to confirm this) and uncontrolled hemorrhage can produce hemodynamic instability which can be
      exacerbated by SA. On the other hand, known reactions to anesthetic agents (such as malignant
      hyperthermia) would make SA more favorable.

      There is a perception amongst anesthesiologists that GA in pregnant women is associated with
      increased morbidity and mortality. This is partly due to the increased use of regional
      anesthesia since the 1960s and the uncommon occurrence of general anesthesia has lead to
      increased incidence of complications worldwide (4, 5). The reasons for this relate to the
      physiological changes of pregnancy which can make endotracheal intubation more difficult,
      increase the risk of pulmonary aspiration of stomach contents and awareness of intraoperative
      events (6, 7). These potential risks mean that fewer general anesthetics for cesarean
      delivery are being done while numbers of central neuraxial blocks (spinal, epidural) have
      increased. This means that anesthesiologists are less experienced in general anesthesia for
      obstetrics (8, 9). As well, at delivery the infant is more likely to be initially depressed
      and require active resuscitation than those delivered by SA (10). The depression is due not
      only to the GA but also to the reason for rapid delivery, for example cord prolapse causing
      fetal distress.

      Apart from avoiding the risks of GA, SA has the added advantage that the parturient is awake
      when the infant is born and can be accompanied by their partner in the OR. As morphine is
      given with the spinal medication the women will generally have less pain post-operatively as
      well as being clear minded. However, occasionally SA can fail necessitating a GA.

      It is unknown which technique is quicker. Some anesthesiologists believe that SA can be
      administered as quickly as GA and will often persist in administering SA for fear of the
      risks of general anesthesia. However, after induction of general anesthesia and endotracheal
      intubation, surgery can start immediately while with SA surgical anesthesia takes some time
      to develop after the anesthetic drugs are injected. There are no studies examining when
      surgery can actually start following SA and GA. Direct comparison of the two techniques under
      emergency situations based on a randomized control trial is impossible due to problems
      obtaining consent in that emergency situation where minutes count. Marx et al found that
      spinal anesthesia can be induced as quickly as GA, but the spinal needle used was bigger and
      the drug used (amethocaine) is not commonly used in modern practice (11).

      Simulation of emergency scenarios allows anesthesiologists to practice safe emergency
      anesthesia (12). In a pilot simulation study insertion of SA was found to be as quick as GA,
      but the time to achieve surgical anesthesia was longer (13). Thus, the overall time between
      inducing anesthesia and the time when surgery could actually start was longer with SA.

      We wish to undertake a simulation based study to compare the speed of GA versus SA for
      emergency cesarean delivery. We also wish to observe the techniques anesthesiologists use to
      expedite readiness to surgical anesthesia. At the conclusion of this study, we hope to help
      the anesthesiologist decide upon the optimum technique of anesthesia for emergency cesarean
      delivery and so affect fetal and maternal outcome.
    
  