
    
      The study provides two levels of investigation, the first one (transversal phase), for all
      patients enrolled in the participating centers and the second one (longitudinal phase)
      conducted in a single cohort of patients with new diagnosis of POAG at enrollment.

      The study will take part in around 20 centers specialized in glaucoma treatment and care,
      distributed throughout the Italian country area. The study aims to recruit a total of 3000
      patients, around 200 of which with early diagnosis: they will represent the longitudinal
      cohort.

      The frequency of visits and the type of examinations will follow the normal clinical
      practice.

      The transversal phase consists of a single visit in which all socio-demographic and clinical
      characteristics of patients will be collected; during this visit patients will receive the
      NEI-VFQ 25 and the GSS questionnaires for measuring QoL (they have be filled in by the
      patient himself). For newly diagnosed patients, data collected during this visit will be
      consider as baseline, then they will enter in the longitudinal phase and will underwent two
      subsequent visits, the first one after about 6 months from baseline and the second one after
      a further 6 months (12 months from baseline). During the two subsequent visits the same data
      as the baseline will be collected, excluding for the socio-demographic data.

      Patients will underwent examinations and therapy suitable for their disease treatment, based
      on physician judgment and according to the normal clinical practice.

      All patient data will be collected on Case Report Form(CRF). All data contained in the CRF
      and in the QoL questionnaires, will be entered into an electronic database and will be
      checked in order to assess the plausibility, internal consistencies, errors or missing
      values. For each missing/loose/illegible/wrong data a request for clarification will be
      automatically generated by the system; it will be named "Query Form" and will be sent to the
      investigator for answers. At the end of the validation process, the database will be "frozen"
      and it will be used for statistical analysis.

      The data were collected in an absolutely anonymous way. No data can be traced back up to the
      patient personal information or history.

      All patients enrolled in the study, except for those with inclusion/exclusion criteria
      violations, will be considered in the statistical analysis.

      The general characteristics of the study sample will be described. Qualitative variables will
      be described by means of the absolute and relative frequencies calculation, those
      quantitative with mean, standard deviation, quartiles, minimum, maximum, number of
      observations.

      With regard to the QoL scale, the total score and subscale will be calculated. The same
      approach will be used within subgroups defined on the basis of socio-demographic and clinical
      characteristics.

      As per the calculation of the sample size, it is estimated that at present in Italy there are
      500,000 patients affected by glaucoma and about 50 centers specialized in the disease
      treatment.

      A sample of 3000 patients with POAG and the involvement of at least 20 centers specialized in
      the glaucoma treatment are considered to be a representative estimation of reality in the
      Italian coutry area.

      With a sample size of at least 3000 patients it is possible to calculate the 95%confidence
      interval of the estimated value of any parameter collected with an inaccuracy who not exceed
      3.6%.

      It is assumed that it will be possible to isolate about 200 patients in first diagnosis, in
      which the time course of the QOL scales scores will be described for the entire cohort and
      into predetermined patient subgroups.

      For a successful implementation of the procedures required by the study the following
      activities are provided:

        -  Start-up and follow-up meetings, with the aim of sharing operating procedures, training
           the investigators to use the study tools for the collection of data and following-up
           study issues;

        -  Project dedicated Help Desk.

      This study will be conducted according to AIFA March 20, 2008, "Guidelines for the
      classification and management of observational studies on drugs" and the principles expressed
      in the guidelines for the 'Good Epidemiology Practice' (GEP) in force in Europe.

      A patient's informed consent and a consent to the processing of their data, signed by each
      patient, will be obtained before the study entry.
    
  