
    
      It is estimated that 16.2 million adults in the USA suffer at least one depressive episode
      any given year. Mood disorders are associated with decreased quality of life, attention,
      memory, and executive function deficits, and increased health care cost. Despite successful
      medication and psychotherapies, mood disorders rarely respond completely to common treatment
      options. MBI's offer a low-cost, non-pharmacological alternative with accruing efficacy.
      Developing robust and specific non-pharmacologic intervention programs, on par with
      pharmacological clinical outcomes without harmful side-effects is a crucial unmet clinical
      need and a research priority for the NCCIH. Understanding the mechanistic pathways of these
      interventions is key to their clinical development and implementation for treating depression
      in primary care.

      Mindfulness-Based Interventions (MBIs) show similar clinical efficacy for mood disorders as
      pharmacology, and co-morbid symptoms of depression and anxiety. There is substantial
      consistent and replicated empirical evidence across multiple clinical sites highlighting the
      clinical efficacy of MBI in decreasing risk of depressive relapse ascertained from randomized
      RCTs comparing MBI with treatment as usual. Meta-analysis including 183 patients with
      Multiple Sclerosis showed efficacy in psychosocial outcomes, quality of life, anxiety,
      depression, and select physical symptoms including fatigue, pain, and vestibular symptoms.
      The clinical efficacy of MBIs appears to extend mood disorders, as a systematic review
      including 13 studies in fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, and irritable bowel syndrome showed
      significant effect sizes, reported as standardized mean difference (SMD), compared to control
      conditions in reducing depression (SMD= -.23), anxiety (SMD= -.20), symptom severity (SMD=
      -.40), and pain (SMD= -.21). Cognitively, MBIs appear to enhance executive control and
      self-regulatory processing, that has a beneficial effect upon emotion regulation, pain
      perception, and has shown to reduce rumination in depression.

      This overarching study aims to identify key phenotypic markers and treatment targets of mood
      disorders, and further understand MBI mechanism in its treatment.
    
  