
    
      Colorectal cancer is the second commonest cause of cancer death. In a majority of cases it is
      preceded by a precancerous lesion called an adenoma (polyp). Detection and removal of
      adenomas at colonoscopy has been shown to reduce the death rate from colorectal cancer.
      However, despite meticulous examination there is a "miss rate" for adenomas at colonoscopy
      which ranges from 66-25% in back-to-back colonoscopy studies. The nature of the polyps which
      as well as being pedunculated (cherry like) can be flat or depressed making them difficult to
      see, which may contribute to the "miss rate".

      The factors, which influence the endoscopist detection are not well studied. Polyp detection
      rates wary widely, even among experts. Techniques that highlight lesions have advanced in
      recent years. Chromoendoscopy, the current gold standard technique, relies on spraying dye on
      the bowel lining, has been shown to help pick up more pre-cancerous polyps in two of three
      studies; however it is not widely used as it is time consuming and requires extra equipment
      and training. Narrow band imaging (NBI) is a technique that relies in light filters to
      improve contrast for the smallest blood vessels in the bowel lining which shows up adenomas
      as they have a richer vascular network. It is sometimes described as "digital
      chromoendoscopy" as the images produced are similar to chromoendoscopy, but it is much
      simpler and quicker to use. Autofluorescence endoscopy uses short wavelength light and light
      filters to produce a false colour image of the bowel lining where polyps stand out. These
      techniques have been used with some success in the oesophagus and stomach but little work is
      available for the colon.

      We aim to see if NBI is better than standard colonoscopy for detecting precancerous polyps.
      This is likely as it is similar to chromoendoscopy which is already shown to help. If a polyp
      is found we will use other types of endoscopy, particularly NBI with magnification and
      autofluorescence to see if these techniques are helpful for discriminating between
      pre-cancerous and non pre-cancerous polyps.

      May 2007 protocol minor amendment: additional viewing by endoscopists outside St Mark's ro
      allow assessment of inter- and intra-observer variability. No additional data collected.
    
  