
    
      The purpose of this research in Phase 1 is to determine the lowest dose of radionuclide
      18F-FDG that can be used in the Diagnostic use of Positron Emission Mammography for the
      diagnosis of multifocal breast cancer in patients wishing to have Breast Conservation Surgery
      for newly diagnosed breast cancer. Low dose injections (radioactive counts) of 18F-FDG will
      be compared to the equivalent radioactive counts for the standard higher dose 10 millicuries
      used in standard PEM studies in current clinical practice. Images will be post processed by
      computer aided software and will be placed in two categories: Low dose group, and higher dose
      group. Images will be randomly blinded to readers to assess the ability to see positive
      lesions that warrant further biopsy or to include in current surgical planning prior to
      breast conservation surgery or mastectomy. Images will be assessed for ability to see the PEM
      positive lesions on the lower dose images and this will be compared to the ability to see the
      PEM positive lesions on the standard higher dose images. Each of three breast cancer
      categories will be assessed Infiltrating Ductal Carcinoma, Lobular infiltrating Carcinoma,
      and Ductal Carcinoma Insitu. Phase 1 will have 30 patients.

      The purpose of the research in Phase 2 is to use the lowest dose identified in Phase 1 for
      imaging primary breast cancer patients who have been identified by breast MRI to have an
      unsuspected second lesion of the breast not expected from Mammography or Ultrasound that
      requires biopsy for diagnosis prior to the biopsy to compare the reliability of PEM and MRI
      for identifying breast cancer at the 2nd site. Parameters assessed will include standard
      statistical analysis for sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative
      predictive value for MRI and PEM imaging with the new lower radionuclide dose selected by
      Phase 1. Phase 2 will have 100 patients.
    
  