
    
      Dementia is the top issue in the aging society. Aging population also has its negative
      implications for the global economy. Effective diagnosis and treatment of dementia is
      important. Alzheimer's disease accounts for more than 60% of dementia. The main pathological
      features are the amyloid deposition and Tau neurofibrillary tangles. Currently, our
      understanding for these misfolded proteins and dementia is limited. There is a need for
      development of new imaging biomarkers to help clarify the pathophysiology of dementia. In
      recent years, molecular imaging technology has developed rapidly. In addition to amyloid
      imaging tracer have been put into clinical use, Tau protein imaging biomarkers have also
      entered clinical research. However, the tau protein within the patient's brain is not evenly
      distributed. And the amount of the Tau protein radioactivity is not simply correlate to
      dementia disease staging. In addition, the problem of off-target binding of the first
      generation of tracers has yet to be resolved. Recently a second-generation tau PET image
      tracer 18F-PM-PBB3 (APN-1607 or MNI-958) has been developed by National Institute of
      Radiological Sciences. The new tracer solved the off-target binding issue. This study will
      evaluate new quantitative methods with PMPBB3, by utilized dual phase scanning protocol to
      extract blood flow and Tau protein binding information, to evaluate appropriate reference
      brain regions, to improve the normalization efficiency of brain imaging, and to establish a
      brain template image analysis platform. The investigators will evaluate the relationship
      between Tau protein uptake pattern and disease classifications, and the correlation between
      Tau protein neurofibrillary tangles and amyloid deposition, and the correlation between MRI
      and glucose brain connectivity. Finally, to understand the pathophysiology of Tau protein in
      dementia disease.
    
  