
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  The use of antibiotics has revolutionized medicine, yet the impact of antimicrobials on
           the human microbiome is incompletely understood.

        -  Antimicrobial treatments, including topical and systemic antibiotics, are highly
           effective and are frequently used to manage disease flares of AD. Concomitant use of
           dilute bleach baths reduces the clinical severity of AD in patients with clinical signs
           of bacterial skin infections.

        -  The longitudinal impact of various antimicrobials on the human microbiome, particularly
           in skin, has not been systematically investigated.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary:

      -To characterize microbiome alterations in healthy adult volunteers (Cohorts 1 and 2) and
      patients with AD (Cohort 3) after antimicrobial treatments.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  All subjects must be co-enrolled in NIH protocol 08-HG-0059

        -  (Cohorts 1 and 2) Healthy volunteers aged 18 to 50 years with no history of AD

        -  (Cohort 1 and 2) No prior use of systemic antibiotics in preceding 12 months

        -  (Cohort 3) Subjects 2-50 years with atopic dermatitis with symptoms of active bacterial
           infection

        -  (Cohort 3) Objective SCORAD (SCORing Atopic Dermatitis) score of greater than or equal
           to 15 indicating moderate-to-severe disease

      DESIGN:

        -  A prospective, interventional, longitudinal study examining changes in microbiome
           resulting from randomized, placebo-controlled, investigator-blinded antimicrobial
           treatments.

        -  Subjects in Cohort 1 will be randomized to take one of 4 open label antibiotic regimens.

        -  Subjects from Cohort 2 will be will be randomized to one of four possible blinded
           treatment combinations of study baths and antibiotics.

        -  Subjects in Cohort 3 will be randomized to a cephalexin regimen with or without study
           baths.

        -  All subjects will undergo longitudinal microbiome sampling.

        -  AD patients will undergo clinical assessment to determine responses of skin infections
           to treatment.
    
  