
    
      This multicenter study uses a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group
      design to study the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of treatment with intravenous
      secukinumab (initial dose of 6 mg/kg followed thereafter with 3 mg/kg administered every four
      weeks starting at Week 4) in subjects with active axSpA. The study population consists of
      approximately 400 subjects with active AS and approximately 100 subjects with active
      nr-axSpA, despite current or previous NSAID, conventional DMARD and / or TNF inhibitor
      therapy, or intolerance to these therapies. A screening (SCR) period of up to 10 weeks will
      be used to assess eligibility, followed by randomization to 52 weeks of study treatment.

      At baseline, subjects with active AS and nr-axSpA will be randomized to one of the two
      treatment groups:

        -  Group 1: approximately 200 AS subjects and approximately 50 nr-axSpA subjects; These
           subjects will receive secukinumab 6 mg/kg i.v. at randomization (Baseline (BSL) visit),
           followed by the administration of secukinumab 3 mg/kg i.v. every four weeks starting at
           Week 4 through Week 48 (exposure through Week 52).

        -  Group 2: approximately 200 AS subjects and approximately 50 nr-axSpA subjects; These
           subjects will receive i.v. placebo at randomization (BSL visit), Weeks 4, 8, and 12 ,
           followed by the administration of secukinumab 3 mg/kg i.v. at Week 16 and every four
           weeks through Week 48 (exposure through Week 52).

      This study will consist of 4 periods totaling up to 70 weeks: the screening period (up to 10
      weeks), the treatment period 1 (total duration of 16 weeks) and the treatment period 2 (total
      duration of 36 weeks) followed by the safety follow up period of 8 weeks after the end of
      treatment visit (i.e., Week 52).

      The subjects will be stratified at randomization according to disease condition (i.e., AS or
      nr-axSpA). No more than 20% TNF Inhibitor Incomplete Responders (TNF-IR) subjects will be
      enrolled in the study. Starting at Week 16, all subjects will switch to open-label
      intravenous secukinumab, including all placebo subjects.

      No subject will be on placebo treatment after Week 16. Although study treatment is open label
      secukinumab i.v. starting at Week 16, all subjects and investigators/site staff will remain
      blinded to original treatment assignment, so as to ensure unbiased efficacy and safety
      assessments for the remainder of the study. Study treatment will continue up to Week 52. An
      end of treatment visit (i.e., Week 52) is to be done 4 weeks after last study treatment
      administration and a post treatment follow-up visit (i.e., Week 60) is to be done 8 weeks
      after the end of treatment visit for all subjects (regardless of whether they complete the
      entire study as planned or discontinue prematurely). All i.v. infusions will be performed at
      the study site and site personnel will administer the infusions to subjects.

      Rescue medication is not allowed until Week 16. However, subjects who are deemed by the
      investigator not to be benefiting from the study treatment based on safety and efficacy
      assessments or for any reason of their own accord will be free to discontinue participation
      in the study at any time. The study will have a primary endpoint analysis at Week 16.
      Therefore, the primary analysis will be performed with Week-16 data once the last subject has
      completed the Treatment Period 1.

      Clinical management of axSpA by pharmacotherapy includes the use of NSAIDs and conventional
      DMARDs, and if insufficient response, biologic agents (i.e., TNF-inhibitor therapy or
      anti-IL17 agents).

      This study intends to enroll patients with active disease despite current or previous NSAIDs,
      conventional DMARDs and/or TNF inhibitor therapy or intolerance to these therapies. A
      background of NSAID therapy and/or concomitant therapy with methotrexate (≤25 mg/week) or
      sulfasalazine (≤ 3 g/day) will be acceptable, if dose and route of administration have been
      stable for at least two weeks with NSAIDs and/or four weeks with MTX or sulfasalazine, prior
      to the randomization visit. Inclusion of patients with active axSpA who are TNF-IR (up to 20%
      in each group) in the study also makes the background patient population more representative
      of the real world clinical scenario.

      A placebo arm up to the primary endpoint at Week 16 is included in this study. Due to the
      nature of the disease and the outcome measures used (ASAS criteria), a placebo arm is
      necessary to reliably evaluate the efficacy and safety of the active drug. The treatment
      duration of the placebo group is relatively short and the placebo group will be re-assigned
      to active treatment at Week 16. The regular assessment of disease activity ensures that
      subjects who are experiencing worsening of disease in any of the treatment groups can exit
      the study at any time upon their own accord or based on the advice of the investigator.
    
  