
    
      This is a prospective multicenter observational registry with a retrospective control. The
      registry has two tracks. One track--ALL-ACT-- is for sites enrolling a consecutive cohort of
      all cardiac surgery patients (Track A). The second track--VAD-ACT-- is for sites enrolling
      patients post ventricular assist device (VAD) surgery (Track B). There are two conditions for
      participation in this registry:

      First, sites are required to provide anonymized matched historical data elements from a
      cohort of cardiac surgery patients done over the preceding 12 to 24-month period (Phase 0).
      These retrospective data elements will be used as baseline information for the purpose of
      comparative analyses (control group) with the prospective data sets collected during the
      prospective enrollment phase (treatment group).

      Second, sites are required to participate in a roll-in phase (Phase 1). The purposes of the
      roll-in phase are to allow the users at participating sites to familiarize themselves with
      the use of the product with Active Clearance Technology; to implement clinical use protocols
      provided by ClearFlow, Inc. to all commercial users as part of product training, and; to
      demonstrate consistency and compliance with the clinical use protocols.

      Phase 0 and phase 1 can be executed in parallel. Participating sites may start prospective
      enrollment (Phase 2) after completion of phase 0 and 1.

      Investigators shall report PleuraFlow-related serious injuries to Sponsor as soon as becoming
      aware of the injury and no later than 48 hours.

      Investigators shall report deaths to both the Sponsor and Regulatory authorities in
      compliance with their applicable State, Country and conditions imposed by the reviewing
      Ethical Committee. The three main guidance documents for reporting recall and vigilance
      procedure of medical devices are, 21 CFR, Part 806, MEDDEV 2.12/1 rev8 Guidelines on a
      Medical Devices Vigilance System, and Health Canada Medical Device Regulations SOR/98-282.

      Vanderbilt University will create a REDCap database specific to this study and administer it.
      The Vanderbilt database study administrator will control database access, oversee data entry
      and data transfer from each participating site. Database manager will monitor the REDCap
      database and ensure data completeness and security. The database manager will maintain
      contact will the data entry personnel from each site and ensure whether data capture is
      occurring and determine the number of patients expected to be enrolled in the Registry at the
      end of the study period. Sponsor will not have access to REDCap once the study is complete.
      The REDCap database is secure and HIPAA compliant.

      Descriptive statistics for categorical variables will be reported as percentages, and
      continuous variables will be reported as mean ± standard deviation (SD). Categorical
      variables will be compared using the chi-square test. Continuous variables will be compared
      using a Student's t-test as appropriate.

      Database study administrator will coordinate the generation of data reports and statistical
      outputs. Sponsor will not have access to REDCap once the study is complete.
    
  