
    
      The purpose of this prospective, quantitative study is to compare the agreement between the
      measured arterial oxygen saturation levels using a portable fingertip versus a conventional
      bedside pulse oximeter in adult surgical patients, presenting for elective and emergency
      surgery to Groote Schuur Hospital over a four-week period. Adult surgical patients, not
      meeting any exclusion criteria, who present for elective or emergency surgery will be
      recruited. 200 data pairs (SpO2, heart rate and skin tone) will be recorded in the
      perioperative period (operating rooms, recovery room and intensive care unit).

      Existing monitoring devices will not be disturbed. The agreement between the two devices will
      be compared using a Bland-Altman plot, Microsoft Excel and SPSS software. A root mean square
      difference value will also be calculated from these values.

      No sensitive or personal patient information will be recorded, and pulse oximetry is
      essential harmless. Potential cross-infection will be avoided by excluding patients with
      known communicable diseases or open wounds/ bodily fluids in the area to have the oximeter
      probes applied. The study devices will be disinfected after each use. Recruitment will not
      affect clinical care.

      The significance of this study into the performance of portable fingertip pulse oximeters in
      adult surgical patients will result in the availability of cheaper devices, deemed as vital
      anaesthetic equipment by the WHO and various anaesthetic regulatory bodies, in lower income
      medical facilities. It will also give anaesthetists and other medical personal the confidence
      to make clinical decisions based on these highly portable devices, thereby making pulse
      oximeters more available in resource limited areas. It will also add further data to existing
      studies and help assess whether darker skin pigment affects the performance of these devices
      in the clinical setting, which is highly relevant in an African country like South Africa.
    
  