
    
      This study will use the Multiphase Optimization Strategy (MOST) to optimize an adaptive
      intervention that successfully navigates COVID-19 medically or socially vulnerable people
      through a continuum of prevention, care and treatment (CoPCT) modeled on the HIV CoPCT. The
      COVID-19 CoPCT starts with testing and continues with successful adherence to prevention or
      treatment guidelines to help prevent and/or treat COVID-19. The study will assess the
      effectiveness of Navigation Services compared to referrals in increasing COVID-19 testing and
      Brief Counseling in increasing adherence to the State of NJ recommendations for COVID-19
      prevention and treatment. The study will also examine the effect of Critical Dialogue on
      testing behavior among people who decline to be tested for COVID-19. The investigators will
      develop decision rules about what evidence-based-interventions work best for what types of
      people (e.g., those who test right away, versus decliners) and in what period of the COVID-19
      continuum. Finally, the study will shed light on factors associated with testing and
      adherence to NJ recommendations. Investigators will follow Community Based Participatory
      Research principles in implementing a sequential, multiple assignment randomized trial
      (SMART) design. Adjusting for possible 15% loss to follow-up, a total sample of 670 people
      who are medically and socially vulnerable to infection and poor outcomes with COVID-19 will
      be enrolled as the intent-to treat-sample. The investigators are confident that they can
      recruit this sample in Essex County, NJ based on their previous experience and because the
      parent study research team has established relationships with other service agencies in the
      community from which, in addition to NJCRI, research participants will be drawn. The primary
      outcome is completion of the COVID-19 test within one week of the first intervention session
      The study will include 3 stages in which participants will be randomized to one of two
      possible interventions as follows:

        1. Eligible and consenting participants will be randomized to receive the first-stage
           intervention: Navigation Services (NS) or standard services (referral to testing and NJ
           digital information brochure after testing). The primary outcome is completion of the
           COVID-19 test within one week of the intervention session.

        2. Those who get tested will be randomized to receive the second-stage intervention:
           continue with NS or standard treatment or switch to Brief Counseling (BC). The outcome
           will be adherence to NJ recommendations. For those testing positive, adherence means
           engaging in a 14-day quarantine, receiving medical care as needed and contact tracing.
           For those testing negative, adherence means social distancing and wearing masks.

        3. Those who do not get tested will be randomized into their second-stage intervention to
           continue with NS or digital brochure or switch to Critical Dialogue (CD). The outcome
           will be completing COVID-19 testing within 1 week of the second stage intervention
           session. Those who complete the testing will then be randomized to either continue with
           NS or digital brochure or switch to BC. Those who do not get tested will be randomized
           to continued NS or digital brochure or switch to CD. The outcome will be adherence to NJ
           recommendations, as defined above. All variables will be measured using standardized
           measures selected from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) PhenX Toolkit.

      For the primary aim of comparing effects of Navigation Services versus referral on testing
      behavior and NJ recommendations adherence, using standard sample size formula for difference
      of two proportions, a total sample size of 582 subjects is needed to have 80% power at α=0.05
      to detect a 10% difference in proportions, assuming 70% in the referral group will complete
      testing and adhere to specific NJ recommendations. The 582 sample size has 85% to detect a
      difference of 15% in adherence rates to NJ recommendations between two interventions.
    
  