
    
      Cholesterol-lowering statin drugs have been reported to lower proliferation activity in
      prostate cancer, delay occurrence of castration resistance and reduce the risk of prostate
      cancer death. Therefore, it is important to test statins' efficacy in addition to
      conventional prostate cancer treatment in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.

      This phase 3 randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial will explore whether
      intervention with atorvastatin delays prostate cancer progression i.e. development of
      castration resistance compared to placebo during androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for
      metastatic or recurrent prostate cancer.

      Secondary objectives include exploring whether atorvastatin lowers prostate cancer-specific
      or overall mortality compared to placebo, and to demonstrate whether changes in serum lipid
      parameters predict disease recurrence and occurrence of adverse genomic changes predicting
      castration resistance among prostate cancer patients during ADT.

      The study recruitment target is 400 participants who start ADT as management of metastatic or
      recurrent prostate cancer. These men will be randomized 1:1 (200 + 200) to receive blinded
      study drug, either 80 mg of atorvastatin daily or placebo until disease recurrence i.e.
      development of castration resistance or for a maximum of five years.

      The study will be carried out in collaboration between urological departments of University
      Hospitals in Finland as a project of the national FinnProstata study group, Herlev University
      Hospital in Denmark and the Tartu University Hospital in Estonia.

      Follow-up is continued until the primary end-point, development of castration resistance.
      After this the participants will be given the opportunity to voluntarily carry on with the
      blinded intervention for maximum time of five year to observe effects on survival after
      development of castration resistance. Blinding will be lifted after the follow-up is complete
      for all study participants.

      Castration resistance is defined as prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression (three
      consecutive rises of PSA measured at least 1 week apart with two > 50% increases over the
      nadir and PSA > 2 ng/ml) or radiological disease progression (appearance of two or more
      lesions in bone scan or soft tissue enlargement as per RECIST criteria) with serum
      testosterone at castrate level (< 1.73 nmol/l; 50 ng/dl) during ADT.
    
  