
    
      The S-ICD Post Approval Study is a non-randomized registry that will retrospectively enroll
      subjects who participated in the S-ICD Clinical Investigation (IDE G090013) and prospectively
      enroll new candidates for the S-ICD System. The target enrollment sample size is 1,616
      subjects at up to 150 investigational sites to achieve 1,025 subjects in the analysis cohort
      at 60 months.

        -  The primary safety endpoint of the study is the Type I (caused by the S-ICD System)
           Complication Free Rate at 60 months compared to a performance goal of 85%.

        -  The primary effectiveness endpoint is the Overall Shock Effectiveness in Converting
           Spontaneous Discrete Episodes of ventricular tachycardia /ventricular fibrillation
           (VT/VF) through 60 months compared to a performance goal of 94%.

        -  The secondary safety endpoint of the study is the Electrode-Related Complication Free
           Rate at 60 months compared to a performance goal of 92.5%.

        -  The secondary effectiveness endpoint is First Shock Effectiveness in Converting Induced
           (Acute) and Spontaneous Discrete Episodes of VT/VF through 60 months compared to a
           performance goal of 84.0%.

      Additional objectives include characterization of long term safety and effectiveness in
      subjects of varied body habitus and in traditionally underrepresented populations.

      Subjects must meet the following criteria to be eligible for inclusion in the study:

        1. Eligible for implantation with an S-ICD System, OR previously implanted with an S-ICD
           System in the S-ICD System Clinical Investigation (IDE G090013)

        2. Willing and able to provide written informed consent or have informed consent provided
           by a legal representative

      Subjects who meet the following criteria must be excluded from the study:

      1. Remaining life expectancy of less than 360 days

      Enrolled subjects will be followed at the implant procedure, predischarge and annual(±60
      days) follow-up visits. Subjects are followed according to the standard of care at their
      participating investigational center.
    
  