
    
      120 pregnant women (aged from 18- to 40 years old) with singleton healthy living fetus
      between 34 -37 weeks gestation will be included in the current study and they will be divided
      into two groups; Control group that will include 60 healthy pregnant women and Study group
      that will include 60 pregestational diabetic pregnant patients. The latter group will be
      furtherly subdivided into two groups according to HbA1C levels namely; controlled diabetics
      (will include 30 diabetic pregnant women with controlled DM - HbA1C < 6.5 %) and uncontrolled
      diabetics (will include 30 diabetic pregnant women with uncontrolled DM - HbA1C ≥ 6.5 %). The
      patient will be recruited from the obstetric out-patient clinic and in-patient department
      (Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology - Kasr El-Aini Hospital - Faculty of Medicine - Cairo
      University). Diabetic women with either complicated diabetes or any other chronic diseases
      (e.g., hypertension or renal) will be excluded. Patients with anomalous or IUGR (EFW below
      the 10th percentile for gestational age) fetuses will be excluded. Patients experienced any
      pregnancy induced medical disorders, rupture of membranes or oligohydramnios (AFI < the fifth
      percentile) in the current pregnancy will be also excluded.

      Informed consent will be obtained from all participants (to share in the study after
      describing the aim of the study and the potential hazards) then all participants will be
      subjected to the following: full history taking, complete Physical Examination (general &
      local), laboratory investigations (Complete blood picture, liver & kidney functions, Fasting
      and post prandial blood sugar and HbA1C estimation) and routine obstetric ultrasound (to
      confirm gestational age, assess fetal weight (EFW) and amniotic fluid index (AFI) and to
      exclude fetal anomalies. Doppler ultrasonography assessment will be done using the apparatus
      (SonoAce R3 with Doppler unit and convex linear transducer 3.5 MHZ). As regard umbilical
      artery (UA) Doppler, all patients will be placed in a semi recumbent position with a left
      lateral tilt, and then the uterine content will be scanned to select an area of amniotic
      cavity with several loops of cord. Then using a pulsed wave Doppler on a free loop of cord,
      the characteristic sound and shape of the umbilical artery will be identified. When the
      screen showed at least 3 consecutive wave forms of similar height, the image will be frozen
      and umbilical artery Doppler parameters (Resistance index and pulsatility index) will be
      estimated. A minimum of 3 separate readings will be averaged before the final values are
      obtained. Umbilical artery Doppler studies will be avoided during fetal activity and fetal
      breathing because of effect of fetal breathing movements on waveform variability and
      recording will be performed during fetal apnea. Abnormal UA Doppler velocimetry will be
      defined if indices more than 95th centile for gestational age or if diastolic flow is either
      absent or reversed. As regard middle cerebral artery Doppler (MCA), a transverse view of the
      fetal brain will be obtained at the level of the biparietal diameter. The transducer will
      then moved towards the base of the skull at the level of the lesser wing of the sphenoid
      bone. Using color flow imaging, the middle cerebral artery will be seen as a major lateral
      branch of the circle of Willis, running anterolaterally at the borderline between the
      anterior and the middle cerebral fossae. The pulsed Doppler sample gate will then placed on
      the middle portion of this vessel to obtain flow velocity waveforms. When the screen showed
      at least 3 consecutive wave forms of similar height, the image will be frozen and middle
      cerebral artery Doppler parameters (Resistance index & pulsatility index) will be estimated.
      A minimum of 3 separate readings will be averaged before the final values are obtained. Care
      should be taken to apply minimal pressure to the maternal abdomen with the transducer, as
      fetal head compression is associated with alterations of intracranial arterial waveforms.
      Abnormal MCA Doppler velocimetry will be defined if indices less than 5th centile for
      gestational age. After fetal birth, the following data will be recorded; neonatal birth
      weight, neonatal blood sugar, Apgar score at 1and 5 min, the need for transfer to neonatal
      intensive care unit (NICU). Abnormal perinatal outcomes will included one-min and five-min
      Apgar scores less than 7, hypoglycemia [blood sugar (BS) less than 50 mg/dL], neonatal
      intensive care unit (NICU) hospitalization. Women with at least one poor outcome will be
      categorized in the abnormal neonatal outcome group.
    
  