
    
      Stretching exercises are often used in warm-up to increase footballer's performance and to
      decrease risk of injury. The main aim of these exercises is to increase maximal active range
      of motion. Different types of stretching exercises are being used: ballistic, dynamic,
      static, eccentric flexibility training and proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation. All of
      them are usually used in football training sessions in order to increase short-term range of
      motion and to decrease associated risk of injuries. Simic, Sarabon and Markovic (2013) in
      their meta-analysis reported that static stretching can have negative acute effects, which is
      not in line with general thinking, that static stretching in warm-up can have positive
      effects on sports performance.

      Post-activation potentiation is a phenomenon, which is induced by loading the muscle to
      increase the recruitment of motor units. Since static stretching can have negative effects on
      muscle performance (maximal strength, power) the researchers hypothesize, that the effects
      can be eliminated with this type of activation exercises.

      In this study the researchers want to measure acute effects of warm-up and static stretching
      on maximal range of motion, maximal torque and maximal rate of torque of adductors
      (dynamometer) and maximal power and height of countermovement jump (force plate) of football
      players. Since there is many scientific evidence that shows that static stretching can
      improve short-term muscle performance, our aim is to discover the size and the duration of
      negative effects and if they can be eliminated with post-activation potentiation exercises.
      In the cross-over study design 19 football players of age 14 will be included.

      In the first condition (control) the participants will perform 5 minutes of aerobic warm-up
      (stepping on the stair) and then 7 series of 20-seconds bilateral static stretching of
      hamstrings, adductors and triceps surae (with knee extended). Quadriceps femoris will be
      stretched unilaterally, each muscle 20 seconds. Summary of all stretches in one series is 80
      seconds. Maximal range of motion of hip abduction and hip flexion (seat and reach test) and
      dorsal flexion will be measured at the beginning, after warm up, during each series of static
      stretching, after last series of static stretching, 7.5 minutes after last series of static
      stretching and 15 minutes after last series of static stretching.

      Maximal power [W/kg] and height [m] of the countermovement jump will be monitored with force
      plate at the beginning, after warm up, after each series of static stretching, 7.5 minutes
      after last series of static stretching and 15 minutes after last series of static stretching.

      On dynamometer will be conducted 2 maximal explosive voluntary contractions of adductors
      muscles. Relative maximal torque [Nm/kgBM] and rate of torque developement [Nm/s/kgBM] will
      be measured at the beginning, after warm up, after last series of static stretching, 7.5
      minutes after last series of static stretching and 15 minutes after last series of static
      stretching.

      In the second condition (experimental) all the tasks are the same, the only difference is
      that the subjects must conduct activation exercises after last series of static stretching.

      Activation exercises are consisted of 2 series of 4 exercises. The first series (slow series)
      starts with 8 lifts onto toes (dorsal flexion) with knees extended, than continues with 8
      deep squats and 8 hip thrust and then terminates with four 4-seconds lasting maximal
      voluntary contraction of adductors with knees extended and with soft ball between the ankles.
      The second series (explosive) commences with 8 maximal vertical jumps conducted just with
      ankles, and then continues with 8 maximal countermovement jumps and 8 explosive hip thrusts.
      It finishes with 8 maximal explosive and 2 seconds lasting voluntary contractions of hip
      adductors with knees extended and with soft ball between the ankles.

      The researchers hypothesize that muscular performance (maximal power and height of the
      countermovement jump, maximal torque and rate of torque developement of adductors muscles)
      will be impaired after 7 series of static stretching. Second hypothesis is that negative
      effects will not last longer than 15 minutes and the last hypothesis is that static
      stretching induced negative effects can be eliminated with sets of activation exercises.

      Statistical analysis will be performed in SPSS (SPSS Statistics 22, IBM, New York). T-test,
      1-way and 2-way repeated measures ANOVA will be used to confirm the differences between
      average values.
    
  