
    
      Two phases were planned for this study, as described below. The safety phase of the study was
      completed; however, due to limited funding, the efficacy phase was never started (that is,
      the efficacy phase was terminated).

      SAFETY PHASE: The safety phase will use cross-over, placebo controlled and single-blinded
      design. 10 participants with post stroke chronic non-fluent aphasia will undergo two
      experiments. In the experiment 1, the subjects will receive 10 mg dextroamphetamine, 1.5 mA
      anodal tDCS to right inferior frontal gyrus (right Broca's area), and melodic intonation
      therapy. The two experiments of one time intervention will be separated by 1 week of washout
      and when the subjects come back for experiment 2, any later side effects will be evaluated.
      In the experiment 2, the subjects will receive placebo medication with anodal tDCS to right
      IFG (Broca's area) and melodic intonation therapy. During the experiments, thirty minutes
      before stimulation, participants in the active drug experiment (n=10) will take 10 mg
      dextroamphetamine per oral -experiment 1- and participants in the placebo drug experiment
      will take placebo pill per oral -experiment 2-. During the 20 minute stimulation phase, the
      participants (n=10) will receive anodal tDCS (1.5 mA) on ipsilesional right inferior frontal
      gyrus (Broca's area). All participants will simultaneously receive melodic intonation therapy
      for duration of an hour during and after 20 minutes of stimulation.

      EFFICACY PHASE: To study the safety and effect of combined dextroamphetamine, tDCS and MIT
      therapy the study will use a parallel-groups, randomized, sham and placebo controlled, and
      double-blinded design in which 48 participants with post stroke chronic non-fluent aphasia
      will be randomly assigned to receive either 1) dextroamphetamine therapy with active
      stimulation, 2) placebo medication with active stimulation, 3) dextroamphetamine therapy with
      sham stimulation or 4) placebo medication with sham stimulation for the same duration. The
      subjects from the previous step of the study will be asked to participate to this step.
      Thirty minutes before stimulation participants in the active drug groups, group 1 (n=12) and
      group 3 (n=12) will take dextroamphetamine 10 mg per oral and participants in the placebo
      groups, group 2 (n=12) and group 4 (n=12) will take placebo pill per oral. During the 20
      minute stimulation phase, the participants in the active stimulation groups, groups 1 (n=12)
      and 2 (n=12) will receive anodal tDCS (1.5 mA) on right inferior frontal gyrus (Broca's
      area), and participants in the sham control groups, group 3 (n=12) and group 4 (n=12) will
      receive sham stimulation. All participants will simultaneously receive melodic intonation
      therapy for duration of an hour during and after 20 minutes of stimulation. Treatment will be
      administered at an intensity of 5 sessions per week for 2 weeks.
    
  