
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the 1-year progression-free survival probability in patients with previously
           untreated mantle cell lymphoma treated with courses of rituximab and cyclophosphamide,
           doxorubicin, vincristine, and dexamethasone alternating with courses of rituximab and
           high-dose cytarabine and methotrexate with leucovorin calcium.

        -  Determine the response rate (complete unconfirmed and complete and partial responses)
           and survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Correlate chromosomal breakpoints, translocated immunoglobulin regulatory sequences, and
           cyclins D1, D2, and D3 with response and progression-free survival in patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Correlate gene expression (measured by DNA microarray analysis) with response and
           progression-free survival in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot, multicenter study.

        -  Courses 1, 3, 5, and 7: Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1 (courses 1, 3, and 5
           only); cyclophosphamide IV over 3 hours twice a day on days 2-4; doxorubicin IV over 24
           hours on days 5-7; vincristine IV on days 5 and 12; dexamethasone orally or IV four
           times a day on days 2-5 and 12-15; and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) daily
           beginning on day 8 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Courses 2, 4, 6, and 8: Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1 (courses 2, 4, and 6
           only); high-dose methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 2; high-dose cytarabine IV over 2
           hours twice a day on days 3-4; oral leucovorin calcium 4 times a day on days 3-10; and
           G-CSF SC daily beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed within 30 days, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for
      3 years. Patients with disease progression are followed annually for up to 5 years from study
      entry.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 50 patients will be accrued for this study within 25 months.
    
  