
    
      It has been suggested that psoriasis is not a homogeneous disease. It is a constellation of
      diseases sharing similar pathologic findings. Clinical distinct entities of psoriasis include
      pustular psoriasis, guttate psoriasis, psoriasis vulgaris, erythrodermic psoriasis, inverse
      psoraisis, sebopsoriasis. Recent studies also showed a different cytokine profile in small
      and large plaque psoriasis. It is also suggested that the thickness of psoriatic plaques is
      also genetically pre-determined. In my daily practice, nummular/eczematous (or thin plaque),
      inverse and erythrodermic psoriasis seems to be more common in the presence of an
      asthma/atopy history. The present study was designed to find out the influence of atopic
      diathess on the phenotypic manifestation of psoriasis. In the absence of typical atopic
      eczema lesions in patients of psoriasis, the Th2 cytokine profile and serum IgE level as well
      as personal and family history of atopy (i.e. asthma, allergic rhinitis, hay fever, atopic
      dermatitis) and the presence and degree of itch will also be assayed and correlated with the
      clinical manifestation. At least one hundred consecutive psoriatic patients with or without
      atopic diathesis will be recruited. The definition of variants of psoriasis other than
      psoriasis vulgaris is as follows: 1. Pustular psoriasis: lesions showing clinical pustular as
      the main form, excluding pustular transformation secondary to treatment.2. Erythodermic
      psoriasis: thin plaques covering more than 90% of BSA at its worst and at least 50% when seen
      during the study3. Inverse psoriasis: psoriasis mainly over the large skin folds, including
      the groins, breast, foreskin, interdigital (psoriasis alba) and subauricular areas. 4.
      Sebopsoriasis: lesions mainly confined to the seborrheic areas, i.e. scalp, ears,
      retroauricular folds, glabella, eyebrows, nasal folds, presternal and intersscapular areas.
      Lesions confined only to the scalp will be excluded. 5. Guttate psoriasis: acute onset of
      multiple lesions usually not wider than 1 cm6. Nummular psoriasis: discoid thin plaques
      (PSAI: thickness mostly 1), usually 4-5 cms wide, with somewhat exudative surface sometimes
      annular and preferentially located on the limbs. In case of uncertainty, pathology will be
      performed to make the diagnosis before enrollment. 7. Thin plaque psoriasis: similar to
      psoriasis vulgaris, but the thickness of individual plaques are no more than grade 2 in PASI
      except on the elbows, knees and scalp. 8. Small plaque psoriasis: similar to guttate
      psoriasis but the plaques are larger (1-5 cm) and has a more chronic course.9. Other
      psoriasis: this includes figurate erythema like psoriasis, psoriasis unguium only, etc.
    
  