
    
      Background:

      Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive cancer with a poor prognosis.

      Although highly responsive to chemotherapy initially, SCLC typically relapses quickly and
      becomes refractory to treatment within a few months.

      There is only one FDA approved treatment for patients with relapsed SCLC after first-line
      chemotherapy: topotecan, which inhibits religation of topoisomerase I-mediated single-strand
      DNA breaks leading to lethal doublestrand DNA breaks.

      The survival of some SCLC cells despite initial tumor sensitivity to chemotherapy suggests
      the existence of a highly effective DNA damage response network.

      SCLC is characterized by high replication stress (RB1 inactivation, MYC and CCNE1 activation)
      and defective ATM-p53 signaling pathway, which cause an excessive reliance on ATR for
      survival following DNA damage.

      We hypothesize that a combination of ATR kinase inhibition with DNA damaging agents such as
      topotecan will provide an attractive synthetically lethal therapeutic option for SCLC.

      VX-970 is a potent and selective kinase inhibitor of ATR, and in vitro data support the
      hypothesis that ATR inhibition can improve SCLC responses to DNA damaging agents.

      Primary objectives:

      Phase 1: To identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of topotecan in combination with
      VX-970.

      Phase 2: To assess the efficacy with respect to clinical response rate of a combination of
      topotecan and VX-970 in the second-line treatment of patients with SCLC.

      Eligibility:

      Both Phase 1 and 2: Subjects must be greater than or equal to 18 years of age and have a
      performance status (ECOG) less than or equal to 2. Subjects must not have received
      chemotherapy, or undergone major surgery within 4 weeks and radiotherapy within 24 hours
      prior to enrollment.

      Phase 1: Subjects with histologically confirmed SCLC, NSCLC, ovarian cancer, cervical cancer,
      and neuroendocrine cancers, and at least one prior chemotherapy. Patients with other
      histolgies will be allowed if no standard treatment options exist. Patients with evaluable,
      but not measurable disease will be eligible for Phase I.

      Phase 2: Subjects with histological confirmation of SCLC and one prior platinum-based
      chemotherapy. Patients with both platinum-sensitive and platinum-refractory disease will be
      eligible. Patients must have measurable disease to be eligible for Phase II.

      Design:

      Participants meeting inclusion and exclusion criteria will receive topotecan and VX-970
      administered every 21 days (1 cycle), until disease progression or development of intolerable
      side effects.

      Blood and hair samples will be collected at multiple time points during cycle 1
      (pre-treatment on day 1, post treatment on days 2, and 3) for PD analyses.

      Tumor biopsies, which are optional, will be obtained at baseline, during the first treatment
      cycle (approximately 15 hours after the first dose of VX-970 on day 3) and at disease
      progression except for subjects at the first dose level.

      Participants at the first dose level will undergo biopsies on day 3 prior to third dose of
      topotecan.

      Participants will be monitored weekly during the first cycle by clinic visit and basic labs.

      Toxicity will be graded according to CTCAE version 4.0, and tumor assessments will be made
      using CT scans (chest, abdomen and pelvis) at baseline and after every 2 cycles according to
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline version 1.1.

      Follow-up for survival will be carried out every 3 months.
    
  