
    
      Title: The efficacy of music as an adjunct analgesic in reducing pain and anxiety during
      ultrasound-guided manual vacuum aspiration (USG-MVA): A randomized controlled trial.

      Approximately one in four women will experience an early pregnancy loss in her lifetime.
      Manual vacuum aspiration (MVA) is one of the treatment options for managing early pregnancy
      loss. USG-MVA is safer, more cost-effective, and is associated with shorter hospital stay and
      cost than traditional surgical method. However, majority of patients experience significant
      pain during the procedure.

      At present, there is no consensus on the optimal pain control regimen for USG-MVA. The pain
      generated from USG-MVA may be due to the dilatation of the cervix or insertion of the
      catheter or due to uterine contraction. Various analgesic methods have been used to reduce
      the pain including the use of paracervical block (PCB), non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
      (NSAIDs), lidocaine gel and conscious sedation but the procedure is still not absolutely
      painless. Pain management remains an important factor in its success and patient acceptance.

      In our previous study, the investigator evaluated the effectiveness of adding Buscopan速, an
      anti-spasmodic agent, as pain control regimen for women undergone the USG-MVA. Result found
      that the intervention group were more satisfied to the procedure than the placebo group. They
      had 15% and 21% lower pain score immediately after the operation as well as two hours post
      operatively. The investigator postulated the women receiving Buscopan速 is being relieved from
      experiencing uterine spasms. However, the investigator found that the women had higher
      anxiety levels as reflected by the high anxiety scores in their Hospital Anxiety Depression
      Scale. Pain perception maybe affected by one's psychological state at the time of the
      procedure. And undergo a surgical procedure plus the diagnosis of miscarriage further
      increases their anxiety and stress levels. Therefore to reduce the patient's anxiety during
      the USG-MVA may further improve the patient's pain control and overall acceptance of the
      procedure.

      Music is known to have a calming effect; previous studies have postulated that music can act
      as a distracter which turns the patient's attention away from negative stimuli. Another
      theory is that music activates brain as rewarding region which is responsible for pleasant
      experiences and happiness and induces dopamine release in striatal system. A systematic
      review of 42 randomized controlled trials of music interventions in the preoperative setting
      found music significantly reduced anxiety and pain. Previous studies also showed music as an
      auxiliary analgesic during first trimester surgical abortion but only with small sample size
      and mixed results. There has not been any RCTs to investigate the beneficial effect of music
      therapy in pain control or reducing anxiety levels during USG-MVA.

      we hypothesis the addition of music to our current pain control can reduce pain and anxiety
      levels experienced by our patients during USG-MVA.

      The Primary outcome is to evaluate the difference in pain score immediate postoperative and 2
      hours after the USG-guided MVA procedure between the intervention and control groups. The
      Secondary outcome is to evaluate the difference in their anxiety levels.

      Plan of Investigation:

      Subjects All women undergoing USG- MVA for the treatment of early pregnancy loss with
      gestation less than 12 weeks; size of the gestation product is less than 5 cm.

      Inclusion criteria includes:

      Women 18 years old or above Women with miscarriage who are feasible for USG-MVA

      Exclusion criteria includes:

      Not feasible for MVA procedure Partial or total hearing impairment on analgesic or anxiolytic
      before admission to hospital. Patient refusal

      (ii) Methods The patient is recruited in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology in a
      university base hospital. The participates consented for the USG-MVA procedure.

      Randomization For those who consented to the study, they will randomly assign to receive
      music therapy or not, according to a computer generated random number series in 1:1 ratio.
      Each number will be placed in an opaque envelope labelled serially: (i) intervention group:
      routine USG-MVA procedure plus music given via headphone (ii) control group- routine USG-MVA
      procedure with no music given, with no headphone is given either. Given the audible and
      physical features of the intervention, it is impossible to blind the participant and
      physicians, staff and research assistant in the process.

      USG-MVA procedure (Routine care)

      USG-MVA will carry out in an outpatient day ward. Women will be given oral Misoprostol tablet
      2-3 hours before the procedure for cervical priming. All patients will be given naproxen (500
      mg) orally an hour and an intravenous injection of Buscopan速 (20mg) 5 minutes before the
      procedure. If the woman is allergic to NSAIDs, paracetamol or codeine will be used instead.
      The women will be asked to have full bladder for the abdominal USG.

      During the USG-MVA procedure, the women are placed in the lithotomy position and aseptically
      dressed. Speculum will be put to visualize the cervix. 5 ml 2% xylocaine local anaesthetic
      will be injected at the cervical-vaginal juncture at 4, 5,7, 8 o'clock position. The anterior
      lip of cervix is held with a volsellum and cervical dilation is performed if required. A 60ml
      charged syringe will attach to the curette (size 4 to 7mm). 5ml 2% Xylocaine gel will be
      applied to the cervical canal and over the end of the curette tip during the insertion. And
      abdominal USG will be performed during the procedure to ensure complete evacuation and
      prevent perforation of organs.

      The USG-MVA will stop as soon as USG confirm that the uterine cavity was empty. Any
      post-operative complications including significant bleeding requiring blood transfusion,
      uterine perforation and infection will be recorded. Women will be discharged after two hours
      if they were stable. And they are asked to return 3 weeks later for a pregnancy test to
      evaluate the completeness of evacuation.

      Intervention group (Music therapy)

      In additional to the standard routine care, the patients are asked to select their favourite
      music; they will start to hear the music when they are placed in lithotomy position and end
      when procedure completed (removal speculum). They are asked not to hear any music before and
      after the procedure. A bluetooth headphone fitted with sanitary covers is offered. The volume
      of the media player is preset so instructions from the staff or clinicians could still be
      heard. The genre of music chosen will be recorded.

      Control group (No Music) In the control group, neither music nor headphones will be offered.
      The participants are also asked not to listen to any music before; during or after the
      USG-MVA and they will undergo the routine USG-MVA procedure.

      Pain assessment Participants are asked to rate their pain intensity by the visual analog
      scale (VAS). The scores ranged from 0 to 100, where 0 indicated no pain and 100 indicated the
      worst pain imaginable. The pain score will be assessed when participants enter the
      department, 30 minutes after administration of misoprostol, at the end of the procedure and 2
      hours after the procedure. The need for additional postoperative analgesics were recorded
      (yes or no).

      Stress and Anxiety levels The participants anxiety and stress level are assessed by the
      Chinese version of the General Health Questionnaire-12 (GHQ-12), Hospital Anxiety and
      Depression Scale (HADS) and State anxiety (STAI-S) of the State-trait Anxiety Inventory and
      the salivary alpha amylase level.

      General health questionnaire (GHQ-12) The participants preoperative anxiety level are
      assessed by the GHQ-12. It consists a 4-point Likert ranging from 1 to 4; The total score
      ranges from 12-48, score greater than 27 indicate a higher level of psychological distress.

      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) The HADS aims to evaluate the participants their
      state of anxiety and depression. It is a 4-point Likert ranging from 0 to 3. The total score
      ranges from 0 to 21. The cut-off point is 8 for higher state of anxiety or depression.

      State-trait anxiety inventory- State Anxiety Subscale (STAI-S) The STAI-S aims to evaluate
      the current state of anxiety. Participants are asked to answer the questionnaires during
      admission, after 30 minutes of cytotec administration, immediate and 2 hours after the
      USG-MVA. It consists of 20 questions with 4 points Likert scale. The total scores range from
      20 to 80, with higher scores correlating with greater anxiety.

      Stress biomarker assessment -Salivary alpha amylase (SAA) The Salivary alpha-amylase (sAA)
      levels measures the physiological stress, they are collected by a dedicated SaliCap速
      collection device via the passive drooling method before; immediately and at 30 minutes after
      MVA procedure. All patients were asked not to eat or drink at least an hour before
      collection.

      Client satisfaction assessment

      Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ) It is a self-administered questionnaire to assess
      client satisfaction and acceptance. It consists of eight items with 4-point Likert Scale,
      from "Very satisfied" to "Quite dissatisfied".

      (iv) Data processing and analysis Statistical Analysis All statistical analyses will be
      performed using SPSS 22.0 based on intention-to-treat. A two-tailed probability value of p<
      0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

      Sample size Previous studies in women undergoing gynaecological procedures reported that
      music therapy could reduce pain scores by between 35% to 50%. Assuming an alpha of 0.05,
      power of 90% , estimated that 73 participants will be recruited in each group to detect a 1-
      sided medium effect size of 0.5 due to music therapy. To allow for 20% drop-out rate, the
      planned sample size will be increased to 88 per group.

      Duration of study Aim to conduct for 18 months, followed by 6 months for data collection and
      analysis. Patients' recruitment will start after ethics approval.
    
  