
    
      Intensive medicine keeps pushing its borders, and enables survival of critical illnesses,
      including the substitution of organ functions in patients with multiple organ dysfunction
      (MODS). Despite the improvements in short-term outcomes, the long-term prognosis and quality
      of life (long-term outcomes) in patients, who survived a critical condition at ICU, remain
      unfavorable. The long-term consequences may persist for months or even years.

      Post-intensive care syndrome (PICS) represents a significantly limiting impairment in three
      areas: physical (polyneuromyopathy of critically-ill patients), cognitive (delirium), and
      mental (development of depressions and PTSD - post-traumatic stress disorder). It is
      especially the rapid deterioration of muscles caused with the catabolic effect of the illness
      itself during accentuated proteolysis, very negatively affects the muscle strength, inability
      to discontinue artificial ventilation in the patient, increase of infections, and
      prolongation of the ICU stay. It often results in the inability to discharge the patient into
      home care. Polyneuromyopathy affects up to 40% of critically-ill patients; at the greatest
      risk are especially patients in a serious catabolic state, with activated systemic
      inflammatory response, with microvascular ischemia, on corticosteroids, immobilized, and on
      long-term artificial ventilation. The prevention is difficult, as well as monitoring of the
      lean body mass (LBM), especially in the muscle mass of critically ill patients, who are
      further affected with changes in hydration and fluid leak.

      BIA - bioelectric impedance is a non-invasive technique, which is able, on the basis of
      impedance, to evaluate body composition (muscles, fat, total body fluid), determine hydration
      (ratio of extracellular and intracellular fluid, fluid retention); another prognostic marker
      is also the phase angle. It helps to evaluate markers of nutrition, basal energetic
      metabolism.

      The BIS Multiscan 5000 device measures 50 frequencies, which are used to create a Cole Plot,
      using a mathematical model. It enables obtaining data from bed-ridden critically-ill
      patients, using tetrapolar bioelectric impedance.
    
  