
    
      The Dutch treatment guidelines recommend trauma-focused treatment (TFT) for PTSD. In TFT,
      patients are exposed to trauma reminders that they typically avoid, until their emotional
      reactions decline. This treatment has been found very effective for some patients but there
      is much room for improvement, particularly in PTSD related to childhood abuse (CA-PTSD).
      Symptom exacerbation, non-attendance and dropout rates of up to 40% have been observed in
      patients with CA-PTSD.

      Two alternative treatments have been proposed. Firstly, TFT may be preceded by emotion
      regulation and interpersonal skills training. This is called phase-based treatment (PBT). The
      rationale is that patients with CA-PTSD have affect regulation and interpersonal problems
      that interfere with effective delivery of TFT. These problems are rooted in the detrimental
      developmental effects of abuse (often by an attachment figure). PBT indeed resulted in more
      favorable outcomes and fewer dropouts. In international guidelines, PBT was recently
      recommended as treatment of choice for patients with CA-PTSD and comorbidity.

      Another innovative treatment is intensive TFT (i-TFT), which means delivering TFT in 4
      instead of 16 weeks. The condensed format enhances learning and prevents the buildup of
      anticipatory anxiety, which in turn affects the patients' motivation. Patients with CA-PTSD
      are also characterized by high psychosocial stressors, leading to problems with treatment
      attendance and compliance. The condensed format may improve motivation, attendance and
      compliance. I-TFT was recently tested in a case series in patients with CA-PTSD and in a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) with patients with adulthood-related PTSD. Both studies had
      very low dropout rates (0-3%) and fast recovery.

      The aim of the current study is to investigate the (cost)effectiveness of two innovative
      forms of trauma-focused therapy for patients with CA-PTSD: phase-based therapy (emotion
      regulation skills training followed bij PE) and intensive PE (i-PE). The effects will be
      assessed post-treatment and after a 6 and 12 months follow-up in an intention-to-treat
      analysis. Results will be disseminated and included in treatment guidelines. The ultimate
      goal is to improve quality of care and contribute to treatment innovation for this severely
      ill target population.
    
  