
    
      This is a drug-drug interaction (DDI) study of mirtazapine for methamphetamine (MA) use
      disorder (MUD) to ensure the safety of this medication in the presence of a relevant dose of
      MA for people actively-using MA. MA is a widely used psychostimulant associated with
      substantial morbidity and mortality. MA is more prevalent than many other drugs, including
      opioids, with 37 million users of MA and amphetamine worldwide and 1.4 million past-year
      users in the U.S. alone in 2016. The number of MA poisoning deaths has steadily risen in
      recent years, from >3,700 in 2014 to 10,333 in 2017. Importantly, MA has been recognized as
      contributing substantially to the U.S. opioid crisis, with about half of MA poisoning deaths
      also caused by opioids. In the U.S., the annual economic cost of MA use is estimated to be
      $23.4 billion and use is strongly associated with HIV transmission.

      There are no FDA-approved pharmacologic treatments for MUD, a major gap in addiction
      medicine, especially because behavioral interventions alone have limited efficacy and would
      likely benefit from adjunctive pharmacologic therapy. Investigators' prior clinical trials
      included a Phase IIa trial (N=60) and a replication Phase IIb trial (N=120) demonstrating
      that mirtazapine (an adrenergic, serotoninergic, and dopaminergic generic medication
      currently approved to treat depression) 30mg orally once daily reduced MA use among
      MA-dependent men who have sex with men (MSM) and transgender women. Investigators were
      directed to conduct a DDI study to ensure the safety of mirtazapine with MA. This research is
      particularly relevant given the overlap of MA use disorder and opioid use disorder (OUD),
      which could raise additional safety concerns.

      The primary objectives of this study are as follows:

        1. To determine if mirtazapine 30mg daily alters the cardiovascular response to IV MA. The
           interaction of active medication (compared with placebo) with relevant doses of MA (30
           mg) on cardiovascular (heart rate, blood pressure, QTc interval) parameters and adverse
           events, including serotonergic signs, will be assessed to gather safety information in
           the Phase I human laboratory.

        2. To determine if mirtazapine alters the pharmacokinetics of IV MA. Pharmacokinetic
           parameters for MA and its major metabolites will be assessed over 48 hours under steady
           state mirtazapine (30 mg) or placebo, and relevant IV MA challenge (30 mg).

        3. To evaluate the above aims in the setting of concomitant steady-state administration of
           morphine or methadone.

      Design This study involves two simultaneous within-subject drug-drug interaction studies,
      each comprised of 12 participants. A total of 24 subjects will be enrolled who have MA use
      disorder who will be classified into 2 groups: (Group 1: no opioids; Group 2: opioid use
      disorder on methadone maintenance). Subjects will be randomized to the order of mirtazapine
      and placebo (i.e. one-half will receive mirtazapine first, then placebo; one-half will
      receive placebo first, then mirtazapine).

      Procedures Screening assessments will be completed across two-to-four visits over 2 weeks.
      All screening assessments should be completed within 14 days after labs are drawn.

      All subjects will complete the following study visits: screening 1 and 2,
      enrollment/admission to inpatient stay, 14-day inpatient stay, 14-day post-discharge
      follow-up visit.

      After consent is obtained, eligibility will be determined over the following screening
      visits, including medical history and physical examination (including weight and height),
      review of systems, vital signs, concomitant medications, EKG, breathalyzer, labwork, SCID.
      Additional assessments will include the CDS-12, PSQI, TLFB for substance use, delayed
      discounting, BIS-11, Stroop Test, CUDIT-r, COWS, ACSA, BDI-II.

      On the day of enrollment, study staff will confirm eligibility and transport patient to
      hospital for admission. Participant will receive a test infusion of MA 30mg IV. If
      participant tolerates test infusion within defined parameters, participant will be formally
      enrolled and randomized. First dose of study drug will be administered the evening of
      admission. On the fifth hospital day, participant will undergo MA challenge (single-blind
      placebo and 30mg IV for subjective, cardiovascular, and PK assessments). PK draws will
      continue for 48 hours after infusion.

      Participant will begin the opposite condition on day 8 and complete the MA infusion
      procedures on day 12. After completion of PK studies on day 14, participant will be
      discharged.

      A post-discharge safety check will be completed 10 days after discharge (+/- 7 days).
    
  