
    
      Participants were randomized to either receive 3 injections of CYD dengue vaccine or a
      placebo at 0, 6, and 12 months.

      A subset of participants from each country (N=2000) was also evaluated for reactogenicity and
      immunogenicity.

      For each participant, the Active Phase of dengue case detection began after the first
      injection (Dose 1) and continued until 13 months after the third injection (Dose 3). It was
      assumed that 12 months of surveillance should result in the detection of a sufficient number
      of VCD cases to allow for an assessment of efficacy.

      The Hospital Phase began after the Active Phase. Participants with a febrile illness and
      requiring hospitalization were screened for dengue until the end of the study.

      Participants who consented to participate in the SEP were actively followed for dengue case
      detection (i.e. at least weekly contact and capturing any acute febrile illness, not just
      hospitalized febrile cases, as in the Active Phase). The SEP was designed to maximize the
      detection of symptomatic VCD (hospitalized or not) in order to describe CYD dengue vaccine
      efficacy and safety in preventing symptomatic dengue in the long-term. Participants who
      declined participating in the SEP continued surveillance as in the Hospital Phase until trial
      completion.

      Symptomatic VCD cases occurring more than (>) 28 days after dose 3 (during the Active Phase)
      are defined as:

        -  Acute febrile illness (i.e. temperature >=38 degree Celsius (°C) on at least 2
           consecutive days)

        -  Virologically confirmed by dengue Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction
           (RT-PCR) and/or dengue non-structural (NS)1 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) Ag
           test.

      Severity was assessed using a definition consistent with the 1997 WHO Classification Dengue
      Hemorrhagic Fever and by an independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) severity criteria.
    
  