
    
      Objectives:

      The primary objective of the DRIVE-IN project is to evaluate the feasibility of implementing
      an interventional cohort of PWID in Haiphong. Such a cohort (DRIVE) will be instrumental in
      demonstrating the efficacy of a community-involved intervention integrating prevention and
      care in order to reduce HIV and HCV transmission among PWID in Haiphong.

      The main expected result of DRIVE-IN is to demonstrate that enrolment and follow-up of
      various hard-to-reach subgroups of PWID is feasible in the local context. These feasibility
      objectives will be evaluated using a set of relevant indicators.

      Design:

      The research will first include a respondent-driven sampling (RDS) survey, including a
      maximum of 600 PWID. Then 250 RDS participants (i.e about a quarter of the future DRIVE
      cohort) will be selected for a longitudinal study, with an enrolment and 3 follow-up visits
      at week 4, 12 and 24. In parallel, four qualitative studies will be implemented: one study to
      explore how to reach the hardest-to-reach and most-at-risk PWID, one feed-back study on PWID
      feeling about their participation in the research, one study investigating the reasons of
      drop-outs, and a final study on the research process itself.

      Endpoints:

      The RDS will describe the target population and the patterns of drug use. The feasibility of
      implementing an interventional cohort will be evaluated on several indicators:

        -  International multi-disciplinary research network is operational

        -  Completion of recruitment within the time frame

        -  Follow-up rate >80% at 24 weeks

        -  Implementation and increased access to peer-led interventions

        -  Establishment of a data management center

        -  Improved laboratory capacities for research

        -  Documented support of local and national authorities

      Study population RDS survey Inclusion criteria Age > 18 years Self-reported drug injector
      confirmed by a positive urinary test and either skin marks of injection or knowledge of
      injecting procedures Signed informed consent Non-inclusion criteria Unable of understanding
      informed consent and answering questionnaires

      Longitudinal study Inclusion criteria Having participated to the RDS survey Signed informed
      consent specific to the longitudinal study Non-inclusion criteria Ongoing Methadone
      Maintenance Therapy (MMT) Ongoing antiretroviral therapy Health status not compatible with
      study follow-up Have a plan to move out of Haiphong over the next two years. Have been
      sentenced recently to a prison term

      Follow-up and study visits contents:

      Participants of the longitudinal phase will be followed at week 4, 12 and 24 (final visit).
      During the RDS, face-to-face questionnaires will be applied on drug use, sexual health, and
      referral to care and repeated at each follow-up visit, along with the record of medical
      events. In addition, a urinary test will be collected at the RDS to assess the range of
      recent drugs used, and repeated at the final follow-up visit (week 24). Finally, at the RDS
      and final visit, HIV, HCV, Hepatitis B Virus (HBV) serology will be done along with
      appropriate counselling.

      Sample size:

        -  603 PWID will be enrolled in the RDS survey

        -  250 RDS participants will be enroled in the longitudinal phase, including:

        -  140 PWID for > 2 years, including females

        -  50 recent injectors (< 2 years from first injection)

        -  30 FSW who inject drugs

        -  30 MSM who inject drugs
    
  