
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the proportion of patients who have treatment-free remission 6 months after
      discontinuation of zanubrutinib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine clinical factors associated with a treatment-free remission of more than 6
      months after discontinuation of zanubrutinib.

      II. To determine the treatment-free remission length. III. To evaluate the efficacy of
      re-treatment with zanubrutinib plus rituximab in patients who relapse.

      OUTLINE:

      FRONTLINE THERAPY: Patients receive zanubrutinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28.
      Patients also receive rituximab intravenously (IV) over 3-4 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of
      cycle 1 and on day 1 of subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning cycle 7, patients
      with complete response (CR) continue zanubrutinib PO BID on days 1-28 for up to 6 additional
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning cycle 7,
      patients with partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) continue zanubrutinib PO BID on
      days 1-28 and rituximab IV over 3-4 hours on day 1 for up to 6 additional cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning cycle 13, patients with CR
      continue zanubrutinib PO BID on days 1-28 for up to 6 additional cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning cycle 13, patients with PR or SD
      continue zanubrutinib PO BID on days 1-28 for up to 12 additional cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who do not have a PR after 24 cycles
      either continue zanubrutinib if there is a clinical benefit, or pursue alternative therapy
      per treating physician discretion.

      RE-TREATMENT FOR RELAPSED DISEASE: Patients with disease relapse and active disease that
      requires salvage therapy may restart zanubrutinib PO BID on days 1-28 and rituximab IV over
      3-4 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning cycle 7, patients continue
      zanubrutinib PO BID on days 1-28 for up to 18 additional cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity and then discontinue if in CR. Beginning cycle 25,
      patients with PR or SD may continue zanubrutinib PO BID on days 1-28 for up to 36 additional
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 60 days, and then every 120
      days for up to 5 years or until disease progression or start of a new treatment.
    
  