
    
      Participants will be randomized into one of four groups: Group 1 (n = 24) intervention will
      consist of massage and stretching exercises; Group 2 (n = 24) will consist of relaxation and
      imagination therapies; Group 3 (n = 24) will receive dental treatment and Group 4 (n=24) will
      consist of massage, exercises, relaxation and imagination. The evaluations will be performed
      at baseline, immediately after treatment, and at 2-month follow-up. Pain intensity will be
      assessed using the visual analogical scale, while pain thresholds will be determined using
      algometry. Mandibular opening will be assessed using digital pachymeter. Sleep quality will
      be assessed by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, anxiety by the State-Trait Anxiety
      Inventory, stress by the Perceived Stress Scale-10, depression by the Beck Depression
      Inventory, and oral health will be assessed using the Oral Health Impact Profile - 14.
      Significance level will be determined at the 5% level.

      Valid Reasons of updates:

      2014 - Changes made according requeriments of plattform of ClinicalTrials.

      2015 - In 2014, in my qualification examination at University of São Paulo, the professors
      suggested my transfer from master degree to direct doctorate and the inclusion of more one
      intervention group, whereas the other three groups were still in the randomization process. I
      updated the registration in 2015 with the inclusion of this fourth group. However, as the
      protocol published in 2014 reports 3 groups (initial idea of the master degree before the
      transition to the direct doctorate), this fourth group started the treatment (massage,
      exercises, relaxation and imagination) after the end of treatment of other three groups
      (Groups:1,2 and 3).

      2016- Although I have listed as primary variables: pain (VAS) and mandibular opening in this
      platform in 2013, and in the protocol published in 2014
      (http://trialsjournal.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1745-6215-15 -8); symptoms like
      clenching, headaches and sleep difficulties were also assessed by VAS, and no included
      posteriorly to trial registration. They were evaluated, but not described in this platform.
      The same happened with intention to treat analysis.

      June 20, 2016- Updates for clarifications and suggested by the PRS Team.

      Please, any doubts, send me a e-mail! Thank you!
    
  