
    
      This is a two year study to develop a predominantly web-based behavioral assessment and
      intervention program (PACE-CALL) that will provide individual assessment and tailoring of a
      behavioral intervention for adolescent children Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) survivors
      and their families. In addition, we are conducting formative research to adapt the
      abovementioned program to children and adolescents aged 7 - 18 who survived any cancer.

      Focus Groups: Web-Based & Text Message Intervention Feedback

      Two focus groups will be conducted with adolescent cancer survivors and their families, to
      assess the usability and acceptability of the web-based intervention, focus groups will be
      conducted. The two focus groups will last 2 hours with 6-8 people in each group: one focus
      group with youth & adolescents (age 7 - 18 who are representative of the target population to
      determine the appropriateness of the web-based intervention one focus group with the parents
      of the children in the focus group mentioned above (it will occur at the same time). All
      focus groups will begin with an overview of the study and description of the web-based
      intervention components. Focus group participants will see sample web pages and may be asked
      to provide feedback on some or all of the following:

      Youth, Adolescent or Parent:

        -  How does the web-based and text message based intervention address issues faced by
           children who have survived cancer?

        -  What do you like about the web-based intervention? What do you not like about the
           web-based intervention? What would you change about the web-based intervention?

        -  What do you like about the text messages? What do you not like about the text messages?

        -  Would you want to join a program like this? Why or why not?

        -  If you were to be in this program, how often would you log on to the web-based
           intervention? How often would you want to receive text messages?

        -  What are some of the barriers to joining a program like this?
    
  