
    
      There has been a major improvement in the survival of HIV-infected individuals with the role
      out highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART) in the public health sector by the South
      African Government in 2004.

      Despite the unparalleled benefits of HAART, there is an increasing recognition that adverse
      events remain an important source of morbidity and even mortality. Knowledge of the adverse
      effects of different therapeutic regimes and understanding genetic factors that modulate the
      risk of toxicity, are important in the management of HIV/AIDS patients.

      There are two regimens offered in the public sector, these contain a triple drug course, with
      either a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI), a non-nucleoside reverse
      transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) or a protease inhibitor (PI). With adherence to treatment, it
      is possible to convert HIV from a fatal infection to a chronic and manageable illness.

      But, unfortunately, these therapeutic regimens are associated with the development of
      metabolic complications, such as dyslipidaemia, insulin resistance. Occasionally frank
      diabetes, and altered fat distribution, such as peripheral lipoatrophy and centripetal fat
      accumulation. There is a growing concern that these complications may lead to an increase in
      the long-term risk of cardiovascular disease in these individuals.

      The first regime which contains stavudine, which is a NRTI. It is cheap and easy to
      administer in the short term but however is associated with more side effects, with
      relatively higher rates of long term risks of lipoatrophy, and peripheral neuropathy. It is
      also associated with an asymptomatic or a sometimes fatal lactic acidosis, it is also
      associated with complications such as myopathies and pancreatitis. However, some studies have
      suggested that reducing the d4T dose improves the toxicity profile while maintaining
      efficacy.

      Tenofovir on the other hand, is a nucleotide analogue, it was approved in 2001 in the United
      States, and it use has grown since its approval. It is commonly used in initial therapy. It
      has shown to have a favourable lipid and mt DNA profile when compared to stavudine, but
      however it had no difference in virological response.

      Clinical practice is moving increasingly towards the use of regimes that combine high levels
      of tolerability and efficacy. HIV-infected individuals develop a pattern similar to that of
      the metabolic syndrome once they initiate treatment, ultimately putting them at a risk for
      impending cardiovascular disease in the next decades. Most studies have been done in the
      West, but there is no data on patients from third world countries including South Africa.

      This purpose of this study is to prospectively identify differences between the two different
      NRTIs, Stavudine, a nucleoside analogue (in different doses), and Tenofovir, a nucleotide
      analogue, to assess their virological response, molecular, biochemical and clinical pictures,
      and the possible associated change in cardiovascular risk factors, this, in the South African
      setting, and make recommendations to modify the current National AIDS role out programme

      Primary Objectives

      The following questions will be addressed:

        1. To determine if there are any molecular differences (before and after starting
           treatment) between the regimens.

        2. To determine the biochemical differences (before and after starting treatment) between
           the three regimens.

        3. To determine clinical differences in patients in all three arms of treatment.

      Secondary Objectives

      The following questions will be addressed:

        1. To determine the outcome of immune reconstitution by monitoring T-cell subsets changes.

        2. To determine virological response by monitoring the viral load changes.

        3. To determine which of the three treatment arms results in better adherence.

        4. To determine if there are any changes in cardiovascular risk factors after treatment.

      Study Design This is a randomised controlled study comparing two NRTIs, a nucleoside analogue
      Stavudine (standard dose, and low dose), and a nucleotide analogue Tenofovir, each combined
      with Lamivudine and Efavirenz in HIV-infected treatment-naïve patients to be conducted
      concurrently.

      This study will compare the virologic response, molecular, biochemical and clinical
      differences between all treatment arms.

      At entry, all participants will be enrolled into either Arm A, B or C after randomization.

      Duration:48 weeks after randomization of the final participant.From enrollment, the
      participants had a minimum of four study visits.

      Sample size:90 participants randomized (1:1:1) to either Arm A (30 participants), Arm B (30
      participants) and Arm C (30 participants).

      Population:HIV-infected, treatment-naïve patients, at least 18 years of age, with CD4+ cell
      count <200 cells/mm3.

      At study entry, participants will be randomized (as described above) to one of the following
      treatment arms:

      Arm A Stavudine (d4T) 30 mg po BD if wt < 60kg, or 40 mg po BD if wt > 60kg PLUS Lamivudine
      (3TC) 150mg po BD PLUS Efavirenz 600mg po nocte

      OR Arm B Stavudine (d4T) 20 mg po BD if wt < 60kg, or 30 mg po BD if wt > 60kg PLUS
      Lamivudine (3TC) 150mg po BD PLUS Efavirenz 600mg po nocte

      OR Arm C TDF 300 mg po QD PLUS Lamivudine (3TC) 150mg po BD PLUS Efavirenz 600mg po nocte
    
  