
    
      Tinnitus is a common, yet poorly understood condition. In the UK, a large study using data
      from more than 500,000 people has found a prevalence of tinnitus of 16.2% (defined as any
      noise in the ear/s lasting longer than five minutes) and a prevalence of bothersome tinnitus
      as 3.8% (those who were moderately or severely bothered by their tinnitus on a four point
      Likert scale). Other international studies have also found a high prevalence of 30% with a
      total of 6% of the study population reporting incapacitating symptoms from tinnitus. Despite
      the high worldwide prevalence of tinnitus and the large number of proposed therapies
      available, there is a distinct paucity of well controlled trials in the literature to support
      an effective treatment.

      Tinnitus may be considered as a form of phantom auditory perception and as such parallels may
      be drawn with other forms of phantom sensation, there has been recent interest in the use of
      eye movement therapies to treat patients with phantom sensations such as phantom limb pain.
      Both studies of those with tinnitus and phantom limb pain have suggested a psychological
      component such as certain premorbid personality traits may also contribute or predispose to
      these conditions and consequently be helped by psychological therapies.

      Eye Movement Desensitisation and Reprocessing (EMDR) was first described by Shapiro in 1989
      and requires the subject to perform relatively rapid movements of the eyes. Its application
      has been particularly documented in the context of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
      EMDR has been described as an integrative psychotherapy, due to its assimilation of various
      elements from diverse psychotherapies. A number of models have been proposed to account for
      the role of eye movements in EMDR, these include Shapiro's Adaptive Information Processing
      Model, Dyck's conditioning model, attentional processing accounts and theories of reverse
      learning . A recurrent mechanism in a number of these accounts is that of the orientating
      reflex. MacCollock and Feldman argue that lateral eye-movements trigger an investigatory
      component of this reflex to assess safety with regard to potential external threats . Where
      threats are positively identified, a flight or flight response is initiated; in situations
      where no danger is identified a functional reduction in arousal takes place. Support for this
      reassurance response in non-clinical patients has been demonstrated using auditory stimuli.
      Overlap between these concepts and theories related to the perception of tinnitus bode well,
      especially when one considers the neurophysiological model proposed by Jastreboff.

      Since its introduction in 1989, numerous controlled studies have been conducted to evaluate
      EMDR's utility as a treatment for various forms of trauma-related complaints, including PTSD.
      The positive results have established EMDR as an effective trauma treatment and have prompted
      numerous professional organisations to recognise its efficacy, beginning with the American
      Psychological Association's (APA) Division 12 Task Force on Psychological Interventions in
      1998. Since then, the NHS the International Society for Traumatic Stress Studies , the
      Israeli National Council for Mental Health , and the Northern Ireland Department of Health
      have also supported EMDR. Most recently, the US Departments of Defence and Veterans Affairs
      stated that EMDR was an effective treatment of trauma, as did the American Psychiatric
      Association . It has also been found to be helpful in medically unexplained symptoms and
      somatoform disorders.

      Other forms of eye movement therapy have been popularised, such as eye movement integration
      therapy (EMI) in which eye movements in specific directions provide access strategies to
      different sensory domains. EMI was originally developed from research in the field of
      neuro-linguistic programming (NLP) and has also been widely used in the treatment of PTSD.
      EMI uses slower eye movements that are thought to access internal dialogue or emotional and
      feeling areas of the brain. Initially the concept of specifically accessing domains
      associated with auditory-based cue was appealing as a therapy for an auditory based
      pathology, however, despite initial enthusiasm for EMI the specificity of these associations
      has been disputed.

      The role of eye movements in the propagation and maintenance of tinnitus has been well
      established, although the exact neurophysiological mechanisms of how eye movements integrate
      within the central auditory areas is not fully understood, however functional imaging has
      suggested a number of neuroanatomical sites. Cognitive science has provided neural networks
      that model tinnitus, these neural network models were inspired by theoretical models that
      described possible neural mechanisms mediating tinnitus. The majority of these models rely on
      the lateral-inhibition network (LIN) to simulate tinnitus and focus on the role of central
      auditory processing regions as possible anatomical locations of the physiological
      abnormalities that cause tinnitus. Recent work has identified a number of regions responsible
      for the generation and modulation of tinnitus including limbic, somatosensory and motor
      areas.

      There has been some encouraging work described in the German literature regarding the
      effectiveness of EMDR for the treatment of tinnitus. The application of eye movement
      therapies to treat patients with tinnitus would seem logical considering the context our
      current understanding of tinnitus; the next step would be to test this theory in the setting
      of a formal randomised controlled clinical study.
    
  