
    
      Current ACC/AHA guidelines recommend that patients with severe degenerative mitral
      regurgitation be considered for mitral valve surgery. There remains a debate within the
      cardiology community regarding the appropriate management of patients who remain
      asymptomatic. There are those who advocate for performing early "prophylactic" mitral valve
      surgery while others advocate clinical follow-up until triggers emerge with echocardiography
      historically being the method used for longitudinal assessment of cardiac anatomy and
      function. Two studies showed that only ~30% of asymptomatic severe mitral regurgitation made
      endpoints that triggered. However, these studies were limited and did not perform rigorous
      follow up assessment of regurgitant volume, left ventricular hemodynamics, exercise capacity,
      or quality of life assessment. In addition, in these studies mitral regurgitation and left
      ventricular size and function was assessed by echocardiography. Echocardiography has known
      limitations in assessing ventricular size and, as recent studies have shown, may not be the
      optimal modality to assess mitral regurgitant severity. MRI is the gold standard for
      non-invasive quantification of the left and right ventricles volumes and function and has
      emerged as a reference standard for quantifying mitral regurgitation. In this study the
      investigators will perform longitudinal follow-up data with cardiac MRI to inform the
      prophylactic surgery vs. close follow-up debate and to better define the natural history of
      this condition. The investigators hypothesize, that in the majority of patients mitral
      regurgitation will not worsen overtime, left ventricular hemodynamics will remain stable,
      exercise capacity will not decline, and symptoms will not worsen during follow-up. This
      finding would have a significant impact on the current recommendations for treatment in
      patients with mitral regurgitation by supporting a conservative management approach.
    
  