
    
      The investigators aim to implement and evaluate a health information technology (HIT)
      registry at an urban, public delivery system. The investigators will not assign specific
      interventions to the study participants, but rather observationally assess the effect of the
      HIT registry, designed to support routine medical care, on participants.

      The investigators will use systems engineering methodologies to design, develop, and
      implement the platform. The platform will be implemented in the Otolaryngology - Head and
      Neck Surgery clinic that cares for patients with head and neck cancers. The study will assess
      patient outcomes and evaluate the time it takes for patients to progress through key
      treatment and post-treatment milestones before and after the HIT tool is implemented. The
      investigators will use models controlling for secular trend to estimate the effect of the
      tool on improving timely and successful completion of guideline-based care processes.

      The HIT platform seeks to improve the monitoring and alerting functionality of existing
      systems. Specifically, it replaces paper-based systems previously used by the clinic to
      monitor its head and neck cancer patients. It will be implemented clinic-wide for all
      patients being treated for head and neck cancers. The investigators are not assigning a
      specific intervention to patients, but rather supporting the clinic and health system in the
      development of a population management platform that improves routine care processes. The
      platform is approved for clinical use and research by the San Francisco Health Network and
      the University of California, San Francisco.

      The HIT platform users are clinicians who are responsible for monitoring patients with head
      and neck cancer and agree to partner with the investigators to improve monitoring processes.
      The clinicians involved may be asked to voluntarily participate in surveys, interviews, focus
      groups, and program evaluations. Patient medical records will be reviewed, but patients
      monitored on the registry will not be contacted by researchers.

      Procedures are in place to monitor the registry. First, quality assurance is performed by the
      research team, information technology analysts, and software engineers. This includes
      checking that data in the platform matches source data, such as data entered in the
      electronic health record. In addition, the platform users are audited on a weekly basis. A
      data dictionary defining variables used in the platform exists and is updated as needed.
      Patients will be added to the registry by a clinician if they are diagnosed with head and
      neck cancer. The research team will support the clinicians in data analysis, although this
      will be performed with population-level, de-identified data. However, if unmediated adverse
      events are identified by the research team, the research team will alert the clinicians
      immediately. The HIT platform is designed to supplement, but not replace, the existing
      electronic health record. Data on the registry will be validated with source data and users
      will still engage with the source data and electronic health record as appropriate clinically
      and operationally.
    
  