
    
      Background and aims of the study:

      Recent studies have suggested a risk of under-exposure to anti-infectives in critically ill
      adults. This under-exposure may be associated with poor clinical outcomes as well as a delay
      or incomplete clinical resolution of infection; The dosing regimen of anti-infectives in
      critically ill children is usually based on weight (i.e. mg per Kg). However, between-subject
      variability is known to be substantial in children and even more so with burns and in
      critical illness. Ceftazidime is one of the most anti-infective agents used in this
      vulnerable population. Given to the expected high BSV, concentrations and effects of
      Ceftazidime are unpredictable and the risk of under exposure- is thus considerable.
      Rationalization of Ceftazidime in children is therefore desirable.

      The purpose of the present study is to investigate, using a population approach, the
      pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of Ceftazidime including usual PK/PD targets
      (fT(%) > minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC)) and PD endpoints (clinical outcomes) in
      critically ill burn children. The effects of developmental and other factors related to
      critical illness and burns on Ceftazidime PK and PK/PDs are investigated in order to better
      explain the observed between-subject variabilities and to ultimately suggest individualized
      dosage regimens.

      This prospective study will be conducted in a paediatric intensive care unit of Public
      Hospitals in Paris, France

      Intervention:

      Patient selection will take place in paediatric intensive care unit. The senior physician
      proposes the study to holders of parental authority whose child receives or will receive
      Ceftazidime during its follow-up or hospitalization.

      The senior physician will give a briefing note to the holders of parental authority, and if
      the child is able to understand the information. The non-oral opposition for the retrieval
      and analysis of data will be collected.

      No intervention or no charge will be made for this study
    
  