
    
      The increasing costs in health care and enhanced infection control requirements necessitate
      the efficient and reliable use of frequently used techniques like cystoscopy. The health
      economics of cystoscopy are dependent on maintaining low levels of post-cystoscopy sequelae
      like urinary tract infection (UTI) and its potential precursors, significant asymptomatic
      bacteriuria and leukocytosis. Another key component of the economics and efficiency of
      cystoscopy is the time and cost related to the reprocessing of these devices in preparation
      for re-use. The use of disposable endoscope sheaths may limit the need for high level
      disinfection (HLD) between procedures and reduce reprocessing time and potentially prolong
      the cystoscope lifespan. The rationale for this study is to determine if a sheathed
      cystoscopy system would provide the desired cost and efficiency advantages compared to
      procedures done with non-sheathed cystoscopes. This is a prospective, randomized, parallel
      group, single center clinical trial to assess the clinical outcomes, practice efficiency and
      health economics of the use of sheathed cystoscopes (EndoSheath® System) compared to using
      standard (non-sheathed) cystoscopes. The study will evaluate the infection control (via the
      change in bacteriuria), clinical practice efficiency and costs of the EndoSheath technology
      with CST 5000 scope compared to standard cystoscopy with Olympus Visera Elite OTV-S190
      digital flexible scope. There will be 30 subjects in the control group undergoing cystoscopy
      with the standard scope at the clinic, the Olympus Visera Elite, and 30 subjects in the study
      group undergoing cystoscopy with the EndoSheath system. The study is designed as a
      prospective, randomized controlled trial. There will be no active blinding of clinicians or
      subjects; however, it is anticipated that most subjects will be unaware of differences in the
      cystoscopy equipment that will be utilized in their routine procedures.
    
  