
    
      Hispanic women (Latinas) experience mental and emotional health (MEH) concerns and disorders
      that often go unrecognized by health providers, and even when recognized, Latinas have
      low-levels of treatment follow-through with biomedical modalities. Using a novel
      community-directed, solution-based approach to increase access to existing services and
      nurture culturally meaningful social relationships, it is possible to address social
      determinants of health and reduce these disparities.

      The goal of this study is to implement such an approach conceptualized by a community health
      worker (CHW) to pilot an innovative, multi-level intervention to address social and
      structural determinants that negatively influence MEH disparities for Latinas from low-income
      households. The proposed research integrates CHW navigation with group peer support. Both of
      these strategies have been shown to be culturally appropriate and effective for improving a
      variety of health outcomes with this population. Our transdisciplinary, community-engaged
      team will use a convergent parallel mixed method research design to assess the feasibility of
      the intervention and its impact on six domains of interest: 1) emotional support, 2)
      informational support, 3) depression, 4) social isolation, 5) empowerment, and 6) social
      determinants needs. To prepare for future extramural funding, the investigators will include
      development of an advocacy plan for multi-level social change impact.

      Aim 1. Create a group navigation model to improve mental and emotional health equity for
      Spanish-speaking Latina women. In a series of peer group sessions facilitated by Guadalupe
      Fuentes, a CHW who designed the model, the investigators will create a
      culturally-appropriate, non-stigmatizing group intervention. The group process will allow
      participants to explore their own MEH, better understand the ways that mental health
      influences well-being and everyday dynamics of their lives, and to develop empowering
      knowledge and action plans through the support of other women. The investigators will
      document group discussions, processes, and themes, gather information about women's
      explanatory models of MEH, and administer a multidimensional survey to capture information
      about the domains of interest. Through individual case management, Fuentes will work
      individually with women from the groups to identify their specific social and structural
      determinants needs, assist them to make an individual action plan, provide them with
      information about available resources, and help them navigate systems and access resources
      and services. The investiagtors will document participant needs and navigation outcomes.
      Hypotheses: Participation will decrease depression, social isolation, and social determinants
      needs, and increase emotional support, informational support, and women's sense of
      empowerment.

      Aim 2. Create an advocacy plan. With data gathered in group meetings and individual
      navigation sessions, the investigators will identify social and structural barriers that
      negatively influence participants' MEH outcomes and ability to access resources and services.
      The investigators will create an advocacy plan to address structural and policy barriers that
      can be implemented by CHWs and advocacy groups in the future. Hypotheses: The investigators
      will be able to identify factors that negatively influence the MEH and well-being of Latinas.
      They hypothesize that in the future, this knowledge can be used to develop a strategic plan
      with the potential to address socio-structural and policy barriers through advocacy.

      Aim 3. Assess the feasibility of the intervention. The investigators will track recruitment,
      attrition, attendance at group sessions, and attendance at individual CHW navigation
      meetings.The investigators will gather survey data and qualitative data to document
      participant experiences with and perceptions of the group process, working with the CHW, and
      the value of the intervention. Hypotheses: The intervention pilot will be feasible,
      acceptable, valuable, and culturally appropriate.

      Expected Outcome. This pilot study will use team science to test an intervention that emerged
      organically in the community and contribute to building the next generation of health
      disparities research using knowledge generated through solution-based investigation as the
      foundation for submitting an NIH R21 research proposal.
    
  