
    
      Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) remains the most important direct complication of
      hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Methods used to prevent GVHD include diverse
      pharmacologic interventions and ex vivo methods of T-cell depletion, the latter being the
      most effective ones. Historically depletion of T-cells from the graft is associated with
      increased rate of graft failure, relapse of malignant disease and prolonged immune
      deficiency. Selective depletion of TCR-alpha/beta T-lymphocytes is a new method of
      hematopoietic stem cell graft manipulation, which is thought to conserve important cell
      populations, e.g. NK cells and gamma/delta T cells within the graft. Preliminary results
      suggest that TCR alpha/beta depletion ensures high engraftment rate, low early mortality and
      good control of GVHD. The problem of delayed immune reconstitution and life-threatening viral
      infections remains incompletely resolved.

      Depletion of naive (CD45RA-positive) T-cells was developed as a new method of graft
      manipulation to prevent GVHD. Research data indicate that alloreactivity is associated mainly
      with naive T-cell fraction. In vitro depletion of CD45RA lowers significantly the
      alloreactive response while retaining reactivity to pathogens.

      In previous pilot protocol the investigators confirmed that infusion after TCR-alpha/beta
      depleted transplantation of low doses of CD45RA-depleted mononuclear cells are safe and
      potentially protective against viral infections. The biologic readout for the protocol was a
      quantitative assessment of T-cell reactivity to common pathogens after infusion and owing to
      the trial results expansion of CMV-specific CD8 T-cells was discovered in most of the
      patients.

      In current randomized protocol the investigators are posing a question if donor lymphocytes
      infusion (DLI) of low doses of CD45RA-depleted mononuclear cells are effective in viral
      prophylaxis after TCR-alpha/beta depleted transplantation.
    
  