
    
      Mate is a traditional drink obtained from the leaves of yerba-mate (Ilex paraguariensis
      A.St.-Hil.), a native species of South America that has a great regional importance. Mate is
      highly consumed in South America countries because of the tradition acquired from the native
      populations. In these countries, mate is consumed as largely as tea (camellia sinensis) in
      Asia and Europe and coffee in Europe and North America. Mate constitutes a raw material
      little explored compared to other plant products like coffee or tea. However, mate product
      has recently raised interest due to both its high content of phytochemicals and the
      peculiarity of its phenolic profile, characterized by the wealth in mono and dicaffeoylquinic
      acids, known for their biological activities.

      A large number of in vitro studies have evaluated the antioxidant capacity of mate products
      with different methodologies, and showed that the antioxidant effect was related to the
      presence of caffeoyl derivatives. Mate appears as a potent inhibitor of low-density
      lipoproteins (LDL) oxidation. The phenolic compounds of mate also exhibit free radical
      scavenging properties and inhibit a chemically induced oxidation of lipid in membranes.
      Different animal studies have reported a positive impact of mate consumption on some
      cardiovascular risk factors. These published data, obtained in different rodent models of
      diet induced dyslipidemia, obesity or atherosclerosis, suggest that the supplementation with
      mate products may improve plasma lipids profile, prevent hepatic fatty deposition, reduce
      insulin resistance, improve endothelial function and inhibit atherosclerosis progression. Few
      clinical studies reported positive effects of mate consumption on the blood lipid profile,
      glycemia and anthropometric parameters in healthy and unhealthy subjects.

      The aim of this study is to assess through a randomized controlled trial the impact of
      chronic intake of mate on intermediate biomarkers of cardiovascular health in humans and to
      identify possible nutrigenomic mechanisms involved.

      The study consists in a controlled, randomized, double blind, crossover clinical trial. This
      study will involve 36 healthy middle-age (45-65) male subjects selected according to the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria previously established. The study will have a maximum
      duration of 84 days including the wash-out period. The volunteers will have to consume daily
      for 4 weeks the mate extract (with a standardized content in phenolic compounds) or the
      placebo. At the beginning and/or at the end of each experimental period, blood will be
      sampled for measurement of glycemic and lipidic parameters, inflammatory markers and
      transcriptome analysis. Urine samples will also be collected for metabolomics analysis to
      characterize the exposure profile of volunteers in response to mate phenolic compounds
      consumption.
    
  