
    
      According to World Health Organization, between 2000 and 2050, the proportion of the planet's
      inhabitants over 60 years of age will double, from 11% to 22%. Specifically, this age group
      will increase from 605 million to 2000 million worldwide by the middle of the century.

      As for Portugal, according to data from the National Statistics Institute, the resident
      population was composed by 21.5% of elderly people. This percentage was higher than the
      European Union average of 28 countries (EU28), which does not reach 20%, with Portugal being
      the fourth country with the highest percentage of elderly people.

      Aging implies an increased risk for the development of biological, socioeconomic and
      psychosocial vulnerabilities, derived from biological decline and from an increase in
      pathologies associated with aging itself. In view of the current Covid-19 pandemic, the risk
      of vulnerability is heightened.

      There are several chronic diseases that affect the elderly. Regarding mental disorders, the
      most frequent as age, are neurocognitive disorders. The diagnostic criteria for this
      pathology emphasize cognitive changes, and as such, it is clinically based on cognitive and
      memory decline.

      There is evidence that in the early stages of neurocognitive disorders, people are able to
      learn and improve their cognitive function through interventions, such as cognitive
      stimulation. There are three types of cognitive intervention: cognitive stimulation,
      cognitive rehabilitation and cognitive training. Cognitive rehabilitation is an individual
      approach to cognitive impairment and improves daily functioning. Cognitive training is
      designed for the patient to perform a set of tasks in order to improve or maintain cognitive
      function through guided practice. Cognitive stimulation is an intervention where the
      cognitive domains are not used isolated, but rather integrated. Cognitive stimulation can be
      structured in an individual or group format. Individual cognitive stimulation includes
      activities designed to stimulate cognition, conducted only with the therapist and the
      patient.

      In a Portuguese study, with participants in the same geographic area, who applied individual
      cognitive stimulation therapy to patients with mild neurocognitive disorder, over a year, a
      significant improvement was found in the intervention group in terms of cognitive performance
      and a reduction of depressive symptoms, with a moderate to large effect size, suggesting that
      cognitive stimulation therapy is effective in an individual format.

      According to this evidence, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence
      recommended cognitive stimulation as a non-pharmacological therapy for people with mild to
      moderate neurocognitive disorder.

      In a systematic review about cognitive stimulation, studies showed a strong evidence that
      cognitive stimulation has a positive impact on cognitive performance, depression, activities
      of daily living and behavior in people with neurocognitive disorders.

      Considering the previous information, the aim of this project is to apply cognitive
      stimulation in an individual format to improve cognitive status and performance, quality of
      life and functionality, and reduce depressive symptoms in non-institutionalized elderly
      people in a vulnerable social context with a diagnosis of neurocognitive disorder.
    
  