
    
      This is a prospective, observational, registration and follow-up study of patients with
      uterine fibroids who become pregnant and their offspring. Those who are exposed to treatment
      at any time during pregnancy or within one month of conception will be compared with those
      not exposed to treatment. Enrollment of patients into the Registry may be initiated by health
      care providers and/or pregnant patients. Health care providers provide all information
      related to the pregnancy and the outcome.

      During the study, data will be collected on uterine fibroids, exposure to treatment for
      uterine fibroids, potential confounding factors, and pregnancy outcome. Reported cases will
      be reviewed and classified according to type of birth defects. Registry enrollment is
      voluntary and should occur as early in pregnancy as possible, preferably before any prenatal
      testing. Midway between enrollment and the expected date of delivery, the Registry conducts a
      short interim follow-up with the health care provider to supplement registration data. Near
      the estimated date of delivery, the Registry prompts the health care provider to provide
      pregnancy outcome data. The data elements requested include:

        -  Health care provider contact information

        -  Eligibility criteria

        -  Uterine fibroid treatment (30 days prior to conception and during pregnancy and includes
           non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, oral contraceptive pills, progestational agents,
           gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists, and other oral agents)

        -  Pregnancy/Birth outcome

        -  Maternal information

        -  Prenatal tests

        -  Uterine fibroid classification

      If a live birth is reported, the Registry conducts the follow-up with the infant's health
      care provider within 2 months of birth, and at 12 months of age. If a birth defect is
      indicated, the Registry will request additional targeted follow-up information from the
      health care provider. Data on any adverse event will be forwarded to the Sponsors.
    
  