
    
      Bilateral transverse sinus stenosis (BTSS) is characterized by narrowing of bilateral
      transverse sinus which resulted in obstruction of venous reflux. The majority of BTSS
      patients exhibited with intracranial hypertension (IH) which manifested as a triad of
      headaches, tinnitus and papilledema. Stenting improved the symptoms in patients with
      transverse sinus stenosis (TSS) and reduced the elevated intracranial pressure (ICP). It is
      suggested that BTSS is one of the etiologies of IH. Since an alternative pattern of venous
      reflux was observed in patients with occluded superior sagittal sinus, it is postulated that
      altered pattern of venous reflux also exists in the presence of BTSS. The drainage of
      cerebral veins consists of two major pathways: transverse sinus-sigmoid sinus-internal
      jugular vein and vertebral venous plexus. Vertebral venous plexus is an extensive
      paravertebral system that provides direct venous communication between peritoneum and cranial
      cavity. The presence of vertebral venous collaterals (VVC) was reported in 108 consecutive
      patients. However, whether VVC is of physiological significance in BTSS patients remained
      unknown. This study was aimed to investigate the physiological role of VVC and whether it is
      involved in the regulation of IH and related clinical symptoms in BTSS patients.

      Besides, it is presumed that serum uric acid (UA) may affect the formation of vertebral
      venous collaterals (VVC) and intracranial pressure (ICP). It is reported that UA inhibits the
      endothelial NO biological activity. High concentrations of uric acid (UA) suppresses
      circulating VEGF in Wistar rats and VEGF secretion in human endothelial cells. It is presumed
      that serum UA may affect the formation of VVC and ICP. The aim of this study is to
      investigate whether serum UA serves as an influencing factor of VVC and an indicator of IH in
      BTSS patients.
    
  