
    
      High-risk prostate cancer patients have a high probability for lymph node metastases in the
      pelvic region. The lymph node status is an important prognostic factor in determining the
      risk of later relapses and a factor in treatment planning. Lymph node metastases outside the
      pelvis usually signify systemic treatment not amendable for curative treatment.

      High-risk prostate cancer patients are treated by radiotherapy or surgical resection of the
      prostate and the pelvic lymph nodes. Currently, the most reliable method for confirming lymph
      node metastases is by bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection during surgical treatment, and
      subsequent histologic examination. However, todays state-of-the art methods for the detection
      of lymph node metastases prior to treatment are clearly inadequate. Detection of lymph node
      metastases is crucial for determining whether the patient (i) is a candidate for localized
      treatment and, if so, (ii) optimizing the extent of the lymph node dissection / radiation
      field for localized treatment. Non-standard imaging methods such as prostate specific
      membrane antigen (PSMA)-PET-imaging have been shown to be able to aid in the detection of
      lymph node metastases. The purpose of this study is to test whether PSMA-PET or a combination
      of PSMA-PET and MRI can improve the sensitivity and specificity for pre-treatment lymph node
      staging in order to reduce both over- and undertreatment of high-risk prostate cancer
      patients.

      In this multi-centre study, at least 80 patients with high-grade prostate cancer (ISUP grade
      group 4 or higher) will be examined with PSMA PET/MRI and PET/CT. Of these 80 patients, 60
      will be men who are scheduled for radical prostatectomy with extended pelvic lymph node
      dissection (ePLND) (surgery cohort) and 20 will be men who are scheduled for radiation
      treatment to the prostate and pelvic lymph nodes (radiotherapy cohort). After the PET
      examinations, all patients will receive standard treatment and follow-up, which is determined
      by national guidelines and the patient's treating urologist and/or oncologist. Imaging data
      will be analyzed by radiologists and nuclear medicine physicians in collaboration. The
      imaging findings in the surgery cohort will be compared to the histology outcome after ePLND
      to assess the sensitivity and specificity for detection of lymph node involvement with PSMA
      PET/MRI. The data from the radiotherapy cohort will be used to assess the feasibility of PSMA
      PET/MRI-based radiotherapy planning. Advanced image processing and analysis methodology
      including the use of artificial intelligence will also be applied.
    
  