
    
      Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is a condition of excruciating facial pain characterized by brief,
      repeated, electric shock-like pains. Like idiopathic TN, people with multiple sclerosis (MS)
      related TN (PwMSTN) often suffer from episodic facial pain (often excruciating) that may be
      related to demyelination of the trigeminal pathways. It is estimated that people with
      multiple sclerosis (PwMS) are 20 times more likely to present with TN symptoms than non-MS
      people and a recent review estimated that 4-8% of PwMS have TN. Patients with TN or
      MS-related TN who no longer respond to treatment often opt for non-invasive gamma knife
      radiosurgery (GKRS), with variable outcomes. Factors, such as patient characteristics, target
      treatment location and radiation dosage, could affect the efficacy of pain relief and result
      in post-surgical morbidity. There is no consensus of the best GKRS target treatment location
      or the optimal radiation dosage for GKRS treatment among centers, this results in great
      variability across centers in patient outcomes of pain control and morbidity. This
      prospective surgical pilot study will recruit PwTN and PwMS-related TN from the National
      Center for Stereotactic Radiosurgery, Sheffield, to evaluate the impact of a personalized
      GKRS treatment protocol on safety, efficacy (pain control) and morbidity. The personalized
      procedure will target the treatment location on trigeminal nerve further away from the brain
      stem as compared to the current standard treatment location that is closer to the brain stem.
      The personalized procedure may reduce the radiation dose to the brain stem and then reduce
      the adverse effects of the treatment. The recruited PwTN and PwMS-related TN will be randomly
      allocated to either the personalized GKRS treatment protocol group or the standard GKRS
      treatment protocol group. The efficacy in pain relief and morbidity will be evaluated between
      the treatment groups at 6 months and 12 months post-surgery.

      This study does not have main ethical, legal issues. The GKRS treatment is provided as
      routine NHS care, and the study will only alter the treatment location for those patients who
      would normally go through the standardtreatment protocol. Therefor there will be no
      management issues.

      Information collected during this study will be kept confidential. All data collected for
      this study will be kept safely and securely on secure NHS computer server and paper records
      at the clinic. All data will be handled strictly according to the University of Leeds privacy
      notice for research participants
    
  