
    
      Patients who have a unilateral congenital impairment to urine flow, either partially or
      complete, will be included in this study. Only patients of investigators will be recruited
      for this study. Patients will be identified during their first clinic visit to see the
      urologist. If determined to be an eligible study candidate, they will be invited to join the
      research study.

      Children enrolled at three months of age will be seen on their 6th, 12th, and 24th month and
      will take home a 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitor on each visit.

      Children enrolled at 6 to 18 months of age will be seen every six months until their 24th
      month. They will also take home a 24-hout blood pressure monitor on each visit.

      When the patient is enrolled in the study, they will follow the study design outlined in
      TABLE 1. The Table outlines scheduled intervals of clinic visits during which clinic staff
      and physicians will provide the standard of care required by the child, radiology
      procedure(s) required by the child's condition, and the initiation of the research-specific
      procedure of 24-Hour Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring. Each visit will take approximately
      2-3 hours. All care outlined in TABLE 1 are the standard of care except for the 24-Hour
      Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring.

      Clinic visits will encompass vital sign measurements in w2hich a single Blood Pressure will
      be measured, physical exam by the physician, and physician/parent discussion abo9ut the
      child's medical condition. These selected activities are estimated to take 30-45 minutes.

      The standard of care radiology procedures scheduled at regular intervals for children with
      urine out-flow obstruction include a Renal Ultrasound estimated to take 30 minutes and a MAG
      3 Renogram (MAG3 is an acronym for mercapto acetyl tri glycine, a compound that is chelated
      with a radioactive element - technetium-99m) estimated to take 60 minutes.

      The renal ultrasound will be scheduled every clinic visit. A renal ultrasound is an imaging
      method in which high frequency sound wave echoes are picked up and displayed on a Television
      Monitor. Radiology personnel can visualize the size, shape and position, as well as the blood
      flow and urine flow through the kidneys, ureters and bladder.

      A MAG-3 renogram will be scheduled during the clinic visits when the child is 3, 12 And 24
      months of age. A MAG-3 renogram is a scan used to measure kidney function. Pictures of the
      kidneys are taken with a special camera following a small injection of a radioactive material
      called TechneScan MAG3.

      The 24-Hour Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring will be scheduled at every clinic visit.
      This procedure is a RESEARCH PURPOSES only. The device used to monitor blood pressure is
      FDA-approved and will measure the blood pressure at regular intervals over a 24-hour period.
      Monitoring intervals during the day-time are every 20 minutes (6:00 a.m. - 10:59 p.m.) and
      night-time intervals are every one-hour (11:00 p.m. - 5:59 a.m.). This procedure entails
      several steps for the parent as outlined in Table 1. The monitoring results will be
      downloaded into a computer and will require professional interpretation by Dr.

      Mouin Seikaly. The interpretation of results will include consideration of what is written in
      the 24-hour blood pressure diary.

      The 24-Hour Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring encompasses several steps (outlined in Table
      1.) The estimated total time for the patient to have this procedure is approximately 55
      minutes broken down into the following components: Setting up the monitor and fitting the
      child with the appropriate cuff - 20 minutes; parental instruction for operating and caring
      for the monitor at home - 20-30 minutes initially followed by 15 minutes at subsequent
      visits, return of the monitor - 20 minutes. It should be noted that the 24-Hour Ambulatory
      Blood Pressure Monitor will accompany the patient at each visit. Management time at home
      includes the time to maintain a diary of recorded activities, events and medication
      administration times while the child is being monitored. Although this time will vary for
      each child, we estimate that it will average about 30 minutes of time over the 24-hour
      period.

      24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring will be read and interpreted by Dr. Mouin
      Seikaly, a pediatric nephrologist at Children's Medical Center of Dallas. The urologist
      responsible for discussing care and leading care decisions will be blinded to the
      interpretive results of the24-Hour Blood Pressure Monitoring. Only after the study will this
      information be available. We plan to finish the study in five years. TABLE 2 provides
      information about age based "normal" blood pressure readings for children in the 50th
      percentile on the growth chart of each age group.

      Subjects will exit the study when clinic visit and study activities at age 24 months are
      completed, or when they have undergone surgery to correct the out-flow obstruction, or if the
      child is withdrawn prematurely by the parent or study doctor.

      Indications for surgery include:

        1. An increase of renal pelvic diameter (in the anterior posterior diameter) on two
           consecutive scans.

        2. A drop in renal function of more than 5%.

        3. An abnormal blood pressure reading on the single clinic blood pressure observation.

      Reasons for premature withdrawal from the study include:

        1. Parent does not comply with keeping clinic appointments.

        2. Parent does not comply with or is unable to comply with physician instructions for
           medication management and/or other healthcare activity needed for child.

        3. Parent is unable to manage the 24 hour blood pressure monitor device at home.

        4. Child is unable to tolerate the blood pressure monitoring despite numerous distraction,
           diversion and comforting activities.

        5. A different treatment approach is warranted and deemed to be more advantageous for the
           child.

        6. Parental decision to withdraw child from the study prior to completion of study
           activities.

        7. The physician determines that it is unsafe for the child to continue in the study.

        8. The child's medical condition changes so that it is no longer appropriate for the child
           to continue in this study.
    
  