
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The PHS is a cohort which included 14,916 men initially free of cardiovascular disease and
      cancer who provided plasma samples at study entry in 1982. These men were randomly assigned
      in a factorial design to aspirin or beta-carotene therapy, and have been followed
      prospectively for the occurrence of vascular disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Employing a nested case-control design, baseline plasma samples are assayed for four markers
      of inflammation (interleukin-6, TNF-alpha, soluble ICAM, soluble VCAM) and four markers of
      chronic infection (antibody titers directed against Chlamydia pneumoniae, Helicobacter
      pylori, Herpes simplex virus, and cytomegalovirus). Case subjects are those study
      participants who have subsequently developed MI (N=550), CVA (N=400), or VTE (N=200). Control
      subjects are selected from those study participants who remained healthy during follow-up and
      are matched to the cases by age, smoking status, and follow-up time. Data on usual
      cardiovascular risk factors, lipid parameters, and hemostatic markers of risk are already
      available in the PHS and will be used to evaluate the results for potential confounding and
      effect modification. Since the PHS was a randomized trial of low-dose aspirin for its initial
      5 years, this cohort also provides the unique opportunity to investigate whether the use of
      an agent with anti-inflammatory properties modifies the risk of subsequent thrombosis among
      those with underlying inflammation. Indeed, this intriguing hypothesis has recently been
      raised regarding data relating another marker of inflammation, C-reactive protein, to future
      risks of myocardial infarction and stroke.

      These analyses will take advantage of an existing blood bank from a well-characterized large
      cohort with many years of follow-up and high quality end-point verification. Thus, this study
      could provide an efficient and cost-effective mechanism to evaluate the posited, but unproven
      roles of inflammation and infection as risk factors for future cardiovascular disease.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  