
    
      This study will establish an acute infection cohort which is predominantly non-subtype B.
      Description of the early events in HIV infection is critical to HIV vaccine development and
      understanding HIV-1 immunopathogenesis. The ability to establish this cohort and identify
      individuals with acute HIV-1 infection would provide the basis for future hypothesis-driven
      proposals.

      Subjects will be recruited at the TRCARC. Subjects seeking VCT will be asked to provide
      contact information. Blood samples, either plasma or whole blood collected on filter paper
      (dried blood spots, or DBS) will be screened for acute HIV infection by pooled or individual
      NAT if non-reactive after screening by an EIA capable of detecting both HIV antibody and
      antigen (4th generation or sensitive EIA). Additionally, 4th generation reactive samples will
      be screened with a non-IgM sensitive EIA capable of detecting HIV antibody only (less
      sensitive EIA) within 1-2 days of sample collection. Those who are found to have acute HIV
      infection will be asked to enroll in the cohort study. These acute HIV-infected participants
      will be followed prospectively at week 0, day 2, 3, 5, 7, 10 then weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20,
      24, then every 12 weeks until the end of the study (maximum of 192 weeks of follow up).
      Subjects will receive blood testing for CD4, HIV RNA, ALT, creatinine and lipids, and
      urinalysis. Subjects will be asked to complete a questionnaire on HIV risk behavior.
      Archiving of plasma and PBMC for future immunologic and virologic testing will be performed.
      Optional study procedures include 1) collection of genital secretions 2) collection of
      cerebrospinal fluid 3) brain MRI/MRS without gadolinium 4) sampling of gut-associated
      lymphoid tissue by colon biopsy 5) genetic testing 6) tracking of and offering VCT to sexual
      contacts of acute HIV-infected subjects. Subjects are encouraged to be hospitalized for the
      first 3-7 days for post-procedural observation and for ease of follow up.
    
  