
    
      Pain and pain control remain a major concern in the neonatal and infant populations and pain
      is often undertreated in order to achieve other goals of medical management. Pain control
      with narcotic medications create an additional concern as withdrawal from narcotics can
      become an issue in neonates and infants requiring long-term administration of pain
      medications. A regional block is an alternative way to control pain by directly blocking the
      nerves through injecting medication near their course.

      A paravertebral block (PVB) is a regional block of some of the spinal nerves. The
      paravertebral space is a wedge shaped space that is located next to the bony structures of
      the spine. This space is where the nerves of the spine branch out to the body which makes
      this space an ideal location to deliver numbing drugs for pain. An ultrasound probe is used
      to ensure that the medicine goes into the paravertebral space. This study will compare the
      use of the standard of care intravenous pain medication to the use of a PVB.

      Using a PVB to control pain may also lead to better blood flow to the spinal cord. A Near
      Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) monitor will be used to monitor the oxygen levels in the spine
      tissues. This study aims to determine if using a paravertebral block in addition to standard
      of care anesthesia results in better pain control and blood flow to the spine.

      A total of 30 neonates and infants, defined as children less than 12 months of age, will be
      enrolled in this study. The subjects will be scheduled for elective or semi-elective cardiac
      surgery at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta. At the time of surgery they must be greater than
      or equal to 2.5 kg and undergoing aortic coarctation repair via left thoracotomy.

      Post-operative pain control in either the control or experimental (paravertebral nerve block)
      group will be accomplished with intravenous, rectal, and oral analgesics. Patients will
      receive scheduled rectal acetaminophen while intubated and oral acetaminophen once they have
      progressed to oral intake of formula. Intravenous fentanyl will be used for breakthrough pain
      while intubated and until oral intake is tolerated. Once oral intake is resumed, the patient
      will be provided with oral oxycodone as needed for pain per usual Cardiac Intensive Care Unit
      (CICU) care. If the patient is not yet ready for extubation and requires additional sedation,
      intravenous doses of midazolam may be required.
    
  