
    
      Postthoracotomy pain syndrome is a rather frequent phenomenon. Its incidence, as reported in
      the literature, varies but is around 52% at 1 to 2 years after surgery. This syndrome is
      defined as a persistent and/or recurrent pain or burning sensation along the thoracotomy scar
      at least 2 months after surgery. The pain is very significant, given that 3 to 5% of patients
      report it as being severe, and approximately 50% of patients report limitations in their
      activities of daily living secondary to this pain and consider their pain as their worst
      medical problem. A neuropathic component makes a certain contribution to this pain. Patients
      with this neuropathic component report more-severe pain and take more analgesics. Little is
      known about the origin of this pain, but it seems that the intensity of acute postoperative
      pain is the best predictor of it. Pregabalin could be a possible approach to reducing the
      prevalence of chronic postthoracotomy pain. Its efficacy has been demonstrated in several
      diabetic, postherpetic, incisional and inflammatory neuropathic pain models.

      Methods:

      One hundred and twenty patients will be divided in two equal groups (to receive pregabalin or
      placebo).

      Prior to the induction of general anesthesia, a thoracic epidural will be placed and started
      immediately prior to surgery. The anesthetic technique and monitoring will be standardized.

      During the immediate postoperative period, the intensity of pain will be assessed using a
      VNPS (0-10). Pain will be assessed upon the patient's arrival in and discharge from the
      recovery room and daily thereafter, for a total duration of four postoperative days or until
      discharge from hospital if this occurs before the 4th postoperative day.

      Three months after their surgery, the patients will be contacted by telephone and
      administered a standardized questionnaire for evaluating:

        -  The presence and intensity (based on a VNPS) of pain at the surgical and/or drainage
           tube sites.

        -  The type of pain, with specific attention to identifying the presence of neuropathic
           pain.

        -  The patients' assessment of their quality of life, and the impact, if any, of the pain
           on their level of functioning in their daily lives in relation to their preoperative
           quality of life and functioning.
    
  