
    
      Schizophrenia is a life-long brain disorder affecting approximately 1 percent of Americans
      each year. Schizophrenia can be extremely disabling, causing people to hear voices,
      experience paranoia or hallucinations, believe that others are controlling their thoughts,
      and even fail at maintaining a job or caring for themselves. Current medications help to
      relieve most of these symptoms, but not all. Some people with schizophrenia still suffer from
      negative symptoms, such as difficulty with talking, expressing emotions, and motivation; they
      may also suffer from cognitive impairments, such as decreased concentration and memory loss.
      D-serine, an amino acid found within the body, activates brain cell receptors that appear to
      play a role in learning and memory. This study will determine whether adding a D-serine
      solution to a stable antipsychotic medication regimen will decrease negative symptoms in
      people with schizophrenia.

      Participants in this open-label study will remain on their regular medication regimen for at
      least 2 weeks. During this time and before starting treatment, participants will be
      interviewed about their emotional problems, marital status, education, family background,
      employment history, and any drug or alcohol problems. Participants will also undergo a
      physical exam, an electrocardiogram (EKG), vital sign measurements, psychological tests,
      cognitive tasks, and an electroencephalogram (EEG). Participants will then begin 4 weeks of
      treatment with D-serine. In addition to participants' regular medication regimen, they will
      drink a D-serine powder mixed with water twice daily. Every 2 weeks, participants will
      undergo a physical exam and an interview about any changes in symptoms or emotional problems
      that they may be experiencing. Blood and urine samples will be taken throughout the study.
      After 4 weeks, participants will undergo an EKG, EEG, and the same psychological tests and
      cognitive tasks completed prior to treatment. A follow-up visit will occur 2 weeks
      post-treatment to monitor any changes in negative symptoms.
    
  