
    
      Objective

      In this Phase I, proof-of-concept study, we aim to determine the safety and tolerability of
      pembrolizumab, an FDA-approved monoclonal antibody against programmed cell death protein
      (PD)-1, in viremically suppressed human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV) positive patients. We
      will also examine the correlation of immune activation and suppression markers in viremically
      suppressed HIV positive patients with the effects of pembrolizumab on immune restoration
      function (e.g. CD4 count, HIV viral load) and immune activation (e.g. HIV-specific T-cell
      responses).

      Study Population

      HIV is estimated to infect 36.7 million people globally, with 1.1 million deaths and 2.1
      million new infections occurring yearly. There is no cure. Opportunistic infections and
      neoplasms contribute to a large portion of mortality and morbidity within the HIV-positive
      population. Even in well- controlled, viremically suppressed patients, neurologic
      complications including HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder, continue to contribute to
      disease morbidity and mortality.

      There is evidence that HIV reservoirs contribute to the inability to cure HIV infection. In
      the brain, macrophages and astrocytes harbor HIV. It is theorized that the brain is a
      potential reservoir for replication competent HIV. PD-1 expression is elevated in patients
      with HIV compared to uninfected controls. Upregulated PD-1 expression is associated with
      higher viral load and increased mortality in infections.1 PD-1 co-expression on regulatory
      T-cells has been shown to correlate with disease progression in perinatally-infected
      HIV-positive children. Drugs targeting the PD-1 pathway in HIV infection have shown
      upregulation of T-cell responses that are potentially critical to eradication of infection.
      Pembrolizumab is an attractive option due to its mechanism of action, although it has been
      rarely used in the HIV population.

      Design

      In this single-center, single-arm, open label, baseline-versus-treatment phase I clinical
      trial, twelve patients with HIV-1 infection will receive a one-time dose of 200mg
      pembrolizumab with a baseline study period of 3 weeks, a one-day treatment phase, and a
      6-month post treatment phase. Outcome measures will be collected every 3 to 6 weeks for the
      duration of the study.

      Outcome Measures

      The primary outcome will be the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab, which will be
      measured by clinical exam, laboratory studies and adverse event tabulations using the Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0.

      In addition, viral and immunologic outcome measures investigating the impact of pembrolizumab
      on HIV-1 biology and its effects on immune function will be measured in the CSF and
      periphery, including single copy HIV analysis, CD4+ T-cell count, PD-1 lymphocyte expression
      and T-cell phenotype analysis, T-cell proliferation against HIV-proteins, CSF cytokine
      analysis and/or CSF antibody profiling (LIPS). These additional studies will offer indirect
      proof of a HIV viral reservoir in the CNS as well as potential efficacy of pembrolizumab in
      reversing immune exhaustion against latent HIV
    
  