
    
      2. STUDY SYNPOSIS AND SCHEMA

      STUDY OBJECTIVES:

      The study will contrast substance use and substance-related outcomes among patients endorsing
      problematic drug use during an emergency department (ED) visit who are randomly assigned to
      one of three treatment conditions: 1) minimal screening only (MSO); 2) screening, assessment,
      and referral to treatment (if indicated) (SAR); and 3) screening, assessment, and referral
      plus a brief intervention (BI) with two telephone follow-up booster sessions (BI-B).

      STUDY DESIGN:

      The proposed project is a 3-group randomized, prospective trial with blinded assessments.
      Individuals presenting in the ED endorsing problematic drug use on screening will be
      randomized in 1:1:1 ratio to MSO vs. SAR vs. BI-B. Randomization will occur after screening,
      and those randomized to MSO will not receive further assessment until follow-up. The other
      two groups will receive baseline assessment, and assignment to SAR vs. BI-B will not be
      revealed until after the baseline assessment is complete. Those in the SAR group will then
      receive referral if indicated or requested, and those assigned to the BI-B group will be
      receive a brief intervention consisting of motivational enhancement therapy (MET) adapted for
      use in the ED, followed by referral if indicated or requested. The BI-B group will also
      receive two booster telephone calls, ideally within one week of the ED visit. Follow-up
      assessments of all three groups will be conducted face-to-face at 3 months, 6 months, and 12
      months post-enrollment.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      A total of 1285 patients with probable drug abuse or dependence (approximately 429 per group)
      seeking medical treatment in the ED, recruited from 6 EDs, will be randomized to MSO, SAR, or
      BI-B. Each ED will enroll approximately 215 participants.

      ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA:

      Participants will be men and women 18 years of age or older who are seeking medical treatment
      at the ED, have adequate English proficiency, are able to provide informed consent, endorse
      current (past 30 days) problematic use of one or more drugs, are willing to participate in
      the protocol (e.g., be randomized to treatment, participate in follow-up assessment), and
      have access to a telephone. Individuals will be excluded if they are incapable of informed
      consent, are prisoners or in police custody, are currently engaged in addiction treatment,
      reside more than 50 miles from the site where follow-ups are conducted, are unable to provide
      sufficient contact information, or have already participated in the study.

      TREATMENTS:

      The MSO group will not receive further assessment or treatment following randomization, but
      will be given an informational pamphlet about drug use and its potential consequences.

      The SAR group will be provided with the same information pamphlet as the MSO group. In
      addition, following assessment, SAR participants with "probable dependence" on one or more
      substances (based on ASSIST score ≥ 27) will also be provided a referral to treatment,
      consisting of a positive recommendation to seek treatment and a standardized list of
      available treatment options. Participants who request a referral will also receive one,
      regardless of ASSIST score. Referrals will be made to CTN-affiliated CTPs as well as other
      community programs in the normal clinical referral networks of the participating EDs.

      Individuals randomized to the BI+Booster (BI-B) condition will receive the same information
      and referral as those in SAR. In addition, while in the ED the BI-B group will receive a
      manual-guided brief intervention based on motivational interviewing principles, including
      feedback based on screening information, the FRAMES heuristic, and development of a change
      plan if indicated. The brief intervention will focus primarily on the most problematic drug
      of abuse identified by the participant. The BI will be provided in person in the ED while the
      participant is still there. In addition, participants in the BI-B group will receive up to 2
      phone "booster" sessions that will check to see whether they have engaged in treatment,
      review change plans, and seek a commitment from them (Mello, Longabaugh et al. 2008). The
      content of these boosters is patterned after sessions in Motivational Enhancement Therapy
      (MET). The initial phone booster call will occur within 3 days of discharge from the ED if
      possible, and the second within 7 days. Booster calls will be made using a centralized,
      study-wide intervention booster call center.

      SAFETY ASSESSMENT:

      Adverse Events (AEs) including Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) will be monitored and reported
      throughout the study. These events will be subject to ongoing monitoring by the study
      executive committee (including representatives of the lead nodes, NIDA, and the Clinical
      Coordinating Center), and will be presented for DSMB review.

      OUTCOME ASSESSMENTS:

      The primary outcome is days of use of the patient-defined primary problem drug, assessed by
      the Time-Line Follow-Back for the 30-day period preceding the 3-month follow-up. Secondary
      outcomes include change from baseline in days of use of the primary substance, the number
      days abstinent from all drugs, days of heavy drinking, total quantity of drug use, objective
      change in drug use based on analysis of hair samples, self-reported consequences of drug and
      alcohol use, percent entering treatment among those classified as having probable dependence,
      and ED and other health care utilization.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME ANALYSIS:

      The primary analysis will contrast MSO, SAR and BI-B groups with respect to the primary
      outcome variable (days of use of the primary drug of abuse in the 30 days preceding 3-month
      follow-up) using a linear mixed model with a random site effect and fixed treatment effect
      and intercept. Three pairwise contrasts will be made with an overall type 1 error rate of α =
      0.05.

      REGULATORY ISSUES:

      The trial will be conducted in compliance with protocol, ICH Good Clinical Practice (GCP)
      guidelines, and applicable regulatory requirements.
    
  