
    
      Surgical resection is the main treatment for patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
      and continuous efforts have been made to evolve surgical strategies and techniques. It has
      been now been realized that perioperative period is characterized with profound changes and
      anesthesia management may also affect outcomes of patients after cancer surgery.

      Even under well controlled conditions, blood pressure fluctuation frequently occurs during
      anesthesia and surgery. In previous studies, intraoperative hypotension was associated with
      increased risk of organ injuries (such as delirium, acute kidney injury, myocardial injury,
      and stroke) and higher 1-year mortality. Unpublished data showed that intraoperative
      hypotension was also associated with shortened long-term survival in patients after lung
      cancer surgery. In a recent trial, individualized intraoperative blood pressure management
      which avoided intraoperative hypotension decreased the incidence of postoperative organ
      injury when compared with routine practice. Avoiding intraoperative hypotension may also
      prolong survival after lung cancer surgery. However, evidences are lacking regarding this
      topic.

      Dexamethasone is frequently used for prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting. Studies
      showed that a single low-dose dexamethasone has anti-inflammatory effect and can regulate
      immune function. It has been shown that perioperative dexamethasone can improve analgesia
      after surgery. In retrospective studies, perioperative low-dose dexamethasone was associated
      with less wound infection and improved long-term survival in patients after surgeries for
      pancreatic and lung cancer. It is hypothesized that intraoperative dexamethasone may reduce
      postoperative complications and improve long-term survival after lung cancer surgery.
      Interventional studies are required to confirm this hypothesis.
    
  