
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare between the two study arms the proportion of patients with no nausea for the
      overall (0-120 hours post-chemotherapy), acute (0-24 hours post-chemotherapy), and delayed
      periods (24-120 hours post-chemotherapy) for patients receiving highly emetogenic
      chemotherapy (HEC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare between the two study arms the complete response (CR) rates (no emetic episodes
      and no use of rescue medication) in the acute, delayed, and overall periods.

      II. To compare between the two study arms, the incidences of potential toxicities that have
      been ascribed to olanzapine.

      III. To perform an economic evaluation of olanzapine and fosaprepitant dimeglumine
      (fosaprepitant) versus (vs.) olanzapine in patients receiving HEC (noting that all patients
      will also receive dexamethasone and a 5HT3 receptor antagonist).

      IV. To explore the efficacy of olanzapine in chemotherapy cycles two to four, for patients
      who elect to continue on the same antiemetic regimen received in cycle one, in chemotherapy
      cycles two to four (continuation phase), by documenting nausea and complete response.

      V. To explore the safety of olanzapine in chemotherapy cycles two to four, for patients who
      elect to continue on the same antiemetic regimen received in cycle one, in chemotherapy
      cycles two to four (continuation phase), by recording any adverse events or drug related
      toxicities.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive palonosetron hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 seconds or
      ondansetron hydrochloride IV over 2-5 minutes or orally (PO) on day 1, dexamethasone PO on
      days 1-4, fosaprepitant dimeglumine IV over 20-30 minutes on day 1, and olanzapine PO on days
      1-4. Treatment may repeat every 4 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive palonosetron hydrochloride IV over 30 seconds or ondansetron
      hydrochloride IV over 2-5 minutes or PO on day 1, dexamethasone PO on days 1-4, placebo IV
      over 20-30 minutes on day 1, and olanzapine PO on days 1-4. Treatment (with no placebo) may
      repeat every 4 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  