
    
      Heme oxygenase-1(HO-1) is an enzyme found throughout the body with highest concentrations in
      tissues of reticuloendothelial system. It degrades heme to biliverdin and produces ferrous
      iron and carbon monoxide. It is an inducible anti oxidant enzyme production of which
      increases during high levels of oxidative stress. Synthesis of HO-1 is regulated mainly on
      transcriptional level.

      Coronary artery disease is characterized by high oxidative stress levels. Initiation of
      atherosclerosis as well as progression and vulnerable plaque formation are shown to be linked
      to oxidation-anti oxidation imbalance.

      Several studies showed a correlation between heme oxygenase-1 level, activity and coronary
      artery disease. Measuring heme oxygenase-1 activity from peripheral blood samples is
      technically challenging. Bilirubin levels are used as a marker of heme oxygenase activity and
      are showed to be related to coronary artery disease. As previously mentioned HO-1 is an
      inducible enzyme so the increased levels reveal a high oxidative stress situation. High
      levels of serum HO-1 are found also in other clinical settings such as interstitial
      pneumonia, malignancies, acute kidney injury.

      Burden of coronary artery disease is highly correlated with adverse prognosis in patients
      with stable coronary artery disease and acute coronary syndrome. SYNTAX score is a well
      established tool to determine the extent of coronary artery disease. Severity and location of
      coronary stenoses as well as calcification and morphology are considered in SYNTAX score.
      Clinical SYNTAX score also incorporates clinical characteristics of patients including age,
      creatinine clearance, diabetes etc. High SYNTAX score is associated with increased total and
      cardiovascular mortality.

      The aim of this study is to investigate serum heme oxygenase-1 level and SYNTAX score in
      patients with suspected coronary artery disease. Patients will be recruited from a single
      center consecutively. Blood samples will be drawn before coronary angiography. SYNTAX score
      will be calculated for each patient. Demographical and clinical characteristics of patients
      will also be recorded. Patients without coronary artery disease will be used as control
      group. Primary outcome measure will be to determine the relationship between HO-1 levels and
      SYNTAX score.
    
  