
    
      Giant cell arteritis (GCA), also known as temporal arteritis, is the most common form of
      primary systemic vasculitis, with up to 75,000 cases a year identified in the EU and US. It
      occurs almost exclusively in people over the age of 50 years and is considered to be a
      medical emergency. If not treated with high-dose glucocorticoids immediately, the thickening
      of the inflamed blood vessel wall can cause irreversible visual loss or stroke. GCA can lead
      to significant morbidity across a variety of systems, due to both the disease, and
      complications of treatment. Diagnosis may be confirmed with a temporal artery biopsy, imaging
      (e.g. USS/CT/MRA/PET-CR) or based on clinical signs (e.g. erythrocyte sedimentation rate) and
      symptoms (e.g. a new headache, jaw claudication, visual disturbances, temporal artery
      abnormality such as tenderness or decreased pulsation) .

      Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is characterised by inflammatory limb-girdle pain with early
      morning stiffness, and a systemic inflammatory response demonstrated by elevated inflammatory
      markers.

      The UK GCA Consortium is a multi-centre observational study, the main arms of which recruit
      prospective (participants with suspected GCA) and retrospective cohorts (participants with
      confirmed GCA diagnosis). Analysis of data collected on these cohorts will help achieve the
      primary aim of finding genetic determinants of GCA and PMR susceptibility, in order to yield
      novel insights into disease pathogenesis. Secondary aims, and their associated analyses, are
      as follows:

        -  Phenotype: characterising GCA and PMR subtypes, based on clinical features; imaging;
           cells; subcellular fractions and molecules in the circulation and/or arterial tissue;
           genetic/epigenetic/transcriptomic/proteomic or metabolomics factors, including next
           generation sequencing (whole exome sequencing) of selected cases.

        -  Life impact: determining what aspects of the disease and treatments affect patients'
           quality of life, as assessed by patient-reported outcomes.

        -  Long-term outcomes: characterising prognosis of GCA and PMR - both effects of the
           disease and its treatment - by longitudinal follow-up through electronic linkage to
           health records.

        -  Exploratory analyses: exploring the potential role of environmental factors and
           co-morbidities on phenotype and outcomes.

        -  Diagnosis, prognosis: improving diagnosis of GCA and PMR, and identifying factors that
           predict diagnosis, such as diagnostic clinical features, and prognostic and diagnostic
           biomarkers.

        -  Disease activity: monitoring participants who commence a synthetic or biological
           disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug (s/bDMARD). Finding a biomarker for GCA and PMR
           disease activity, which might be clinically useful in helping to optimise steroid and
           s/bDMARD treatments for individual patients.
    
  