
    
      There are several candidate screening modalities - fecal occult blood (FOBT), flexible
      sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy, CT and MRI colonography and a range of molecular markers. Of
      these, only FOBT and FS have been subjected to long-term follow-up in randomised trials
      (RCTs). These two modalities will be tested in a head-to-head comparison by 1:1
      randomisation. Previous studies have suggested that the attendance for FS may be lower than
      for FOBT. However, participation has been shown to decline with repetitive rounds required
      for FOBT, while infrequent or once-only screening may suffice for FS. A better test
      performance for FS makes it uncertain which method may be most beneficial in a public health
      perspective. This is the first time a national screening programme is designed as a platform
      for comparative effectiveness studies.

      The pilot study will be carried out in two hospital catchment areas in South-East Norway -
      each with a target population of 70,000 men and women at 50-74 years of age - altogether
      140,000 individuals to be randomised 1:1 between screening with an immunochemical test for
      faecal occult blood (iFOBT) biennially or FS once only. The primary endpoint is colorectal
      mortality reduction after 10 years. Attendance for FS is expected to be 50% and 60% for
      iFOBT. Expected CRC mortality reduction is 30% (286 CRC deaths) in the FS arm and 15% (143
      CRC deaths) in the iFOBT arm (intention-to-treat). In a 1:1 randomisation with 80%
      statistical power and a significance level of 5% it will require 70,000 individuals in each
      arm to disclose a statistically significant difference between FS and iFOBT screening in an
      intention-to-treat model. We expect 5% in the iFOBTs group to test positive and require
      colonoscopy work-up. A positive FS is defined as 'any advanced neoplasia' (CRC, adenoma
      >10mm, adenoma with high-grade dysplasia or villous components). A finding of advanced
      neoplasia is expected in 5% of FS requiring full colonoscopy.

      Study entry-date: All individuals were randomized to each of the two groups (iFOBT or
      sigmoidoscopy) before study start. Because first round screening of the iFOBT arm (70,000
      invitees) will be finished in a shorter time frame compared to sigmoidoscopy, invitees in the
      flexible sigmoidoscopy arm are prone to more relevant time-dependent events between
      randomization and time of screening actually being offered. Therefore, primary entry-date was
      defined as day of mailed invitation in both screening groups. This approach means that the
      mean age at invitation in the sigmoidoscopy screening group will be older than in the iFOBT
      group, and analyses have to take this age-difference into account. Randomization date was
      chosen as a secondary study entry date to allow comparative analysis of effects of choosing
      the two entry date definitions. Sub-studies on lifestyle, psychological reactions comparing
      participants and control groups not invited to screening from neighbouring municipalities are
      performed. A randomized sub-study comparing various premedication in work-up colonoscopies is
      also performed.

      Sub-studies

        1. Changes in modifiable lifestyle factors such as not smoking, normal weight, high level
           of physical activity may reduce the risk of CRC. Correlation between these factors and
           endoscopic findings will be assessed. Limited intervention will be tested to improve
           life style.

        2. The effect of screening on Psychological factors and the willingness to repeat screening
           will be assessed

        3. Creation of a validated Sigmoidoscopy Bowel Preparation scale with subsequent testing of
           various bowel preparation modalities will be performed.

        4. RCT with various strategies og analgesia during colonoscopy will be tested to improve
           patient experience.
    
  