
    
      After approval from the Duzce Faculty of Medicine Noninvasive Researches Ethics Committee
      (02.01.2017), the datas were collected patients anesthetic forms who were followed with
      capnograph (Capnostream 20 p, Oridion, Israel) by the anesthesiology department for eye
      surgery in the operating room at Duzce University Faculty of Medicine Hospital during the
      period of 01 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. It was observed that 42 patient records met
      the study criteria. Demographic and clinical datas were abstracted from anesthetic and
      clinical records.

      Age, weight, height of the patients, operation types, operation duration times, local
      anesthetic performing types, noninvasive systolic, diastolic and mean arterial pressures,
      cardiac rates, ST segment analysis (Datex Ohmeda monitor, GE Health Care, Finland) ( This
      monitor use for the routine monitorisation in the eye surgery operating room in our hospital)
      systolic, diastolic and mean arterial pressure measurements, end tidal carbon dioxide levels,
      pulse oximeter values were extracted from anesthetic forms retrospectively.

      Arrhythmia recordings were evaluated as (yes / no) over time periods. Surgical field was
      covered with reusable cotton fabric drape or dispossible surgical adhesive plastic drape
      (SteriDrape, 3M). We included the patients records who were covered with the same kind of
      drapes (SteriDrape, 3M). We excluded records with another type of drapes usage or without any
      data about drape type to provide the homogenisation and clearity of the results.

      Datas were collected from the anesthetic forms which time periods were determined as the
      baseline, before closing drape, at 10th, 15th, 20th, 45th minutes after covering and 5
      minutes after drape removal. Records with pulmonary disease, diabetes mellitus and sedative
      usage, alcohol usage were excluded from the study.

      The comparisons were made with patients basal status and time periods statistically.
    
  