
    
      The TICOPA trial is designed as a randomised, controlled, parallel group, open label,
      multi-centre clinical trial of 206 patients with recent onset psoriatic arthritis. Patients
      will be randomised on a 1:1 basis to receive either standard care (12 weekly review) or tight
      control (4 weekly review) for a period of 48 weeks. The hypothesis is that tight control of
      inflammation will lead to a better outcome in terms of joint inflammation, joint damage, pain
      and quality of life for people with PsA. This imaging undertaken within the study will
      provide a further measure of joint inflammation and damage and will improve understanding of
      the relationships between inflammation, damage and bony proliferation in psoriatic arthritis.

      Those subjects randomised to the tight control arm will be reviewed every 4 weeks (by the PI
      at each site or a designated researcher), and will be treated according to a rapidly
      escalating regime, involving standard DMARDs and biologics. Initial therapy will be with oral
      methotrexate, increasing in dose rapidly over the first 8 weeks of the study. From the 12
      week visit onwards, escalation of therapy in this arm will be performed if subjects do not
      meet the objective target of Minimal Disease Activity. Initial escalation will be to
      combination DMARD therapy. If patients in the tight control arm fail to meet the MDA criteria
      and fulfil the NICE criteria for the use of TNF blockers in psoriatic arthritis at 24 weeks,
      then they will be offered treatment with these medications. Therapy will continue to be
      modified throughout the 48 week follow-up until a state of minimal disease activity is
      reached. The control group will be seen every 12 weeks in a general rheumatology clinic and
      will receive standard care, involving standard DMARDs and biologics as appropriate. Treatment
      will be prescribed as felt appropriate by the treating physicians with no set protocol and no
      restrictions.

      All subjects will be treated and followed-up for 48 weeks from randomisation according to
      their treatment allocation and will have 12 weekly clinical disease assessments throughout
      this period by a fully trained, blinded assessor. This will include measures of disease
      activity in all of the five aspects of PsA (joint disease, skin disease, enthesitis,
      dactylitis and spinal disease).
    
  