
    
      Introduction Radiotherapy is one of the main curative treatment options in advanced head and
      neck cancer. With the introduction of altered fractionation schedules and concurrent
      chemotherapy locoregional control numbers and overall survival have improved significantly.
      This has come at the cost of excess in acute and late toxicity. The steep dose gradients
      associated with more conformal radiotherapy techniques such as intensity modulated
      radiotherapy (IMRT) allows us to maintain adequate coverage of the target volume while
      reducing the dose to the surrounding normal tissues, thus potentially sparing these from
      excess acute and late toxicity. However to accurately evaluate the value of these new
      techniques documentation of treatment related toxicity and quality of life is essential.
      Standardized quality of life scoring systems have been developed for this purpose. Especially
      xerostomia is very hard to evaluate, although it remains an important issue in the follow-up
      of these patients.

      Purpose In this study the investigators want to analyze treatment related toxicity, with
      special emphasis on xerostomia and dysphagia in patients treated with radiotherapy for head
      and neck cancer by presenting them with standardized quality of life questionnaires at well
      defined points after treatment (2 months, six months, one year ,two years after RT). The
      result of these questionnaires will then be correlated to treatment data.

      Study Design The investigators will include all patient which are in follow-up after primary
      (chemo-)radiotherapy for head and neck cancer for a period 4 years. At well defined time
      points after primary (chemo-)radiotherapy for head and neck cancer the investigators will ask
      the patient to fill in standardized questionnaires compromising of the EORTC QLQ H&N35
      questionnaire, the university of Michigan Xerostomia questionnaire (XQ) and the MD Anderson
      Dysphagia Inventory. The treating physician will score the toxicity using the RTOG/EORTC late
      toxicity scoring system and the functional oral intake scale (FOIS).

      This toxicity data will then be analyzed and correlated with treatment data. Special interest
      will go to the relationship between the presence of xerostomia and the doses delivered to
      subvolumes of the parotid glands, the submandibular glands and oral cavity.
    
  