
    
      Most of our metabolic function is controlled by metabolic clock genes that regulate glucose,
      lipid metabolism and several other circadian metabolic pathways involved in insulin
      resistance obesity and type 2 diabetes. The main group of clock genes resides in the SCN
      nuclei and is synchronized by light/dark signals. However similar clock oscillators called
      peripheral clocks are found in almost all tissues, including in the liver, heart, kidney,
      intestine, skeletal muscles, and adipocytes and in peripheral blood cells (PBC). The
      peripheral clocks, and specially those metabolic clock genes, seem to be controlled mainly by
      food cues.

      The time of food intake synchronize simultaneously and in parallel way almost all the
      peripheral metabolic clock genes including those expressed and in peripheral blood cells
      (PBC) i.e. leucocytes, monocytes; allowing to explore the oscillation of the metabolic clock
      gene expression of the whole body by assessing its expression in the PBC. Impaired
      oscillation of the metabolic clock gene mRNA expression was found in diabetic animal models
      and in patients with type 2 diabetes and were inversely correlated with HbA1c.

      In support of these finding we reported that high calorie breakfast with reduced dinner
      improved insulin sensitivity and weight loss rate among obese subjects, while in type 2
      diabetic patients the high calorie breakfast was associated with improvement of HbA1c.

      Moreover, recently was shown that very short time (only 120 min) after food intake in the
      breakfast, was sufficient to reset the expression of the circadian clock genes.

      This study is undertaken to explore whether compared to extension of overnight fast until
      lunch versus the breakfast consumption influence the oscillation of the metabolic clock gene
      expression in peripheral blood cells (PBC), at noon and after isocaloric lunch in type 2
      diabetic patients.
    
  