
    
      Probiotics are over-the-counter dietary supplements which contain live bacteria. These
      bacteria are normally present in the gastrointestinal tract and may provide health benefits
      when added to a regular diet. Common reasons for taking probiotic supplements include
      repopulating the gut with lactobacilli after taking antibiotics and aiding in the treatment
      of inflammatory bowel disease, lactose intolerance, and gastrointestinal infections.

      The gut of neonates is sterile and becomes colonized with bacteria during the first few
      months of life. Many of these bacteria possess terminal sugar structures on their membrane
      components that are chemically similar to A and B blood group substances present on red
      cells. Antibodies to A and B blood group substances are not present at birth. Early in life,
      infants lacking A or B antigens on their red cells recognize the corresponding antigens on
      bacteria and form antibodies against bacterial sugars that cross react with the corresponding
      red cell antigen. These antibodies are known as anti-A and anti-B isoagglutinins. They do not
      cause disease, but are important in the transfusion of compatible blood units.

      Prior studies have suggested that probiotics consumed in large doses may provoke the
      formation of high titer isoagglutinins. This has relevance for transfusion of platelet
      components, in that, since ABO-matching of platelets is not necessary, minor
      ABO-incompatibility between donor and recipient is present in 10-20% of plateletpheresis
      components transfused nationwide. Plateletpheresis components derived from donors taking
      probiotics might contain high titer isoagglutinins, which could cause hemolytic reactions in
      group A and B recipients.

      The objectives of this study are (1) to determine whether taking oral probiotic supplements
      increases anti-A and anti-B isoagglutinins in healthy subjects, (2) to study the frequency of
      these effects and determine whether there is a dose-response relationship with probiotics and
      isoagglutinin titers.

      Study subjects will be asked to take a probiotic supplement at a dose of 1-3 caplets per day
      for 18 weeks. Blood samples will be drawn every 2 weeks during that time. Depending on
      individual results, continued blood testing may be done every 3 months for a year, then every
      6-12 months for up to 5 years. A group of control subjects will be followed in a similar
      manner, but will not take probiotic supplements. The outcome measure is the percent of
      probiotic ingestors versus controls who experience a four-fold or greater rise in
      isoagglutinin titer in association with a final titer of at least 128.
    
  