
    
      Background: Heart Failure (HF) is a significant healthcare concern in the US, with a 120%
      rise in mortality rates over 15 years costing the country an estimated $37.2 billion in 2009.
      Veterans are currently impacted at a rate of 5.2%, and cost an average of
      $14,959/individual/year for those utilizing the VA's Healthcare services. Research has shown
      that exercise training (ET) improves aerobic capacity, endothelial dysfunction, quality of
      life, and the ability to tolerate activity within the overall HF population. Animal models
      have emerged to explain some of the underlying mechanisms for the pathologic expression of
      symptoms and the links to ET. A translational link has not yet been explored between the
      animal models and human symptom expression.

      Objectives: The long-term goal of this research program is to develop an exercise training
      (ET) program that effectively decreases fluid shift variability in HF patients, while being
      safely implemented in the home environment and remotely monitored by a healthcare provider
      within a nurse-lead HF Clinic. The purpose of the proposed research project is to determine
      if ET alters fluid status of patients with HF as compared to those under standard treatment
      of care. The central hypothesis is that a combined weight-bearing aerobic and resistance ET
      protocol will reduce (stabilize) 24-hour weight and bioelectrical impedance patterns of
      variability, as evaluated via mixed-effects regression modeling, greater than any other form
      of ET protocol.

      Methods: Design: Using established experimental design techniques implemented in an
      innovative manner, a between-group design is used within the experimental arm employing a
      single subject, multiple-baseline design. The use of such technique allows for the subjects
      to be their own controls, while also allowing for statistical between group comparisons.

      Subjects and Setting: 60 subjects meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled from
      the VA HF Clinic and outpatient VA cardiology clinics within 50 miles of Columbia, South
      Carolina. Subjects will be randomized to the exercise or usual care groups.

      Procedures: The exercise protocol lasts 12 weeks, with subjects being randomized to order of
      ET. Weight-bearing aerobic ET will be walking on a treadmill; non-weight-bearing aerobic ET
      will be stationary bicycling; and resistance ET will be lower body isolation ET. Fluid
      stability is the concept of day-to-day variability of movement of intra-cellular fluid to
      extra-cellular space. Fluid stability will be assessed using 24-hour weight and bioelectrical
      impedance and quantified statistically using mixed effect modeling.

      Data Analysis: Statistical analysis will utilize a longitudinal mixed-effects regression
      model, modeling variability over time for the subjects individually, as well as within
      groups. Additionally, main effects (time and group) and interaction effects (time by group)
      will be assessed.

      Status: Funding began September 1, 2010. The study was transferred to Dorn VAMC in Columbia,
      SC in March of 2011. Currently the study is in the final phase of data analysis.
    
  