
    
      Many epidemiological studies have associated exposure to traffic-derived air pollution from
      motor vehicles, air toxins from industry and other environmental toxins by pregnant women
      with measures of poor birth outcomes including preeclampsia (PE), preterm birth (PTB) and
      intra-uterine growth restriction (IUGR). Preeclampsia, preterm labor and IUGR, collectively
      known as ischemic placental disease, are strongly correlated with infant morbidity and a host
      of adult diseases ranging from coronary artery disease to cancer. Although it is widely
      believed that the pathophysiological mechanisms leading to complications of ischemic
      placental disease and placental insufficiency have similar biological origins, starting as
      early as defective placental implantation, to date there are no predictive studies that
      prospectively examine placental structure and/or function. This may be related to existing
      technologies, routinely employed in clinical decision-making, such as ultrasonography and
      certain biomarkers, lacking precision in the first trimester, and adequate sensitivity and
      specificity in the second to third trimesters. Thus, assessment and prediction of normalcy
      versus aberrancy of placental function are lacking. Therefore, the overarching objective of
      this proposal is to develop and evaluate a suit of cutting-edge multi-parametric magnetic
      resonance imaging (mp-MRI) technologies (primary predictor), and translate these novel
      placental imaging modalities to assessing the impact of environmental pollution exposure on
      prediction of the composite of placental aberrancy/insufficiency and related outcomes (PE,
      PTB and IUGR) (primary outcome).

      Our central hypothesis is that chronic exposure to high rates of environmental pollution,
      independent of socio-economic status (SES), increases the risk of placental insufficiency due
      to early gestational development of adverse placental structure/function as detected by
      mp-MRI technological advances.

      To test this hypothesis, our interdisciplinary research team at UCLA will first develop
      non-contrast freebreathing placental mp-MRI, consisting of multi-delay pseudo-continuous
      arterial spin labeling (pCASL) perfusion and high-resolution multi-contrast structural MRI,
      which will provide reproducible measures of placental perfusion and tissue microstructure
      (AIM 1). The novel mp-MRI techniques will be compared to the uterine artery Doppler
      ultrasound through pregnancy and validated ultimately by the gold standard histological
      pathology and vascularity of the post-parturient placenta (AIM 2). Lastly, the investigators
      will perform in-depth analyses of recruited subjects for exposure to environmental pollution
      and correlate their rates of exposure to extensively collected pregnancy outcomes, towards
      building a predictive model (AIM 3). Our specific aims are:

      AIM 1: Develop non-contrast free-breathing placental mp-MRI techniques that can
      non-invasively characterize the in vivo placental perfusion and microstructure through all
      trimesters.

      A. Develop a free-breathing multi-delay pCASL sequence using background-suppressed
      localized-volume 3D GRASE imaging for quantitative measurement of placental perfusion within
      a 5-10 min scan (1.5x1.5x2 mm3 resolution).

      B. Develop a free-breathing high-resolution golden-angle 3D stack-of-radial sequence with
      self-navigation and retrospective motion compensation using compressed sensing for mapping
      placental microstructure within a 5-10 min scan (1x1x1 mm3 isotropic resolution).

      AIM 2: Evaluate placental mp-MRI by longitudinal comparison with uterine artery Doppler
      ultrasound through gestation as a predictive marker of placental insufficiency.

      A. Conduct a 3-year prospective cohort study of pregnant women, performing newly developed
      mp-MRI (AIM1) in the 1st and 2nd trimesters in parallel to ultrasound measurement of uterine
      artery Doppler, to assess mp-MRI prediction capability versus ultrasound.

      B. Collect detailed pregnancy outcome data of prospective cohort, including diagnosis,
      neonatal outcome, and placenta for pathological and histological analysis to ascertain risk
      factors for placental insufficiency as a response to environmental exposures (AIM 3).

      AIM 3: Perform in-depth analyses in recruited subjects to determine associations of
      environmental pollution exposures and both placental mp-MRI measurements and concomitant
      pregnancy outcomes.

      A. Perform in-depth analyses to measures of modeled environmental pollution exposure in our
      recruited subjects to assess associations with mp-MRI measures of placental structure and
      perfusion throughout gestation, taking into account multiple confounding factors such as
      maternal age at delivery, race/ethnicity, and SES.

      B. Correlate mp-MRI measures of placental structure and perfusion throughout gestation with
      pregnancy outcomes, post-parturient assessment of placental weight, pathology, and neonatal
      outcomes. These studies will establish the impact of environmental pollution on placental
      structure and function, and related pregnancy outcomes, with obstetric and neonatal practices
      embracing surveillance tactics based on the residential location of pregnant women and their
      offspring. In addition, the proposed research will establish the potential for early
      recognition of placental insufficiency, thereby staging future strategies of preventive and
      interventional therapies targeting reversal before encountering detrimental consequences.
    
  