
    
      Background: Workplace-based assessments, such as mini-clinical evaluation exercise
      (mini-CEX), direct observation of procedural skills (DOPS), and milestones, target the
      highest level of clinical competence and collect information about doctors' performance in
      their normal practice. Recent advances in virtual reality (VR) simulation, lowering the
      complex of learning task and the cognitive load (CL) of the learner, make this novel
      technology well suited for the initial training of novices. Reduced heart rate variation
      (HRV), an indicator of stress, is associated with decreased cognitive efficiency in health.
      Accordingly, this study hypothesizes that VR-based instruction can help novices to increase
      HRV, decrease CL, and then improve their outcomes of workplace-based assessments.

      Aims: This prospective study aims (1) to design an image-based VR (IBVR) instruction for
      clinical medical education, (2) to compare HRV and CL in traditional video-based (VB)
      learning and novel IBVR-based learning, (3) to compare outcomes of mini-CEX, DOPS, and
      milestone between two modules, (4) to perform a qualitative evaluation of IBVR-based learning
      using a 360-degree video review, and (5) to assess various levels of novice learners
      (undergraduate medical students and postgraduate year residents) for their participation in
      and acceptance of this novel IBVR-based learning.

      Study Designs: This 3-year study includes two parts: (1) Design a VR-based curriculum
      including fundamental otolaryngological skills, and (2) Validation of an IBVR-based history
      taking and physical examination (H&P) learning activity using a blinded randomized,
      parallel-controlled trial in convenience-sampled novice undergraduate medical students and
      postgraduate year residents.

      Materials and Methods: This study will be implemented between August 1, 2017 and July 30,
      2020. Firstly, a VR-based curriculum will be designed including H&P using the analysis,
      design, development, implementation, and evaluation model and a modified Delphi approach. VB
      module and IBVR module of the same contexts will be developed. Secondly, an IBVR-based H&P
      learning activity will be validated by measuring CL questionnaires, reaction time, HRV,
      mini-CEX, DOPS, milestones, global satisfaction scale and AttrakDiff2 questionnaires (n =
      64). Age, sex, and cognitive style (determined by the Group Embedded Figures Test) of both
      groups are matched. Differences in variables of interests will be statistically analyzed.
    
  