
    
      Lymphomas comprise the 5th most common cancer in the U.S. with approximately 80,000 new cases
      diagnosed in the U.S. each year. Low-grade B-cell lymphomas are the most prevalent subtype
      amongst these and are considered incurable with standard therapies. Chemotherapy and
      monoclonal antibody therapy induce temporary remissions, though disease generally recurs,
      becomes progressively more resistant to therapy and ultimately therapy-resistant. Standard
      therapies prolong survival, though there is no standard of care regarding when to initiate
      therapy (versus observation) or the optimal sequence of different therapies. Novel therapies
      are needed with distinct mechanisms and with greater tolerability profiles. Immunotherapy has
      a long precedent of being able to cure low-grade lymphomas with allogeneic transplant being
      curative in a proportion of chemo-refractory patients, though the morbidity of this procedure
      reduces its broader utilization.

      Previously, we completed four trials combining local radiotherapy (a standard of care for
      these diseases) with intratumoral administration of TLR agonists - an approach we refer to as
      'in situ vaccination' for patients with previously untreated or relapsed/refractory low-grade
      lymphoma. We demonstrated safety, induction of anti-tumor CD8 T cell responses and partial
      and complete remissions of patients' non-irradiated sites of disease.1, 2 The most recent
      trials compared previously untreated versus relapsed/refractory patients receiving the same
      therapy and observed superior responses in the former group, presumably due to
      immunosuppressive effects of prior treatments in the latter group. The in situ vaccine is
      premised on pre-clinical data showing this approach to be superior to systemic TLR agonist
      delivery3 and our clinical results reproduce this finding; in situ vaccination yields
      superior response rates as compared to trials of systemic TLR agonist therapy for lymphoma.4

      This iteration of the in situ vaccine approach builds on our prior work in ways that should
      improve its efficacy, by making two changes to the prior approach:

        1. intratumoral administration of rhuFlt3L/CDX-301 to recruit dendritic cells to the tumor
           site

        2. intratumoral administration of poly-ICLC. Flt3L has been safely administered to patients
           with lymphoma5 and -pre-clinically- has been shown to induce tumor leukocyte
           infiltration and regression of lymphoma tumors.6, 7 A total of 36 healthy volunteers and
           294 cancer patients were treated including only industry-sponsored studies with the
           prior formulation of this agent (AMG 949) with excellent tolerability and 30 healthy
           volunteers were recently treated with the current formulation (CDX-301), again with
           excellent tolerability.

      Poly-ICLC has been safely administered to patients with lymphoma8 and -pre-clinically- has
      been shown to induce natural killer (NK) cell cytolytic activity and regression of lymphoma
      tumors.9-11 Over 600 healthy volunteers and cancer patients in 17 trials have been treated
      with comparable doses of poly-ICLC as that used here with excellent tolerability.
    
  