
    
      The registry of COPD patients in fact represents non-interventional multicenter retrospective
      study including all COPD patients included into the registry retrospectively from patients
      medical records and newly diagnosed under outpatient surveillance at the selected polyclinic
      institutions of Moscow.

      The registry will include all patients with registered diagnoses J40 - J44 according to
      ICD-10 with spirometry results confirming COPD diagnosis, who are at the study start under
      outpatient surveillance, and also newly registered patients diagnosed with COPD (ICD-10 J40 -
      J44, as confirmed by spirometry results) during the conduction of the registry program at the
      selected polyclinic institutions of Moscow (according to ICD: J40 - Bronchitis, not specified
      as acute or chronic, J41 - Simple and mucopurulent chronic bronchitis, J41.0 - Simple chronic
      bronchitis, J41.8 - Mixed simple and mucopurulent chronic bronchitis, J 42 - Unspecified
      chronic bronchitis, J 43 - Emphysema, J 44 - Other chronic obstructive pulmonary disease)
      based on regular (yearly) retrospective analysis of patient records with data entry into a
      consolidated database.

      It is planned to enrol into the study approximately 2000 male and female patients over 40
      years of age with diagnosed COPD (as confirmed by spirometry results).

      The present observational multicenter descriptive study will be conducted in the setting of
      routine clinical practice of outpatient polyclinic institutions. There is no hypothesis to be
      tested in this study.

      The study will be conducted in outpatient polyclinic institutions of the primary medical care
      system of Moscow. Pulmonologists of the primary medical care system will be engaged as
      investigators. These are the physicians, whom the patients with tentative COPD diagnosis are
      referred to in the Russian Federation and who within the scope of their responsibilities have
      access to source medical records and who evaluate the quality of diagnosis and extent of
      treatment prescribed to COPD patients.

      The present study is observational therefore it does not require a treatment regimen or
      directions for patient management. The patients receive medical care in line with routine
      practice for treatment of this disease in the Russian Federation. Patient participation in
      the study should not in any way affect the principles and extent of treatment received by the
      patient according to routine clinical practice.

      Physicians-investigators will enter into the study the information (data) concerning COPD
      patients, both those already registered at the selected medical treatment and preventive care
      institution, and newly registered patients as they seek attention at the outpatient
      polyclinic institutions.

      The main purpose of the present study consists in collection of data concerning COPD patients
      who under surveillance at outpatient polyclinic institutions of Moscow using patient medical
      records and their medical history. This protocol does not specify any obligatory visits or
      examinations.

      Patient data will be entered into the registry de-identified. The patients will be identified
      by their screening number and initials. Then the Physician-investigator will evaluate patient
      compliance with inclusion criteria. The study will enrol patients meeting all the inclusion
      criteria and not having any of the exclusion criteria.

      Only the physician who enters patient data into the regional COPD registry possesses patient
      contact information, and henceforth only this physician will enter de-identified patient data
      according to study design. This physician does not influence the choice of examination
      extent, treatment strategy and medication.
    
  