
    
      Obesity and obesity-related disorders such as metabolic syndrome, Type 2 Diabetes (DM2), and
      NAFLD are of increasing concern worldwide. Metabolic syndrome refers to the clustering of 3
      out of 5 parameters - abdominal obesity, elevated blood pressure, elevated fasting glucose,
      elevated triglyceride level, and low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) level. The
      prevalence of metabolic syndrome is approximately 20-25% in North America. Those with
      metabolic syndrome are at increased risk for DM2 and cardiovascular disease.

      Metabolic syndrome, DM2 and NAFLD are all marked by insulin resistance and are intricately
      linked with obesity. NAFLD is currently the most common liver disease in developed countries
      such as Canada. About 10-20% of patients with NAFLD progress to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
      (NASH) which is characterized by inflammation and fat deposition. Unfortunately, NASH is a
      major cause of cirrhosis in North America.

      Gut Microbiota, Obesity, DM2, and NAFLD Very strong support for the hypothesis of the gut
      microbiome inducing insulin resistance was found in a recent randomized control trial which
      showed that fecal transplantation from lean healthy donors into human patients with metabolic
      syndrome resulted in improved insulin sensitivity. This improvement correlated to an increase
      in the prevalence of butyrate-producing bacteria. Since butyrate helps prevent programmed
      cell death in the mucosal cells of the colon, preserving the integrity of the intestinal
      mucosa may prevent migration of endotoxin from the gut to the liver and induction of insulin
      resistance. Larger metagenome wide association studies of the fecal microbiome confirmed this
      finding that butyrate-producing bacteria including Clostridiales spp,C. rectales,
      Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Roseburia intestinalis and R.inulinvorans appear to be less
      prevalent in DM2 than in healthy controls.

      Differences in the microbiome between obese patients and those with DM2 versus those with a
      normal body mass index have been reported in many publications. There is evidence that the
      altered flora can increase the efficiency of release of calories from food. In a study of
      obese human twins, the decrease in Bacteroidetes proportion with increase in Firmicutes
      proportion correlated with the enrichment of microbial genes encoding key enzymes involved in
      carbohydrate metabolism, potentially leading to increased digestion of food and supply of
      energy in the form of short chain fatty acids (SCFA) to the host. Transfer of the gut
      microbiota from obese mice or from obese humans into germ-free mice reproduced the obese
      phenotype. Differences in microbiota composition have even been documented between children
      with obesity and those children who are lean, suggesting that microbiota changes may occur
      early in life. Decrease in the ratio of the number of firmicutes/bacteroidetes were
      associated with weight loss in humans. Other human gut organisms such as Akkermansia
      muciniphilia and Enterobacter cloacae B29 have been implicated with obesity and DM2. A high
      concentration of gut Beta proteobacteria was associated with the development of diabetes
      possibly via an inflammatory response incited by the endotoxin within these Gram negative
      rods. In fact antibiotic administration in some animal models has led to reduced numbers of
      both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria which increases insulin sensitivity as well as in plasma
      adiponectin levels, which correlate with insulin sensitivity. Changes in the gut microbiota
      associated with obesity have been found to activate Toll like receptors and thus GI
      inflammation with resulting insulin resistance. Very recently it was found that artificial
      sweeteners despite being "no-calorie" can exacerbate glucose intolerance, the effect mediated
      via a change in the microbiome.

      Compared to both healthy controls and simple steatosis patients, patients with NASH have a
      lower percentage of the phylum Bacteroidetes, a finding similar to that of the gut microbial
      flora in obese human subjects. Microbial fermentation products like ethanol in the gut are
      key factors to induce obesity in mice and may be related to the pathogenesis of fatty liver
      disease. Elevated systemic ethanol levels even in the absence of any ethanol ingestion have
      been noted in patients with NASH compared to controls, suggesting that ethanol-producing
      microbes might be related to the pathogenesis of NASH in humans.Certain microbiomes can also
      lead to higher monosaccharide absorption from the gut lumen, which can promote de novo fatty
      acid and triglyceride production in the liver. It has been found that the hepatic kupffer
      cell activation in mice seems to contribute to the pathogenesis of NAFLD and that this can be
      induced by microbial endotoxin-related chronic inflammation. Chronic endotoxemia is
      associated with the severity of NAFLD. Increased intestinal permeability has similarly been
      documented in DM2 and metabolic syndrome and likely plays a key role in the pathophysiology
      of these disorders. Overall these findings suggest that preventive or therapeutic
      interventions such as fecal transplantation may lead to improvement in the status of obesity,
      metabolic syndromes, and NASH or NAFLD,and possibly even atherosclerosis.

      Fecal Microbial Transplantation has been used extensively in humans with recurrent
      C.difficile infection and has been found to be safe, effective and well tolerated. Frozen
      stool has been found to be equally safe and effective to fresh stool for transplant. This
      procedure has become well accepted and is now considered the standard of practice for
      patients with recurrent C.difficile, and is included in newer practice guidelines. Its use in
      metabolic syndromes is new, but the safety data from the much larger experience in patients
      with C.difficile is very reassuring.

      Goal:

      • To determine the impact of alterations of the gut microbiome on parameters of insulin
      resistance and on liver fat content.

      Rationale:

      As mentioned in the background review there is extensive animal and also moderately extensive
      human studies demonstrating that alteration in the microbiome is associated with metabolic
      syndrome and NAFLD. There is also extensive biochemical rationale for why microbiome changes
      could lead to the changes in the metabolic outcomes in humans.

      Justification of Innovation:

      The inability of existing therapies to control weight gain, obesity and associated liver
      diseases in individuals with metabolic disorders is a major public health concern. The
      potential of gut microbial alteration to prevent and control metabolic disorders (duplicating
      the success of FMT for Clostridium difficile infection) would be an important advance. This
      will be a proof of concept study which will enable further more targeted innovations of the
      gut microbiome to control the metabolic syndrome and NAFLD.
    
  