
    
      The age-related loss in skeletal muscle mass is associated with substantial social and
      economic costs as evidenced by impairments in strength, limitations in function, and
      ultimately, physical disability and institutionalization (1-3). Improved knowledge of the
      physiologic mechanisms that mediate impairments in physical functioning is crucial for
      developing effective therapeutic interventions for preserving mobility and independence among
      physically frail adults.

      To date, pharmacodynamic markers that can be used in a clinical trial in mobility-limited
      older adults are limited. Lean body mass measured by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)
      is frequently used in early phase clinical development of investigational anabolic drugs.
      Although increase in muscle mass is considered to contribute to increased muscle strength,
      this alone does not completely explain changes in physical performance. Thus, more direct
      pharmacodynamic evidence associated with physical functioning is desired in early phase
      clinical development decision making. Assessments of muscle power and fatigue can address
      this need. For example, Bean et al reported that improvements in leg power, independent of
      strength, appear to make an important contribution to clinically meaningful improvements in
      SPPB (Short Physical Performance Battery) and gait speed (4). Avin and Frey Law performed a
      systematic meta-analysis of studies reporting fatigue tasks (voluntary activation) performed
      at a relative-intensity in both young (18-45 years of age) and old (>54 years of age) healthy
      adults to conclude older adults were able to sustain relative-intensity tasks significantly
      longer or with less force decay than younger adults although this age-related difference was
      present only for sustained and intermittent isometric contractions and this age-related
      advantage was lost for dynamic tasks (5). The use of such assessments may provide more
      meaningful information as to the pharmacodynamics effects of investigational drugs on muscle
      parameters.

      This study will serve as a validation study, aiming to 1) examine the effect a 12-week
      resistance program may have on muscle power and fatigue; 2) examine the effect of a 12-week
      resistance exercise program on conventional measures of muscle function; 3) determine the
      relationship between muscle power/fatigue and conventional measures of physical function.
      Data from this study will serve as rationale for potentially including these measures as
      pharmacodynamics markers in studies of novel therapies for skeletal muscle loss and/or
      weakness.
    
  