
    
      Ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) remains a serious problem in critically ill patients
      with an incidence of 8-28% and mortality ranging from 24-57%. A landmark study comparing
      eight days versus fifteen days of antibiotic therapy reported a pulmonary infection
      recurrence rate of 26-29%. Costs associated with VAP can reach up to $40,000 per occurrence.

      Aerosolized antibiotics have been used to treat ailments such as cystic fibrosis and
      bronchiectasis. Previous research indicates that aerosolized antibiotics attain a 200 fold
      greater concentration in the lung than in the blood, and that sputum trough levels remain 20
      fold greater than that of acceptable serum antibiotic troughs. Additionally, aerosolized
      antibiotics are considered safe (without increased risk of bacterial resistance) with better
      treatment success when compared to controls (OR 2.75, 95% CI 1.06-7.17), although no
      mortality benefit has been identified. Some studies have shown reduced systemic toxicity when
      using aerosolized antibiotics while others have shown no difference. Aerosolized tobramycin
      prevents pseudomonas infections in patients with Cystic Fibrosis. Furthermore aerosolized
      antibiotics improve pulmonary function in these patients, including Forced Expiratory Volume
      in 1 second (FEV1), and decrease the need for hospitalization. Lung transplant patients and
      patients with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) also benefit from aerosolized fungal
      prophylaxis and treatment. The benefit has been less clear in patients with non-Cystic
      Fibrosis bronchiectasis, and although some studies show benefits to aerosolized antibiotics
      in preventing and treating nosocomial pneumonias, no large prospective randomized trials have
      been performed to confirm the benefit or to change practice recommendations.

      Antimicrobials must reach the site of infection, bind the target site, and remain bound for a
      sufficient time period to disrupt the life cycle of the cells. Only 21% of an administered
      antibiotic dose actually ends up in the lung parenchyma. Multiple studies have shown that the
      ideal particle size for inhalation is between 1 and 5 microns. Particles that are too small
      get exhaled, and particles that are too large do not reach the alveoli. Non-humidified
      nebulization is better for drug administration than humidified air. Isotonicity of the drug,
      pH, and the presence of preservatives in the solution also need to be evaluated for optimal
      drug delivery and function. The ideal method of administration of aerosolized antibiotics
      also remains to be determined.

      Inhaled tobramycin has been used in several studies over the past thirty years, mostly in
      patients with Cystic Fibrosis. It has been shown to be effective in decreasing sputum colony
      counts of Pseudomonas Aeruginosa. Inhaled gentamycin has also been shown to delay acquisition
      of Pseudomonas in children with Cystic Fibrosis, as well as decreasing disease progression.
      Chest tightness and persistent cough are the side effects mentioned within these studies.
      This suggests that inhalation is a safe method for the administration of tobramycin.

      It has been shown that in Community-Acquired Pneumonia (CAP) the alveolar macrophages
      initiate a pro-inflammatory cascade. Failure to control excessive inflammation, leads to an
      exaggerated systemic response resulting in organ damage. Local and systemic levels of these
      pro-inflammatory mediators have been shown to correlate with the severity of disease. The
      investigators speculate that a similar response exists in patients with VAP.

      The investigators propose a prospective, randomized trial designed to assess the value of
      aerosolized antibiotics in the treatment of ventilator associated pneumonia and to evaluate
      the impact of co-existing, non-bacterial pathogens and cytokines on the ability to clear
      pneumonia in culture-proven cases of VAP. Eligible patients will be randomized at the time of
      bronchoalveolar lavage or combicath to receive either adjuvant aerosolized antibiotics plus
      routine IV antibiotics or aerosolized placebo plus routine IV antibiotics. Individual
      clinical indicators will be recorded and used to monitor the effect of aerosolized
      antibiotics [temperature, leukocyte count, chest radiograph appearance, ratio of arterial
      oxygen partial pressure to fractional inspired oxygen (PaO2/FiO2 ratio), mechanical
      ventilation status, and vital signs].
    
  