
    
      Based on current medical literature, the risk of hepatitis B reactivation is high after
      allogenic stem cell transplant and can be a major problem in the post-transplant population,
      leading to increased morbidity and mortality. Additionally, many people in the general
      population and transplant population do not achieve immunity against hepatitis B with the
      first vaccination series and may require repeat series.

      Currently, it is unclear as to what percentage of post-transplant patients have a failed or
      delayed immunity against hepatitis B and how many vaccine series it may take to eventually
      achieve immunity. Previous data has eluded toward a seroconversion rate of 64% in children
      and adults after vaccination with 20% of patients losing immunity by 5-years
      post-vaccination. Additionally, the study found that 25% of patients did not achieve
      protective titers following one vaccination series and of those that went on to be
      revaccinated, 55% achieved seroconversion.

      This is a single-center, retrospective analysis examining the effectiveness of the hepatitis
      B vaccine posthematopoietic stem cell transplant and the impact of factors that may affect
      seroconversion. Through this study, we hope to collect data on hepatitis B vaccination and
      recommend potential protocol revisions if trends are found. We hypothesize that hepatitis B
      immunity post-first vaccine series will occur in the majority of patients evaluated and that
      patients failing to respond to the first vaccine series, will respond to subsequent
      vaccination series.

      The primary objective will be to assess the rate of achieved immunity for those patients that
      do not achieve immunity with the first vaccine series and require two or more vaccine series.
      Secondary and exploratory objectives will include the evaluation of the percentages of
      patients responding to vaccination on the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd attempt at the hepatitis B
      vaccination series, the rate of reactivation of hepatitis B, and the analysis of factors
      potentially impacting the response to vaccination.
    
  