
    
      Based on the above preclinical and Phase I results, a logical strategy for a second
      generation melanoma vaccine has emerged. A randomized Phase II study in metastatic melanoma
      patients will be undertaken. Patients first will be HLA-typed; HLA-A2-positive patients will
      be eligible for screening. When feasible, each patient will undergo a tumor biopsy to screen
      for expression of MAGE-3, Melan-A, gplOO, and NAI 7 using RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry, to
      determine whether T cells are present in the lesion, to measure cytokine gene expression by
      RT-PCR, and to perform gene array analysis. In addition, blood cells will be analyzed for
      certain parameters of T cell function.

      Patients will be randomized to cohorts A (no IL-2) or B (with low-dose IL-2). For treatment,
      peripheral blood will be collected and fractionated by density centrifugation to isolate PBMC
      as a source of APC. The PBMC will be divided into four pools, each of which will be incubated
      with one of the following peptides: MAGE-3, Melan-A, gp 100, or Ni 7A. The peptide-loaded
      cells will then be washed and recombined into a single suspension in PBS, and lethally
      irradiated. Approximately 120 x 106 pulsed cells will be injected subcutaneously at a site
      near a lymph node not thought to be involved with tumor. The subcutaneous route has been
      selected for the reasons of safety, efficacy in the preclinical model, and the goal of
      targeting the vaccine to a draining lymph node. rhIL-12 (4 .tg straight dose) will then be
      given subcutaneously adjacent to the vaccine site days 1,3, and 5 of each cycle. This dose
      and schedule was found to be effective in our phase I study. In one-half of the patients
      (cohort B), IL-2 (I MU straight dose) will be administered subcutaneously daily, days 7-18.
      Re-immunization along with rhIL-12 followed by IL-2 (if assigned) will be performed at 3 week
      intervals as in cycle I.

      On day 1 of each cycle, peripheral blood will be collected to measure peptide-specific IFN-y
      production. Before treatment and after every 3 cycles, PBMC will be collected to quantify
      peptide specific CD8 T cells by flow cytometric analysis with peptide/HLA-A2 tetramers, and
      evidence for a molecular response will be assessed by performing RT-PCR. for melanoma
      antigens on peripheral blood samples. In addition, prior to treatment, after the first 3
      cycles, and at the time of going off- study, a tumor biopsy will be performed to assess the
      immune response in the tumor microenvironment, including gene array analysis. It is hoped
      that these studies will uncover the reason for lack of clinical response in patients with
      residual tumors. Clinical response will be assessed as a secondary outcome.
    
  