
    
      1. General

           Subjects will be selected to participate in the protocol during study visit 1 according
           to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Subsequently they will be randomly assigned to
           receive continuously an intravenous infusion of 0.9% saline or a lipid-heparin solution
           (Intralipid 20%, 40 ml/h, Fresenius Kabi plus Heparin 250U/h, IMMUNO Baxter AG) during
           28 hours at study visits V2 and V3. For the study visit 3, subjects who first received
           0.9% saline in the previous visit, will receive intravenously Intralipid 20% and vice
           versa.

        2. Visit Procedures

           2.1. Screening Day (Visit 1)

           Volunteers will receive overall information about the study and sign in the written
           informed consent. Every subject will receive an assignment number according to the
           inclusion sequence. Physical examination and blood withdrawal shall be performed and
           data will be recorded in the Case Report Form (CRF) as follows:

             -  Inclusion/exclusion criteria

             -  Demographic data, medical history and concomitant medication

             -  Physical examination

             -  Vital signs

             -  Body weight and height, Body mass index (BMI), waist and hip circumference and
                waist-to-hip ratio

             -  Blood blood count, hematocrit, hemoglobin, C-reactive protein, free fatty acids,
                cholesterol, triglycerides, sodium, potassium, calcium

             -  Pregnancy test for female subjects of childbearing potential.

           2.2. Study day (Visit 2 and 3)

           During each study visit subjects shall arrive at 7:00 AM at ZMF (Center of Medical
           Research, Medical University Graz) after an overnight fasting period of 12 hours. A
           pregnancy test for female subjects of childbearing potential will be performed in the
           morning of each study day. Two short polyethylene catheters will be inserted in
           antecubital veins of both arms. A first venous cannula will be exclusively used for
           blood sampling and the arm will be placed in a thermo regulated box (Hot-Box) to be
           maintained warmed at a temperature of 50°C over the whole study period. The second
           venous cannula will be used for infusion of saline or lipid-heparin solution and inulin.

           At 8:00 AM, the infusion of saline or Intralipid solution will be started. At the same
           time point a continuous infusion of inulin via syringe infusion pump will be started
           with a 50mg/Kg bolus and maintained at a continuous rate of 0.250 x Creatinin Clearance
           mg/min, until the end of the study period.

           At 11:00 AM, OFM catheters will be inserted in the periumbilical area of each subject.
           To prevent important delays in sampling from subcutaneous tissue, the afferent loop for
           the catheter will be previously filled with the perfusate solution. Eight milliliters of
           a sterile isotonic solution (ELO MEL isoton, Fresenius Kabi, Austria) commonly used as
           intravenous infusion added with 2.0ml autologous serum previously withdrawn from each
           volunteer and prepared under straight sterile conditions will be used as the perfusate
           solution for the OFM catheters. Peristaltic pumps will start to run at 12:00 AM to
           infuse the perfusate solutions at a perfusion rate (push-pull mode) of 1µl/min until
           12:00 AM in the following day. Effluent samples from subcutaneous tissue will be
           collected at regular time-intervals and venous blood sampling will be performed in
           parallel.

           The subjects will be maintained under fasting conditions during the whole study period.
           They shall stay in the research center facilities for a four-hours observation period
           after the study procedures have finished. At this time they will receive a complete meal
           and additional blood samples will be withdrawn to access blood glucose and aPTT
           (activated partial tromboplastin time). Normal values have to be ensured before the
           volunteers are allowed to leave.

        3. Measurements

      3.1. Cytokines

      Cytokine concentrations will be measured in effluent and serum samples using a multiplexed
      flow cytometric bead-based ELISA assay (LUMINEX®100s System, Luminex Corporation, Texas,
      USA). The following substrates will be accessed by this method:

        -  C-reactive protein

        -  Interleukin 6 (IL-6)

        -  Interleukin 10 (IL-10)

        -  CCL2/MCP-1

        -  Serpin E1/PAI-1

        -  Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-alpha)

        -  Adiponectin

      3.2. Insulin

      Insulin concentrations in effluent and plasma samples will be measured by Joanneum Research
      Laboratory using solid-phase two-site ELISA (Mercodia, Uppsala, Sweden).

      3.3. Inulin

      Inulin will be measured by Joanneum Research Laboratory, using a fully enzymatic method.

      3.4. Glucose

      Glucose concentration in arterialized blood samples will be measured in duplicate using two
      Beckman Glucose Analyzer 2 (Beckman Instruments Inc., Fullerton, CA).

      3.5. Non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA)

      NEFA concentrations will be measured in plasma using a colorimetric and enzymatic method.
    
  