
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) rates of patients with desmoid tumors
      (DT)/deep fibromatosis (DF) who receive either sorafenib (sorafenib tosylate) or placebo
      using a double-blinded randomized phase III study.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess toxicity. II. To assess time to surgical intervention. III. To assess tumor
      response rates and survival.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate changes in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) Tesla (T)2 to predict (or
      correlate) with a biological effect such as tumor growth (by Response Evaluation Criteria in
      Solid Tumors [RECIST] version [v]1.1), and pain palliation. (Correlative companion study) II.
      The mechanism of action of sorafenib in DT/DF remains unknown. In patients consenting to
      undergo the paired tumor biopsies (A091105-ST1), treatment induced changes will be quantified
      by histology, gene expression profiling, proteomic changes and selected interrogation of key
      pathways by western blot and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
      (Correlative companion study) III. To collect archival tissue, baseline (tumor, blood) and
      day 8 (tumor, blood) specimens for basic science research (A091105-ST1). (Correlative
      companion study) IV. To assess patient-reported adverse events and quality of life (QOL) as
      measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
      (PRO-CTCAE) and the single-item overall Linear Analogue Self-Assessment (LASA) (A091105-HO1).
      (Correlative companion study) V. To assess pain palliation measured by the "worst pain" item
      of the Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (A091105-HO1). (Correlative companion study)

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28.

      ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-28. Patients may crossover to Arm I upon
      disease progression.

      In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up annually for up to 3 years.
    
  