
    
      1. Study overview This study is a prospective, open-label, randomized, multicenter trial to
           test the safety and efficacy of physiology- or imaging-guided PCI in patients with
           intermediate coronary stenosis.

           The primary hypothesis is that FFR-guided strategy will show non-inferior rate of
           patients-oriented composite outcomes (POCO) at 24 months after randomization, compared
           with IVUS-guided strategy in patients with intermediate coronary stenosis.

        2. Study population and sample size calculation

           Sample Size Calculation Based on the event rates of previous trials, investigators
           predicted the rates of POCO at 24 months after PCI will be 10% in the FFR-guided arm,
           and 12% in the IVUS-guided arm.

             -  Primary endpoint: patient-oriented composite outcome (a composite of all-cause
                death, MI, any repeat revascularization) at 24 months after PCI

             -  Design: non-inferiority , delta = 2.5%

             -  Sampling ratio: FFR-guided strategy : IVUS-guided strategy = 1:1

             -  Type I error (α): One-sided 5%

             -  Accrual time : 2 years

             -  Total time : 4 years (accrual 2 year + follow-up 2 years)

             -  Assumption: POCO 10.0% vs. 12.0% in FFR or IVUS-guided strategy, respectively

             -  Statistical power (1- β): 90%

             -  Primary statistical method : Kaplan-Meier survival analysis with log-rank test

             -  Potential withdrawal rates : total 2%

             -  Stratification in Randomization: Presence of Diabetes Mellitus (600 patients (35%)
                will be Diabetic patients, with 300 patients in each group)

           Based on the above assumption, 1,700 patients (850 patients in each group) will be
           enrolled in this study with consideration of withdrawal rates.

        3. Research Materials and Indication for Revascularization For the FFR-guided strategy arm,
           a pressure-sensor wire system will be used and the criterion for revascularization is
           FFR ≤ 0.80. Hyperemia will be induced by intravenous infusion of adenosine
           (140ug/kg/min). For the IVUS-guided strategy arm, the criterion for revascularization is
           MLA ≤ 3mm2 or [3mm2 < MLA ≤ 4mm2 and plaque burden > 70%].

        4. Funding This is an investigator-initiated study with grant support from Boston
           Scientific. Other than financial sponsorship, the company has no role in protocol
           development or the implementation, management, data collection, and analysis of this
           study.
    
  