
    
      The traditional assumption when fabricating a transtibial amputee (TTA) socket is that the
      residual limb is not homogeneous in its ability to tolerate load. As a result, prosthetic
      sockets are currently fabricated by modifying a positive mold to account for this
      non-homogeneity; these are called rectified sockets. Unrectified sockets retain the shape of
      the residual limb, except for a distal end pad. Unrectified sockets use an alginate gel
      method of fabricating that is simpler and less time consuming than the method used to
      fabricate rectified sockets. This study will compare patient satisfaction and function with
      rectified and unrectified sockets.

      Participants in this study will be randomized to either a recitified socket group or an
      unrectified socket group. Participants will wear the socket for a minimum of 4 weeks.
      Participants will then fill out a Prosthesis Evaluation Questionnaire (PEQ). The PEQ
      quantifies patient satisfaction by evaluating nine validated scales. Functional measures of
      energy expenditure, kinematics, and ground reaction forces during gait will also be
      collected. After 4 weeks, participants in the rectified socket group will switch to an
      unrectified socket and participants in the unrectified socket group will switch to a
      rectified socket. At the end of 4 weeks with the new socket, participants will once again
      fill out the PEQ and undergo functional assessment. At the end of study participation, each
      participant will freely choose the socket they wish to have in their final prosthesis.

      Thus far, 10 study participants with unilateral transtibial amputations have been evaluated
      after randomly wearing both rectified and unrectified sockets for 4 weeks. Results indicated
      no differences between sockets for gait speed and timing, gait kinematics and kinetics, gait
      energy expenditure, and Rate of Perceived Exertion (RPE). There were also no differences in
      the Prosthetic Evaluation Questionnaire. Four participants selected the rectified socket and
      6 selected the unrectified socket as their exit socket.
    
  