
    
      Phase 1:

      A first-in-human, single-centre, accelerated, dose de-escalation design with a modified
      Bayesian continual reassessment method (mCRM) to estimate the recommended Phase II dose
      (RP2D) of MSCTRAIL in combination with pemetrexed/cisplatin chemotherapy.

      The first cohort of three patients will receive cisplatin 75mg/m2 and pemetrexed 500mg/m2 on
      day 1 followed by the highest dose of MSCTRAIL, 4x10^8 cells, on day 2. This schedule will be
      repeated every 21 days until 3 cycles of treatment have been delivered. It is expected that
      patients will receive 4-6 cycles of cisplatin/pemetrexed in total and may continue with
      maintenance pemetrexed thereafter.

      If there are no DLTs within the first cohort then a subsequent expansion cohort will receive
      the same regimen of cisplatin/pemetrexed and MSCTRAIL and data from this expansion cohort
      will be used to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D). Between 6 and 12 patients will
      be enrolled into phase I of the trial depending on the number of cohorts assessed.

      Phase 2:

      A multicentre, randomised, placebo controlled trial comparing MSCTRAIL at the RP2D and
      pemetrexed/cisplatin chemotherapy versus pemetrexed/cisplatin chemotherapy alone.

      Patients will be randomised 1:1 between the intervention and control arm. Patients entering
      the intervention arm will receive cisplatin 75mg/m2 and pemetrexed 500mg/m2 on day 1 followed
      by MSCTRAIL at the RP2D on day 2. This schedule will be repeated after 21 days for 3 cycles.

      Patients in the control arm with receive cisplatin 75mg/m2 and pemetrexed 500mg/m2 on day 1
      and placebo on day 2. This will be repeated after 21 days for up to 3 cycles.

      At this point patients will receive a further 1-3 cycles of pemetrexed/ cisplatin alone. They
      may then be eligible for maintenance pemetrexed according to clinical response as directed by
      their Oncologist in line with local standard of care.
    
  