
    
      Background

      Hemodynamic management of critically ill patients is a constant challenge in the intensive
      care unit (ICU). Commonly used monitoring parameters to guide hemodynamic management
      generally consist of measurements of pressures (systemic and pulmonary artery pressures,
      cardiac filling pressures) and flow (cardiac output measurements using a thermodilution
      method). However, cardiac filling pressures and flow data have known limitations and might
      not accurately represent cardiac preload and contractility. To date, continuous or sequential
      recording of hemodynamic parameters is limited to pulse pressure variation measurement and
      indicator dilution techniques. The overall accuracy of these methods is not well established
      and comparisons of measurements of cardiac function parameters have been reported to trend
      differently in response to therapy and show limited interdevice agreement. Hemodynamic
      management of critically ill patients based on these parameters might therefore not be
      optimal and delay stabilisation of the patient, leading to negative outcomes and increased
      use of resources.

      Visualization of the heart using echocardiography offers the advantage of direct measurement
      of cardiac volumes and systolic function. Echocardiography has been established as a tool to
      evaluate the causes of hemodynamic instability in ICU patients by the visualization of
      cardiac chambers, valves and pericardium and cardiac functional abnormalities. Transthoracic
      echocardiography (TTE) can be used as a first-line approach for a quick and focused
      examination to diagnose acute cor pulmonale, cardiac tamponade or major left ventricular
      systolic dysfunction. The training necessary to reliably perform such an abbreviated TTE use
      is substantial and the method is not readily available for every intensivist. Transesophageal
      echocardiography (TEE) can have a better diagnostic capability and is more reproducible than
      TTE. A minimum number of 31 TEE examinations has been reported to be required for
      intensivists to achieve competence in TEE driven hemodynamic evaluation of ventilated ICU
      patients. Additionally, repeatedly inserting the TEE probe as required for serial evaluation
      of a patients hemodynamic status is associated with a small but significant risk of injury to
      oral and esophageal structures. A repeated echocardiographic assessment could potentially
      provide useful additional information resulting in more rapid resolution of hemodynamic
      instability. Using conventional TTE and TEE, however, limits the feasibility of such an
      approach due to a lack of time and availability of appropriately trained staff.

      In a recently published study the feasibility of hemodynamic monitoring and safety of hTEE
      was demonstrated in a group of ninety-four ventilated critically ill patients. In this study
      hTEE examinations were performed by four highly trained intensivist with extensive expertise
      in critically care echocardiography. The Department of Intensive Care Medicine Inselspital
      (KIM) has introduced hTEE in January 2012. The feasibility and quality of hemodynamic
      monitoring using hTEE by the department's intensivists was assessed in the context of a
      prospective quality review assessment. The study showed that the echocardiographic
      examinations using hTEE were of sufficient quality in a majority of examined ICU patients and
      that the inter-rater reliability between the intensivists and a trained cardiologist was
      substantial. However, as of yet studies assessing the impact of hemodynamic monitoring by
      hTEE on relevant patient outcomes are not available. Given the associated costs for the hTEE
      device and the ultrasound probes and the additional resource requirements for training and
      application, the efficacy and efficiency of hTEE monitoring in comparison to standard
      monitoring should be established.

      The investigated device consists of a newly developed, commercially available transesophageal
      echocardiography system. The ImaCor ClariTEE technology (hTEE) device produces a single-plane
      two-dimensional image and has color Doppler capability (IMACOR, New-York NY, USA). The ImaCor
      probe is a 5.5 mm detachable probe; due to its small size it can remain in situ for up to 72h
      and therefore allows for reassessment of the patient's hemodynamic progress and the effect of
      selected interventions at any time. The probe has to be disposed after 72h for hygienic
      reasons. The probe is connected to a dedicated echocardiographic system which allows the
      recording of digital loops and performance of basic two-dimensional measurements of areas and
      distances. It provides a robust, but more rapid and user-friendly approach to monitoring
      hemodynamic status and cardiac function than conventional TTE/TEE.

      Objective

      The study hypothesis is that hemodynamic monitoring using hTEE of critically ill patients
      with hemodynamic compromise allows for an expedited reversal of circulatory impairment
      compared to standard ICU monitoring.

      Primary Objective: To assess the impact of hemodynamic monitoring using the ImaCor ClariTEE
      technology on duration and amount of vasopressor use and time to reversal of shock in
      hemodynamically compromised patients in comparison to standard monitoring.

      Secondary Objective: To assess the safety and tolerability of the ImaCor ClariTEE probe.

      Methods

      Subjects will be assigned to one of four groups stratified by method of hemodynamic
      monitoring (ImaCor vs control hemodynamic monitoring) and frequency of hemodynamic
      assessments (protocolized intervals PM vs standard monitoring intervals SM). In patients
      randomized to echocardiography-guided hemodynamic management (ImaCorPM and ImaCorSM) the
      ImaCor ClariTEE system will be installed at the time of study inclusion. An ICU consultant
      will assess the patients' hemodynamic condition based on the hTEE information (ImaCorPM and
      SM) and other available hemodynamic parameters (ControlPM and SM). Any changes in hemodynamic
      management are recorded.
    
  