
    
      Primary Hypothesis: The aim of the present study is to investigate whether an angiogenic
      growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), plays a role in increased CV risk in
      type 2 diabetes mellitus.

      Secondary Hypotheses:

      Primary Outcomes: cardiovascular morbidity and mortality

      Study Abstract:

      CSP 465-B, Correlation of Plasma Endothelial Cell (Basic Fibroblast Growth Factor) Activity
      With Cardiovascular Events in Patients with Diabetes Mellitus, Type II.

      Mark Zimering M.D.

      Objectives: Endothelial cell dysfunction plays a role in the development of the
      atherosclerotic vascular lesion and it is also thought to provide a mechanism for increased
      urinary albumin excretion in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Micro- or macroalbuminuria are
      associated with increased cardiovascular (CV) morbidity and mortality in type 2 diabetes
      mellitus. In at least one longitudinal study in older-age onset patients, micro-or
      macroalbuminuria robustly predicted increased CV risk independent of other diabetes-related
      factors.1 The pathogenetic mechanisms underlying a significant association between micro- or
      macroalbuminuria and CV risk in diabetes mellitus are not known but may include: growth
      factors, clotting factors, lipids, or hemodynamic factors. The aim of the present study is to
      investigate whether an angiogenic growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), plays
      a role in increased CV risk in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Research Plan: BFGF (FGF-2) is one
      of the most potent known angiogenesis factors. Increased bFGF was previously associated with
      both endothelial cell injury and micro- or macroalbuminuria. In a prior study of 73 older-age
      onset veterans with type 2 diabetes mellitus (JCEM, 1996), we found plasma endothelial cell
      (bFGF) activity was significantly associated with glycemic levels, and (in multiple
      regression analysis) independently associated with both microalbuminuria and retinopathy. We
      will test whether plasma endothelial cell (bFGF) activity is significantly, independently
      associated with a pooled endpoint of cardiovascular events that includes myocardial
      infarction (MI), coronary revascularization, congestive heart failure (CHF), or CV mortality.
      We expect that increased bFGF may itself be a robust marker for increased CV risk in diabetes
      mellitus for three reasons. First, because bFGF was independently associated with
      (micro)-albuminuria in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Second, because increased bFGF was
      associated with increased activity in the renin-angiotensin system in vascular smooth muscle
      cells (Dzau, et al. JCI, 1995). And third, because (as we reported) angiotensin converting
      enzyme inhibitor (ACEi) drugs substantially decreased plasma bFGF levels in (micro)-
      albuminuric diabetes mellitus type 2, and (as others reported) ACEi drugs substantially
      reduced the risk of development of CHF in patients with LVH 2, the risk of mortality after MI
      (8,9), and the risk of CV death in diabetic patients with proteinuria.

      Because plasma endothelial cell (bFGF) activity correlated significantly with glycemic levels
      in diabetes mellitus type 2, plasma bFGF may be one of the pathogenetic links between
      glycemic levels and an increased risk of cardiovascular events in diabetes mellitus, type 2.

      Methods: Blood (3 mL EDTA plasma) will be collected from each subject in Years 1, and 2 of
      the Study at each of 6 local participating VA substudy sites. Because plasma endothelial cell
      (bFGF-like) bioactivity and bFGFR-IR in vivo are stable for months and years based on our
      prior published studies (1-3), we anticipate that obtaining 2 specimens, 1 each in Years 1, 2
      of the study, will provide sufficient data to model proportional risk.

      Results: One hundred and five first cardiovascular events occurred in these 399 subjects.

      The best fit model of risk factors associated with the time to first CVD occurrence (in the
      study) over a seven and one-half year period had as significant predictors: prior
      cardiovascular event [hazard ratio (HR) 3.378; 95% confidence intervals (CI) 3.079-3.807; P
      <0.0001), baseline plasma bFGF (HR 1.008; 95% CI 1.002-1.014; P D0.01), age (HR 1.027; 95% CI
      1.004-1.051; P D0.019), baseline plasma triglycerides (HR 1.001; 95% CI 1.000-1.002; P
      D0.02), and diabetes duration-treatment interaction (P D0.03). Intensive glucose-lowering was
      associated with significantly decreased hazard ratios for CVD occurrence (0.38-0.63) in
      patients with known diabetes duration of 0-10 years, and nonsignificantly increased hazard
      ratios for CVD occurrence (0.82-1.78) in patients with longer diabetes duration. Conclusion:
      High level of plasma bFGF is a predictive biomarker of future CVD occurrence in this
      population of adult type 2 diabetes.

      In conclusion, the present findings suggest that baseline plasma bFGF may be a marker of CVD
      risk in adult male veterans with type2 diabetes. These results suggest that increased plasma
      bFGF drive cell proliferation and be involved in the mechanism for increased CVD occurrence
      in older adults with advanced type2 diabetes mellitus.

      Main Manuscript: Basic fibroblast growth factor predicts cardiovascular disease occurrence in
      participants from the veterans affairs diabetes trial.
    
  