
    
      This research project will test the feasibility and effectiveness of group acupuncture for
      the treatment of musculoskeletal pain (back pain, shoulder pain, neck pain and/or
      osteoarthritis). Patients 18 years of age or older, who understand English, are experiencing
      chronic musculoskeletal pain for three months or more and have not received acupuncture
      therapy in the past 3 months will be invited to participate. We will recruit 120 outpatients
      with chronic pain from Mount Sinai Beth Israel's (MSBI) Family Medicine and other primary
      care practices. Referrals will be through primary care providers or by patient self-referral.
      The goal of this project is to develop a low-cost, effective integrative intervention for
      chronic pain which can be replicated in underserved settings across the U.S. The physician in
      charge of this study is Benjamin Kligler, M.D., M.P.H.

      Eligible participants will be scheduled for a face-to-face interview, at which time consent
      will be obtained and baseline measures will be collected. Baseline measures include
      collecting demographic data and information on depression, pain/pain free days and medication
      use.

      To follow, a 4-week run-in period where usual care is delivered will be held to establish
      baseline pain levels. During this time, participants will be contacted at 2-week intervals to
      complete a brief pain assessment. If a waiting list becomes necessary, delay may become
      longer.

      Participants will then be invited to participate in an 8-week, group-based acupuncture
      treatment intervention delivered by a licensed acupuncturist. The group will meet weekly for
      8 consecutive weeks, each session lasting about 75 minutes held at the Center for Health and
      Healing located at 245 Fifth Ave in Manhattan. Sessions will be held during evening and
      weekend hours to facilitate scheduling.

      We will collect information on pain, pain symptoms, mood, function and analgesic use at 1, 8,
      12 and 24 week(s) following the beginning of the intervention. We will collect this
      information in-person or by telephone as preferred by the participant. Participants will not
      receive an incentive to attend group sessions but will receive incentives at enrollment and
      for completing research interviews at 12 and 24 weeks following treatment intervention ($20
      at each of these three time points).

      While subject records are confidential, there may be loss of confidentiality due to the group
      acupuncture setting. Intervention risks are low: Acupuncture needles are pre-sterilized and
      inserted once only and then properly discarded. Acupuncture therapy is safe with a 'relative'
      risk that is low. The risks associated with providing protected health information (PHI) will
      be minimized by assigning a unique participant identification code (ID number) that will be
      used to identify all data reported for each participant. The study staff will store all PHI
      in a secure and protected site at the Center for Health and Healing. The study results will
      be stored in a locked cabinet and any study information stored in a computer will be password
      protected. Only the study staff will have access to the study results.

      Subjects will be reminded of the elements of participation.
    
  