
    
      This is a phase 2 trial of the HIV protease inhibitor (HPI) Nelfinavir (NFV) in combination
      with radiotherapy and chemotherapy in patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC) who are considered candidates for pre-operative treatment. This study is to be
      conducted according to US and international standards of Good Clinical Practice (FDA Title 21
      part 312 and International Conference on Harmonization guidelines), applicable government
      regulations and Institutional research policies and procedures. The endpoints are to
      determine safety of NFV with chemoradiation, gather preliminary data for response, and tissue
      specimens for correlative molecular studies. Unacceptable toxicity is unlikely as prior
      studies have determined dosing 1250 mg twice a day is relatively safe for HIV patients
      receiving radiation therapy. NFV will start one week prior to chemo-radiotherapy and continue
      for the duration of chemoradiation (approximately 6 1/2 weeks). Standard radiotherapy
      (minimum total dose 5040 cGy) and combined (cisplatin/etoposide) chemotherapy based on SWOG
      8805 will be delivered in combination with NFV. The thoracic surgery attending physician will
      determine the feasibility of resection. If the patient has resectable disease, the attending
      thoracic surgeon will perform the thoracotomy and anatomical resection. If the patient has
      unresectable disease, subject will be followed for 30 days post NFV administration. After the
      initial 30 days post-NFV, subjects will be followed for long-term outcomes (disease response
      and overall survival). Adjuvant therapy may be continued off-study at the discretion of
      managing oncology personnel. Tumors obtained at the time of surgical resection will be
      assessed for pathological response. Tumor tissue taken pre-treatment will be assessed for
      markers that may predict response such as Akt, VEGF, and EGFR.
    
  