
    
      Accrual objective: Enrollment of 2-3 participants per month and all participants within an 18
      month period. With minimum of 1 year follow-up post-conversion, we anticipate the entire
      study would be completed within 2 ½ years.

      Study design: This is a Phase II/III, Single-center, Prospective, Open-label, Single Arm
      Study of 30 Simultaneous Kidney Pancreas recipients who received a transplant at least 3
      months, but no more than 5 years prior, with a history of tremors following transplantation.

      Study duration: There will be a minimum of 1 year follow-up post-conversion, and it is
      expected that the entire study would be completed within 2 ½ years.

      Study aims:

        -  Determine if EnvarsusXR® reduces tremor severity compared to IR tacrolimus

        -  Determine if EnvarsusXR® improves renal function or glycemic control compared to IR
           tacrolimus

        -  Compare the efficacy of EnvarsusXR® by comparing the outcomes (patient, pancreas graft
           and kidney graft survival) of patients treated with Envarsus XR to those of contemporary
           and historical controls at our center treated with IR tacrolimus, with the goal of
           showing non-inferiority.

        -  Compare insulin resistance and insulin sensitivity by defined measures post conversion
           between T1D and T2D recipients.

      Primary Endpoint:

        1. Improvement in patient and physician-assessed degree of tremors based on FTM
           (Fahn-Tolosa-Martin Tremor Rating Scale) and QUEST (Quality of Life in Essential Tremor
           Questionnaire) scoring tools

        2. Scores on Quality of Life in Essential Tremor and Modified Transplant Symptom Occurrence
           and Symptom Distress Scale (MTSOSD) Questionnaires

      Secondary Endpoints:

        1. Renal function - eGFR (estimated glomerular filtration rate) and serum creatinine

        2. Glycemic control - AUC by MMTT, fasting BG, fasting C-peptide, calculated
           C-peptide/glucose ratio, calculated 20/(fasting Cpeptide x fasting BG) as a measure of
           insulin resistance, calculated HOMA-IR (fasting insulin x fasting BG)/22.5 as a measure
           of insulin sensitivity/resistance, calculated BETA-2 score to sensitive estimate beta
           cell function, and HbA1c.

        3. Tacrolimus and Mycophenolate doses as well as TAC and MPA levels
    
  