
    
      Objective:

      Retinal vein occlusions (RVOs) are significant sources of vision loss, affecting mostly
      healthy people over 55 years of age. The common source of vision loss is the macular edema
      accompanying the retinal injury. Very recently, studies employing monthly anti-vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) treatments have demonstrated a benefit to this line of
      treatment; however, the duration of effectiveness appears to be short lived and the length of
      time needed for these monthly injections remains unknown. A histologic study of human retinas
      with retinal vein occlusions found the presence of activated microglia. Microglia are capable
      of migrating through the retina to sites of inflammation to associate closely with neurons
      and the vasculature, and are key cellular players in the mediation of processes of chronic
      inflammation. For these reasons, microglia represent a promising cellular target for forms of
      therapy that limit the deleterious inflammatory changes found in vein occlusions.
      Minocycline, a second-generation tetracycline, has been shown to exhibit anti-inflammatory
      properties, including microglial inhibition. The objective of this study is to investigate
      the safety and potential efficacy of minocycline as a microglia inhibitor in participants
      with central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO).

      Study Population:

      A minimum of 10 and a maximum of 20 participants who meet the eligibility criteria may be
      enrolled. Eligibility criteria include: foveal center-involved macular edema secondary to a
      CRVO, retinal thickness in the central subfield >350 microns as measured by optical coherence
      tomography (OCT); and visual acuity (VA) between 20/32 and 20/200 in the study eye.

      Design:

      In this pilot, double-masked, randomized multi-center study, participants will receive
      monthly bevacizumab injections for the first three months, followed by PRN dosing. In
      addition, participants will take an oral dose of 100 mg of minocycline or placebo twice daily
      for 24 months. During each monthly visit, participants will have their visual acuity measured
      and will undergo OCT testing to measure retinal thickness. At the Month 3 visit and
      thereafter, participants will be evaluated for improvement and worsening and will be eligible
      for additional bevacizumab treatment and/or investigational product (IP) depending on which
      criteria they fulfill. Additionally, at Month 12, participants will also be evaluated for no
      improvement.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome is the difference in mean change in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA),
      as measured in ETDRS letters, between the minocycline and placebo groups in the study eye at
      12 months compared to baseline. Secondary outcomes include the difference between the
      minocycline and placebo groups in the number of intravitreal bevacizumab injections between
      12 and 24 months and baseline, changes in mean macular sensitivity as measured by
      microperimetry at 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months compared to baseline, the mean change in BCVA at
      24 months compared to baseline, changes in retinal thickness as measured by OCT at 6, 12, 18
      and 24 months compared to baseline, number of participants improving greater than or equal to
      1 logOCT scale step at 12 and 24 months compared to baseline, as well as and changes in fluid
      leakage in the macula as demonstrated by fluorescein angiography at 12 and 24 months compared
      to baseline. Safety outcomes include the number of participant withdrawals, number and
      severity of systemic and ocular toxicities and the number of adverse events (AEs).
    
  