
    
      Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation currently
      represents the dominant treatment strategy in patients undergoing catheter intervention.
      However, effective neointimal suppression occurs at the cost of a systematic delay in
      arterial healing in comparison with after bare metal stenting. This underlies a small but
      significant increased risk of stent thrombosis after DES implantation in comparison with bare
      metal stent implantation as well as a possible excess of in-stent neoatheroma formation. To
      address this issue recent technological advances have focused on bioresorbable polymer
      coatings and the development of stents with fully resorbable backbones.

      Newer generation metallic DES with bioresorbable polymer coatings have been shown to improve
      vascular healing after coronary stenting. In particular a novel thin-strut bioresorbable
      polymer everolimus-eluting stent (EES, SYNERGY, Boston Scientific Corp., Natick, MA, USA) has
      shown high angiographic antirestenotic efficacy as well as high clinical efficacy and safety
      in early randomized trials. In addition, DES with bioresorbable backbones represent an
      alternative approach to ensure short-term vessel scaffolding and drug delivery with enhanced
      vessel healing. The everolimus-eluting bioresorbable backbone stent (ABSORB bioresorbable
      vascular scaffold [BVS], Abbott Vascular, Santa Rosa, CA, USA) is the most-extensively
      studied device in this class and early reports in selected patients show encouraging clinical
      results. However requirement for thicker stent struts and more careful lesion preparation has
      led to concerns that potential clinical benefits may be offset by erosion of early
      antirestenotic efficacy and occurrence of clinical events related to limitations of device
      deployment.

      At present there is a lack of randomized clinical trial data examining outcomes of patients
      treated with these two alternative strategies. The aim of the current ISAR-RESORB study is to
      test the clinical performance of the bioresorbable-polymer SYNERGY with that of the ABSORB
      BVS in patients undergoing PCI of de novo coronary lesions. The primary endpoint will be
      percentage diameter stenosis at protocol-mandated 6-8 month angiographic follow-up. Secondary
      clinical endpoint will be assessed at 12 months. Sample size calculation is based on a
      superiority hypothesis for SYNERGY versus ABSORB BVS. It is planned to enrol a total of 230
      patients.
    
  