
    
      This prospective cohort study included patients drawn from 22 hospitals belonging to the
      Spanish National Health Service (SNS), which covers the majority (99.8%) of the population of
      Spain. All covered residents have free access to their primary care physician and to the
      emergency departments of the hospitals. All of the hospitals have similar technological and
      human resources.

      Patients with a diagnosis of colon cancer attending the surgical services of any of these
      hospitals to undergo surgery between June 2010 and December 2012 were informed of the goals
      of the study and invited to voluntarily participate. In order to take part in the study, a
      patient had to provide informed consent. All information was kept confidential. The
      Institutional Review Boards of the participating hospitals approved this project.

      Data collected Data collected upon hospital admission included information on
      sociodemographic data, clinical data (including information about onset of symptoms, habits,
      personal and family background, comorbidities, diagnostic tests, pre-intervention
      treatments), preoperative data (including analytical, tumor markers and diagnostic tests),
      data of the outpatient anesthesia data on the surgical intervention, pathology data, and data
      related to the remaining days of admission (including the presence of complications, need for
      reintervention or death). Subsequently, data were collected up to 30 days after surgery
      (analytical, diagnostic tests, presence of complications, readmissions, reintervention or
      death). Finally, information was collected through the year including need for radiation
      therapy, chemotherapy (treatment schedule, cycles, complications of treatment, supportive
      care), laboratory results and diagnostic tests performed, presence of complications, tumor
      recurrence, readmission or reintervention and death.

      Patients completed the following questionnaires before surgery and one year after surgery:
      EuroQol-5D, EORTC QLQ-C30 (The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer
      quality of life questionnaire) and QLQ-CR29 (European Organisation for Research and Treatment
      of Cancer questionnaire module for colorectal cancer), and HADS. The EuroQol-5D is a generic
      HRQoL questionnaire which has demonstrated good psychometric properties and allow for
      comparison with other populations. It has been translated and validated in Spanish. This
      instrument consists of two parts: the first is a description of the state of health in five
      dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain / discomfort and anxiety /
      depression. Each of these dimensions is measured by three answer options that define
      different levels of severity. The second is a visual analogue scale in which patients rate
      their health on a scale displayed in the form of a thermometer (20 mm), whose ends are 0
      (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best state imaginable health). The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a
      questionnaire for evaluating the HRQoL for cancer patients undergoing treatment, which has
      shown good validity and reliability in its Spanish adaptation (Cronbach's alpha coefficient
      of 0.7). It is one of the instruments measuring quality of life in cancer patients most
      commonly used and allow the comparison of the results obtained in patients with colorectal
      cancer patients with other cancers. It consists of 30 items, 28 of them with four possible
      answers (in all, a little, a lot, a lot) and two items with seven Alternative (visual
      analogue scale where one is "very poor" and seven "excellent"). The timeframe should refer to
      the previous week. The scores on each scale are transformed so that the final values are
      between 0 and 100. In addition to this overall score, the instrument consists of three
      scales: Global health status: in which a high score represents a high performance in terms of
      overall health; Functional -scale: consists of five subscales of operation: physical, role,
      emotional, cognitive and social; Symptoms scale consisting of a number of symptoms: fatigue,
      nausea, vomiting, pain, dyspnea, insomnia, decreased appetite, constipation, diarrhea and
      financial difficulties. A high score on each of these symptoms represents a high level of
      symptoms or problems in this area. The QLQ-CR29 was then developed after revising the
      QLQ-CR38, and was demonstrated internationally to have both sufficient validity and
      reliability to support its use as a supplement to the EORTC QLQ-C30 to assess
      patient-reported outcomes during treatment for colorectal cancer in clinical trials and other
      settings. The QLQ-CR29 contains 29 items, and is described in detail elsewhere. Briefly,
      there are 18 items addressing gastrointestinal symptoms, pain and problems with micturition,
      and there are separate scales for the participants with or without a stoma and separate items
      addressing sexual function for men and women. The response categories for each item are the
      same as those used in the QLQ-C30.
    
  