
    
      Vitamin D has diverse biological effects relevant to carcinogenesis, including known
      cross-talk between the vitamin D receptor (VDR) and insulin-like growth factor (IGF)
      signaling pathways. Based upon observational data, women with serum 25(OH) D levels greater
      than 40-50 ng/ml had a 50% lower risk of breast cancer compared to women with vitamin D
      deficiency.

      Vitamin D is a fat-soluble vitamin which is produced in the body and may come from food
      sources. Epidemiologic studies suggest that vitamin D may influence breast cancer
      development, which has resulted in increased interest in the use of vitamin D for the
      treatment and prevention of breast cancer. Numerous experimental studies have shown that
      vitamin D compounds have anti-carcinogenic properties against breast cancer. Given the
      epidemiologic data and the extensive preclinical evidence of the anti-tumor effects of
      vitamin D, it is therefore reasonable to test the biological effects of high-dose vitamin D
      in early phase clinical trials. The investigators hypothesize that vitamin D3,
      cholecalciferol, will modulate biomarkers of breast cancer risk.

      The relationship between vitamin D status and mammographic density (MD), a strong predictor
      of breast cancer risk, remains unclear [8]. MD refers to the relative proportions of
      radiolucent fat and radiodense epithelial and stromal tissue and may serve as a useful
      intermediate biomarker for breast cancer risk assessment in investigations of potential
      chemopreventive agents. Cross-sectional studies evaluating the association between vitamin D
      intake and MD observed an inverse association among premenopausal women, particularly with
      high serum IGF-1 and low serum IGF binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3). However, there is limited
      data on the biologic effects of vitamin D supplementation for breast cancer prevention in
      human intervention trials.
    
  