
    
      Context and rational Ovarian cancer is the fifth leading cause of death among neoplastic
      diseases in women in developed countries (1). The 5-year survival rate is 90% for patients at
      stage I disease at diagnosis but only 2% are diagnosed at this stage because of the
      non-specific nature or total absence of symptoms in the initial phase of the disease (12).
      Survival rate strongly depends on complete surgical resection during the first surgery with a
      5-year survival rate about 20% for incompletely resected stage III tumors (2). Thus,
      preoperative diagnosis strategy must be improved. Four multicentric randomized trials (3-6)
      have underlined the lack of specificity of the classic diagnosis strategy consisting in the
      combination of measurement of CA125 and transvaginal ultrasonography (TVS) to detect and
      characterize adnexal masses. In PCLO trial, 30 patients underwent a surgery for every cancer
      diagnosed (3). According to a multicenter study conducted in France (9), surgery is mainly
      indicated on tumor size and ultrasonographic data and a high rate of benignity is finally
      found at pathology (83.3%) as previously demonstrated (13). Recent trials have shown that
      inappropriate interventions in women with benign adnexal lesions lead to significant
      morbidity and mortality. In PCLO trial, among the 1080 women with false positive results (i.e
      benign lesions) who underwent surgery, 163 (15%) had at least one serious complication (3).
      All women have operative and anaesthesic risks, which are increased in menopausal women who
      suffer from diabetes of high pressure blood (8). Moreover, in pre-menopausal women, fertility
      is usually a main issue and the negative impact of surgery is well known. Two surgical
      procedures exist for the management of adnexal masses. The most conservative one, the
      laparoscopy which has become the gold standard in the treatment of benign adnexal tumors and
      the laparotomy which remains the standard in the treatment of malignant tumors. However, even
      laparoscopy may induce severe adhesions and unnecessary damage to the ovarian tissue (14).
      According to Huchon and al., the high rate of inappropriate procedures was not observed only
      for benign tumors but also for borderline and invasive malignancy with incomplete staging in
      16% and 50% respectively, which is the main prognostic factor of ovarian cancer (9).
      Inadequate surgical procedures may worsen the prognosis because of no fully inspection of
      peritoneal cavity, tumor morcellation, or cystic rupture especially for surgeons without
      lower expertise in this field. Bristow et al. demonstrated that both low-volume hospitals (HR
      1.08, 95% CI 1.01-1.16) and low-volume physicians (HR 1.18, 95% CI 1.09-1.28) were associated
      with decreased disease-specific survival (7). Thus, preoperative diagnosis is crucial to
      refer patients to gynecologist oncologist in a specialized tertial cancer center if there is
      a suspicion of ovarian cancer.

      An alternative evidence-based approach to the presurgical diagnosis of adnexal tumors is to
      use Logistic regression model (LR2) or Simple Rules developed by the International Ovarian
      Tumor Analysis (IOTA) group as demonstrated by a recent updated meta-analysis. Irrespective
      of which method used there is a group of tumors which remains difficult to classify after
      TVS. International Ovarian Tumor Analysis (IOTA) group and others teams estimate at 25% the
      percentage of adnexal masses that remains indeterminate and where it is evident that accurate
      second stage tests would be of value in this group of masses (15,16). In this setting, MR
      imaging was proven to be the most accurate second-line imaging technique (17) and the most
      cost effective intervention for ultrasonographically indeterminate masses (16): Firstly, the
      risk of malignancy for these masses is small (lower than 20% of malignancy), particularly in
      premenopausal women. Secondly, by removing the need for US follow up, MR imaging offers the
      possibility of earlier diagnosis of cancer in that minority of women with malignant masses
      (17,18). In the literature, the accuracy of MRI for distinguishing malignant from benign
      indeterminate adnexal masses ranges from 83% to 93% (18-20), compared to 63%-80% with
      ultrasonography (21,22). Recently, functional imaging techniques adding new criteria (23) to
      conventional MRI improve the interpretation, reproducibility and characterization of
      indeterminate adnexal masses, resulting in an accuracy higher than 95.3% (19,24,25) However,
      among physicians, a debate exists on the relevance of MR imaging to characterize adnexal
      masses possibly due to the absence of standardization of the MR report. In this way, only 25%
      of surgeons performed MR imaging before surgery explaining the high incidence of
      pre-operative misdiagnoses (9).

      In 2013, the first MR scoring system for adnexal masses named "ADNEXMR SCORING system" was
      developed (10). The features included in this scoring system are well established, as each
      has previously been used to distinguish benign from malignant masses (26-31). ADNEXMR SCORING
      system had good discriminatory characteristics with an AUROC of 0.981/0.964 in both the
      training and validating set (10). A preliminary external validation was performed on the
      validating set with 4 external readers that suggest a high diagnostic performance (AUROC
      0.980, 0.954, 0.955, 0.973 for both two senior and two juniors readers, respectively). For
      these four subsequent radiologists, the observed malignancy rates were less than 2 %, less
      than 5%, between 5% and 90% and over 90 % for ADNEXMR-SCORE 2, 3, 4 and 5, respectively.
      Therefore, this classification should be easily adopted by radiologists in pelvic imaging to
      improve report standardization. Finally, ADNEXMR SCORING system should influence pelvic mass
      management. With a score 4 or 5, ADNEXMR SCORING system predicts malignancy with 93.5% of
      sensitivity (58/62) and 96.6% of specificity (258/267). Thus, the risk of malignancy is high
      and the patient should be referred to a cancer center to undergo an appropriate surgical
      procedure at the first attempt. With a score ≤ 3, the risk of malignancy is minimal and the
      patient may benefit from more imaging follow-up or conservative treatment depending of
      clinical symptoms or infertility history. Inspired by the BI-RADS classification for breast
      tumors, the ADNEXMR scoring system is a simple and accurate five-category classification with
      accuracy higher than 95%. ADNEXMR Scoring system includes functional data that allows an
      excellent tissue characterization allowing not miss any cancer in case of score ≤ 3 in tumors
      lower than 6cm.

      Indeed, our hypothesis is that ADNEXMR score that relays the radiologist's suspicion to
      clinician has the potential aim of improving patient management especially limiting the
      number of inappropriate surgery. Up to date, no research tests the clinical impact of any MR
      scoring system for the management of adnexal masses. Thus, this research would be the first
      one with the finality to homogenize clinical practices limiting inappropriate procedures that
      impact on (1) morbidity and fertility (32,33), especially when patient unnecessary undergoing
      surgery for benign lesions and (2) mortality when patient do not undergo a complete surgery
      for ovarian cancer at the first attempt (34,35).

      If the study demonstrates our hypothesis, the results of the study will have an important
      impact on clinical practice, by increasing patients' safety, associated to possible major
      impact on fertility due to the avoidance of unnecessary surgery, together with significant
      savings for the health services. Moreover, this score could help clinician in planning the
      surgery accordingly and referring patients to a specialized tertial cancer center in case of
      ovarian cancer for a better prognosis.

      Summary of the known and foreseeable benefits and risks for the research participants The
      control group undergo standard of care treatment and therefore there is no associated risk or
      benefit in this group. The intervention group will all undergo MR, which may or may not have
      been standard of care in each case. There are no significant risks associated with MR
      scanning apart from the minor discomfort or inconvenience of undergoing the scan. The
      categorization into the AdnexMR score group is highly unlikely to be a risk to the patient as
      this has been validated in a large retrospective cohort of patients (10). However, there is a
      possible risk if a patient with a cancer is incorrectly categorized as score 3 and may not
      undergo oncologic cytoreductive surgery as their initial treatment. This theoretical risk
      exists but is very low because none invasive cancer was categorized as score 3 in the large
      cohort (n= 497) previously published (10).

      Primary objective To compare the rate of inappropriate surgery that occurs when patients are
      managed according to the therapeutic strategy based on ADNEXMR SCORING system with the
      therapeutic strategy performed in clinical routine according to European Society of Medical
      Oncology guidelines (11) (i.e. ultrasonography, CA125 +/-MR imaging).

      Reference standard: surgical with histology / clinical and imaging follow-up at 24 months.

      Secondary objectives To compare the routine therapeutic strategy and the therapeutic strategy
      based on ADNEXMR SCORING system.

      a) On therapeutic morbidity and mortality On delayed ovarian cancer diagnosis.

      Description of research methodology Experimental plan A prospective multicenter randomized
      diagnostic study. At D0, following informed written consent, patients will be randomized in
      one of two groups (intervention group or control group).

      In the intervention group, patients will undergo a pelvic MR imaging (1.5T or 3T) as
      routinely performed, including morphological sequences (T2, T1 with and without fat
      suppression and T1 after dynamic gadolinium injection) and functional sequences (perfusion
      and diffusion-weighted sequences). Prospectively, a senior radiologist analyzes the different
      MR criteria to characterize adnexal masses. The reader will classify the mass using ADNEXMR
      SCORING system and the patient will be managed according to the score. In control group, the
      complex adnexal mass will be managed according to the standard strategy and treatment plan
      routinely used by the multidisciplinary team. Clinical, biological, ultrasonographic and/or
      MR data and the type of treatment will be recorded. If a surgery is required, surgical
      procedure will be performed within the two months after initial diagnostic imaging (as
      routinely recommended).

      At M6 and M12, follow-up will be performed. If the lesion has increased or changed with
      suspicious criteria, surgery will be performed as routinely recommended in both groups.

      At M24, adnexal masses status will be recorded by clinical and imaging follow up. This visit
      marks the end of the study for the patient.

      Total duration of the study is 56 months with 32 months for patient inclusions.

      Number of centres participating 9 hospitals (17 centers). Identification of the subjects

      For this research, the subjects will be identified as follows:

      Centre No. (3 numerical positions) - Selection order No. of the person in the centre (4
      numerical positions) - surname initial - first name initial This reference is unique and will
      be retained for the entire research period.

      Randomisation

      Centralized blocked randomization list will be prepared by the clinical research Unit
      (URC-EST). The investigators at each hospital will obtain the randomized strategy allocation
      using internet (CleanWeb, Telemedecin Technologies, S.A.S). Randomization will be stratified
      on hospitals.

      Procedures D0: Gynecologist oncologist or radiologist will ask to the patient to be included
      in this study. Following informed written consent, patients will be randomized in one of two
      groups (intervention group or control group) In intervention group: Patients will undergo a
      pelvic MR imaging in a maximal delay of one month after inclusion (1.5T or 3T) as routinely
      performed, including morphological sequences (T2, T1 with and without fat suppression and T1
      after dynamic gadolinium injection) and functional sequences (perfusion and
      diffusion-weighted sequences). Prospectively, a senior radiologist) analyzes the different MR
      criteria to characterize adnexal masses. The reader will classify the mass using ADNEXMR
      SCORING system and the patient will be managed according to the score, which will be given in
      the MR report and given to the patient by the clinician in a delay of 15 days after MR
      imaging.

      For masses lower than 4cm: Score ≤3: Follow up / Score = 4: Diagnostic surgery / Score 5 =
      Oncologic cytoreduction For masses between 4 and 6 cm: Score ≤3: No surgery except for
      suspicion of dermoid cysts and endometriomas / Score = 4: Diagnostic surgery / Score 5 =
      Oncologic cytoreduction For masses higher than 6 cm: Score ≤2: No surgery except for dermoid
      cysts and endometriomas / Score 3 and 4: Diagnostic surgery / Score 5: Oncologic
      cytoreduction. For extra-adnexal mass: Score = 1 (however have to be treated according to
      radiologist conclusion).

      In control group, the complex adnexal mass will be managed according to the standard strategy
      and treatment plan routinely used by the multidisciplinary team.

        -  For suspected endometriomas or dermoid cysts lower than 4cm or functional cysts: Follow
           up

        -  For suspected invasive malignant: Oncologic cytoreduction

        -  For all other lesions: Diagnostic surgery

      Clinical, biological, ultrasonographic +/- MR data and the type of treatment will be
      recorded.

      Between M1 and M2: for both, if a surgery is required, surgical procedure with pathological
      analysis will be performed within the two months after initial diagnostic imaging (as
      routinely recommended). If an oncologic cytoreduction is decided, pre-operative imaging
      staging will be performed as routinely recommended.

      Follow-up visit (M6 +/- 15D and M12 +/- 15 days)

      M6 and M12 (+/- 15 days): Clinical and imaging follow up will be performed, the choice of the
      imaging is under the appreciation of the clinician.

      If the lesion has increased or changed with suspicious criteria, surgery with pathological
      analysis will be performed as routinely recommended in both groups.

      End of research visit (M24 +/- 15 days)

      M24 (+/- 15 days): Adnexal mass status will be recorded by clinical and imaging follow up.
      This imaging follow-up marks the end of the study for all the remaining patients

      Expected length of participation and description of the chronology and duration of the
      research.

      Total study duration: 56 months Duration of recruitment: 32 months Duration of participation
      for each patient: 24 months
    
  