
    
      This study evaluates the management of subjects with Standard of Care (SOC) when admitted to
      the Emergency Department (ED) with hyperkalemia (potassium value ≥ 5.5 mmol/L). If the
      initial SOC potassium value is suspect, a second confirmatory SOC sample should be obtained
      and must be ≥ 5.5 mmol/L to continue study participation. It is acceptable for the site to
      use a point of care analyzer to obtain SOC potassium if this is the ED's standard practice.
      Demographics and medical history data, including previous ED visits and/or hospital
      admissions for hyperkalemia and reason for current ED admission, will be recorded. If a
      baseline study-related potassium value determined prior to the first intervention/treatment
      is unable to be obtained, the SOC potassium value that qualified the subject for entry into
      the study will be used as the subject's baseline. Enrollment of subjects with baseline
      potassium values < 6.0 mmol/L will be limited to a maximum of 50 subjects.

      Subjects who receive an intervention/treatment for hyperkalemia (eg, intravenous [IV]
      calcium, insulin/glucose, beta2-agonists, diuretics, IV bicarbonate, sodium polystyrene
      sulfonate (SPS), dialysis and/or other intervention for hyperkalemia) will have study-related
      potassium values drawn at 30 minutes, 1, 2, and 4 hours after the start of treatment.
      Subjects who receive no intervention/treatment during the initial 4-hour period will have a
      study-related potassium value drawn 4 hours after the baseline potassium measurement.

      The timing of each intervention/treatment and the collection of recordable outcomes following
      admission to the ED will be recorded, together with the procedure followed, as well as dose
      and route of administration. In addition concomitant medications will be collected from 14
      days prior to ED admission and will continue until discharge from the ED. If the subject is
      admitted into other care (eg, hospital, ICU, observational unit, etc), post-ED concomitant
      medication collection will be performed for up to 7 days following admission to that unit or
      until discharge from that unit, if earlier.

      Recordable outcomes will be limited to pulmonary edema, ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation,
      pulseless electrical activity arrest, new clinically significant electrocardiogram (ECG)
      changes (including but not limited to severe bradycardia, advanced heart block, bundle branch
      block, tachycardia [>100 bpm]), palpitations, hypoglycemia, and gastrointestinal-related
      events (eg, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea) and any other event deemed significant by the
      investigator. In addition, recordable outcomes requiring positive-pressure ventilation,
      central venous access, intubation, chest compressions, IV vasopressors, IV vasodilators, IV
      anti-arrhythmics, IV fluid bolus, and/or emergency dialysis or resulting in death will be
      collected.

      Available data obtained as part of SOC management will include physical examinations, vital
      signs, fluid intake and urine output, ECGs, clinical laboratory data, and results of chest
      x-rays. Data regarding the subject's chief complaint upon admission to the ED, the possible
      cause of the subject's hyperkalemia, and admitting and discharge diagnosis will be recorded;
      the subject's overall discharge summary will also be collected. As applicable, dates and
      times will be recorded for the following: ED admission, hospital admission, intensive care
      unit admission, observation unit admission, step down admission, regular floor admission,
      discharge (from any and all admissions), dialysis, Do Not Resuscitate order, death, and any
      other event deemed significant by the investigator. If feasible, billing information and/or
      Diagnosis-Related Group (DRG) codes and/or Ambulatory Payment Classifications (APC)
      associated with the ED visit and interventions/treatments will be collected.
    
  