
    
      Mosquito-borne viruses continue to cause significant global morbidity and mortality,
      particularly in Southeast Asia. When mosquitoes deliver the virus into the skin of humans
      while probing for a blood meal, they deposit also saliva, which contains a myriad of
      pharmacologically active compounds that modulate the host immune system. Little is known
      about skin immunity to mosquito saliva, particularly in endemic volunteers as most clinical
      studies are performed in na(SqrRoot) ve individuals who have never or rarely been exposed to
      a particular mosquito vector. People living in endemic areas have had long-term repeated
      exposure to these vectors and therefore have different immune response to mosquito saliva,
      which could interfere with mosquito-borne disease vaccine effectiveness. Characterization of
      skin immunity via various technical modalities will be important in order to identify
      critical aspects of the innate and adaptive immune responses after a vector bite.

      Here, we will execute a paired study of exposed-unexposed skin to carefully examine the
      innate and adaptive immune responses in the skin and blood to exposure of the saliva of Aedes
      aegypti, the mosquito vector of dengue, Zika, and chikungunya viruses. We will enroll 42
      participants to undergo vector feeding and give blood samples at baseline and 2 and 14 days
      later. Additionally, participants will give skin punch biopsy samples of bitten (exposed) and
      unbitten (unexposed) skin. For analysis, we will group 10-12 participants in each of 4
      technical modality cohorts or groups : 1) immunohistochemistry, 2) RNA sequencing, 3) flow
      cytometry, and 4) T-cell receptor sequencing. With the current rise of vector-borne diseases
      in the United States and around the world, we hope the results of this study contribute to
      future vaccine design and clinical development strategies for vector#borne diseases.
    
  