
    
      Introduction

      Fluid Administration in Critically Ill Patients.

      Fluids are one of most common therapies used in critically ill patients. Fluids are the
      cornerstone of hemodynamic management. In overt bleeding, fluids are often given without
      guidance with specific haemodynamic monitoring. In other conditions when hypovolemia may be
      more subtle or when the response to fluids is more variable, fluids are often given in a more
      titrable way, monitoring their haemodynamic impact. This practice, called the fluid challenge
      technique has been proposed by Max Harry Weil more than 30 years ago [1].

      Fluids have beneficial impact on outcome, especially in the context of hemodynamic
      optimization. Haemodynamic optimization has been shown to improve patient outcome when
      applied in the perioperative period and in the early phases of septic shock [2,3]. On the
      other hand, a positive fluid balance is associated with a poor outcome [4,5], but this may
      just reflect patient severity. In patients with respiratory failure, once hemodynamically
      stable, fluid restriction is associated with earlier separation from mechanical ventilation
      [4]. Altogether, it seems reasonable to give just the amount of fluids needed when the
      patients is hemodynamically unstable and to restrict fluids when the patient is stabilized.
      Such an approach seems associated with better outcomes [6].

      The fluid challenge has been used in several papers and studies assessing the response of
      patients to fluids. The way this practice is performed varies in terms of:

        -  type of fluid

        -  volume of fluid

        -  rate of fluid administration

        -  clinical endpoints used

      There is no data that describe how fluid challenges are administered in ICU's across the
      world. Understanding this will provide valuable information regarding current practice and
      would be a basis for improving current practice and future research.

      Fluids in guidelines

      Current guidelines on fluid administration that cover how to give fluids in all critically
      ill patients do not exist. In the surviving sepsis guidelines fluids are recommended in the
      very early phase of hemodynamic resuscitation of patients with severe sepsis[7]. At this
      stage it is recommended to administer these according to CVP [7]. In france, the use of
      functional hemodynamic tests (see below) is recommended in this setting [8]. After the
      initial phase, these guidelines are evasive on the way fluids should be guided.

      In the UK there guidelines covering the administration of fluids in the perioperative
      setting. In the periopoerative setting in high risk surgical patients, guidelines recommend
      the use of fluids for stroke volume optimization {9} Apart from these specific settings,
      fluids administration is not covered in current guidelines.

      Prediction of fluid responsiveness using Functional haemodynamic tests

      Heart and Lung Interaction in fully mechanically ventilated patients During mechanical
      ventilation, increases in the intra-thoracic pressures induced by the inspiration, decrease
      the venous return to the right ventricle. If the right ventricle is 'volume' responsive, this
      results in a reduction in right ventricular stroke volume, which is subsequently translated
      through to a decreased left ventricular stroke volume, several beats later. This change in
      stroke volume (or stroke volume variation) can be detected by monitors that track real-time
      changes in stroke volume as a stroke volume variation.' When the two ventricles are working
      on the ascending part of the stroke volume/ventricular preload curve, then mechanical
      ventilation will induce changes in stroke volume which will be reflected, depending on the
      monitor used, in changes in stroke volume (Stroke Volume Variation, SVV), pulse pressure
      (Pulse Pressure Variation PPV), and systolic pressure (Systolic Pressure Variation, SPV).
      These are also called dynamic indices of preload because, by detecting these changes, they
      provide information on the preload reserve of the ventricles (fluid responsiveness).
      Therefore they can predict which patients may benefit from fluid administration prior to give
      fluids.

      This has been widely studied with several monitors and proved to be effective in predicting
      fluid responsiveness with high sensitivity and specificity [10].

      These techniques do have some limitations. In order to be reliable the patients need to be
      fully sedated and mechanically ventilated, with no spontaneous breathing activity and no
      arrhythmias. Also, as reported by De Backer et al. these indices lose power to predict fluid
      responsiveness in patients ventilated at volumes lower than 8 ml/kg [11].

      Heart and Lung Interaction in spontaneously breathing patients

      Passive leg raising is a maneuvre that produces an autologous fluid challenge by shifting
      venous blood from the legs to the intra-thoracic compartment. The response measured by a flow
      monitor is able to predict the response to a fluid challenge [12]. This has been studied with
      different monitors.

      In the setting of spontaneously breathing patients Monge Garcia et al. have demonstrated that
      changes in pressure during a Valsalva manoeuvre predict fluid responsiveness (The Valsalva
      maneuvre is a forced expiration against a closed glottis) [13].

      Summary of evidence

      A summary of the evidence relating to use of fluids in the context of haemodynamic
      resuscitation suggests that:

        1. During the perioperative period and in the early phases of septic shock, the
           administration of targeted fluids to optimize pre-load provides an improvement in
           patient outcome.

        2. There is no evidence that protocols aimed at optimizing cardiac output are beneficial
           for the patient if not applied "early" or when oxygen debt has established.

        3. Observational studies have shown that a positive fluid balance is associated with an
           increased 60 day mortality.

        4. Despite this, patients who remain unstable after initial fluid resuscitation often
           receive fluids in an attempt to reverse their shock.

        5. Functional Haemodynamic tests have been developed to help the clinician in predicting
           the response to fluid administration.

        6. How the decisions of giving or not giving these fluids are made in different diseases,
           in different ICU's and in different countries is not known.

        7. How often functional haemodynamic tests are used is not known either.

        8. How the effects of fluids are monitored is not known either.

      This study should give answers to points 6, 7 and 8. The way fluids are administered vary
      widely. Indications for fluids and monitoring of the effects are not standardized and may
      thus lead to heterogeneity in practice. The purpose of this study is to evaluate how fluids
      are administered

      What does this study involve?

        1. All patients enrolled in the study will receive standard clinical care

        2. Data will be collected in order to study how fluid challenges are performed in ICU's

        3. No extra tests will be performed for this study

        4. Only measurements and data available as part of clinical practice will be collected
    
  