
    
      Respiratory inhalers are often used incorrectly by hospitalized patients with asthma or
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). As the mainstay of bronchodilator and
      anti-inflammatory therapy for these patients, the implication of this difficulty with
      self-management is that patients are at risk for under-treatment and worse health outcomes.
      Several factors are thought to contribute to poor self-management skills, particularly
      inadequate patient education at healthcare encounters and inadequate patient health literacy
      (HL; ability to understand and use healthcare instructions). Inadequate HL in patients with
      asthma leads to worse knowledge about medications in general and inhaler technique
      specifically, and patients with inadequate HL are more likely to be hospitalized. As a
      result, national and international guidelines for both asthma and COPD recommend patient
      education to improve self-management skills regarding use of respiratory inhalers and
      assessing patient comprehension at all points of care, including hospitals. However, the most
      effective strategy to instruct patients about respiratory inhaler use in hospital settings is
      unclear, particularly in populations enriched with inadequate HL.

      Teach-to-goal (TTG) is a method of patient instruction that employs repeated rounds of
      teaching and assessments of patient comprehension until mastery is confirmed. Our preliminary
      data in hospitalized patients suggest that TTG may be a particularly powerful method to teach
      this high-risk population how to use respiratory inhalers correctly, including patients with
      inadequate HL. However, TTG is likely to be more resource-intensive (personnel training and
      time) than approaches used in everyday clinical settings (usual care). Further, the relative
      magnitude of the effectiveness of TTG compared to other less resource-intensive methods on
      patient comprehension and health outcomes is not known. As healthcare resources are limited,
      empiric data about the comparative effectiveness of TTG and alternate approaches of patient
      education are needed.

      Therefore this pilot comparative effectiveness study will compare the TTG approach versus a
      brief intervention (BI) for patients hospitalized with asthma or COPD to evaluate the
      feasibility of conducting a randomized clinical trial of two educational interventions in
      this population and to collect preliminary estimates of the relative benefits of TTG vs. BI.
      These data will help inform the design of subsequent larger studies of comparative
      effectiveness.

      The primary research goal is to evaluate the feasibility of conducting a randomized clinical
      trial of two different strategies to teach respiratory inhaler use and to determine
      preliminary estimates of effect size for the interventions; specifically, the investigators
      will assess our recruitment and retention rates, pilot test case reports and other study
      procedures and to evaluate the resources (staff & investigator time, costs for patient
      incentives and other study materials) needed to perform the trial. These data will inform
      subsequent studies by providing important information regarding feasibility, effect size for
      sample calculations and preliminary data to secure funding for the development of further
      research. The Specific Aims are:

      Specific Aim 1: To evaluate the feasibility of enrolling and randomizing patients into an
      educational intervention to teach appropriate respiratory inhaler technique.

      Specific Aim 2: To obtain a preliminary estimate of the effect size of TTG vs. BI in order to
      determine the necessary sample size for a larger comparative effectiveness study designed to
      improve health outcomes.
    
  