
    
      Vasculitis syndromes include: Henoch-Schonlein Purpura (HSP), connective tissue disorders
      e.g. Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE), Rheumatoid arthritis...etc; where small vessels are
      mainly involved in the process of vasculitis. Vasculitis syndromes also include Kawasaki
      disease where also medium sized vessels are also included. Other vasculitis syndromes are
      also reported.

      ANCA associated vasculitis may be due complex interplay of genetic risks, environmental or
      infection trigger or adaptive immunity leading to insufficient regulation of B cells with
      pathogenic ANCA generation and neutrophil activation (AAV).

      Complement activation at C3 and C4 was involved in organ damage, especially renal, in AAV at
      the alternative complement pathway, factor B and properdin component colocalized with C3
      complement in the endothelium of the blood vessels.

      Furthermore, the common complement pathway was activated as reflected by increased C5a
      levels. This suggests that both the alternative and common complement pathways are involved
      in some cases of vasculitis. Furthermore a decrease in these activation factors was observed
      during remission of vasculitis. This may denote clearance of the degradation of cell
      component that were blocking inactive vasculitis. In addition, many studies noticed strong
      increased plasma levels of the anaphlatoxin C5a that has a strong proinflammatory activity on
      the endothelium of vessels that may be related to disease severity. So much so, that
      inhibition of C5a levels by immunologic inhibitors may have a therapeutic role in some forms
      of ANCA positive vasculitis.

      Various treatment forms have been used for vasculitis syndromes.

        -  Drugs used in treatment of Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (JIA) are:

             1. Non-steroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) such as Salicylates e.g. Aspirin,
                Selective COX-2 inhibitors e.g. Celecoxib & Non-Selective COX-2 inhibitors e.g.
                Naproxen.

             2. Non-biologic Disease-Modifying Anti-rheumatic drugs such as Methotrexate.

             3. Biologic Disease-Modifying Anti-rheumatic Drugs such as Infliximab.

             4. Oral or parenteral Glucocorticoids such as Methylprednisolone (According to
                American College of Rheumatology).

        -  In cases of SLE, the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) recommended corticosteroids
           in the 1st place and change to or add Biologic Disease-Modifying Anti-rheumatic Drugs
           Agents such as Rituximab.

        -  Regarding Henoch-Schonlein Purpura vasculitis, 70% of cases are self-limited. only cases
           with suspected renal involvement e.g. hematuria, hypertension, headache or proteinuria
           are to be treated with sreroids.
    
  