
    
      Surgical site infections (SSIs) are the most common nosocomial infection among surgical
      patients and are the third most common nosocomial infection among all hospitalized patients.1
      Although all patients undergoing surgical procedures are at risk for developing SSIs,
      colorectal surgery has consistently had high rates of surgical site infections, ranging from
      3-45%. Numerous studies have shown the adverse effects of SSIs, including increased length of
      hospital stay, morbidity, mortality, readmissions and costs. In a recent study analyzing
      various surgical procedures, including colorectal operations, surgical site infection was
      found to be the number one cause of unplanned readmission.

      Studies have been performed showing that intranasal mupirocin may have a role in reduction of
      SSI in cardiac and orthopedic surgery. However, there has been minimal investigation on the
      effects of topical mupirocin in general surgery. A recent study from Spain compared
      colorectal SSI rates between mupirocin dressings, silver-impregnated dressings, and standard
      gauze surgical dressings. The results of this show that mupirocin has the greatest effect on
      reducing SSI rate when compared to standard gauze and silver-impregnated dressings. However,
      these studies have not been performed in the United States and have only been studied on
      open, colorectal oncologic surgery.

      The aim of this study is to compare mupirocin dressings to standard surgical dressings and
      their respective SSI rates at a United States community hospital in patients undergoing
      elective open and minimally invasive colorectal surgery.

      A single-center prospective, randomized study will be performed. Patients who will undergo
      elective colorectal surgery and consent to participate will be randomized (1:1) to one of the
      following 2 treatment groups:

        1. Island dressings until postoperative day (POD) #2 (which is current practice at
           Gundersen Health System)

        2. Mupirocin + island dressing until POD#5 Analysis of outcomes will include rate of SSI,
           and 30-day morbidity and mortality.
    
  