
    
      A physician modified branched thoracic endograft is a commercially available, off-the-shelf
      endograft that has been altered at the time of the procedure by creating reinforced
      fenestrations in the graft through which covered stent grafts can be deployed to preserve
      blood flow into visceral branch vessels. The graft is deployed on a sterile working table in
      the operating room. The locations of the fenestrations are marked on the graft according to
      the pre-procedure measurements. The graft fabric is cut and simultaneously heat sealed using
      thermal Cautery. These fenestrations/cuffs are marked with medical grade metal markers to
      facilitate fluoroscopic visualization during the procedure. Furthermore, the fenestrations
      are reinforced with a short ring of PTFE. This added material is essential as it strengthens
      the fenestration and creates a ring within which the branch grafts can seal. After the
      fenestrations have been created, marked, and reinforced, additional metal radio-opaque
      markers are sewn to the graft to assist in device orientation under fluoroscopy. Additional
      sutures may be used at that time to constrain the endograft, either in a temporary or
      permanent fashion to facilitate subsequent deployment. The device is the re-constrained and
      re-sheathed within the original Zenith® TX2® delivery sheath.

      The modified stent graft is then deployed to reline the peri-visceral abdominal aorta.
      Proximal and distal fixation and seal can be achieved using the modified TX2® device,
      additional unmodified TX2® devices and/or the Cook Zenith® Flex® device depending on the
      aortic anatomy.

      Once the aortic stent grafts are deployed, the branches are then created. Wires and catheters
      are used to cross through the reinforced fenestrations into the target visceral arteries.
      Covered stents are then deployed to extend from the modified aortic graft to the target
      vessel. The branch stents must create a hemostatic seal with the main endograft as these
      branches will be constructed within the aneurysm sac. Single or multiple stents may be
      required for any given branch.
    
  