
    
      The GBA (OMIM 606463) gene codes for beta-glucocerebrosidase, a lysosomal enzyme. Disease
      causing mutations in both alleles of GBA gene cause Gaucher disease (GD) while mutations in
      one allele lead to Gaucher carrier status. It has been shown recently that patients with GD,
      even carriers with one mutated GBA gene are at a higher risk for developing Parkinson disease
      (PD), and at an earlier age, and that the GBA mutations comprise the primary genetic risk
      factor in the development of PD and other forms of parkinsonism. However, there are no
      biomarkers to determine the diagnosis of PD, especially in the early and minimally
      symptomatic or asymptomatic stage. The progression of PD in subjects with a mutation in the
      GBA gene can currently not be determined. In some cellular and animal models,
      glucocerebrosidase alterations were shown to impact the metabolism of other proteins
      implicated in PD pathology. α-Synuclein and Parkin, encoded by SNCA and PARK2 respectively,
      are implicated in rare genetic forms of parkinsonism. α-Synuclein aggregates are seen in
      cells of the central and peripheral nervous system and is considered to be the pathological
      culprit in PD. Mutated glucocerebrosidase has been shown to be present in α-Synuclein
      aggregates in postmortem brain samples from individuals with GBA mutations and PD.
      α-Synuclein in addition, is shown to affect the solubility of Parkin in the cells. As an
      attempt to assess whether GBA alterations would also impact α-Synuclein and Parkin metabolism
      in humans in easily accessible cell types outside the brain, the expression at both molecular
      and protein level will be investigated in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). The
      study includes three cohorts: 1) Patients and carriers of Gaucher disease with confirmed
      disease causing mutations in GBA gene who have developed Parkinson's disease symptoms
      (GD-PD), 2) Patients and carriers of Gaucher disease with no known Parkinson's symptoms
      (GD-nonPD) and 3) Non-Gaucher disease/healthy controls (HC). PBMCs extracted from 3-5 ml
      peripheral blood will be used for intracellular staining for α-Synuclein, LRRK2 and Parkin
      and then acquired on Flow cytometer (BD accuri). Lymphocytes and monocytes will be analyzed
      for α-Synuclein, LRRK2 and Parkin expression. PBMCs will also be used for RNA extraction and
      subsequent molecular analysis using qPCR. Since the assay utilizes an easily accessible
      tissue type i.e., peripheral blood and requires a very small amount (2-3 ml), this assay
      could be developed as a potential biomarker for diagnosis and a disease progression indicator
      for Parkinson disease in subjects with GBA gene mutations.
    
  