
    
      Overall Study Design. The investigators propose to develop a combinatory approach where an
      integrative technique (hypnosis) is augmented with a neurotechnology (repetitive transcranial
      magnetic stimulation). This application seeks to utilize the previously established
      brain-based mechanisms of both hypnosis and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation as
      biomarkers to assess the potential synergistic mechanism of this combinatory approach. 100
      low-moderately hypnotizable subjects with fibromyalgia will be identified. The subjects'
      response to rTMS-augmentation of hypnosis will be measured. The volunteers will be randomized
      to active or sham rTMS. Two scan sessions will be performed for each subject, with the first
      scan session investigating the effect of rTMS-augmentation on hypnosis and hypnotizability
      (120 min scan session) and the second scan session focused on the effect of rTMS-augmented
      hypnotic analgesia (120 min scan session).

      The study will require that participants participate in an in-person screening visit, a
      screening MRI scan and 2 MRI scan sessions that include the TMS and hypnosis.

      Experimental design. Before each MRI scan session, participants will undergo a preparation
      session, where hypnotizability and either psychological testing or experimental pain training
      will be conducted. Volunteer subjects will then participate in 2 MRI scan sessions on two
      separate days, each lasting approximately 120 mins.

      Hypnosis induction procedures. Hypnosis will be induced while the subject is in the scanner
      though the use of headphones and a pre-recorded induction script. Hypnotic instructions will
      be standardized, and will involve a simple induction instruction used in our prior research
      on the brain signature of the hypnotic state and in clinical care. The ability to enter and
      maintain the hypnotic state through such an induction mechanism in the fMRI environment has
      been previously demonstrated.
    
  