
    
      Tuberculosis (TB) remains the world's leading infectious threat as it kills more than 1
      million people worldwide every year, with most of them in low and middle-income countries1.
      Several medical conditions impair innate and acquired immunity and favor the occurrence of TB
      disease in individuals who are latently infected2,3. People living with HIV (PLHIV) have a
      higher risk to be infected by TB as their immunocompromised status than that of HIV negative
      and as the cause of death in a quarter of PLHIV/AIDS4,5. Malnutrition and protein imbalance,
      i.e., in diabetes, can also impair the immune system and increase the risk of TB and
      TB-related death2,6. The daunting rise in cases of TB, HIV, and diabetes poses further major
      threats to public health worldwide. They were ranked as top diseases to cause high mortality
      in South East Asia (SEA), which accounted for deaths for 1.6 million, 940,000, and 30.3
      million in 2017, respectively. The association between communicable and non-communicable
      diseases has been known for the past years, yet the optimization of the therapy remains
      scarce. Therefore, sustained and well-maintained healthcare approaches to make sure patients
      stay adherent and compliant to medication therapy are needed and remain of utmost importance.

      Beyond the deadly combinations of the diseases and the improvement in disease treatments, an
      issue on the communication among the involved parties (e.g., physicians, pharmacists, and
      patients) needs to be marked crucial. Physicians and pharmacists have each specific role in
      the healthcare system, and the positive impacts of their collaboration have been established
      in several studies. The collaborative relationship between physicians and pharmacists
      accelerates the improvement of patient's therapy and thus provides a better quality of care.
      However, barriers in communications can still be noticed in the healthcare setting,
      especially in countries where the existence of pharmacists is limited. Time constraints and
      ineffective communication would be the significant points needing to be considered. This
      situation should be avoided as poor communication among them may lead to several negative
      impacts such as prescribing errors, treatment delay, unidentified adverse events, and even
      death7,8.

      Over the last decades, mobile phone technology as a part of information and communication
      technology (ICT) has considerably been used in supporting diseases' treatments as a modality
      to improve medical care efficiency and adherence and to provide continuously updated clinical
      evidence. The ubiquity of mobile technologies, such as smartphones, enhances the ability to
      assess and improve general health. It has therefore created salient opportunities for the
      treatment and evaluation of a large number of common, intractable, expensive medical
      conditions. Such technologies in the healthcare setting can easily be accessed and are likely
      cost-effective, given its modest costs9. For example, a cost analysis of the use of mobile
      phones in Kenya revealed that text-message intervention in HIV treatment was cost-effective
      on the basic travel of expenses alone10. Conversely, concerns also have been expressed
      regarding the safety, confidentiality, quality of its content, and regulations on the use of
      mobile health applications11.

      Much attention has been directed at the use of ICT in Indonesia due to the nations' unique
      geographic and socioeconomic characteristics. Indonesia is an archipelago country with 270
      million population (population density of 140.08 individuals per square kilometer of land
      area)12. Being ranked 4th of countries with the highest population and the seventh largest
      country in terms of combined sea and land area worldwide, Indonesia is then believed to be
      one of the fastest growing markets for mobile phones in the SEA with 438.6 million mobile
      users. Having to mentioned the explanations above, the investigators, therefore, will
      research an easy-to-use - yet confidential and comprehensive - web-based healthcare
      application to be applied to high-risk patients; i.e., TB and HIV. By applying this web-based
      app to the specific population, the investigators hope to enhance the quality of care as well
      as the quality of life of such patients. The investigators will report on the findings and
      then discuss the future use of the web-based app.

      With the complexity of drugs treatments in HIV and TB, treatment using mobile technologies is
      increasingly valued and becoming a trend over the past years. Technology that has a
      particular focus on patients' needs and ease-of-use and -access plays a significant role in
      the development of e-health and m-health. The proposed model of a secured mobile health
      application may promote patient's self-management and enhances adherence in chronic therapy
      exactly as it is easy-to-use, reducing patient's burden in accessing medication information
      and instructions, and providing the opportunity for direct communications with health
      providers in charge for each patient with access to mobile technologies. Consequently,
      medication errors and unnecessary paperwork in the healthcare system will be avoided as well
      as giving more time for healthcare providers to pay greater attention to delivering medical
      care effectively and efficiently.

      The objective of the study is to conduct a usability testing of the web-based app in
      high-risk participants (HIV and TB patients). Usability testing will be conducted using a
      quantitative approach to evaluate the effectiveness, efficiency, and user satisfaction. After
      performing the usability testing of the web-based app on selected participants, investigators
      perform an in-depth interview to explore further problems, barriers, feedbacks, and potential
      advantages of the use of IeHS web-based app.
    
  