
    
      This experimental randomized controlled prospective study was conducted at the tocology
      department of a university hospital in Balikesir, Turkey between March 2019 and June 2019.

      The sample size was determined using G * Power 3 calculations in accordance with prior
      studies on heat application to the lower abdomen. Estimation of the effects was acquired from
      the findings of Potur and Kömürcü (2014), who reported a pain severity of 1.99 ± 2.42 in the
      heat-treated group and 5.78 ± 2.63 in the control group. We aimed to establish a similar
      difference. For each group, the sample count was determined as 12. However, in order to
      increase the power of the study, 23 students were included both in the heat treatment group
      and the control group, totaling up to 46 individuals for the sample. Power analysis indicated
      that the size of the sample had a power of 96% with α = 0.05. The decrease comparative to the
      control group in the severity of dysmenorrhea pain after heat application had an effect size
      of 0.616.

      The inclusion criteria were determined as being at the ages of 18-30, being nulliparous,
      having a VAS score of 2 and higher [24], not having a systemic or chronic disease and not
      using hormonal contraceptives. The exclusion criteria were determined as using forms of
      analgesic and alternative treatments during the study (1 subject in the heat treatment group
      was excluded at the 3rd menstrual cycle) and experiencing menstrual irregularities (3
      subjects in the heat treatment group and 4 subjects in the control group were excluded at the
      3rd menstrual cycle).

      To the sample of the study, students with dysmenorrhea pain were admitted. Randomization was
      achieved by having the subjects pull envelopes for the designation of their groups. Students
      who pulled the 'Heat Treatment Group' were allocated to the heat treatment group, and the
      students who pulled the 'Control Group' were allocated to the control group. A total of 46
      students partook in the study, and 3 students from the heat treatment group were excluded
      from the study by their own requests. At the 1st and the 2nd menstrual cycles, the heat
      treatment group consisted of 20 subjects, and the control group consisted of 23. At the 3rd
      menstrual cycle, 4 subjects from the heat treatment group and 4 subjects from the control
      group were excluded from the study in accounts of their analgesic medicine usage or inability
      to menstruate. At the 3rd and 4th menstrual cycles, the heat treatment group had 16 subjects,
      and the control group had 19.

      For the collection of the data, Personal Information Forms were developed by the researchers
      in accordance with the scientific literature, the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) in order to
      establish the severity of the dysmenorrhea pain, the Short Form McGill Pain Questionnaire to
      determine the types of pain, the Menstrual Attitude Questionnaire to establish the attitudes
      and the behaviors during menstruation and the Depression Anxiety and Stress Scale to
      determine the psychological effects of dysmenorrhea were utilized. The Personal Information
      Form was applied to the heat treatment group and the control group after receiving permission
      from the subjects. The subjects were observed for a total of 4 menstrual cycles. The subjects
      in the heat treatment group and the control group were instructed not to use any analgesic
      medication or alternative treatments during the study. In the 1st menstrual cycle, heat
      treatment was not applied to the subjects. In the first menstrual cycle, the Short Form
      McGill Pain Questionnaire, VAS, the Menstrual Attitude Questionnaire and the Depression
      Anxiety and Stress Scale was applied at the peak severity of dysmenorrhea pain. In the
      following 3 menstruation cycles, VAS-T1 and the Short Form McGill Pain Questionnaire-T1 were
      applied to the heat treatment group and the control group at the peak severity of
      dysmenorrhea pain. Later, 20 minutes of heat treatment was applied to the heat treatment
      group. The control group were not given any treatments. VAS-T2, the Short Form McGill Pain
      Questionnaire-T2, the Menstrual Attitude Questionnaire and the Depression Anxiety and Stress
      scale were applied to the subjects in both groups 20 minutes after the primary evaluation.
      VAS-T3 and the Short Form McGill Pain Questionnaire were applied to both groups 2 hours after
      the primary evaluation.

      Thermoforming was applied to the lower abdomen by the subjects themselves when the
      dysmenorrhea pain was at its peak. The subjects were instructed on the application of the
      thermophores. Thermoforming was applied wrapped in towels in order to shield the subjects
      from the effects of direct heat. In a study, heat packs that had a temperature of 38.9 °C
      were used for treatment of dysmenorrhea. In this study, the temperature of the water used in
      the thermoforming process was 45 °C. Considering the risk of the thermophores cooling down
      and the shielding provided by the towels, the water temperature was kept higher compared to
      those in other studies. The temperature of the water was measured using a liquid thermometer.
      Heat treatment was applied for 20 minutes without interruptions.

      Visual Analogue Scale (VAS): This scale was utilized to establish the severity of the
      dysmenorrhea pain in the subjects. The scale consists of a 10 cm vertical line starting with
      0 and ending with 10. In this study, VAS was applied in 4 menstrual cycles; 1st menstrual
      cycle, once when the pain was most severe (T1), at the 2nd, 3rd and the 4th menstrual cycles,
      once when the pain was most severe (T1), 20 minutes after the primary application (T2) and 2
      hours after the first application (T3).

      Short Form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ): This questionnaire was used to establish the
      type of the dysmenorrhea pain in the subjects. The questionnaire consists of 15 items in 2
      sub-scales that consist of the sensory (11 items) and affective pain (4 items) sub-scales.
      Each item is evaluated with a Likert-type scale between 0 and 3 (0: none, 3: severe), and the
      sum of these results established the total pain score. Furthermore, the evaluative total pain
      intensity index was measured using a 6-point Likert-type scale. In this scale '0' represents
      no detectable pain, whereas '5' represents unbearable pain. The Turkish version of the
      questionnaire was tested for its validity and reliability in 2007 and found to be reliable
      and valid.

      The Depression Anxiety and Stress Scale (DASS): This scale was developed by Lovibond and
      Lovibond in 1995 to identify the emotional states of depression, anxiety and stress. The
      validity and reliability studies of its Turkish form were performed by Akın and Çetin in
      2007. The scale includes 42 questions in which the given answers are evaluated quantitively
      between 0 (not suitable for me) and 3 (fully suitable for me). Depression, anxiety and stress
      are rated as normal, mild, moderate, advanced and extreme. This scale was included in the
      study to determine the effects of the heat treatment on depression, anxiety or stress.

      Menstrual Attitude Questionnaire (MAQ): The reliability and the validity of the scale used to
      establish the attitudes and the behaviors of the subjects during menstruation were tested by
      Kulakaç et al. (2008). The scale includes 31 items as follows; menstruation as a debilitating
      event (7 items), menstruation as a bothersome event (5 items), menstruation as a natural
      event (5 items), anticipation and prediction of the onset of menstruation (8 items) and
      denial of the effects of menstruation (6 items). Each item is evaluated between 1 and 5 (1: I
      strongly disagree, 5: I strongly agree) using a 5-point Likert-type scoring.
    
  