
    
      -  Evaluation Criteria And Analysis Method :

           1. Efficacy - Evaluate total 3 times : 2, 4 and 12 weeks after last injection. In
           efficacy evaluation data, for difference in WSRS improvement ratio, normality test on
           the ratio is used, and for the other evaluation variables, statistical hypothesis test
           is conducted by using t-test, Wilcoxon rank-sum test, Chi-square test, and ANOVA for
           repeatedly measured data according to the nature of data.

             1. Wrinkle Severity Rating System - It is ranged from 1 point (absent) to 5 points
                (extreme), and WSRS scores are compared baseline(pre-injection period) with every
                visits.

             2. Evaluation of subject's improvement - It is ranged from 1 point (worse) to 5 points
                (much improved). A degree of improvement to which the subject decides upon every
                visit is evaluated, compared to the screening period (baseline).

             3. Evaluation of investigator's improvement - It is ranged from 1 point (worse) to 5
                points (much improved). A degree of improvement to which the investigator decides
                upon every visit is evaluated, compared to the screening period (baseline).

           2. Safety The analysis of safety evaluation data is conducted through descriptive
           statistics using the causal relationship between outbreak frequency and the devices .

             1. Subjective adverse events : Uncomfortable sense after TheraFill® injection

             2. Objective adverse events : Investigator shall observe and evaluate adverse events
                such as edema, redness, tenderness, pain, bruise, itching, nodule and others at
                injected site after injection

        -  Evidence : 1. Photographs At screening period, injection, 2, 4 and 12 weeks after
           injection and upon an adverse event, the photograph results of the front and side shall
           be attached to the Case Report Form and utilized as objective reference data.
    
  