
    
      In the last hundred years there has been a great improvement in the physical care of pregnant
      women, with a corresponding decline in morbidity and mortality for both mother and child.
      This same is not true of their psychological and psychiatric care in pregnancy, and this is
      arguably one of the most important unmet aspects of current obstetrics. Previous research has
      shown that if a mother has high levels of depression or anxiety during pregnancy, including
      in later gestation,her child is at about double the risk for ADHD(attention deficit
      hyperactivity disorder), conduct disorder and emotional problems later in development, as
      well as increased risk for cognitive delay. Prenatal stress, depression and anxiety
      contribute an estimated 10-15% of the variance in these outcomes. High levels of antenatal
      anxiety and depression are frequently co-morbid and have been shown to increase risk for
      preterm delivery, low birth weight, as well as being a major risk factor for postpartum
      depression and recurrent maternal depression. This in turn, is also associated with increased
      risk of long-term emotional and behavioral problems in children.

      Over 80% of pregnant women with depression are currently undiagnosed and untreated. Most
      women prefer non pharmacological treatments during gestation and NICE(National Institute for
      Health and Care Excellence) clinical guidelines recommend Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT)
      for the treatment of these disorders at this time. CBT has been shown to be effective for the
      treatment of depression in general; however there have been no randomized controlled trials
      with pregnant women. Since they may respond differently, they need to be studied directly.
      The most cost effective way of delivering personalized CBT is internet based and it can be
      offered online, individually and in real time. Computerized CBT programs have been developed
      to improve accessibility, but are inflexible, difficult to adapt to patient's specific needs
      and are associated to low rates of adherence. So, due to the real need of more accessible
      psychological therapies in primary care, it is crucial to investigate the efficacy of
      relatively low cost therapeutic tools to improve and broaden individual patient care in
      pregnancy.
    
  