
    
      MATERIAL AND METHODS This study is a prospective clinical study and it was initiated after
      the approval of Karadeniz Technical University Faculty of Medicine Clinical Research Ethics
      Committee numbered 2017/88.

      Between 2017-2019 years, pregnant women included in the study who admitted to the Department
      of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Karadeniz Technical University. The study was planned on
      cases who will undergo cesarean section over 34. week of gestation. They were not included in
      the study if pregnant women with pregestational or gestational diabetes mellitus, morbid
      obesity, thyroid dysfunction and fetal anomaly diagnosed aneuploidy or anomaly. Demographic
      data, ultrasonographic data and doppler parameters of all patients were recorded and
      evaluated prospectively. Informed consent was obtained from all participants prior to
      participation to work. Newborn results after birth were recorded.

      Patients were divided into two groups. The study group consisted of late preterm cases (34-37
      weeks of gestation) and the control group consisted of term cases (<37 weeks of gestation).

      Doppler data of main pulmonary artery and right pulmonary artery, mitral valve e/a wave ratio
      and lamellar body count were determined as the main research parameters. In both groups,
      fetal thorax and heart circumference ratio, mitral e/a wave ratio, right pulmonary artery and
      main pulmonary doppler indexes (PI, RI, S / D, AT / ET) were evaluated before cesarean
      section. All ultrasonographic examinations and measurements were performed by a single
      operator with color doppler ultrasonography device. Doppler measurements were performed in
      supine and slightly left-facing position. Doppler index measurements of two groups were
      recorded separately for each pregnant.

      Lamellar Body Count Lamellar body counting; at least 2cc of amniotic fluid not infected with
      blood during the cesarean section was taken into the EDTA tube and not centrifuged in
      thestudy. The sample was studied by using automatic blood counting device which is used for
      counting the shaped elements of blood called Coulter Counter which makes automatic blood
      count in hematology laboratories. The value specified in the platelet count part was accepted
      as the number of lamellar bodies in the report.

      Statistical analysis All data were analyzed using with IBM SPSS Statistics 11 (IBM SPSS,
      Turkey). In addition to descriptive statistical methods, Student's t test was used to compare
      the quantitative data.
    
  