
    
      Oxaliplatin is a chemotherapy drug designed to destroy cancer cells by interfering with DNA
      function, which is necessary for growth of new cells.

      Capecitabine is a chemotherapy drug designed to destroy cancer cells by interfering with cell
      division, which is important to the growth of cancer.

      You will receive 14 days of treatment followed by 7 days without treatment, 21 days in all,
      otherwise known as a "cycle" of therapy. On Day 1 of each cycle, you will receive oxaliplatin
      injected into a vein over a period of 2 hours. For this injection, you will need to have a
      small tube inserted into a vein under the skin of the chest (central venous line) to receive
      oxaliplatin. Oxaliplatin must be given at M.D. Anderson.

      You will take capecitabine tablets twice a day for the first two weeks (Days 1-14) of each
      3-week cycle. No treatment will be given for the next 7 days. You must take capecitabine
      within 30 minutes after breakfast and dinner, with morning and evening doses about 12 hours
      apart. You should take capecitabine by mouth with water, and not fruit juices. At the first
      treatment visit and every 3 weeks, you will receive enough capecitabine to last until the
      next visit. At each visit, you must return any capecitabine you have not used as well as all
      empty bottles.

      During Cycle 1, routine blood tests (about 2 teaspoons of blood) will be done once a week.
      Before each new cycle of therapy, you will have a complete physical exam and blood (about 2 ½
      teaspoons) will be collected for routine tests. You will be asked by the study doctor about
      all medications you have taken since starting the study drugs and any health problems that
      you may have experienced. Also, you will have an x-ray or computed tomography (CT) scan of
      the chest and either CT scans or magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs) of the tumor(s) every 3
      cycles and at the end of the study. Additional tests may be done during the study if your
      doctor feels it is necessary for your care.

      This study will require you to receive at least 3 cycles of treatment. However, if you
      experience severe side effects or your disease becomes worse, treatment may be delayed,
      stopped, or you may receive smaller doses of the treatment. You may continue to receive
      treatment on this study until the disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side
      effects. If this happens, you will be taken off the study and your doctor will discuss other
      treatment options with you.

      When you stop taking part in the study, you will have blood (about 3 teaspoons) collected for
      routine tests. You will have a physical exam and either a CT scan or an MRI to check on the
      status of the disease. You will be contacted by phone every three months for the rest of your
      life to check on your state of health and ask you about further symptoms you may be
      experiencing.

      This is an investigational study. The drugs oxaliplatin and capecitabine are FDA approved for
      treatment of advanced cancer of the colon or rectum. The drugs are not approved for small
      bowel or ampulla of Vater cancer. Their use together in this study is investigational. Up to
      30 people will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson.
    
  