
    
      Introduction: Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) is a common cause of nosocomial infection
      with a high mortality rate. In the current era of increasing highly resistant pathogens in
      nosocomial infections, the empirical treatment of these organisms is becoming more difficult
      and only a few novel antimicrobial agents are currently in development with activity against
      these highly resistant Gram negative bacilli infections. Imipenem, a carbapenem antibiotic,
      is a β-lactam antibacterial agent with a broad spectrum of activity against both Gram
      positive and Gram negative bacteria. This agent is still one of the most commonly used
      antibiotics for empirical therapy of highly resistant nosocomial infections in VAP. In common
      with other β-lactams, imipenem exhibits primarily time dependent killing and increasing the
      concentration of this agent does not necessarily increase the rate and extent of bacterial
      killing. Therefore, the time that concentrations in serum are above the MIC (T>MIC) is the
      pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) index that correlates with efficacy. Pharmacodynamic
      analysis can be applied to imipenem dosages to increase the likelihood of optimal exposure
      and achieve good clinical responses in patients with VAP. Previous studies we performed found
      that a 2 h infusion of carbapenem antibiotics gave greater values for T>MIC than a 0.5 h
      infusion. Therefore, in an attempt to improve the efficacy of the present β-lactam
      antimicrobial agents such as imipenem, a prolonged infusion would be the appropriate mode for
      administration to promote the maximal bactericidal effect.PK changes have been found for
      several hydrophilic antimicrobial agents in critically ill patients. Drug dispositions are
      altered in this patient population when compared with healthy subjects leading to
      fluctuations of plasma concentrations. Therefore, the aim of this study was to assess the PD
      of imipenem in VAP patients, comparing administration by 0.5 h infusion or 2 h infusion.

      Objectives: To assess the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics of three regimen as below.

      i) 0.5-hr infusion of imipenem 0.5 g every 6 hrs ii) 2-hr infusion of imipenem 0.5 g every 6
      hrs iii) 2-hr infusion of imipenem 1 g every 6 hrs

      Drug preparation:Imipenem will be reconstituted with 100 ml saline solution according to the
      manufacturer's guidelines

      Study design: This is prospective, randomized and crossover design to assess

      Each patients will receive doripenem in 3 regimens consecutively:

      i) 0.5-hr infusion of imipenem 0.5 g every 6 hrs ii) 2-hr infusion of imipenem 0.5 g every 6
      hrs iii) 2-hr infusion of imipenem 1 g every 6 hrs

      Nine patients will be enrolled in this study. After completion of the imipenem therapy for 3
      days in this study, all patients will receive other sensitive antibiotics to eradicate their
      bacterial infections.

      Sample collections: Blood samples (approximately 3 ml) will be obtained by direct
      venepuncture at the following time: 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 after 4th dose of imipenem.
      All blood samples will be allowed to clot and then centrifuged at 2,000g. The serum obtained
      will be stored at-80°C until analysis.

      Imipenem assays by HPLC method e performed at Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine.

      Clinical and laboratory data such as Age,Sex, Body weight, CBC, Electrolyte, Vital signs,
      APACHE II score, BUN, Cr, Sample and Blood culture will be collected.

      Duration of study: Patients will receive imipenem for 3 days

      Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analysis: Concentration of imipenem in plasma will be
      measured by HPLC method and simulated in Monte Carlo technique (Computer model) to get PK/PD
      index (40%T>MIC) and reported to % PTA (Probability Target Attainment) and %CFR (Cumulative
      Faction Response).

      Sample Size: Nine patients with VAP will be enrolled in this study.
    
  