
    
      Two billion people globally consume alcohol, leading in 2016 to 2.8 million deaths (5.2% of
      all deaths) and 99.2 million Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) lost (4.2% of all DALYs).
      Of all the diseases, conditions, and injuries attributable to alcohol use, alcohol use
      disorders (AUDs) create the largest health burden globally. However, approved pharmacological
      treatments for alcoholism are limited in their effectiveness. A recent proof of- concept
      study testing psilocybin in ten alcohol dependent patients provides encouraging efficacy
      results and safety data. The investigators, therefore, propose to test the efficacy of
      psilocybin for treating alcohol use disorder and study its underlying neurobiological
      mechanisms in a randomized, placebo controlled, double blind study. To evaluate effects of
      psilocybin on alcohol use behaviour, clinical symptoms, neurocognitive and emotional measures
      in patients with alcohol use disorder.

      The present clinical trial aims at investigation the clinical and mechanistic effects of
      Psilocybin in Alcohol Addicted Patients.

      Patients with alcohol use disorder who have undergone withdrawal treatment within the last 6
      weeks will be investigated in a single-centre, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
      parallel-group design clinical trial contrasting the acute and persisting effects of
      psilocybin to those of placebo. Patients will be randomly assigned to psilocybin or placebo
      group with a 1:1 allocation ratio. The study comprises a total of 6 visits during 6 weeks and
      two follow-up online surveys (3 and 6 months after treatment). In addition, two follow-up
      surveys that can be completed from home will guarantee monitoring of long-lasting changes in
      symptomology and ensure all potential side-effects can be captured. On the treatment visit, a
      single dose of psilocybin (25mg) or placebo will be administered. Patients will be monitored
      until all effects have worn off.
    
  