
    
      A. Specific Aims: While a diet low in fermentable oligo, di, monosaccharides and polyols
      (FODMAPs) has gained popularity as a treatment for patients with Irritable Bowel Syndrome and
      diarrhea (IBS-D), the impact of this diet on patients with IBS and constipation (IBS-C) is
      unknown. We propose a randomized, controlled trial in IBS-C patients to compare the efficacy
      of PEG 3350 and the low FODMAP diet to PEG 3350 and a sham diet. We hypothesize that:

        1. The PEG 3350 and low FODMAP diet group will achieve greater improvements in abdominal
           symptoms including pain, discomfort, and bloating than the group receiving PEG 3350 and
           the sham diet.

        2. The PEG 3350 and low FODMAP diet group will achieve greater improvements in IBS related
           quality of life and anxiety than the group receiving PEG 3350 and the sham diet.

        3. Both strategies will improve constipation related complaints including stool frequency,
           stool consistency and straining to a similar degree.

      We plan to test our central hypothesis and, thereby, accomplish the objective of this
      application by pursuing the following 2 specific aims:

      Aim 1: Compare the proportion of patients with IBS-C on a diet of low FODMAP diet plus PEG
      3350 vs. sham diet plus PEG 3350 reporting an improvement of abdominal pain. Our working
      hypothesis is that a higher proportion of patients randomized to the low FODMAP diet plus PEG
      3350 will experience a reduction in the abdominal pain when compared to PEG 3350 plus sham
      diet alone.

      Aim 2: Compare the efficacy of the low FODMAP diet plus PEG 3350 vs. sham diet plus PEG 3350
      on pre-specified key clinical and disease specific quality of life endpoints in patients with
      IBS-C. Through our randomized controlled trial, we will assess the impact of the dietary
      interventions on stool consistency, stool frequency, and bloating and quality of life
      endpoints.

      A positive result to this study would have significant impact on the treatment of patients
      with IBS by expanding the indications for the low FODMAP diet to all affected patients,
      regardless of bowel subtype. This would be particularly relevant to IBS-C patients for whom
      we currently have few evidence-based diet recommendations outside of increasing fiber intake.
    
  