
    
      This clinical trial is designed as a Phase 1/2a clinical trial targeting patients with
      critical limb ischemia. The trial is composed of Phase 1 to assess the tolerability and
      safety and Phase 2a to assess the safety and efficacy of the investigational product.

      Phase 1: Open-label, 3 + 3 design, single-center This phase is conducted in a 3 + 3 design by
      dose level to evaluate the tolerability of the investigational product.

      If the subject voluntarily agrees signs the informed consent formin writing to participate in
      this clinical trial, the subjects who had necessary check-ups and tests and meet the
      inclusion criteria after subject conformity assessment are registered in the clinical
      trial.The subjects receive the investigational product once and are checked for adverse
      events through day 1 and then discharged. The safety and efficacy assessments are conducted
      through visits at week 4, week 12, and week 24 after administration.

      Subjects are evaluated for adverse events up to week 4 after the administration of the
      investigational product by registering 3 subjects each at the dosing phase. This evaluation
      is conducted according to the number of persons subjects who developed Grade 3 or higher
      adverse drug reactions (ADRs) according to CTCAE Version_5.0 in which a causal relation with
      the investigational product cannot be ruled out.

      If the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined with the test group 2 (high dose) in the
      Phase 1 clinical trial, the Phase 2a clinical trial will be conducted with the two groups,
      test group 2 and test group 1.

      However, if adverse events occur in 1 of 6 subjects, the test group 2 will be decided
      considered as the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), or but only the test group 1 will proceed to
      Phase 2a.

      If adverse events occur in 2 or more subjects out of 6 subjects, a dose smaller than test
      group 1 (low dose) is determined to be the maximum tolerated dose. The Phase 2a clinical
      trial will not proceed and the clinical trial will end.

      Phase 2a: Open-label, sequential assignment, single-center If tolerability and safety are
      secured 4 weeks after administration of the investigational product of Phase 1, Phase 2a is
      conducted.

      Only those subjects meeting the final inclusion criteria are sequentially assigned, admitted
      by the same procedure, and administered the investigational product once. Subjects are
      checked for adverse events through day 1 and discharged. Safety and efficacy assessments are
      performed at week 4, week 12, and week 24 after administration. All subjects are tested with
      the same schedule, excluding their doses.

      The subjects enrolled in Phase 1 are analyzed for efficacy through visits at week 12 and week
      24 so that all subjects (Phase 1 and Phase 2a) are assessed and analyzed for efficacy.
    
  