
    
      This trial was a single blind, randomised, equivalence trial comparing rotator cuff
      rehabilitation classes with traditional individual physiotherapy in subacromial impingement
      of the shoulder. A total of 200 patients were planned to be recruited from patients with
      painful shoulder referred to the Ulster Community and Hospitals Trust and community
      physiotherapy at the Ulster, Ards and Bangor sites or injection clinics at the Ulster
      Hospital. Local General Practitioners were also informed of the study and invited to refer
      appropriate patients.

      Intervention - Triamcinolone 40 mg (1 ml) and 6 weekly rotator cuff rehabilitation classes
      Control - Triamcinolone 40 mg (1 ml) and routine physiotherapy 6 sessions weekly for 6 weeks

      The injection technique involving a lateral approach to the subacromial space was used. An
      interval of between 1 and 3 weeks was allowed between injection and commencement of classes
      or physiotherapy.

      Classes were planned to be run by a rotating group of physiotherapists with at least 1 year
      of musculoskeletal outpatient's experience. They were to receive instruction on the protocol
      to use in the classes. Classes were to consist of six 30 min sessions on a weekly basis. A
      minimum of 5 and maximum of 10 participants were to attend. Advice was to be given on the
      nature of the condition. Subjects were to be instructed and supervised in exercises for
      scapulo-humeral mobility, scapulo-humeral stability and specific rotator cuff rehabilitation
      exercises. Subjects were to be introduced to ongoing classes as they are recruited to the
      trial.

      Six sessions of routine physiotherapy at weekly intervals were to be undertaken. Treatment
      was to be based on evidence-based guidelines for the treatment of shoulder impingement
      (Evidence-based clinical guidelines for the diagnosis, assessment and physiotherapy
      management of shoulder impingement syndrome Chartered Society of Physiotherapists 2005) and
      consist of mobilisation techniques and supervised exercises and stretches. A therapist with
      at least 1 year of musculoskeletal outpatients experience was to provide treatments.
    
  