
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to
      1 of 2 study groups (intervention or control). This is done because no one knows if one study
      group is better, the same, or worse than the other group. Both groups will be given a diet to
      follow for 8 weeks.

      Intervention group participants will add canned beans into their diets beginning at ½ cup per
      day. This will be increased to 1 cup per day during the first 2 weeks, and then will continue
      at 1 cup per day for the following 6 weeks of the study. You will be asked to keep a log of
      your bean consumption during this time.

      Control group participants will be instructed to follow their normal diet (not including
      beans) for 8 weeks.

      Length of Study:

      Your active participation on the study will last a total of 20 weeks. Your participation on
      the study will be over after the follow-up period.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      Up to 2 times each year for up to 5 years, a member of the study staff will contact you and
      ask about how you are doing. You will be contacted by phone, email, or standard mail. These
      calls will last 15-20 minutes each.

      At 6 months and 1 year after your last visit, you will complete the same questionnaires you
      completed at screening.

      Study Visits:

      At each visit, your waist measurements and weight will be collected.

      Every 4 weeks (Visits 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6), blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for
      routine tests. You will be asked to bring a stool sample to each visit and mail a stool
      sample at the end of week 1 during the intervention. You will be provided with a container
      and instructions to collect each stool sample. You may send your stool sample back to the
      study staff by mail. If you choose to send it by mail, you will be given a pre-paid envelope
      for this.

      At Visit 4, your study group assignment will be switched, and you will be assigned to the
      opposite group and diet from your first assignment (meaning intervention group members will
      be switched to the control group as well as the other way around). You will follow this new
      diet for the remaining 8 weeks.
    
  