
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Obese children who engage in vigorous exercise programs show beneficial effects on total body
      percent fat (percent BF) and visceral adipose tissue (VAT); however, little is known about
      how to prevent accretion of total body or visceral adiposity in high risk youths, such as
      African-American (AA) females.The project has important health implications for two reasons,
      as follows. There is a dearth of information concerning the effects of exercise interventions
      in school and community settings. If the study shows that an afternoon exercise program
      reduces accretion of general and visceral adiposity and has a favorable impact on fitness and
      health in a population that is at high risk of obesity, then schools may be encouraged to
      implement similar interventions to prevent juvenile obesity and associated health problems.

      The study was awarded in response to a Program Announcement on Physical Activity and
      Cardiopulmonary Health released in October 1994 jointly by the NHLBI, the National Institute
      of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, and the National Institute of Nursing
      Research.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The design involves randomization of 200 African American girls, eight to 10 years of age
      into intervention or control groups. After one year, the groups are compared to test the
      primary hypothesis that a one year afternoon exercise program will reduce accretion of
      general and visceral adiposity in these girls. Then the girls will switch group assignments
      for the next year. The pattern of data over the three time points will show what happens over
      a two year period in which the youths are, or are not, involved in the exercise program. The
      measurements will include: (1) percent body fat with dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry; (2)
      visceral adipose tissue (VAT) with magnetic resonance imaging; (3) cardiovascular fitness
      with a multi-stage treadmill test; (4) cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors (i.e., the
      ratio of total to high density lipoprotein cholesterol, insulin, systolic blood pressure, and
      fibrinogen); (5) free-living exercise and diet; (6) psychosocial variables (i.e.,
      self-efficacy and self-concept); (7) sexual maturation; (8) anthropometric measures. The
      exercise program will be implemented in neighborhood schools for 90 minutes each weekday
      afternoon. Transportation will be provided if needed. Sessions will include motor skill
      instruction and aerobic exercises.
    
  