
    
      This study is a side protocol/extension of 10 years of ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT02492555.
      Among 2.500 IBD patients the investigators have consecutively from the Gastroenterology
      out-patient clinic at North Zealand University Hospital recruited in total 120 in the study.

      At the out-patient consultation IBD patients has been informed about the project and the IBD
      eHealth nurse has ensured that no exclusion criteria was met by the patients.

      Inclusion criteria:

      IBD patients in remission, SCCAI ≤ 2 (Simple Clinical Colitis Activity Index )) or HBI < 5
      (Harvey & Bradshaw Activity Index ) or in mild to moderate disease activity ( SCCAI 3-4, HBI
      < 16) IBD patients who can read, speak and understand Danish. IBD patients that can take
      advantage of the Internet and wireless network. 18 years or older.

      Exclusion criteria:

      IBD patients with severe disease activity HB > 16 SCCAI ≥ 5 IBD patients with social, medical
      or psychological issues of a more complex character. IBD patients with particularly complex
      issues such as drug and alcohol problems, severe mental / psychiatric disorders and / or
      serious social impact.IBD patients who cannot attend due language barrier or cognitive
      disorder. Age less than 18.

      When the patient has agreed to participate in the study, randomized to either OD or 3. Months
      (This has been done ClinicalTrials.gov ID: NCT02492555)

      Patients log in to www.noh.constant-care.dk at least once every 3rd months throughout the
      project period of 11 years in total (2015-2026). When the patient log in to the telemedicine
      platform the following scorings must be filled out:

        1. - Disease activity (DA), respectively SCCAI or HBI.

        2. - Quality of life assessment, s-IBDQ

        3. - FACIT (Fatigue score)

        4. - MARS ( Medical Adherence Rating Scale)

        5. - FC, fecal calprotectin mg / kg measured by the patient's own SMART phone, rapid home
           test.

      If the patients prefer to send the fecal samples for test, it will be analyzed in the ehealth
      gastro lab. at the hospital with a SMART phone as well.

      The results of the scoring systems will appear to the health care professionals and patients
      in a traffic light manner (red, yellow and green).

      If the patient experiences a recurrence of the disease, it moves from green to either yellow
      or red area in the traffic graph, and patient will further be instructed to contact Gastro
      medical clinic project nurse for an early consultation and decision on further treatment
      initiative. This will also be indicated at the patient's website. If alarm symptoms occurs
      patients are instructed to contact the project nurse. Thus patients are treated in accordance
      to national and international guideline. By screening of the inflammation burden (web
      algorithm), the decision is moving forward.

      Patients logging in on demand, indicate disease activity, quality of life and FC at the
      start, and subsequently when needed and at the end of the study (after 11 years from
      inclusion).

      At relapse, disease activity score and FC is settled and repeated no later than 7 days here
      after. When the patient has reached remission (green) a new DA and FC test should be
      performed to verify the remission.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if the IBD patients doing home monitoring have
      relative reduced rates of colectomies, resections, mortalities and cancer after 11 years of
      web monitoring. Relative reduced rates of colectomies etc. means - relative to standard care
      but also if there is a difference between the two web screening procedures on these
      endpoints.
    
  