
    
      With the advent of coronary stents and improvements in periprocedural antithrombotic regimen,
      the spectrum of indications of percutaneous coronary interventions has continuously expanded
      for patients with coronary heart disease, gaining ground in what have been traditionally
      considered as domains of coronary bypass surgery. Several groups reported the outcomes of
      patients with unprotected left main coronary artery (LMCA) disease treated with stenting.
      Most of them found that LMCA stenting was feasible and safe, and, in low-risk patients, it
      was associated with minimal periprocedural complications and low long-term morbidity and
      mortality. Despite these encouraging reports, a widespread use of this technique has been
      hampered by the still high incidence of restenosis. It is commonly accepted that coronary
      bypass graft surgery and stenting for unprotected LMCA disease are associated with similar
      rates of mortality, and that the higher incidence of restenosis and greater need for
      revascularization procedures after LMCA stenting remain the major contributors for the
      observed difference in clinical efficacy between both therapies. The recent introduction of
      stents eluting anti-restenotic drugs, with sirolimus and paclitaxel the most studied
      compounds, has opened new perspectives for the prevention of restenosis. Several randomized
      trials have reported excellent results in the reduction of restenosis and need for
      reinterventions with drug-eluting stents (DES). Although, none of these trials studied the
      benefit of DES for lesions located in the LMCA, their results suggested that use of these new
      devices may be particularly helpful for the reduction of restenosis in the group of patients
      with left main trunk disease. This is supported by the findings of several series of patients
      with unprotected LMCA disease who have been successfully treated with DES. Importantly, for
      patients who are unable to undergo CABG due to cardiac surgeons' refusal (poor surgical
      candidates) or their own unwillingness, stenting with DES remains the only revascularization
      alternative. Recent guidelines of PCI recommend stenting, preferentially with DES, for
      unprotected LMCA in the absence of other revascularization options.

      Comparison:

      Sirolimus-eluting stents compared with paclitaxel-eluting stent for treatment of lesions
      allocated at left main trunk.
    
  