
    
      The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted healthcare workers physically and psychologically.
      Healthcare workers have ben required to work under stressful conditions and take difficult
      decisions involving ethical implications. Increasing work demands on healthcare professionals
      conflict with their duties to family and friends, which causes psychological stress. All of
      these factors may negatively affect their menstrual cycle.

      The aim of this study is to examine whether there is a change in menstrual cycle
      characteristics during pandemia. Second aim is to investigate whether there is an association
      between Covid 19 infection and menstrual cycle changes.

      This cross-sectional study is conducted with healthy female participants who are working at
      Haydarpasa Numune Research and Training Hospital in Turkey. The researcher investigates the
      characteristics of menstrual cycle in female healthy workers employed in Covid 19 pandemic
      inpatient and outpatient clinics. The participants who are sure about their pertinent
      information are enrolled in the study. The exclusion criteria includes pregnancy, history of
      hysterectomy, oophorectomy, diseases like Asherman's syndrome and also history of endocrine
      disorders (progesterone deficiency, thyroid disorders and diabetes mellitus), oral
      contraceptive use, malignancy, primary amenorrhea, menopause and lactation.

      After informed consent, detailed information is collected using structured questionnaires
      about their reproductive factors and menstrual cycles by direct interviews. The questionnaire
      contains questions about age, work experience, marital status, height, weight, working hours,
      use of medication, menstrual cycle characteristics (including cycle duration, duration and
      amount of bleeding, bleeding during the cycle, regular or irregular menstrual cycles) and
      dysmenorrhea. Also, the difference in menstrual cycle characteristics between covid positive
      and negative healthcare professionals is investigated.
    
  