
    
      Given the cost-effectiveness of smoking cessation programs, the Centre for Addiction and
      Mental Health implemented the STOP program in 147 Family Health Teams (FHTs) treating 47,888
      smokers with nicotine replacement therapy and counselling. Following the knowledge to action
      framework every FHT in STOP uses a web portal with an integrated decision aid, data
      collection, and feedback tool. Though STOP data finds lower quit rates among smokers with
      depression, it currently does not offer specialized clinical pathways for depressed smokers.

      Both smoking and depression are major public health problems with high morbidity and
      mortality. Individuals with depression are almost twice as likely to be smokers, have lower
      long-term smoking abstinence (OR=0.81, 95% CI=0.67-0.97), and experience greater addiction
      severity and negative mood when quitting smoking. In the STOP Program, 38% of smokers have
      current or past depression; their 6-month quit rates are significantly lower than
      participants without depression (33% vs. 40%, p<0.001). This has led FHT-STOP practitioners
      to express the need for specialized clinical pathways for depressed smokers.

      Self-help mood management (relaxation exercises and mood monitoring) integrated with smoking
      cessation treatment increases long-term quit rates by 12 to 20%. More research is needed to
      test the effectiveness of an integrated care pathway (ICP) for depression as part of
      cessation treatment. It is unclear which KT strategy would be more effective in engaging
      clinicians and driving behavior change. A randomized controlled trial in Public Health Units
      (PHUs) found no difference in health care provider behavior when prompted by a knowledge
      broker, emails or websites. However , similar to other studies, it showed the need to match
      organizational research culture to KT strategy; emails worked better in PHUs with a strong
      research culture, while KBs seemed more suitable in PHUs where research culture was low.
      Given that FHTs range anywhere from academic- to community-based research cultures, it is
      unclear which KT strategy will be most effective.

      CAMH's existing Smoking Treatment for Ontario Patients (STOP) program works in partnership
      with 80% of eligible Family Health Teams (FHTs) in Ontario and has treated 47,888 smokers
      with free nicotine replacement and counselling since July 2011. Based on data already
      collected in the STOP Program, the STOP portal (an online data management and collection tool
      used by all STOP practitioners to complete participant enrollment and record smoking status
      at each visit), will flag smokers with current or past depressive symptoms. FHTs will be
      randomly allocated 1:1 to receive messages regarding depression and smoking exclusively via
      email (Group A) or via an eKB who will develop a one-on-one relationship with clinicians
      through frequent phone calls, web conferencing, and emails (Group B). The investigators will
      compare which method is more effective in changing clinician behavior by recording the number
      of times resources are provided to eligible patients. Investigators will also compare the
      smoking quit rates of patients from the two groups at 6-month follow-up and ask clinicians
      and patients what they liked and disliked about the program.
    
  