
    
      Radiotherapy is the primary treatment modality for patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma,
      with local control being directly related to dose and to the technical accuracy with which
      the dose is delivered to the target volume. Treatment planning for nasopharyngeal carcinoma
      is complicated by the presence of many critical structures (spinal cord, brainstem, temporal
      lobe, optic chiasm and nerves, parotid glands, etc.) adjacent to the primary target volume
      (primary cancer), which itself requires a higher prescription dose for good probability of
      local control than the tolerance doses for any of these adjacent organs at risk.
      Conventional, traditional radiotherapy has therefore involved treating the adjacent organs at
      risk to tolerance (e.g. spinal cord) or even above tolerance (e.g. parotid gland) to achieve
      a reasonable chance of locoregional control, leaving the patient with significant acute and
      late normal tissue toxicity that impacts both ability to tolerate the actual treatment and on
      the patient's long-term quality of life. Recently, static conformal multisegmental intensity
      modulated radiotherapy for comprehensive irradiation of head and neck cancer with dose
      sparing of uninvolved tissues has been reported (Eisbruch et al., 1996). These authors have
      demonstrated substantial preservation of major salivary gland function using these techniques
      for primary sites in the oral pharynx, oral cavity, epiglottic larynx and pyriform sinus,
      which would be expected to significantly improve long-term quality of life, as a permanent
      xerostomia is the most prevalent late side effect of irradiation for head and neck cancers
      and is cited by patients as the major cause of decreased quality of life reported. To date,
      these techniques have not been described in the published literature for nasopharyngeal
      carcinoma. Such techniques offer the possibility of significant improvement in normal tissue
      toxicity, while maintaining possibly better rates of local control due to improved target
      localization. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate whether the intensity
      modulated radiotherapy can reduce the incidence of permanent xerostomia in N0 and N1
      nasopharynx cancer patients by sparing the contralateral parotid gland, while delivering full
      dose to all known and suspected areas of disease. Patients on study will receive 70 Gy given
      in 2 Gy once daily fractionation five days a week to all grossly involved areas, and 50 Gy
      given in 2 Gy once daily fractionation five days a week to areas at 15% or more risk of
      subclinical microscopic involvement. Patients will have subjective and objective assessment
      of salivary gland function done prior to, during, and after radiotherapy. Toxicity evaluation
      using the acute and chronic RTOG grading scales will be done. The primary endpoint of this
      study is the frequency of grade 2 chronic salivary gland toxicity. Correlation between
      toxicity and quality of life will be assessed. The hypothesis that the use of IMRT can reduce
      grade 2 or worse chronic xerostomia by 50% relatively will be tested. The required sample
      size for 90% statistical power and one-sided type one error of 0.05 is 13 patients. This
      assumes that the contralateral parotid sparing approach will have 40% grade 2 or more chronic
      xerostomia, whereas the population of conventionally treated nasopharynx patients has 80%
      grade 2 or more chronic xerostomia. Additional patients are added for possible ineligibility
      and inevaluability. A total of 18 patients will be accrued for this study. A significant
      survival advantage to concurrent cisplatin-based chemoradiation plus adjuvant chemotherapy
      for nasopharyngeal cancer was demonstrated recently in the published results of Intergroup
      Study 0099 (Al-Sarrf et al., 1998) but this study used conventional radiotherapy techniques
      that did not incorporate recent refinements to radiation planning now available using
      image-guided beam's-eye-view modeling and 3-dimensional dose distributions. For the purposes
      of this study, concurrent chemoradiation and adjuvant chemotherapy as per the experimental
      arm of Intergroup Study 0099 will be considered standard management, so that patients who
      accepted this treatment would be eligible for this study.
    
  