
    
      Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and alcohol use
      disorder (AUD) are high priority disorders for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), in
      part, because these disorders rarely occur in isolation. The co-occurrence compounds brain
      impairment and negatively impacts symptom presentation and rehabilitation effectiveness.
      Veterans with co-occurring AUD, mTBI and/or PTSD have few effective treatment options. Thus,
      treatment development for these Veterans is of great need. The aim of this protocol is to
      examine safety, feasibility, and the behavioral and neural effects of an repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) intervention for Veterans with AUD and co-occurring
      mTBI and/or PTSD. Behavioral and neural effects of rTMS will be examined after the first rTMS
      session and after the last rTMS session. The investigators hypothesize that the rTMS
      intervention will be 1) safe, 2) feasible and 3) efficacious. Specifically, the investigators
      hypothesize that there will be no adverse events related to the rTMS intervention. The
      investigators hypothesize that all participants enrolled will successfully complete all rTMS
      sessions. The investigators hypothesize that participants treated with active rTMS, relative
      to placebo rTMS, will have reduced alcohol craving severity levels. Finally, the
      investigators hypothesize that participants treated with active rTMS relative to placebo rTMS
      will have reduced brain activation in response to alcohol cues and improved functional
      connectivity after the last rTMS session. This is a prospective, pilot, double-blind
      randomized controlled trial of the intervention rTMS. There will be 2 groups of Veterans with
      AUD and co-occurring mTBI and/or PTSD those given 1) active rTMS and those given 2) placebo
      rTMS. Targeted enrollment for this study is 20 Veterans: n=10 active rTMS and n=10 placebo
      rTMS. Participants will be screened for safety and evaluated on mental health-related
      behavioral measures. Eligible participants will be randomized to receive active or placebo
      rTMS. Participants will then complete motor thresholding (MT) to determine rTMS intensity.
      Participants will then complete 10 sessions of rTMS. These sessions will be completed once
      daily on week days over two weeks. TMS pulses will be applied to the left DLPFC at 10Hz rate,
      4.9 seconds per train, with inter-train interval of 30 seconds, and a total of 20 trains per
      session. After the 10th rTMS session, participants will complete an MRI which will last
      approximately 1hour. A sub-sample of participants will complete an MRI immediately after the
      first rTMS session. Participants will also repeat the mental health behavioral measures after
      the last rTMS session. Participants will complete follow-up phone interviews to assess for
      alcohol craving, mTBI symptoms and PTSD symptoms at one day, one week and one month
      post-rTMS. Completion of this study is an essential first step towards treatment development
      for Veterans with co-occurring AUD, mTBI and/or PTSD.
    
  