
    
      A large number of IVF centers all around the world are converting from standard embryology
      practice, where embryos are by embryologists manually processed during culture, to so-called
      "embryoscopes," where embryo culture is performed in an automated incubation system under
      time lapse photography.

      Manufacturers of these systems (and investigators who have used these systems) claim that the
      availability of 24-hour time-lapse photographic control improves embryo selection and,
      therefore, IVF pregnancy rates. They also claim that use of this system saves laboratory
      personnel time. The FDA has so far, therefore, approved for sale at least 2 such systems In
      the USA.

      (i) Our analysis of the published literature has failed to find studies in support of the
      claim that utilization of such equipment really improves pregnancy rates with IVF; and (ii)
      Investigators are concerned that CHR's highly adversely selected patient population may
      demonstrate different utilization outcomes from standard patient populations, especially
      since this equipment is usually utilized to culture embryos to blastocyst stage (days 5/6),
      while CHR cultures most patients only to day-3.

      Investigators, therefore, contacted the manufacturer of the first FDA approved system, and
      explained our concerns. The manufacturer agreed to loan us one of their systems for a
      4-months long study free of charge (CHR just pays a nominal amount for installation and
      training costs) but will be financially responsible for supplies.

      During these 4 months, CHR will perform an open-label prospective (registered) and randomized
      clinical trial, in which investigators, based on computerized randomization, will assign all
      CHR patients (who agree to participate with informed written consent), either to standard
      embryology or "embryoscope" embryology.

      Recruiting approximately 30 patients per month into the study is anticipated, which would
      give us a population of ~n=60 in each study group.

      Patient with excessive numbers of eggs retrieved (>12) will be excluded since the purpose of
      this study is to investigate the utility of the system in a relatively adversely selected
      patient population. All other patients will be offered participation.

      The study will have as primary end point a time analysis of laboratory manpower, under which
      the time spent on each patient by embryologist will be recorded and compared and as secondary
      end point IVF cycle outcome, defined by number of good quality embryos available for
      transfer, implantation rates and clinical pregnancy rates.
    
  