
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Lung transplantation is a relatively new procedure developed to increase life expectancy in
      selected individuals with irreversible end-stage lung disease. In the brief period since its
      inception, it appears that lung transplantation has achieved its initial aim of extending
      life. Despite these successes, lung transplantation remains fraught with difficult challenges
      for the patient and the medical community. The pre-surgical waiting period is a particularly
      stressful time. The long, uncertain wait for an organ, the marked decline in functional
      capacity, the tremendous financial burden, and the prospect of a complicated medical regimen
      after surgery, combine to exert a profound strain on patients' coping capacities. Not
      surprisingly, the rate of clinically significant psychological distress during this period is
      quite high, with rates of clinical depression, panic, anxiety and adjustment disorders far
      exceeding those observed in the general population. Although it is well established that
      brief, focused cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) can significantly improve psychological
      function in medically ill persons, the wide geographic distribution of transplant patients,
      along with their marked debilitation makes face-to-face delivery of such therapy extremely
      difficult. Recent pilot data have demonstrated the feasibility and short-term efficacy of a
      telephone-based psychological intervention with patients awaiting transplant.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      INSPIRE was a collaborative study between Duke University Medical Center and Washington
      University Medical School. Participants first completed a baseline evaluation, including an
      interview with a staff member, tests of memory and concentration, and a questionnaire packet.
      They were then randomly assigned (by chance) to one of 2 groups: Stress Management (by phone)
      or Usual Care. Stress management participants received a phone call from an INSPIRE
      interventionist every week for 12 weeks; the phone sessions focused on helping to reduce
      stress and learning new skills to better cope with lung disease and the upcoming transplant.
      The INSPIRE staff interventionists were all psychologists who had been trained to work with
      patients with lung disease. Usual care participants continued their routine and usual
      treatments and did not receive the 12 telephone training sessions. Participants completed
      follow-up evaluations three months after the initial (baseline) evaluation, after transplant
      surgery, and twelve months after the initial evaluation. The primary outcome measures were
      measures of health-related quality of life, general psychological well-being, and social
      support.
    
  