
    
      Failure to follow up on abnormal test results is a critical problem and is more likely to
      occur in the case of tests that are performed in the hospital but whose results are not
      available or not finalized until after discharge (i.e., pending test results). Responsible
      inpatient and ambulatory providers may not be aware of these test results. In a prior study,
      Roy et al. determined that 41% of patients were discharged before all laboratory,
      microbiology, and radiology test results were finalized (31% were collectively hematology,
      chemistry, and pathology tests, 27% were radiology studies, and 42% were microbiology
      results). Of these results, 9.4% were considered potentially actionable by independent
      physician review and could have altered the post-discharge patient care plan. Physicians were
      only aware of 38% of these test results. Failure to follow-up on these test results can lead
      to delays in diagnosis, missed treatment opportunities, redundant ordering of tests, and
      subsequent patient harm. In a hospital the size of Brigham and Women's Hospital (BWH) with
      44,000 annual admissions, physicians would be unaware of almost 2000 actionable test results
      per year. Automated systems can mitigate this problem by ensuring prompt notification of
      relevant test results finalized after discharge to responsible inpatient and ambulatory
      providers. Using internal BWH funding, we have developed an automated email notification
      system to facilitate management of tests pending at discharge (TPADs).

      In study 1 (funded by AHRQ), we will prospectively evaluate the impact of this intervention
      on physician awareness of TPAD results. In study 2 (funded by CRICO), we will perform a chart
      review to determine the impact of the intervention on downstream actions taken by physicians
      and acknowledgment of TPAD results as documented in the electronic medical record.
    
  