
    
      Design: This is a Phase I study of the safety and tolerability of AAV8-VRC07
      (VRC-HIVAAV070-00-GT) expressing VRC07 human monoclonal antibody with broad HIV-1
      neutralizing activity in HIV-1 infected adults. It is a dose-escalation study to examine
      pharmacokinetics of VRC07 expression following intramuscular (IM) administration of
      AAV8-VRC07 in subjects on anti-retroviral therapy (ART). The hypotheses are: 1) AAV8-VRC07
      will be safe for human administration and will not elicit hypersensitivity or anti-drug
      antibody (ADA) to VRC07; and 2) intramuscular delivery of AAV8-VRC07 will result in
      production of biologically active VRC07 antibody at a concentration in serum that is
      measurable and safe.

      Description: AAV8-VRC07 was developed by VRC, NIAID, NIH, and manufactured by the Clinical
      Vector Core, Center for Cellular and Molecular Therapeutics, The Children s Hospital of
      Philadelphia (CHOP), Philadelphia, PA. It is composed of an AAV8 recombinant vector
      expressing genes encoding the heavy and light chains of the VRC07 monoclonal antibody.
      AAV8-VRC07 will be supplied at 2.84x10(13) vg/mL.

      Subjects: HIV-1 infected adult volunteers (18 to 60 years old) on a stable antiretroviral
      regimen for more than or equal to 3 months, with controlled viremia, under the care of a
      physician, and without additional clinically significant medical conditions.

      Study Plan: There are 3 dose escalation groups. Sequentially enrolled subjects will be
      assigned to the dosage level being evaluated at the time of enrollment. All injections will
      be administered intramuscularly (IM) by needle and syringe. Cumulative safety data will be
      reviewed weekly by a Protocol Safety Review Team (PSRT) that includes an Independent Safety
      Monitor (ISM) while injections are being administered. Safety, including reactogenicity and
      unsolicited AEs, laboratory findings, pharmacokinetics, and VRC07 antibody levels in blood
      will be assessed after the injection and summarized for an interim analysis at 4 weeks post
      injection. The second subject in each dose group will be injected after the 4 weeks safety
      assessment for the first subject. Decisions regarding dose escalation and subject enrollments
      will be based on safety data and the VRC07 concentration in blood at 4 weeks after product
      administration. The pharmacokinetics of VRC07 at each dose level will be evaluated to
      determine the dose that would result in antibody production that achieves at least 50 mcg/mL
      VRC07 concentration in serum at 4 weeks post injection with a target set point of more than
      or equal to 5 mcg/mL at 12 weeks post injection.
    
  