
    
      Study aims

      The objectives of this study are to determine among younger MSM:

        1. The prevalence of HPV infection

        2. Sexual behaviours associated with varying prevalence of HPV infection

      Methods

      Criteria for eligibility:

        -  Men aged 16 to 20

        -  Same sex attracted

        -  Able to complete all study requirements including questionnaire in English and
           completion of 4 visits

      Recruitment

      Men were recruited between October 2010 and September 2012 via a number of avenues focusing
      on gay teenage males: community organizations supporting gay teenagers with study promotion
      at social events such as dance parties; gay clubs at six Melbourne universities; gay
      community events including the MidSumma Festival; gay media including radio and magazine; the
      study website; and social networking websites including Facebook, Twitter and Grindr.
      Recruitment also took place through three sexual health services in Melbourne.

      Men were assessed by the study nurse at a baseline visit then 3, 6, and 12 months later. On
      each occasion specimens were obtained for HPV DNA testing, blood was obtained for HPV
      serology, and men completed a questionnaire regarding their sexual experiences.

      Specimen collection Specimens were obtained from men for HPV DNA testing in the following
      order: first an oral rinse, second an anal canal swab, third a perianal swab, then fourth a
      penile swab. The oral rinse and penile swab were self-collected by men after watching a video
      demonstrating how to self-collect these specimens

      Men were screened for pharyngeal and rectal Neisseria gonorrhoeae using modified
      Thayer-martin media. First void urine and a rectal swab were tested for Chlamydia trachomatis
      by strand displacement assay (Becton Dickinson ProbeTec ET, NJ, USA). In addition, men were
      screened for syphilis using enzyme immunoassay (EIA) and rapid plasma reagin and tested for
      HIV using EIA.
    
  