
    
      Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF), a clinical syndrome that develops as a
      consequence of heart disease from multiple etiologies, now affects almost six million
      Americans, presenting an imminent need for further research addressing the pathophysiology of
      this pervasive disease. One of the most damaging consequences of the disease is an elevation
      in sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activity, which manifests peripherally as chronic
      vasoconstriction. In HFrEF patients, peripheral vasoconstriction acts to limit blood flow in
      the exercising muscle, promoting exercise intolerance, premature skeletal muscle fatigue,
      inactivity, and a subsequent acceleration in disease progression. Fortunately,
      disease-related sympathoexcitation may be remediable. Among the most influential modulators
      of peripheral SNS expression is the nitric oxide (NO) pathway. Thus, interventions focused on
      improving NO bioavailability may offer a new, unexplored strategy for inhibiting SNS
      overactivity in HFrEF, and thus represent a novel approach for improving and exercise
      tolerance.

      Specific Aim 1 will utilize an oral antioxidant (AOx) cocktail to study whether disruptions
      in oxidative stress can favorably influence exercise tolerance in HFrEF patients.

      Specific Aim 2 will examine the efficacy of oral tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), a cofactor for
      endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), to improve exercise intolerance in HFrEF patients.

      Specific Aim 3 will examine the therapeutic potential of aerobic, knee-extensor (KE) exercise
      training to improve skeletal muscle blood flow and thus exercise tolerance in HF patients.
      Importantly, this exercise modality produces a potent training stimulus without the
      significant cardiopulmonary stress that accompanies more traditional, whole-body exercise. It
      is proposed that 12 weeks of supervised KE training will increase NO bioavailability and
      inhibit SNS activity, which will in turn improve vascular function and exercising limb blood
      flow.

      Specific Aim 4 will examine whether the interventional strategies in Aims 1-3 can improve
      adherence to an 8-week clinical cardiac rehabilitation program. It is hypothesized that
      chronic AOx consumption (Aim 1), BH4 consumption (Aim 2), and aerobic exercise training (Aim
      3) interventions will reduce the rate of attrition from Phase II outpatient Cardiac
      Rehabilitation in HFrEF patients compared to patients that did not participate in an
      interventional phase of the study.

      The investigators anticipate that disrupting this "vicious cycle" of vasoconstriction in
      HFrEF may improve overall vascular health to such a degree that significant improvements in
      exercise-related symptoms are realized, which could therefore improve enrollment in a cardiac
      rehabilitation program. In this context, findings from the proposed work may provide an
      important link between vascular and rehabilitative medicine, thus serving to refine current
      strategies for the treatment of Veterans with HFrEF, ultimately leading to enhanced quality
      of life in this cohort.
    
  