
    
      This is a Phase III, multi-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover
      study to evaluate the efficacy of armodafinil at a dosage of 150 mg/day for the treatment of
      cancer-related fatigue (CRF) in adult patients with multiple myeloma. The study consists of a
      screening period, followed by a 56 day treatment phase, and a final assessment to occur 28
      days after the end of the last treatment.

      The screening period will occur within 14 days before baseline, where "baseline" refers to
      day 1 when assessments will be made before drug administration. During this period, a medical
      history will be obtained along with a complete physical examination including vital sign
      measurements and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status. Clinical
      laboratory tests including hematology, clinical chemistry (blood urea nitrogen [BUN], serum
      creatinine, total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase [AST] and
      alanine aminotransferase [ALT]), electrolytes (potassium, sodium, chloride and calcium),
      random glucose, total protein, albumin, and urinalysis will also be performed during the
      screening period as well as serum pregnancy tests for women of childbearing potential.

      During the screening period, patients will also be assessed for the presence of
      cancer-related fatigue using the International Classification for Disease Tenth Edition
      (ICD-10) diagnostic criteria and the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI). Only those patients
      showing evidence of cancer-related fatigue will be enrolled in the study. The criteria for
      inclusion for any given patient consist of meeting the International Classification for
      Disease Tenth Edition (ICD-10) criteria for cancer-related fatigue and a score ≥ 4 on the
      BFI. ICD-10 CRF classification will be established using a standard interview guide.

      Patients eligible for the study will be randomized to either receive armodafinil at an
      initial fixed dosage of 150 mg/day (Group A) or a placebo (Group B) during the first 28 days
      of the treatment phase. On day 29, patients randomized to receive placebo will then cross
      over to receive armodafinil at a dosage of 150 mg/day until day 56. Group A patients
      randomized to receive armodafinil will continue their current treatment with the drug until
      day 56. The duration of the treatment phase is 56 days.

      Assessments for CRF will be conducted on day 1 (baseline) prior to drug treatment, and after
      drug administration on days 15, 28, 43, and 56. These assessments will be conducted as verbal
      interviews, paper-and-pencil surveys, paper-and-pencil tests, and electronic tests as
      appropriate per assessment.

      During the treatment phase, each patient will also have clinical laboratory tests performed
      on days 1, 15, 28, 43 and 56 to monitor for potential toxicity. Additional procedures
      performed at these visits will include monitoring for adverse events, review of concomitant
      medications and other support therapies (e.g., growth factors and transfusion), ECOG
      performance status, vital signs measurements, and physical examinations.

      Twenty-eight days after the last dose of study drug, patients are to complete a final
      assessment (herein referred to as the end-of-treatment visit). Procedures to be conducted at
      this visit include measurement of vital signs, a complete physical examination, assessment of
      adverse events, a review of concomitant medications, assessment of ECOG performance status,
      hematology and clinical chemistry laboratory tests including electrolytes, total protein and
      albumin. Patients who withdraw from the study before the completion of the 56 day cycle will
      still have all end-of-treatment assessments performed 28 days after their last dose of study
      drug.
    
  