
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the best overall response rate (BORR) achieved by 6 months of telaglenastat
      hydrochloride (CB-839 HCl) treatment in specific pathway aberrant tumors (MPNST, NF1,
      KEAP1/NRF2 & STK11/ LKB1).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety, progression-free survival (PFS), time to progression (TTP) and
      overall survival (OS).

      II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) (highest objective response achieved between
      start of therapy and progression), time to response (TTR) and clinical benefit rate (CBR) of
      CB-839 HCl.

      III. To assess pharmacodynamic changes and adaptive responses and correlate with response to
      treatment as well as disease progression (correlative objective).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Correlate fludeoxyglucose F-18 (18-F FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed
      tomography (CT) pre-therapy and 8-weeks post-therapy response to CB-839 HCl therapy.

      II. Evaluate changes in level of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) at baseline,
      one month on-treatment and time of progression to treatment response.

      III. Quantify the peripheral blood concentrations of the metabolites: aspartate, glutamate,
      glutamine and arginine and correlate with response.

      IV. Evaluate the pharmacodynamic (PD) effect of CB-839 HCl on systemic levels of the
      tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle metabolites in peripheral blood (baseline and one month) as
      part of the protocol.

      V. Evaluate tumor by reverse phase protein array and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (seq)
      to evaluate changes from pre-treatment, during treatment and post treatment specimens.

      VI. Perform patient-derived tumor xenograft (PDX) modelling-co-clinical trials to understand
      response/resistance mechanisms and also evaluate combination therapies for future
      development.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive telaglenastat hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months thereafter.
    
  