
    
      The examination of the patients included:

        -  One color photograph of the upper and lower incisors complex with the periodontal probe
           introduced on the gingival sulcus

        -  Gingival thickness of the most protruded upper and lower incisors was measured with the
           biometric scanner PIROP. A lip expander was placed and clorhexidine gel was applied on
           top of the ultrasonic head for better wave conduction. Measurements were taken 10 times
           at the same point and a mean measurement was obtained.

        -  A tangential radiograph was taken on each patient perpendicular to the axis of the crown
           of the central upper and lower incisors with a periapical film holding system, and a
           metal strip (5mm x 1mm x 0,1mm) placed labial to the keratinized gingiva following the
           inclination of the incisor. A lip expander was used to keep the lips from touching the
           metal strip. Air was blown over the attached gingiva before placing the metal strip. The
           metal strip was placed along the long axis of the most protruded lower incisor crown.

      All patients were evaluated and categorized in one of three possible categories: A1 (7
      patients, 23,3%), A2 (12 patients, 40%), and B (11 patients, 36,7%). The patients were
      assigned into each category by two examiners, according to the visual and clinical aspect of
      the keratinized gingiva in the lower incisors. Group A1 and A2 both had thin keratinized
      gingiva and differed in width (group A1 comprised values ≤2mm, and group A2 had width values
      >2mm of keratinized gingiva). Group B comprised thick and wide keratinized gingiva. Width of
      gingiva was measured with a periodontal probe. Thickness of gingiva was assessed by probe
      transparency, where the examiner determined whether the periodontal probe was visible through
      the marginal soft tissue.

      Radiographic measurements

      Radiographs were scanned at a 1:1 scale. Scanned images were saved in JPEG format.
      Millimetric measurements were made using the Adobe Photoshop program to a 0.1mm precision.
      Four measurements were taken on each radiograph:

        1. Gingival thickness on the upper incisor

        2. Bone thickness on the upper incisor

        3. Gingival thickness on the lower incisor

        4. Bone thickness on the lower incisor

      Gingival thickness was measured on the radiographs to compare it with the measurements taken
      with the biometric scanner. This was a founded and a reliable method to validate the use of
      the scanner. A master file was created and the data were statistically analyzed using a
      statistical software package.

      Size of the sample was obtained with the correlation of lower gingiva and thickness of lower
      gingiva. The result was 26 calculated with the correlation coefficient 0,587. A 20% tax of
      follow-up loss was estimated.

      Intraexaminer reliability was determined using intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) with
      a positive confidence interval at 95% (IC 95%). An ICC was used to compare the valid method
      for group classification between visual and probe transparency methods.

      The data were subjected to 95% confidence interval for the mean of all variables. The
      strength of correlation was determined by a P value <0.05, which was considered statistically
      significant.
    
  