
    
      This is a diagnostic protocol designed to provide opportunities for identifying new clinical
      syndromes and permitting longitudinal assessments of a variety of childhood behavioral,
      psychiatric and developmental disorders. Disorders of particular interest are: autism,
      disorders of social cognition and other neurodevelopmental disorders; childhood psychiatric
      disorders and particularly those with acute symptom onset; and unique clinical presentations
      of pediatric behavioral syndromes, such as those associated with genetic disorders or those
      with a unique family history.

      Objectives: The primary objective of this protocol is to evaluate a variety of behavioral,
      neuropsychiatric, and neurodevelopmental conditions. The protocol will allow OCD
      investigators to gain additional knowledge about the course of various childhood behavioral
      syndromes. The information obtained is expected to generate questions to be answered and
      hypotheses to be tested in future protocols.

      Study Population: The number of participants to be enrolled will be set at 3,500 participants
      to permit inclusion of up to 1,000 probands (children, adolescents and adults) and their
      relatives (n = 2,500 to include key 2nd and 3rd degree relatives, as well as 1st degree
      relatives).

      Design: This is a natural history protocol. The cross-sectional portion of this study may
      include in-depth medical, sleep and neurodevelopmental assessments to evaluate the
      relationship of biological abnormalities with neuropsychiatric symptomatology. Family members
      may be studied to elucidate the nature of any genetic abnormalities observed in the probands.
      Clinically useful information will be shared with all participants. Standard therapeutic
      interventions may be utilized to evaluate their effects in well-characterized participants
      with unique clinical presentations. Participants also may be asked to return to NIH for
      periodic follow-up assessments, in order to facilitate the longitudinal assessment of natural
      and treated courses of illness as a means of better understanding their progression and
      pathophysiology.

      Outcome Measures: No formal outcomes will be measured; however, the clinical assessments of
      enrolled participants may be used to evaluate correlates of clinical symptomatology and
      response to standard therapeutic interventions.
    
  