
    
      Fragmentation between mental health (MH) and criminal justice (CJ) systems leads to many
      persons with serious mental illnesses (SMI) being arrested/incarcerated when MH treatment
      would be more appropriate. As defined by SAMHSA, the disorders typically meeting criteria for
      SMI include schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, other psychotic disorders, major
      depressive disorders, and bipolar disorders. This study aims to test the effectiveness of a
      new police-MH linkage system. This study is a randomized, controlled trial to study the
      effectiveness of our new services-level intervention. Our "linkage system" piggybacks on the
      Georgia's criminal justice information system such that a police officer running a routine
      inquiry (similar to a background check) during an encounter with a consented and enrolled
      outpatient with a serious mental illness will receive an electronic message to call for
      information that might assist them. The officer can immediately call and connect to a Linkage
      Specialist (licensed mental health professional in the local public mental health system
      where the patient is or was enrolled in outpatient care), who provides brief telephonic
      support, information, and advice to the officer. The investigators have shown, in the
      recently completed NIMH-funded R34 intervention development project, that in some cases, a
      discretionary arrest (i.e., not obligatory, no violence involved) is replaced by informal
      resolution in light of the new information provided to the officer via the inquiry message
      and telephonic support from the Linkage Specialist. Furthermore, even more common than jail
      diversion, many patients involved in a police encounter were reconnected to care (after
      having fallen out of care and becoming symptomatic). This trial aims to determine whether or
      not the new linkage system is effective for reducing arrests and reducing discontinuities
      (gaps) in outpatient mental health care services. Partnering with our CJ partner, Georgia
      Bureau of Investigation (which houses Georgia's CJ databases/information system), as well as
      4 public MH agencies covering 25 counties in Georgia, the investigators will conduct a
      randomized trial of the linkage system involving 1,600 outpatients with SMI. The
      investigators will test the hypotheses that patients randomized to the linkage system (as
      compared to those randomized to a database that does not generate the MH notice and phone
      number) will: (1) be less likely to be arrested, (2) have fewer arrests (both based on
      administrative (rap sheet) data provided by GBI), and (3) be less likely to have gaps in
      outpatient MH services, as evidenced by fewer absences from care of >3 months (based on data
      from the MH agencies' EMRs).
    
  