
    
      The main objective of this study is to identify metastatic neoplasms, which may be
      susceptible to the GVT effect. We will treat patients with progressive metastatic solid
      tumors refractory to standard therapy with a non-myeloablative allogeneic PBSC transplant
      from a family donor. A GVT effect from immunocompetent donor immune cells could extend life
      expectancy and possibly cure such patients.

      Eligible patients will be treated with an allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplant
      from an HLA identical or single HLA antigen-mismatched family donor, using an intensive
      immunosuppressive regimen without myeloablation ("mini-transplant") in an attempt to decrease
      the transplant related toxicities while preserving the anti-malignancy and/or anti-host
      marrow effect of the graft. The low intensity non-myeloablative conditioning regimen should
      provide adequate immunosuppression to allow stem cell and lymphocyte engraftment. A T-cell
      replete, donor-derived, granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized peripheral
      blood stem cells (PBSC) will be used to establish hematopoietic and lymphoid reconstitution.
      We will infuse lymphocytes in patients with <100% donor T-cell chimerism or with evidence of
      tumor progression in an attempt to prevent graft rejection and enhance a
      graft-versus-malignancy effect, respectively.

      This trial is open to several different types of metastatic, treatment-refractory, solid
      neoplasms, breast, cholangiocarcinoma, small intestine/colon/rectal adenocarcinoma,
      esophageal/gastric, hepatocellular, pancreatic, prostate, and bony/soft tissue sarcomas. The
      trial design permits up to 10 patients with a specific tumor type to be enrolled to screen
      for anti-tumor effects. A single complete response in a specific tumor type is an indication
      to exclude further patients with that diagnosis from the study. Subsequently, a new protocol
      which focuses on further defining a GVT effect in that disease category will be instituted.
    
  