
    
      Primary Objective:

      To compare dentine discoloration in caries lesions in the deciduous dentition after Silver
      Diamino Fluoride treatment with and without association with Potassium Iodide (PI).

      Secondary Objective:

      To compare the effectiveness of the methods in the inactivation of active carious lesions
      Compare the inactivation time of the lesions between the groups Compare the presence of
      biofilm accumulation in the different comparing the differences in the effectiveness of the
      methods for inactivation of lesions on different surfaces.

      Scratchs:

      The risks inherent to the study are related to the embarrassment at the moment of answering
      the questionnaires, however they will be carried out in a reserved space. There is a risk of
      discomfort for the child or the caretaker during the evaluation and / or clinical
      examination. However, the examiners will be prepared to identify any possible discomfort and
      discontinue the evaluation if this occurs. The risks may also be related to the
      identification of the participants, however the medical record with questionnaires will only
      be accessed by the research team. There are also clinical risks inherent in the progression
      of caries, in which case the team will perform conventional and indicated the current
      clinical situation (restoration, endodontics, dental extraction). The research will be
      immediately suspended if there is suspicion of any risk or damage to the health of the
      participant.

      Benefits:

      The benefits relate to remission of signs and symptoms after treatment. In addition, there
      will be maintenance of the dental elements in the oral cavity of the child until its
      physiological exfoliation, thus avoiding the damages resulting from the early loss of a
      deciduous tooth such as: reduction in mastication and phonetic efficiency, loss of vertical
      dimension, impairment of aesthetics , installation of deleterious oral habits, impairment of
      craniofacial development, damage to the permanent dentition, and intense psychological
      repercussions.

      Proposed Methodology:

      Ten children will be examined by the examiner and an experienced investigator in order to
      obtain inter-examiner agreement. The sequence of procedures to be performed in the
      participants during the study will be: 1st Consultation: Application of the sociodemographic,
      general health of the child and habits questionnaire; biofilm evaluation; Clinical evaluation
      of the caries (ICDAS + AAL); Photograph of the lesion; Behavioral evaluation of the child;
      Application of treatment (Randomization). 2nd Consultation (1 week): Photography; Pain
      evaluation (DDQ-B), behavioral evaluation. 3rd Consultation (15 days): Photography; Treatment
      follow-up; Pain evaluation (DDQ-B); Behavioral evaluation of the child.4ª Consultation (1
      month): Photography; Biofilm evaluation; Treatment follow-up; Pain evaluation (DDQ-B);
      Behavioral evaluation of the child. 5th Consultation (2 months): Photography; Biofilm
      evaluation; treatment follow-up; Pain evaluation (DDQ-B); Clinical evaluation of caries
      lesion (ICDAS + AAL); Behavioral assessment of the child. Children of the study, their
      parents and the examiner will remain blind to the allocation of the children's group.
      Blinding of the operator will not be possible, since the technique of use allows the
      identification of the material used.

      Data Analysis Methodology:

      The results obtained will be typed and organized in a database, using the software
      Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS), version 22.0. Initially, a description of the
      absolute and relative frequencies will be performed, as well as the measures of central
      tendency of the variables studied. In addition, the distribution of the data will be verified
      in order to evaluate if the data present normality, which will guide the choice by the use of
      parametric or non-parametric tests. Bivariate analysis will be performed to verify the
      association between the dependent variables and the type of treatment. The categorical
      variables will be evaluated using Fisher's Qui-square and Exact tests. For the quantitative
      variables, the study of the distribution of the data will initially be performed. If these
      present a normal distribution, the Anova parametric tests and paired T-test will be used. If
      the distribution is not normal, the Friedman and Wilcoxon tests will be used. The null
      hypothesis is that there is no association between the variables (p> 0.05).
    
  