
    
      We hypothesize that normal germline variation in gene expression accounts, in part, for
      variation in the clinical severity and phenotype of the monogenic disorder neurofibromatosis
      type 1 (NF1). The phenotype of NF1 is constituted by a variety of quantifiable features; we
      term these features sub-phenotypes . Our main focus is on sub-phenotypes with published
      evidence of variation in expression from an inherited component. These include our primary
      sub-phenotype of spinal neurofibroma burden (quantified by MRI of spinal neurofibromas) and
      the secondary sub-phenotypes of dermal neurofibroma burden, head circumference, number of
      Lisch nodules, scoliosis, history of plexiform neurofibromas, and height. Other
      sub-phenotypes, as collected by a routine history and physical, will also be evaluated.

      According to our hypothesis, the severity of a sub-phenotype will correlate with heritable
      differences in the germline expression of certain genes. As an example, consider a spectrum
      of individuals affected with the primary sub-phenotype of spinal neurofibroma burden. For
      most genes, there will be no relationship of expression level to the number of spinal
      neurofibromas. However, some genes will have a direct (or inverse, or other) correlation of
      their level of expression and the number of neurofibromas. Such genes would be considered as
      candidate modifier genes. The secondary sub-phenotypes will also be analyzed in a similar
      way. To limit false positives, candidate genes will then be tested for association (using the
      transmission/disequilibrium test, TDT) with the appropriate sub-phenotype.

      Recruitment will be focused on identifying individuals with a range of severity of the
      primary sub-phenotype, spinal neurofibroma burden. We will primarily recruit post-pubertal
      individuals who meet the 1988 NIH criteria for neurofibromatosis type 1 (NIH Consensus
      Development Conference 1988). We will exclude those with recognized segmental or mosaic NF1.
      The rate of cutaneous neurofibroma growth and number is known to vary widely; these tumors
      typically appear in adolescence. For this reason we will ascertain patients after puberty. We
      expect most individuals to be 18 years or older, but will also accept post-pubertal pediatric
      patients (and use a hand film to demonstrate bone age). Parents (whether affected or not) are
      critical when using family-based tests of association (like the TDT) and tests of linkage and
      will also be recruited.

      Tests of association with the TDT require trios (mother, father, proband). Multiple trios can
      be derived from a single family, if there are multiple affected individuals within the
      family. We set a recruitment goal of 100 trios and a ceiling of 1500 individuals (500
      affected individuals, plus 1000 parents or additional sibs in about 400 families).

      In the interest of improving care for people living with NF1, this protocol also seeks to

      characterize, at the PI s discretion, individuals with unique or under-recognized features of
      NF1 as well as individuals with NF1-like phenotypes, including those patients with a known or
      suspected RAS pathway disorder.
    
  