
    
      Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), also known simply as lupus, is an autoimmune disease in
      which the body's immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue in many parts of the body.

      Symptoms vary between people and may be mild to severe. common symptoms include painful and
      swollen joints, fever, chest pain, hair loss, mouth ulcers, swollen lymph nodes, feeling
      tired, and a red rash which is most commonly on the face. Often there are periods of illness,
      called flares, and periods of remission during which there are few symptoms.painless passage
      of blood or protein in the urine may often be the only presenting sign of kidney involvement.

      Acute or chronic renal impairment may develop with lupus nephritis, leading to acute or
      end-stage kidney failure. Because of early recognition and management of SLE, end-stage renal
      failure occurs in less than 5% of cases; except in the black population, where the risk is
      many times.Nephritis is the most severe manifestation of lupus. Between 1950s and 1970s,
      corticosteroids were used for the treatment of lupus nephritis (LN) ,and using of
      cyclophosphamide(CPM), improved the outcome dramatically with 5 years survival increasing
      from 17% to 80%.Subsequently, intravenous (iv) CPM became the standard of care in induction
      regimes; however, ivCPM was associated with complications such as bladder toxicity, gonadal
      problems, and infections. To reduce the toxicity, low-dose of 500mg iv(CPM) every two weeks
      for six months showed equivalent efficacy and less side effect.

      Mycophenolatemofetil(MMF) is widely used in solid organ transplantation and it reduces the
      rate of acute rejection following renal transplantation.

      It has also been used to treat patients with other immune-mediated disorders such as
      immunoglobulin A nephropathy, small-vessel vasculitides and psoriasis .

      Lupus nephritisis inflammation of the kidney that is caused by systemic lupus erythematous
      (SLE). Lupus nephritis happens when lupus involves the kidneys.its symptoms, though, are not
      always dramatic. for many, the first noticeable symptom is swelling of the legs, ankles and
      feet. less often, there can be swelling in the face or hands.
    
  