
    
      1. Introduction: Low back pain is one of the major health problems, studies show that it
           can affect 80-85% of people throughout life; consisting of the second major cause of
           work withdrawal. In the investigation by lumbar spine imaging methods, facet
           osteoarthritis (FO) is one of the most prevalent diagnoses, in the order of 59.6% for
           men and 66.7% for women. The process of osteoarthritis begins early in the spine, more
           than half of adults are under 30 years old, presenting degenerative changes in the
           facets, being more commonly affected the L4-L5 level. It is estimated that the pain of
           facet origin corresponds to 30% of cases of low back pain. The treatment of low back
           pain, which presents questionable results, has a strong economic impact on the health
           system and represents a growing concern for public and medical policy makers. The lack
           of diagnostic accuracy and the various types of treatment, without evidence of
           appropriate effectiveness, are considered the main causes of the increasing costs of the
           health system. As demonstrated by biomechanical, neuroanatomical and neurophysiological
           studies, there are free and encapsulated nerve endings in the lumbar facet joints as
           well as nerves containing substance P and peptide related to the calcitonin gene.
           Chemical or mechanical stimuli can cause pain. The pathophysiology of facet pain is not
           fully understood, but it is believed that facet osteoarthritis is due to repetitive
           mechanical stress, with subsequent inflammation and elongation of the joint capsule,
           generating pain.

           Several treatments are used in low back pain secondary to FO. The most used are
           non-hormonal anti-inflammatory drugs and physiotherapy, as a conservative measure.
           Interventional procedures such as facet intraarticular or periarticular infiltration of
           corticoid for neural blockade and denervation by radiofrequency are considered minimally
           invasive options, indicated for cases in which conservative treatment fails. Surgical
           treatment of arthrodesis is also part of the therapeutic options. The use of a systemic
           corticosteroid is within the available therapeutic arsenal but has undesirable side
           effects and its use is restricted in a short period of time. In order to increase drug
           concentration at the symptom site, without the undesirable side effects of the systemic
           corticosteroid, facet intraarticular infiltration (FI) has been used as a complementary
           treatment. The therapeutic value of FI is not consensus, with widely divergent results
           in the literature. Even so, it is one of the most used treatments, observing a growing
           demand of this procedure in the last decades. The selection of the appropriate patient,
           who would benefit from the treatment, is a determining factor in the outcome of the FI,
           since in thesis, only the subgroup of patients with inflammatory process in activity in
           the facet joint, would have a positive result with corticosteroid infiltration . The
           identification of this subgroup of patients is a challenge because the diagnosis of
           facet origin pain is often imprecise. With proper and accurate diagnosis, FI is expected
           to achieve better results. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has the ability to identify
           the morphological characteristics of facet osteoarthritis, generating a classification
           in degrees mild, moderate or severe. It also allows to diagnose the presence or absence
           of an inflammatory process in the facet joint, which is usually manifested by indirect
           signs such as bone edema, periarticular soft tissue edema, joint effusion and synovitis.
           However, morphological characteristics and inflammatory markers of MR imaging have not
           been tested as prognostic factors of FI efficacy. Patients' characteristics such as
           gender, age, schooling, family income, smoking, body mass index, professional activity
           may have an effect on the expected results, but they have not been tested as prognostic
           factors of FI efficacy.

           1.1 Rationale: The relationship between MRI findings of facet osteoarthritis and the
           effect on FI of corticoid and anesthetic has not been studied. The relationship between
           the characteristics of age, sex, education, family income, smoking, body mass index,
           professional activity and the effect on FI of steroids and anesthetics has not been
           studied.

           Determining the prognostic factors may have an impact on the clinical routine of
           physicians and patients, guiding the treatment and selecting those with chances of
           better results with the FI.

           1.2 Hypotheses: MRI findings of facet osteoarthritis and patient characteristics are
           prognostic factors for improvement or worsening of the clinical outcome after treatment
           with FI.

        2. Purpose: To determine the prognostic factors of corticoid and anesthetic infiltration in
           the treatment of facet osteoarthritis in the lumbar spine. To determine the association
           between MRI imaging findings and pain, functional disability and patients' quality of
           life. To determine the association between age, sex, schooling, family income, smoking,
           body mass index, professional activity in pain, functional disability and quality of
           life of the patients.

        3. Method: This is a prospective cohort study that will include all patients with clinical
           suspicion of facet pain, who have undergone MRI and have been referred to the
           intervention center of the image department of a tertiary hospital, to perform FI with
           corticoid and anesthetic. On the day of the procedure patients will be invited to
           participate in the study. Before performing the facet infiltration patients will respond
           to informed consent form (ICF) and five questionnaires: 1. data collection form; 2. the
           visual analogue pain scale (VAS); 3. Roland-Morris questionnaire on functional
           disability; 4. Oswestry questionnaire on functional disability; 5. EuroQol questionnaire
           (EQ-5D) on quality of life. To measure the effect of the proposed treatment, all
           patients will be followed for one year, responding by telephone VAS, Roland-Morris,
           Oswestry and EQ-5D questionnaires at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after the FI . The systemic
           use of corticosteroids, the performance of another infiltration or surgery and the
           amount of analgesics ingested per day will also be evaluated in the follow-up.
           Researchers will only apply the specific questionnaires of the project, having no
           influence on the indication, accomplishment and treatment of FI complications or on the
           clinical routine of the intervention center. To characterize the sample, the following
           variables will be collected: age (years), sex (male or female), schooling (years of
           study), smoking (number of cigarettes per day), family income, professional activity
           (type of occupation, number of hours sitting or standing, carrying weight or not) and
           oral analgesic use (number of tablets taken per day). The FI procedure will be guided by
           computed tomography. The radiation dose used will be the minimum possible to obtain
           images with sufficient quality to guide the location and progression of the needle,
           being within the limits established in the institutional protocols and already practiced
           in the department. After image confirmation of the correct intraarticular positioning of
           the needle, a solution containing triamcinolone 20mg / ml and hydrochloride of naropin
           in a ratio of 1: 1, in the volume of 1.5 to 2.0 ml, will be injected. After the
           procedure, the patient will be discharged and will be advised to do home rest for 24
           hours. The study design proposes to determine the correlation between the clinical
           outcome measured by the results of the VAS, Roland-Morris, Oswestry and EQ-5D
           questionnaires, and the variables identified by MRI and also the correlation between the
           clinical outcome and the variables: age, sex, educational level, smoking, family income,
           body mass index (BMI), professional activity and amount of analgesics ingested per day .
           To measure the effect of the proposed treatment, all patients will be followed for one
           year, responding by telephone VAS, Roland-Morris, Oswestry and EQ-5D questionnaires at
           1, 3, 6 and 12 months after the IF . The systemic use of corticosteroids, the
           performance of another infiltration or surgery and the amount of analgesics ingested per
           day will also be evaluated.

      3.1 Image exams and evaluator: All the lumbar spine MRI scans performed by the patients will
      be analyzed. Two radiologist will read MRI exams without knowledge of clinical, laboratory,
      or patient evaluation and questionnaire results. The variables degree of facet
      osteoarthritis, bone edema, peri-articular edema, synovitis, effusion, osteophytes,
      subchondral sclerosis, subchondral cysts, sliding, sagittal or horizontal orientation,
      identified by MRI, will be tabulated.

      3.2 Rating: MRI studies will be evaluated respecting patients' anonymity. Patients'
      characteristics, MRI imaging findings and VAS, Roland-Morris, Oswestry and EQ-5D
      questionnaires will be tabulated according to the following characteristics: age, sex,
      schooling, family income, smoking, weight , height, body mass index (BMI), occupational
      activity, analgesic ingestion, laterality, location, degree of facet arthritis, bone edema,
      peri-articular edema, synovitis, effusion, osteophytes, subchondral sclerosis, subchondral
      cysts, orientation sagittal or horizontal, facet sliding, VAS, Roland-Morris, EQ-5D and
      Oswestry.

      3.3 Sample size estimation: Taking into account the main variable of the study as the
      presence of inflammatory process in the facet joint, identified at MRI, with expected
      prevalence of 30% in the sample and as the main outcome the functional disability, as
      measured by the Roland-Morris questionnaire, when checking the sample size needed to detect a
      difference between the groups, with and without inflammatory process, before and after the FI
      procedure, it will require 117 patients in total, with a difference in the mean of the groups
      of 4.0 points. This calculation considered that the standard deviation of the difference of
      averages between the groups would be homogeneous and of 7.0 points, as observed in the
      literature. Considering the possibility of loss of follow-up in 20% of the cases, it is
      intended to include 147 patients in the study. Once the study has a six-month follow-up of 20
      patients, the calculation of the sample size needed to compare the groups with and without
      the inflammatory process will be recalculated based on the standard deviation observed in
      this study. The calculations were made considering 80% test power and a significance level of
      5%.

      3.4 Statistical analysis: Patient characteristics, MRI findings and pain (VAS), disability
      (Roland Morris and Oswestry), quality of life (EQ-5D) scores will be described by means of
      absolute frequencies and percentages in categorical variables, or through means, standard
      deviations or medians and quartiles, in addition to minimum and maximum values, in
      quantitative variables. The MRI characteristics analyzed by two observers will be evaluated
      for agreement by means of correlation coefficients appropriate to the observed distribution
      of number of cases, such as the Kappa coefficient.To evaluate MRI findings and patient
      characteristics (age, sex, smoking, family income, BMI, education, occupation and analgesic
      intake) in the evolution of pain (VAS), disability (Roland Morris and Oswestry) and of
      quality of life (EuroQol) during twelve months after infiltration, will be used mixed linear
      models or generalized linear models, in multiple approaches, being such models appropriate
      for measurements obtained from the same patient at different times. The results of the models
      will be presented by effect estimates (change in mean pain or in means of functional
      disability and quality of life) and 95% confidence intervals.

      We plan to carry out the analyzes with the aid of the statistical package R and considering
      significance level 5%.
    
  