
    
      There is a strong need to develop, evaluate, and implement translatable interventions aimed
      at reducing Veteran suicide. Caring contacts for suicide prevention (i.e., staff send
      supportive letters to patients following psychiatric inpatient stays) is an empirically
      supported, low-cost method for meaningfully reducing suicide risk and hospitalization
      readmissions and, has been studied and applied in Veterans/VA settings. Peer support (i.e.,
      persons with lived mental health experience) in mental health recovery is another empirically
      supported approach. Peers' involvement in mental healthcare improves patients' social
      functioning and community integration, as well as reduces self-stigma and functional
      impairment. This study focuses on the Caring Cards (CC) intervention, which is a novel
      integration of caring contacts and peers. In CC, outpatient Veterans with lived mental health
      experience (peers) create hope-filled and inspiring cards that are then sent to other
      Veterans struggling with mental health concerns. By design, CC increases social connectedness
      among participants to reduce suicide risk, which is strongly associated with social
      disconnectedness. Indeed, there are two evidence-based social risk factors of suicide:
      thwarted belongingness (TB; feeling like one does not belong) and perceived burdensomeness
      (PB; feeling as though one's existence is a burden on others). CC combines both caring
      contacts and peers to specifically target reductions in TB and PB by increasing social
      connectedness. This study aims to establish the feasibility and acceptability of CC. The
      investigators' initial quality improvement project provided strong preliminary evidence for
      the feasibility and acceptability of the CC. The current study is a single-site, 2-year pilot
      trial that employs an open-trial, pre/post research design. The investigators propose to
      recruit outpatient Veterans with a history of high suicide risk to make up the CC group and
      serve as the card-makers (CMs). The investigators will recruit outpatient Veterans who are
      currently at high-risk for suicide to be the card-recipients (CRs). The primary outcome (Aim
      1) is to establish feasibility and acceptability of CC. Aim 2 will examine CC's ability to
      reduce the primary outcomes (TB and PB) among CMs and CRs. Aim 3 will preliminary evaluate
      CC's ability to increase social connectedness, as well as reduce suicide risk (i.e., suicidal
      ideation and behavior) among CMs and CRs. CMs will meet in weekly groups, each for six
      months, over the course of one year; CRs will receive a total of six cards, one per month.
      Monthly meet-up groups will also be an optional venue for CMs and CRs to meet each other
      in-person. Baseline and follow-up assessments will be completed at start and one month after
      final group for CMs, or one month after the final card for CRs. This project builds on the
      investigators' preliminary data which indicate that Veteran CMs are interested in and find
      participating in CC groups highly meaningful, and Veteran CRs enjoy receiving the cards, want
      to receive more, and describe them as inspirational and empowering. This project is
      innovative in its utilization of peers to facilitate suicide prevention and social recovery
      among Veterans at risk for suicide by specifically targeting TB and PB. It is also unique in
      that it simultaneously targets two populations (outpatient Veterans with a history of, and
      those with current suicide risk), which have not previously been examined with traditional
      caring contacts. This research directly responds to the National Prioritized Research Agenda
      for Suicide Prevention. This study directly supports RR&D's mission and is aligned with VA's
      2018-2028 National Strategy for Preventing Veteran Suicide. The investigators expect that
      these data will inform best practices in suicide prevention and social recovery for Veterans
      at risk for suicide.
    
  