
    
      This trial is a randomized, unblinded study of six times per week nocturnal home hemodialysis
      versus three times per week home hemodialysis. A target of 150 patients will be enrolled into
      this study with equal allocation in each arm, stratified by Clinical Center and residual
      renal function. All patients will be assessed for suitability for nocturnal home hemodialysis
      using a standardized method prior to patients entering the baseline portion of this protocol.
      The minimum dialysis dose in the standard arm will be an equilibrated Kt/V of 1.1 (equivalent
      to a standardized Kt/V (sKt/V) of 2.0) AND a minimum time of 2.5 hours. In the nocturnal arm
      there will be a minimum prescription of six hours per session for six days per week AND a
      minimum standardized Kt/V of 4.0. Patients will be followed for 12 months.

      Two co-primary outcomes are designated: 1) a composite of mortality with the change over 12
      months in the SF-36 RAND physical health composite, and 2) the change over 12 months in left
      ventricular mass. In addition, first priority secondary outcomes have been designated for
      seven outcome domains: 1) cardiovascular structure and function (change in LV mass), 2)
      physical function (change in the PHC), 3) depression/burden of illness (change in Beck
      Depression Inventory), 4) nutrition (change in serum albumin), 5) cognitive function (change
      in the Trail Making Test B), 6) mineral metabolism (change in average predialysis serum
      phosphorus), and 7) clinical events (rate of non-access hospitalization or death).
      Hypertension and anemia are also main outcome domains, but without designation of single
      first priority outcomes. The cost-effectiveness of the two interventions will also be
      compared.

      The objectives of the study are as follows:

      Feasibility:

        1. To determine the feasibility of recruiting and retaining patients in a randomized trial
           of six times per week at-home nocturnal hemodialysis versus standard three times per
           week at home hemodialysis.

        2. To determine patient adherence and acceptance of nocturnal hemodialysis, and to identify
           reasons for discontinuation or noncompliance to the interventions.

           Safety:

        3. To determine the safety of the nocturnal hemodialysis intervention, with a particular
           emphasis on vascular access and patient burden.

           Efficacy:

        4. To evaluate the efficacy of six times per week nocturnal HD compared to conventional
           three times per week HD on two co-primary outcomes: i) a composite of mortality with the
           change over 14 months in left ventricular mass by magnetic resonance imaging, and ii) a
           composite of mortality with the change over 14 months in the SF-36 RAND physical health
           composite score (PHC).

        5. To determine the effect of six times per week nocturnal HD on nine secondary outcome
           domains: i) cardiovascular structure and function, ii) physical function, iii)
           depression/burden of illness, iv) nutrition, v) cognitive function, vi) mineral
           metabolism, vii) clinical events, viii) hypertension, and ix) anemia.

           Characterization of Interventions:

        6. To characterize the six times per week nocturnal home hemodialysis intervention in
           comparison to standard home three times per week hemodialysis, including evaluation of
           small and middle molecule solute clearance, treatment time, and volume removal.

           Implementation:

        7. To determine the feasibility of implementing six times per week nocturnal home
           hemodialysis in practice, including evaluation of barriers to implementation such as the
           home environment and any potential incremental costs of nocturnal home hemodialysis
           compared to three times per week conventional hemodialysis. An evaluation of the cost
           effectiveness of six times per week home nocturnal HD relative compared to 3 times per
           week conventional home HD will be performed.
    
  