
    
      The prevalence of atopy at Taiwan increased 8 times in past 20 years and also increased all
      over the world. In our previous study, maternal atopic history rather than paternal one is
      the major factor to effect infant eczema and IgE titers. This may be related to maternal
      inheritance and environments during pregnancy. Kalliomaki et al. (Lancet, vol.357, p1076-9,
      2001) presented that Lactobacillus GG used 2-4 weeks prenatally to mothers and 6 months
      postnatally to infants was effective in prevention of early atopic disease in children at
      high risk.

      We designed a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled study to evaluate whether cord blood
      IgE and childhood atopic disease decreased after allowing allergic mothers intake of
      Lactobacillus GG in second trimester, followed by infant intake of Lactobacillus GG for 6
      months after birth.

      Materials and Methods:

        1. Inclusion criteria: Pregnant women with atopic disease, which was determined with atopic
           history, elevated total IgE > 100 kU/l and positive specific IgE.

        2. Case number: 100 cases were collected in both control and study groups.

        3. Study design: In a double blind randomized placebo-controlled study, eligible cases are
           allowed to take Lactobacillus GG or placebo daily from gestational age of 24 weeks until
           delivery in both groups.

           In study group, Lactobacillus GG is given prenatally from gestational age of 24 weeks to
           delivery for mothers and 6 months postnatally for infants.

           In control group, placebo starch is given prenatally from gestational age of 24 weeks
           for mothers to delivery and 6 months postnatally for infants.

        4. Schedule of follow-up: Infant/child clinical symptoms and sign are evaluated and IgE and
           specific IgE are tested in bloods from umbilical cords, infants in 1, 3 and 5 year old.
    
  