
    
      The no-reflow phenomenon is one of the most common causes of adverse cardiovascular events in
      patients with ST-elevated myocardial infarction (STEMI). Re-canalization of infarct related
      arterial (IRA) flow related to better ventricular performance and lower mortality rate in
      patients with STEMI. In addition, no-reflow phenomena may limit the benefits of
      re-canalization of the IRA.

      In recent years, many mechanical or pharmacological treatment strategies including adjunctive
      administration of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (GPI) have been proposed in patients with
      STEMI. Although current guidelines recommend that small molecule GPI should be administered
      as an upstream bolus followed by a continuous infusion in patients with STEMI, changes in
      clinical practice may obviate the need for GPI dosage or routes in current practice. Previous
      studies have shown that intravenous and intracoronary administration of GPI improve the
      prognosis and significantly reduce mortality in patients with STEMI. Recently, the Ongoing
      Tirofiban in Myocardial infarction Evaluation-2 (ON-TIME 2) trial found that the use of
      tirofiban started during the pre-hospital phase as upstream therapy for primary percutaneous
      coronary intervention (PCI) and continued for up to 18 hours infusion after the procedure
      showed an improvement in the markers of reperfusion. Additionally, a reduction was
      demonstrated in the death in recurrent myocardial infarction in urgent target vessel
      revascularization and thrombotic bailout. However, in the current literature there are
      insufficient data regarding the role of intracoronary administration of GPI inhibitors in
      patients with STEMI who developed the no-reflow phenomenon. The goal of this study was to
      evaluate the acute effect of intracoronary administration of tirofiban on no-reflow
      phenomenon in patients with STEMI and occurrence of no-reflow phenomenon undergoing primary
      PCI.
    
  