
    
      Cervical spondylosis (SS) is defined as chronic disc degeneration due to aging caused by
      degenerative changes in the muscles, tendons, joints or bones of the neck or shoulder.

      The etiology of cervical spondylosis includes various factors such as bad posture, anxiety,
      depression, neck strain, and overload in sports or occupational activities. Proprioception is
      defined as sensory feedback that contributes to muscle sensation, postural balance and joint
      stability. It is possible that loss of cervical proprioception and motor control affect
      segmental stability. This increases the risk of injury following minor trauma. It has been
      reported that proprioceptive sensitivity is worse in individuals with neck pain compared to
      those without neck pain, and the degree of the disorder is related to the severity of pain.
      Some evidence-based studies have shown that manual techniques improve proprioception and
      motor control.

      It has been shown that Muscle Energy Technique (MET), which has gained popularity in recent
      years, increases cervical joint mobility and reduces pain in patients with chronic neck pain.
      MET is a form a manual therapy which uses a muscle's own energy in the form of gentle
      isometric contractions to relax the muscles via autogenic or reciprocal inhibition mechanism.
      It has been reported that MET stimulates joint proprioceptors, creates a different movement
      activity in the area of proprioceptive disorder and allows the central nervous system to
      normalize proprioceptive and motor coordination in this segment. The effect of MET on
      cervical proprioception in patients with cervical spondylosis has not been investigated yet.

      Active participation of the patient in movement is extremely important in proprioceptive
      feedback, motor control and motor learning. For this reason, it will be useful to investigate
      the effect of MET, which includes active muscle contractions of the patient, on the
      proprioceptive sensation and to compare the results with more passive applications
      (manipulation or mobilization) in terms of determining the optimal treatment method.
    
  