
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Percutaneous coronary revascularization procedures are increasingly used in the treatment of
      coronary artery disease, with approximately 300,000 interventions performed each year.
      Despite new developments in cardiology such as intra-coronary stents and anticoagulant
      pharmacological treatments, a major problem remains the frequent occurrence of coronary
      restenosis and new cardiac events within six months after the intervention. These adverse
      outcomes occur in one out of four patients and have substantial impact on the costs of
      medical care and patients' quality of life. Research indicated that hemostatic factors (e.g.,
      fibrinogen, von Willebrand factor, and plasminogen activator inhibitor) promote the formation
      of blood clots and that these factors predict coronary restenosis. Moreover, prior
      longitudinal studies have also demonstrated that the psychosocial traits of hostility and
      depression affect clinical progression of coronary disease. These psychosocial factors
      significantly predict adverse long-term outcome after revascularization and both hostility
      and depression are known to affect blood clotting factors. In addition, acute mental and
      physical stress are reported to affect blood clotting factors (coagulation and fibrinolysis)
      and responses to stress are reported to be more pronounced in hostile individuals. However,
      previous research on predictors of adverse clinical outcome after percutaneous coronary
      revascularization has not examined stress-induced changes in hemostatic factors and the
      consequences of these responses for progression of coronary artery disease. Therefore, the
      study investigates whether psychosocial factors and responses to acute mental stress affect
      measures of the blood clotting process that are involved in progression of coronary disease,
      thereby increasing the risk of an adverse prognosis following percutaneous coronary
      revascularization. This study may improve the identification of patients at risk for
      recurrent cardiac events and provide further understanding of the pathophysiological
      mechanisms involved in the progression of coronary artery disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study investigated whether psychosocial factors and responses to acute mental stress
      affected measures of the blood clotting process that are involved in progression of coronary
      disease, thereby increasing the risk of an adverse prognosis following percutaneous coronary
      revascularization. This study helped to improve the identification of patients at risk for
      recurrent cardiac events and provided further understanding of the pathophysiological
      mechanisms involved in the progression of coronary artery disease.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  