
    
      Research hypotheses:

        1. Magneto-auriculotherapy (MAT) or laser auriculotherapy (LA) alone or use in combination
           are more effective than the control treatment in terms of symptom relief in male elderly
           patients suffering from LUTS.

        2. MAT or LA alone or use in combination are more effective than the control treatment in
           terms of enhancement of QoL, and improvement of sleep conditions in male elderly
           patients suffering from LUTS.

      Primary objective To investigate whether MAT or in combination with LAT are more effective
      than the control treatment in terms of symptom relief in male elderly patients suffering from
      LUTS.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To determine whether MAT or in combination with LAT are more effective than the control
           treatment in terms of enhancement of QoL, and improvement of sleep conditions in male
           elderly patients suffering from LUTS;

        2. To assess the feasibility of using AT among LUTS patients in a future large-scale study,
           including the use of blinding, acceptance of treatment protocol, follow-up for
           repetitive testing, estimating effect size and attrition rate.

        3. To compare the treatment effect and the feasibility of this study to be conducted in
           Hong Kong and China Mainland.

      Research plan and methodology Design: This study is a randomized controlled and
      double-blinded feasibility trial.

      Participants and settings.

      In Hong Kong:

      Subjects who are 60 years old or above will be recruited from the community centres or day
      care centres. The therapies will be administered either in the Integrative Health Clinic of
      the School of Nursing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, or in the elderly centres,
      depending on the subjects' convenience.

      In China:

      Subjects will be recruited by the Nursing College of Zhengzhou University. The inclusion and
      exclusion, therapy administration, and outcome measures will be identical with the study
      conducted in Hong Kong to facilitate comparison.

      All therapies will be administered in a room assigned for research purposes. Only the
      researchers and the subject under treatment will be allowed to stay in the room during the
      therapy. A warning sign for laser radiation will be put up in a visible place outside the
      room for other workers or members of the elderly centres to see.

      Groupings Group 1 (MAT & placebo LAT): Subjects will receive MAT. The magnetic pellets will
      have ~200 gauss/pellet magnetic flux densities on average, with a diameter of 1.76 mm (Figure
      1). The experimental object will be applied to the six selected acupoints as detected by an
      acupoint finder. The Chinese Standard Ear-Acupoints Chart, which is recognized by the World
      Health Organization, is used to locate the reflective zones. These zones are as follows:
      angle of superior concha/prostate, kidney, bladder, ureter, external genitals, and internal
      genitals (Wang, Ceng, Wang, Lin & Wang, 1999). To achieve a blinding and placebo effect of
      the subject, the laser device will be switched to "power off" mode (i.e. deactivated laser)
      for acupoint "stimulation" before the application of MAT. Subjects will be asked to wear a
      pair of laser protective goggles to "blind" them during treatment.

      Group 2 (Combined MAT & LAT): Subjects will receive a combined approach that includes the use
      of MAT and LA. A laser device (Pointer Pulse™) will be used in this study. This device has a
      wavelength of 650 nm, an average output power of 2.5 mW, an energy density of 1 minute with
      0.54 J/cm2, and a pulse of 10 Hz, which is a common acceptable dosage for clinical use (King
      et al., 1990; Round et al., 2013). This application is a low-energy laser therapy (LLLT), in
      which the energy level emitted from the device is approximately comparable to a teaching
      pointer. A 1-minute treatment using the continuous mode of the device will be directly
      applied to the reactive region of each of the six selected acupoints on the ear. Laser
      protective goggles will be provided to the subjects and the researchers for eye protection
      (Figure 2).

      Group 3 (Placebo MAT & placebo LAT): Subjects will serve as a placebo control and will
      receive LAT at "power off" mode (i.e. deactivated laser) for acupoint "stimulation" before
      the application of plasters centred with a small portion of Junci Medulla (mimicking the MAT
      treatment). Junci Medulla is the dried stem of the perennial plant that is soft in texture.
      It has been successfully adopted as a placebo in a previous study conducted by the PI because
      it does not induce any physical pressure on the acupoints of the ear (Suen et al., 2002a).

      Experimental and control interventions Eligible subjects will be randomly and blindly
      allocated to one of the three groups, to be decided by a computer-generated randomised table.
      Restricted randomisation by blocking will be used to ensure approximately similar sample
      sizes for each group at any time during the trial according to equal proportion rule (1:1:1).
      The random allocation sequence will be managed by a specified research assistant (RA) who is
      not involved in this trial and is concealed to the assessors.
    
  