
    
      Background Chronic heart failure (CHF) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality
      throughout the world, and the incidence and prevalence are increasing as more patients
      survive their acute coronary syndrome. The disease is caused by abnormalities in cardiac
      structure or function leading to insufficient delivery of oxygen to the metabolizing tissues.
      These patients are often debilitated, require chronic medications, and many receive expensive
      device therapy to manage symptoms. Consequently, this has led to an increasing economic and
      health burden from heart failure.

      CHF is the end-stage of a broad range of underlying cardiovascular diseases, but is most
      frequently caused by ischemic heart disease. Other contributory causes include hypertension,
      heart valve diseases, arrhythmias and cardiomyopathies, all resulting in myocardial tissue
      damage and loss of ventricular function. Activation of neurohormonal and inflammatory
      compensatory mechanisms lead to a vicious circle through adaptive metabolic and remodeling
      processes, eventually resulting in a progressive decline of cardiac function with significant
      morbidity and mortality.

      Identification of the specific underlying cardiac condition is crucial for the therapeutic
      approach in patients suffering from CHF. While pharmacological treatment remains dominating,
      resynchronization therapy and surgical resection of non-contractile tissue are also
      increasingly being conducted. Despite the fact that activation of the inflammatory system
      greatly contributes to the remodeling process through initiation of myocardial fibrosis and
      hypertrophy, most clinical studies targeting inflammatory components have been discouraging.

      Remote ischemic conditioning (RIC) by brief non-lethal episodes of ischemia in a remote organ
      or tissue (e.g. a limb) is a novel therapeutic method to achieve protection against
      ischemia-reperfusion injury in the target organ, e.g. the heart . In the clinical setting,
      RIC is most often performed by repeated episodes of limb ischemia achieved by intermittent
      inflation of a blood pressure cuff placed around the upper arm. In clinical randomized
      trials, RIC has been shown to reduce the amount of myocardial injury and improve long-term
      outcome in patients admitted with STEMI for primary percutaneous coronary intervention and
      patients undergoing cardiac surgery or elective coronary intervention.

      RIC is a low-cost, simple and safe procedure that can easily be conducted using a standard
      blood pressure cuff, and the method is increasingly used in clinical trials. The mechanisms
      behind RIC are not yet fully understood, but the cardioprotective effects are believed to be
      caused by neural and humoral signaling cascades as well as systemic anti-inflammatory effects
      resulting in a cytoprotective state. In addition, RIC has been shown to reduce thrombus
      formation. Since activation of platelets and the coagulation system are fundamental in
      thrombus formation and degradation, another possible mechanism of the described effects of
      RIC could be a result from effect on arterial thrombus formation.

      The vast majority of experimental and clinical studies have utilized RIC as single-occasion
      treatment (i.e. 3 or 4 bouts of short limb ischemia conducted once). However, experimental
      studies have recently suggested that repeated RIC treatment may infer further beneficial
      effects. Repeated RIC application has been shown to improve endothelial function and modify
      leukocyte adhesion in healthy volunteers. In a rat model of myocardial infarction, RIC
      repeated daily for 28 days after infarction reduced adverse ventricular remodeling and
      improved survival. Consequently, two on-going clinical trials (clinicaltrials.gov: DREAM
      study NCT01664611 and CRIC-RCT study NCT01817114) are investigating the effect of repeated
      RIC on LVEF function in patients with reduced ventricular function after an acute coronary
      event. Another study investigates the effect of repeated RIC on patients with severe heart
      failure and left ventricular assist device (IMPULSE study NCT02044471).

      So far, the effect of RIC on patients suffering from stable chronic ischemic heart failure is
      unknown. Furthermore, no registered studies have evaluated the effect of long-term RIC given
      as additive treatment to the standard medical therapy in patients with chronic ischemic heart
      failure.

      Hypothesis

      • We hypothesize, that the combination of anti-remodelling and anti-inflammatory properties
      together with improved endothelial function induced by repetitive RIC treatment translate
      into improved left ventricular function and better physical performance in subjects with CHF.

      Purpose

        -  To determine whether RIC applied on a daily basis for 4 weeks improves left ventricular
           function as assessed by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in subjects with CHF.

        -  To investigate whether RIC applied on a daily basis for 4 weeks improves muscle
           strength, cardiopulmonary exercise capacity and thrombocyte function, and changes blood
           biomarker levels of inflammation and heart failure in subjects with CHF.

        -  To investigate whether the above-mentioned measurements differ between patients with CHF
           and matched subjects after RIC applied on a daily basis for 4 weeks.

      Perspectives The present study will elucidate whether long-term RIC treatment induces
      beneficial effects in subjects with and without chronic ischemic heart failure in terms of
      improved left ventricular contractile function and exercise capacity, and whether long-term
      RIC treatment induces systemic anti-inflammatory effects in these subjects. Moreover, we find
      that the study can uncover some of the mechanisms behind RIC and thus potentially optimize
      future treatment for patients suffering, or at risk, from ischemic heart diseases.
    
  