
    
      1. SUBJECTS: 10 Stable patients >45 years of age, with an established diagnosis of COPD
           (18), with FEV1 <60% predicted, FEV1/FVC <70% and <+15% FEV1 response to bronchodilator
           will be recruited. Patients of both genders will be included.

        2. TESTS

           a) Blood: i) HDAC 2 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells: ii) Serum theophylline level
           b) Spirometry for measurement of FVC, FEV1 and FEV1/FVC

           PROCEDURES Visit 1.

             1. After providing informed consent, subjects will receive a brief history and
                physical examination

             2. Blood will be drawn from a peripheral vein for HDAC2 levels (2 ml).

             3. Each subject will undergo baseline spirometry, which will be repeated after 3
                inhalations of an albuterol inhaler.

           c) Subjects will be asked to continue their regular treatment regimen, including long
           and short acting beta agonists and anticholinergics, as well as inhaled steroids.

           d) Theophylline tablets extended-release 12 hr formulation, 300 mg orally taken every 12
           hr will be dispensed, and the subject will return one week later for Visit 2. The
           subject will be asked to refrain from using his/her long acting beta agonists and
           anticholinergics for one day (24 hours) prior to Visit 2, and not to use the short
           acting beta agonist or take any caffeine containing drinks on the morning of visit 2.
           The subject will be asked to inform the P. I. should there be any adverse event.

           Subjects discontinuing the study drugs because of side effects will be withdrawn from
           the study.

           Visit 2.

             1. A brief history and physical examination will be performed and the subject will be
                asked about any change in symptoms.

             2. Blood (5 ml) will be drawn from a peripheral vein for HDAC2 and theophylline levels

             3. After baseline spirometry the subject will be given a single dose of 40 mg
                prednisone tablets.

             4. After 120 minutes, spirometry will be repeated, followed by 3 puffs of albuterol
                inhaler and repeat spirometry.

           The subject will then be asked to continue the theophylline tablets and in addition will
           be given roflumilast tablets 500 mcg orally once daily, and asked to return one week
           later for Visit 3.

           The subject will be asked to refrain from using his/her long acting beta agonists and
           anticholinergics for one day (24 hours) prior to Visit 3, and not to use the short
           acting beta agonist or take any caffeine containing drinks on the morning of visit 3.
           The subject will be asked to inform the P. I. should there be any adverse event.

           Visit 3

             1. A brief history and physical examination will be performed and the subject will be
                asked about any change in symptoms.

             2. Blood (5 ml) will be drawn from a peripheral vein for HDAC2 measurement.

             3. After baseline spirometry the subject will be given a single dose of prednisone
                tablets in a dose of 40 mg.

             4. After 120 minutes, spirometry will be repeated, followed by 3 puffs of albuterol
                inhaler and repeat spirometry.

           The subject will then have completed the study and will return to his/her previous
           treatment regimen.

           Data analysis:

           Results will be compared in terms of baseline vs drug by paired t test for change in
           FEV1 and FEV1/FVC as well as peripheral blood mononuclear blood HDAC2 levels. The
           relationship between FEV1 and FEV1/FVC and blood HDAC2 levels will be examined by
           correlation analysis.

           Expected results It is expected that with both theophylline and roflumilast treatment
           there will be a significant (p<0.05) increase in HDAC2 levels. It is also expected that
           with both theophylline and roflumilast treatment there will be a significant (p<0.05)
           increase in the bronchodilator response after the steroid dose, thereby supporting the
           hypothesis.

           It is also possible that there will be no effect on spirometry of either treatment; this
           would indicate that an increase in HDAC2 does not improve steroid responsiveness.
    
  