
    
      METHODOLOGY:

      This study will be composed of 2 parts:

      I - CROSS SECTIONAL STUDY The aim of this section is to compare men with different body
      compositions, fat distribution and exercise capacity with respect to their muscle
      mitochondrial biogenesis, oxidative damage and energy flux regulator molecules, together with
      their adipose tissue inflammation, adipokine expression and thermogenic potential.

      Inclusion criteria :

        -  male sex

        -  age 25 - 50 years

        -  BMI from 20 - 35 kg/mt2

        -  indication for surgery of an inguinal hernia

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  diabetes mellitus

        -  chronic neuromuscular or neurological deficits precluding normal physical activity

        -  heavy smoking (> 5 cigarettes per day)

        -  alcohol intake > 30 g/day

        -  chronic diseases such as cancer, HIV-AIDS, renal, pulmonary, cardiac or hepatic
           conditions.

      Before the operation and after signing a written informed consent, the following assessment
      will be performed:

        1. Medical history including medication intake and complete physical examination.

        2. Dietary recall of habitual intake and calculation of AGEs ingestion.

        3. Regular physical activity assessment using the International Physical Activity
           Questionnaire

        4. Anthropometrics (height, weight, waist circumference)

        5. Fasting blood sampling for routine determinations (haemoglobin,lipoproteins,
           creatinine,prothrombin, TSH), AGEs concentrations (CML) free fatty acids, adiponectin
           and 8- Isoprostanes.

        6. Fasting and post glucose serum sampling for glucose and insulin measurements, and
           calculation of Homeostasis Model Assessment (HOMA-IR) and the Matsuda Index for
           determination of peripheral insulin sensitivity.

        7. Resting and exercise indirect calorimetry for estimation of resting energy expenditure,
           respiratory quotient and VO2 max.

        8. Handgrip and quadriceps muscle strength

        9. Dual X-Ray Energy Densitometry (DEXA) for estimation of body composition

       10. CT scan of abdominal region at L4 level for measurement of visceral and subcutaneous fat
           areas and estimation of liver fat infiltration.

       11. Ultrasound intensity analysis in thigh ultrasonography indicating muscle fat
           infiltration. After the initial evaluation, subjects will be classified as with or
           without the metabolic syndrome, according to the international guidelines guidelines,
           for further analysis of data.

      A few days later, during the surgical procedure, a sample of muscle tissue (approximately 200
      mg of internal abdominal oblique) will be obtained for measurement of:

        1. Fiber type

        2. Messenger Ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression of PGC-1-alpha, SIRT-1, UCP-3 and AMPK

        3. Mitochondrial density by measurement of mitDNA and Cytochrome C activity

        4. Oxidative damage (8-oxodG, CML and RAGE).

      During the same operation, 2 samples of adipose tissue will also be obtained, one
      subcutaneous (at the site of the incision) and the other preperitoneal (at the inguinal sac),
      for in vitro studies:

        1. UCP1 and inflammatory marker (interleukin 6, 1ß, CCL2) expression in mature adipocytes

        2. Inflammatory profile and adipogenic potential (expression of lipoprotein lipase, PPAR
           gamma and adiponectin) in cultured preadipocytes

        3. Adipogenic potential and inflammatory expression profile of LS14 adipose cells exposed
           to conditioned media from adipose tissue explants.

      A small part of these adipose tissue samples will be placed in formaldehyde, fixed and
      stained with H.E for histologic estimation of adipocyte cell size.

      II - INTERVENTION STUDY This section intends to demonstrate the effects of a low-AGEs
      Mediterranean diet and/or exercise, over skeletal muscle metabolic profile and
      adipogenic/inflammatory features of adipocytes.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Overweight or obese men and women

        -  Ages 25 - 50 years

        -  Interest in losing weight

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  weight fluctuations (> 3 k in the last 3 months)

        -  diabetes mellitus

        -  chronic neuromuscular or neurologic diseases

        -  heavy smoking (> 5 cigarettes per day)

        -  alcohol intake > 30 g/day

        -  chronic diseases such as cancer, HIV, renal, pulmonary, cardiac or hepatic conditions.

      Subjects will be invited to participate in a trial using a Mediterranean low-AGEs diet and/or
      physical exercise during 3 months. After signing a written informed consent,subjects will be
      allocated to one of these interventions, which will be randomly selected, and the following
      assessment will be performed, at baseline and after 3 months of intervention:

        1. Medical and medication intake history and complete physical examination.

        2. Dietary recall of habitual intake and calculation of AGEs ingestion.

        3. Physical activity questionnaire (IPAQ)

        4. Anthropometrics (height, weight, waist circumference)

        5. Fasting blood sampling for routine determinations (haemoglobin, lipoproteins,
           creatinine, prothrombin and TSH), AGEs concentrations (CML), free fatty acids,
           adiponectin, 8-Isoprostanes and serum for in vitro adipose tissue studies (see below).

        6. Fasting and post glucose blood sampling for glucose and insulin measurements, and
           calculation of HOMA-IR and the Matsuda Index for determination of peripheral insulin
           sensitivity.

        7. Dual X-Ray Energy Densitometry (DEXA) for estimation of body composition

        8. CT scan of abdominal region at L4 level for measurement of visceral and subcutaneous fat
           areas and estimation of liver fat infiltration

        9. Resting and exercise indirect calorimetry for estimation of resting energy expenditure,
           respiratory quotient and VO2 max.

       10. Handgrip and quadriceps muscle strength

       11. Ultrasound intensity analysis in thigh indicating muscle fat infiltration

       12. Ultrasound guided quadriceps muscle biopsy to measure mitochondrial density (mitDNA) and
           expression of PGC-1
    
  