
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) occurs in up to 17% of the population, is associated with
      profound dysfunction and, according to the WHO Global Burden of Disease Study, is estimated
      to become the second leading cause of disability worldwide by 2020. While antidepressants
      have proven efficacy, they usually take weeks to work and then only about a third of patients
      reach remission.

      Beyond the traditional monoaminergic approaches, recent advances in understanding the
      pathophysiology of MDD have focused on the dysregulation of glutamate and associated neuronal
      glutaminergic associated excitotoxicity. Xenon is a potent antiglutaminergic agent that has
      been used as an anesthetic with minimal side effects, has neuroprotective effects consistent
      with antidepressants, and has the potential to be a novel antidepressant drug.

      Although mania or hypomania are the defining characteristics of bipolar disorder, throughout
      the course of the illness depressive symptoms are more common than manic symptoms. People
      with bipolar disorder spend a substantial proportion of time with syndromal or subsyndromal
      depressive symptoms. The risk of suicide is greatly elevated during depressive episodes.
      Approximately 17% of people with bipolar I disorder and 24% with bipolar II disorder attempt
      suicide during the course of their illness. Annually around 0.4% of people with bipolar
      disorder will die by suicide, which is vastly greater than the international population
      average of 0.017%.

      Pharmacological treatments are commonly used during episodes of mania and bipolar depression.
      Over time these episodes, particularly depression, tend to become more frequent and as
      repeated episodes are associated with increased functional impairment, effective treatment is
      a priority. The treatment of bipolar depression is quite challenging. Treatments used during
      acute episodes include antidepressants, some antipsychotic drugs such as quetiapine, the
      anticonvulsant drug lamotrigine and lithium. Response to these agents both acutely and during
      maintenance treatment is often partial. There are concerns about the potential for switching
      into mania and more frequent cycling mood with antidepressant treatment.

      Only a handful of treatments are approved for bipolar depression and have been shown to be
      superior to placebo (lurasidone, valproate, quetiapine, the combination of fluoxetine and
      olanzapine, olanzapine alone, and lamotrigine), however atypical antipsychotics carry
      significant burden of side effects in particular metabolic.

      Ketamine has been shown to be efficacious and well tolerated in MDD and BP depression, with
      low risk of inducing manic switch; other glutamatergic agents like memantine or lamotrigine
      are used as augmentation in depression and are well tolerated. Therefore, investigators
      believe Xenon could be well tolerated both in MDD and BP depression and possibly helpful in
      alleviating the symptoms.

      The investigators hypothesize that patients with a primary diagnosis of depression will have
      a greater decrease in depressive symptoms after one session of xenon inhalation added to
      treatment as usual (X- TAU) compared to their session with nitrogen-oxygen inhalation added
      to treatment as usual (N-TAU). The investigators will specifically randomize the 20 patients
      to receive in random order one session of X- TAU and one session of N-TAU. Blind ratings of
      depression will be done with the modified Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) and Quick
      Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology-Clinician Version (QIDS-C) at baseline and at
      predefined time intervals by clinicians experts in mood disorder who will be completely
      blinded to all the administration procedures.

      The methods for depression assessments will be consistent with those used for the early
      proof-of-concept ketamine studies with assessments at 40, 80, 110, and 230 minutes
      post-administration and 1, 3, and 7 days post-administration. The primary outcome will be
      improvement at day 1. Mixed model repeated measures analysis will be used to compare the two
      groups.
    
  