
    
      A recent paper by Kim et al prospectively investigated opioid utilization after upper
      extremity surgery. This study (n=1,416) showed an opioid utilization rate of just 34%, taking
      an average 8.1 pills out of 24 prescribed. Patients age 30-39, those having joint procedures,
      upper extremity/shoulder surgery, or self-pay/Medicaid insurance were all far more likely to
      overuse opioids. The study concluded that their surgeons prescribed 3 times the required
      opioid following surgery and gave recommendations for opioid distribution based on location,
      procedure type, and patient risk factors. This study's identification of over prescription is
      congruent with a study completed by Bates et al that showed 67% of patients had a surplus of
      medications, with 92% not receiving proper medication disposal instructions.

      Other recent literature has attempted to risk stratify patients who are more likely to abuse
      prescription opioids. Morris et al identified various risk factors including: family history
      of substance abuse, nicotine dependency, age <45, psychiatric disorders, and lower level of
      education. These risk factors are associated with aberrant behaviors (non-compliance, early
      refill request, "lost or stolen" medication), which should raise concerns for any provider
      prescribing opioids.

      Studies have shown that patients who are on chronic opioid therapy before surgery have worse
      outcomes. Nicholas Bedard et al compared chronic opioids users (n= 35,068) versus those who
      were opioid-naïve at the time of total knee arthroplasty (TKA) and found the opioid group
      had more opioid scripts filled per patient at discharge as well as at 3, 6, and 9 months
      (0.63 scripts/patient vs. 1.2 scripts/patient, p<0.05). These patients also had a higher
      Charlson Comorbidity Index (p<0.05) and higher rates of respiratory failure, acute kidney
      failure, pneumonia, all post-operative infections, and infections requiring return to the OR.
      The study concluded patients should have their opioid consumption controlled during the
      pre-operative and peri-operative period.

      In addition to the complications of opioid medications experienced by orthopaedic patients, a
      recent nationwide retrospective analysis presents an unintended yet severe problem associated
      with opioid prescriptions. The incidence of pediatric hospitalizations for opioid toxicity
      nearly tripled from 1997 to 2012. The over-prescription of opioids creates a readily
      available source for accidental ingestion by younger children and for intentional opioid
      overdose by older pediatric/adolescent patients. In fact, a family member's leftover pills
      have been described as the number one source for pediatric opioid overdose. Moreover, the
      Center for Disease Control reported that in 2015 the U.S. saw its highest incidence of
      opioid-related death.9 Given the frequency and severity of opioid diversion and misuse,
      orthopaedic surgeons should consider the best methods for controlling patients postoperative
      pain and also avoid facilitating opiate misuse, whether by orthopaedic patients or other
      community members. With this goal in mind, our study will investigate regimens for effective
      postoperative pain control that also minimize the total amount of opioids prescribed.
    
  