
    
      Despite the fact that obesity is at epidemic proportions and costs US employers an estimated
      $78.5 billion annually; national data indicate that less than 25% of employers are offering
      disease management programs to address obesity. Effective weight loss programs that are
      adaptable to busy work environments and maintain employee interest are needed, but few
      rigorous tests of these programs have been attempted.

      In collaboration with the North Carolina Community College System, NC Blue Cross Blue Shield,
      and the State Health Plan for Teachers and State Employees, this three year group-randomized
      weight loss intervention studies approximately 1020 overweight/obese employees nested within
      17 community colleges. Campuses are randomly assigned to receive one of three promising,
      state-of-the-art, theory-linked interventions: Environment/Usual Care (E); Web-based Weight
      Loss Program + Environment (WEB+E) or Web + Environment +Incentives (WEB+E+I). College is the
      unit of randomization and intervention; employee is the unit of analysis. Follow-up weigh-in
      assessments are completed at 3, 6, and 12 months.

      After formative research in Year 1 to adapt interventions for community college employees,
      the effects of these interventions are rigorously tested on 12-month weight loss (primary
      outcome). Most secondary outcomes (weight loss behaviors, moderate-vigorous physical
      activity; total calories, percent body fat, fruit/vegetable intake, absenteeism,
      productivity, medical expenditures, and quality of life) are assessed at baseline, 6 and 12
      months; along with potential mediators/moderators of weight loss outcomes. Process tracking
      data measures fidelity, dose delivered/received and acceptability/satisfaction with the
      interventions. Extensive cost- and cost-effectiveness analysis, including return on
      investment, is undertaken. If proven effective, this strong partnership between community
      colleges, the State Health Plan, and the research team, will help guide program adoption and
      institutionalization/dissemination throughout the community college campus system.
    
  