
    
      Design: The study design is a Single-Site, Parallel-Group, Randomized-Controlled Trial of
      Navigation Versus Usual Care for The Management of Delays and Racial Disparities Starting
      Postoperative Radiation Therapy in Adults with Surgically-Managed, Locally Advanced Head and
      Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma

      Following screening and informed consent, sociodemographic, oncologic and symptom data will
      be prospectively gathered about participants from validated questionnaires and the electronic
      medical record (EMR). Participants will then be randomized to 3-sessions of the navigation
      intervention (NDURE; Navigation for Disparities and Untimely Radiation thErapy) or usual care
      (UC) and followed until the start of postoperative radiation therapy (PORT) following surgery
      for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Measures of PORT delay, racial disparities
      in PORT delay, key cancer care delivery processes, and theoretical constructs underlying PORT
      will be evaluated.

      Treatment Allocation: Upon enrollment, participants will be randomized 1:1 to NDURE or UC
      using a stratified randomization design with strata defined by race (white, African American
      [AA]) and location of radiation facility (Medical University of South Carolina ([MUSC],
      non-MUSC) because of the known association of these variables with PORT delay.

      Delivery of intervention:

      NDURE is a theory-based, multi-level PN intervention consisting of three in-person,
      clinic-based sessions of manualized PN with multiple intervention components that target
      system- (care coordination), interpersonal- (social support), and individual- (Health Belief
      Model; perceived susceptibility, severity, barriers, self-efficacy) level health behavior
      theoretical constructs to reduce barriers to care, increase HNSCC care delivery, and improve
      clinical outcomes (timely, equitable PORT). NDURE will be delivered from surgical
      consultation to PORT initiation (~3 months). The NDURE intervention consists of: Navigation
      Sessions, the Navigator Manual, the Navigator Patient Guide, structured EMR documentation,
      weekly conferences to facilitate care coordination, real-time patient tracking, and
      multidisciplinary reporting. The three in-person NDURE navigation sessions, which are
      expected to take 30-60 minutes each, will coincide with the presurgical consult, hospital
      discharge, and 1st postoperative clinic visit, time points chosen to facilitate case
      identification and coordination across key care transitions. Contact beyond the three
      prescribed in-person sessions will occur with a frequency and modality (e.g. text message,
      email, etc.) dictated by patient and navigator need. During the first in-person session, the
      navigator will 1) elicit barriers and facilitators to timely PORT from the patient,
      caregiver, and provider, 2) develop the personalized barrier reduction plan (BRP), review it
      with the patient, caregiver, and provider, and 3) implement the BRP. At the two subsequent
      in-person sessions, the navigator will review and update the BRP in an iterative, dynamic
      fashion, identifying new barriers and systematically tracking resolution of prior barriers
      until the start of PORT. The Navigator Manual provides a structured resource to guide
      intervention delivery and enhance reproducibility. The Patient Guide is 1) literacy-level
      appropriate, 2) personalized for each patient's care pathway and BRP, 3) updated
      longitudinally as the patient progresses along the cancer continuum, and 4) available to
      patients in print and/or electronically via the patient portal in the EMR.

      UC consists of oncology visits with provider-led discussion about the referrals needed to
      start PORT.

      Expected Effect Size and Power Calculation: Power and sample size calculations were performed
      using PASS version 08.0.13, "Inequality Tests for Two Independent Proportions." The primary
      endpoint for this pilot RCT is the rate of PORT delay, defined by NCCN Guidelines as PORT
      initiation > 6 weeks following surgery. Our primary objective is to compare PORT delay rates
      between the NDURE and UC arms. Patients (n=150) will be randomized 1:1 to NDURE or UC using a
      stratified randomization design with strata defined by race (white or AA) and location of
      radiation facility (MUSC or not MUSC). Furthermore, to facilitate evaluation of PORT delay
      rates in racial subgroups, the investigators will oversample AAs for a final sample size of
      50 white and 25 AA patients in each arm. The investigators assume the rate of PORT delay in
      the usual care arm will be 45% and target an absolute reduction of 20% for a PORT delay in
      the navigation arm of 25%. This effect size is clinically significant and is a realistic goal
      given published rates of improvement in similar (non-randomized) interventions. Seventy-five
      patients in each arm yields 83% power to detect a 20% reduction in PORT delay (45% versus
      25%) based on a two-sided Mantel-Haenszel test of two independent proportions assuming a
      two-sided α = 0.1. Our choice of the Mantel-Haenszel test to compare proportions is based on
      the trial's stratified design. Our selection of α = 0.1 and 1 - β = 0.8 is based on the
      desire to emphasize power over type I error at this early stage of development (single
      institution phase II trial) to ensure follow-up on promising interventions. The investigators
      therefore consider our trial to be appropriately and rigorously designed to detect a
      clinically meaningful reduction in PORT delay.

      Statistical Methods of Analysis: Graphical displays and descriptive statistics for
      sociodemographic, oncologic, and baseline symptom severity characteristics will be used to
      examine patterns and summarize data for each arm. The percentage of patients who start PORT
      within 6 weeks of surgery (the primary outcome measure) and corresponding 95% confidence
      interval (CI) will be calculated for both arms and for white and AA subgroups within each arm
      separately. The rate of PORT delay will be compared between arms using a Mantel-Haenszel test
      of two proportions, with strata defined by race and location of radiation facility. The
      investigators will analyze time to PORT as a continuous variable and estimate median time to
      PORT for each arm and for racial subgroups within each arm using Kaplan-Meier curves with
      Greenwood variance estimation to construct the corresponding 95% CIs. The investigators will
      estimate the hazard ratio comparing the two arms using Cox proportional hazards regression
      controlling for the stratification variables. The investigators will compare time to PORT
      between intervention arms using a stratified log-rank test. For other secondary endpoints,
      data will be summarized using frequency and percent for categorical variables and using mean,
      median, standard deviation, IQR and range for continuous variables. The investigators will
      also construct 95% CIs to provide a measure of uncertainty in estimated proportions and
      means. Comparisons between trial arms of other secondary endpoints will be performed using
      t-tests and chi-square tests, or Wilcoxon rank sum and Fisher's exact tests as appropriate.
      Baseline and post-intervention values of variables measuring the theoretical constructs
      underlying NDURE (i.e. care coordination, self-efficacy in cancer care, interpersonal
      support, and knowledge) will be compared using Wilcoxon sign rank tests. Comparisons between
      arms of the change in scores will be conducted using Wilcoxon rank sum tests.
    
  