
    
      Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) causes major organ damage and shortens lifespan in
      relatively young persons. Early diagnosis and treatment are essential to improving outcomes
      for SLE patients. However, evidenced-based approaches to early treatment interventions and
      the appropriate target population for these interventions are not available. We propose that
      individuals who have positivity for antinuclear antibodies (ANAs) and who also exhibit some
      of the other features that are used to classify SLE, are at high risk of progressing to the
      full systemic form of this disease. These individuals, who have significant levels of ANA
      with 1 or 2 additional items from the lupus classification criteria, are considered to have
      incomplete lupus erythematosus (ILE). We propose to treat ILE patients with
      hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) in the "Study of Anti-Malarials in Incomplete Lupus Erythematosus"
      or SMILE trial. The primary objective is to determine whether HCQ treatment can prevent
      acquisition of additional clinical and immunologic features that define SLE.

      The major secondary objectives are to determine whether HCQ treatment: (1) lessens lupus
      disease activity as measured by standard scoring indices; (2) improves patient reported
      outcomes (3) prevents accumulation of immunologic abnormalities including autoantibodies and
      cytokines and (4) has an acceptable toxicity profile. The specific aims of this proposal are:

        1. To carry out a double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, randomized trial of HCQ
           vs. placebo in patients with ILE. The study tests the hypothesis that early use of HCQ
           can modify disease features so that accumulation of abnormalities leading to a
           classification of SLE can be significantly slowed.

        2. To determine effects of HCQ on disease activity and patient-reported outcomes in
           patients with ILE.

        3. To characterize the immunologic profile of HCQ in ILE-treated patients. Autoantibodies,
           cytokines and chemokines will be measured on multiplex arrays for developing insights
           into underlying mechanisms.

        4. To quantitatively assess the incidence of ophthalmologic toxicity in HCQ-treated ILE
           patients. All enrolled patients will have standardized ophthalmologic examinations
           before and after study treatment. Recommendations for use and monitoring in this patient
           population will be developed.

      The SMILE trial will determine whether or not HCQ should be given to ILE patients, will
      provide insights into the appropriate target population, and will propose candidate
      biomarkers to guide treatment decisions. While not part of the Precision Medicine
      Initiative®, SMILE is consistent with its goals. It will be the first step towards testing
      the feasibility of disease prevention studies in SLE and will accumulate biological samples
      in a repository that will be available to the lupus research community for further in-depth
      mechanistic studies.
    
  