
    
      Stress at work has shown to be an important health risk for employees. It is associated with
      poor mental and physical health including anxiety, depression, sleep disturbances,
      gastrointestinal problems, type 2 diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. Work stress also has
      major implications for employers as evidence suggests that high levels of work stress predict
      employee burnout, turnover intent, absenteeism, and poor job performance.

      Mindfulness and its positive effects on a variety of outcomes, including stress reduction,
      have been documented in many studies. The most common definition of mindfulness is as the
      state of being attentive to and aware of the present moment with an attitude of openness and
      acceptance. Several mechanisms by which mindfulness exerts its positive effects have been
      proposed in the literature including cultivating the attitude of non-judgement and
      acceptance, ability to observe one's experiences objectively without reacting to them, and
      ability to be more patient and kind toward oneself. Recent evidence suggests that teaching
      mindfulness in the workplace not only reduces stress but also improve psychological
      well-being.

      With advances in technology, technology-based delivery of many interventions has become
      popular. App-based treatments for improving psychological health are becoming increasingly
      important due to high accessibility and cost-effectiveness of smartphone technology. Despite
      a great number of app-based interventions, there has been little research evaluating their
      efficacy. Support for the use of smartphone app-based mindfulness interventions comes from a
      few small studies that found these interventions to produce benefits comparable to
      traditional delivery methods. While app-based interventions offer a convenient alternative to
      traditional delivery methods as well as promising initial empirical evidence, more research
      is needed in order to further evaluate and promote these interventions.

      The proposed study has several goals. The first goal is to investigate the effects of the
      app-based mindfulness intervention on overall physical and psychological health (e.g.,
      perceived stress, mindfulness, sleep quality, self-reported health, anxiety symptoms). The
      second goal is to examine the effect of the intervention on a variety of work-related
      outcomes (e.g., work stress, job satisfaction, work-related burnout). Further, the study will
      examine potential mindfulness mechanisms that may drive these effects (e.g., acceptance,
      reactivity, decentering).
    
  