
    
      Background and Rationale: NMDA antagonist drugs have increasingly been demonstrated to reduce
      symptoms of depression and suicidal ideation. Specifically, NRX-100 (ketamine HCl, 0.5 mg/kg
      IV over 40 minutes) has been shown to induce acute reductions in suicidality and depression
      in patients with bipolar depression, relative to control. Numerous reports have documented a
      50% reduction in the MADRS depression scale and a 75% reduction in suicidality following a
      single infusion of ketamine in patients with suicidal ideation and depression. While the
      repeat use of ketamine is not supported and may be contraindicated by the literature,
      D-cycloserine (DCS), when combined with SSRI antidepressants in patients with treatment
      resistant depression, and when combined with atypical antipsychotics, in particular
      lurasidone (NRX-101), has shown separation from control and ability to maintain remission
      from suicidality and depression over 6 weeks with oral use.

      Primary Objective:

        -  To test the hypothesis that treatment with NRX-101 is superior to lurasidone in
           maintaining improvement in symptoms of depression as measured by the Montgomery Asberg
           Depression Rating Score (MADRS).

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To test the hypothesis that patients treated with NRX-101 are less likely to experience
           treatment failure than those treated with standard of care. Treatment failure is defined
           as a 25% or greater return to baseline levels of depression or suicidality, or the need
           to implement a new treatment plan.

        -  To demonstrate that patients treated with NRX-101 are less likely to suffer from
           akathisia than those treated with lurasidone.

        -  To demonstrate safety and tolerability for both NRX-101 vs. lurasidone.

      Methodology: A multi-center, randomized, double-blind, trial in which patients with moderate
      levels of bipolar depression (MADRS >20) and subacute levels of suicidal ideation (C-SSRS 2
      or 3) are randomized to receive twice daily oral NRX-101 or lurasidone (standard of care).
    
  