
    
      Rationale:

      Cholinergic neurons play an important role in neurotransmission within the central nervous
      system (CNS). They are involved in complex functions like memory, learning, recognition,
      attention, consciousness, regulation of sleep-wake cycles and maintenance of posture and
      gait. Cholinergic neuron degeneration in the neocortex and hippocampus of the CNS, is an
      important neurochemical change observed in several neurodegenerative diseases, including
      Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, assessment of the vesicular
      acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) as an important molecular target in the cholinergic
      circuit, has sparked interest in the development of radiotracers for studying this target in
      vivo. Preclinical studies show the VAChT tracer (-)-5- [18F]Fluoroethoxybenzovesamicol
      ([18F]FEOBV) to be potentially useful in detecting cholinergic lesions in vivo. A previous
      [18F]FEOBV PET study confirms that the tracer binds to VAChT with the expected in vivo human
      brain distribution. The use of [18F]FEOBV as a PET imaging marker of cholinergic innervations
      has, however, only been studied in healthy human volunteers and no data is available on
      patients.

      Objective:

      The main objective of this study is to evaluate the differences in [18F]FEOBV binding between
      PD patients and healthy control subjects, in order to evaluate the clinical feasibility of
      [18F]FEOBV as a cholinergic imaging ligand in PD. Secondary objectives are the assessment of
      test-retest variability and confirming previous findings on [18F]FEOBV validation. Both
      secondary objectives are prerequisites for the main objective. In addition, an explorative
      analysis of the relationship between neuropsychological performance and cholinergic
      innervation will be performed.

      Study design: In order to establish the difference in [18F]FEOBV binding between PD patients
      and healthy control subjects, the study will be conducted in three parts.

        -  The first part of the study is to establish [18F]FEOBV as a PET tracer for application
           in clinical research by confirming previous findings on [18F]FEOBV validation. This will
           include dynamic scanning of 3 healthy control subjects in 3 imaging sessions (0-120,
           150-180, 210-240 min after injection of [18F]FEOBV). From this part of the study, the
           optimal short static scan period will be determined by comparing relative uptake values
           with the results of kinetic analysis.

        -  Part 2 of the study is to evaluate differences in [18F]FEOBV in Parkinson's disease and
           healthy controls. For this, the three dynamic scans of part 1 will be used and an
           additional 7 healthy control subjects and 10 PD patients will be included for a simple
           static scan (period determined after part 1 of the study).

        -  In part 3, test-retest variability is evaluated in both groups. Of each group, 5
           patients will undergo a short second static scan.

      All subjects will be screened within 30 days before the PET scan for demographic information
      and detailed clinical history.

      Study population:

      In total, 10 PD patients and 10 age matched control subjects will be included in the study,
      all between the ages of 45-65 years. Of the 10 control subjects, 3 will undergo full dynamic
      scanning, all other subjects included will undergo simple static scanning. A total of 10
      subjects, 5 from each group, will undergo a second static scan. The patient group includes
      patients with Parkinson's disease with a disease duration of at least 3 years and maximum 10
      years. All subjects will undergo a neuropsychological assessment.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The main endpoint of this study is the difference in VAChT brain binding on a [18F]FEOBV
      PET-scan between PD patients and healthy control subjects.

      Secondary endpoints are test-retest variability in both patients and healthy control
      subjects, and neuropsychological performance in both groups.
    
  