
    
      By participating in this study, it will not alter the standard of care provided during the
      course of the patient's rehabilitation in physical therapy. During the initial physical
      therapy evaluation, a member of the research team will determine if the patient would like to
      participate in the study and if they choose to do so they will then be consented. Based on
      the clinical presentation the standard evaluation will determine the primary limitations of
      the knee joint and surrounding soft tissue structures and outline the best course of manual
      physical therapy intervention deemed appropriate.

      Should the patient choose to participate, they will then complete a pre-test maximal
      isometric contraction in the knee extension machine in the physical therapy clinic; this is
      an exercise device commonly used to strengthen the quadriceps muscles for patients with
      various types of lower extremity pathology. Patients will be monitored for any changes in
      pain during this screening pre-test in accordance with the Physical Therapy service standard
      operating procedures; those whom pain increases more than 3/10 points on the numeric pain
      rating scale from baseline will be excluded from this study and will be counted as screen
      failures; all others will be included in the study. The patient will then be provided an
      appointment slip to meet the research team at the Army-Baylor Center for Rehabilitation
      Research Biomechanics Lab at the Army Medical Department Center and School where all formal
      testing for this study will take place. All laboratory data will be collected for the
      bilateral lower extremities.

      When the subject reports to the lab the following sequence will occur. They will be provided
      with an intake form to collect all baseline data, Western Ontario and McMaster Universities
      Osteoarthritis Index, and numeric pain rating score. Pain scores will be elicited throughout
      the testing procedures to ensure patient safety and comfort per the PT service pain
      assessment standard operating procedures. Pain pressure threshold will be obtained using a
      handheld algometer as an adjunct to the numeric pain rating scale to better quantify their
      pain levels. Pain pressure threshold measures will be collected bilaterally over the Tibialis
      Anterior muscle belly approximately 2.5cm lateral and 5cm inferior to the tibial tubercle. A
      Timed up and Go test will then be administered using an accelerometer worn by the patient
      around the waist and bilaterally on the dorsum of the foot to quantify the velocity in which
      they complete the test among the various phases (sit/stand, walking, turning). This will be
      followed by the first isometric testing session to determine the baseline voluntary
      quadriceps activation and rate of torque development.

      Subjects will undergo assessment of neuromuscular function using a combination of voluntary
      and evoked contractions. All test procedures will be performed on the unaffected limb first,
      followed by the affected limb. Electrically-evoked contractile properties will be tested
      first, followed by volitional strength, voluntary activation, then rate of torque
      development.

      Subjects will be seated on the chair for the HUMAC NORM testing and rehabilitation system
      with the hips and knees flexed to 85 degrees and 60 degrees, respectively. A shin attachment
      from the dynamometer will be secured around the subjects' lower leg so that the distal end of
      the pad is approximately 5 cm proximal to the distal end of the tibia anteriorly.

      Two-inch by four-inch self-adhesive muscle stimulation electrodes will be applied over the
      muscle bellies of the distal vastus medialis and proximal vastus lateralis. Subjects will
      then undergo evoked twitch contractions starting at 50mA (400 V, 1000 µsec pulse width) using
      a constant current muscle and nerve stimulator (Digitimer Ltd., Model DS7R, Hertfordshire,
      England) while sitting at rest. This process will continue until the evoked torque reaches a
      plateau, at which point it will be terminated. The purpose of this testing is to determine
      the lowest intensity of current necessary to evoke maximal quadriceps torque for each
      subject. The amount of current necessary to achieve peak evoked twitch torque will be used
      for all future evoked contractions. After this, muscle speed properties will be assessed
      using 3 maximal twitches, followed by 3 maximal doublets at 100 Hz, all 10 seconds apart from
      each other. This will be done for a total of 6 evoked contractions. The purpose of this is to
      obtain information related to the peripheral speed properties of the muscle (e.g., rates of
      rise and relaxation for torque).

      Maximum volitional isometric contraction testing will be assessed next. Strength testing will
      begin by having subjects perform 3 sub-maximal (50%, 75%, 90% maximum effort) isometric knee
      extension contractions to familiarize themselves. After familiarization, subjects will
      perform at least 2 maximal voluntary isometric contractions of the quadriceps muscles to
      determine the peak voluntary knee extensor force each subject can generate. For reliability,
      the researchers will require two contractions that produce similar values of torque (defined
      as no more than 5% difference between trials). After peak torque has been reliably
      identified, quadriceps activation will be tested with the interpolated doublet technique
      (IDT).[30] This test includes at least two five second maximal voluntary isometric
      contractions during which a doublet at the stimulus intensity determined in step one is
      introduced when the torque produced by the subject reaches a threshold determined during
      maximal voluntary isometric contraction testing. A second stimulus of equal intensity is
      delivered shortly after the subject returns to rest after each trial in order to assess the
      muscle in its potentiated state. Two minutes rest will be provided between each of the
      trials. To produce inter-trial reliability similar to strength testing, the researchers will
      require two contractions that produce similar values of voluntary activation (defined as no
      more than 5% difference in voluntary activation between trials).

      Rate of torque development will be measured after completion of maximal voluntary isometric
      contraction trials. A total of five valid repetitions will be completed lasting approximately
      one second in duration for each contraction. In order to count as a valid trial, the
      magnitude of torque attained during these brief contractions must exceed 75% of maximal
      voluntary isometric contraction. A rest period of 30 seconds between contractions will be
      given in order to allow for adequate rest. An enthusiastic and loud verbal cue will be
      provided for each contraction. Instructions to "kick as fast and as hard as possible" will be
      utilized as verbal cues have been reported to impact the type of motion the patient conducts.
      Visual feedback and loud verbal encouragement will be used to elicit the greatest amount of
      muscle activation possible.

      Treatment will be initiated within ten minutes of completing the first isometric trial within
      the Army-Baylor Center for Rehabilitation Research. The researchers will utilize a pragmatic
      manual physical therapy approach that is customized to each subject. This approach will use
      targeted manual therapy techniques for the knee joint and soft tissues with complimentary
      therapeutic exercises to augment the movement impairment identified. All treatment will be
      performed by a board-certified physical therapist with advanced manual physical therapy
      fellowship training. The treatment provided will be evidenced-based and is standard care for
      a manual physical therapy trained provider. The timing of the treatment session is congruent
      with what is commonly observed in a physical therapy clinic and will last approximately 30
      minutes in duration.

      The control group will receive the same amount of face-to-face time with a physical
      therapist. The intervention will include a 30-minute educational class on knee osteoarthritis
      which will cover various topics to include a brief description of the pathophysiology,
      diagnosis, prognosis, and different treatment options available in addition to
      rehabilitation. The researchers will provide handouts on general exercise and joint sparing
      activities and conclude the brief with a question and answer session.

      For post-treatment data collection, each subject will undergo testing for maximal voluntary
      isometric contraction, voluntary activation, and rate of torque development in the same
      manner as described above. For voluntary activation testing, the same stimulus intensity
      determined during pre-treatment data collection will be used. In addition, subjects will not
      require post-treatment assessment of the contractile properties of their quadriceps muscle
      group. The reason for not repeating this assessment is because electrically-evoked
      contractile properties quantify only peripheral physiologic properties of muscle and this
      study's intent is to measure changes attributed to central drive (i.e. changes within the
      motor cortex and/or spinal cord).

      Immediately following the 30-minute treatment session, subjects will repeat the timed up and
      go test and rate their pain via the numeric pain rating scale. Immediately following this,
      the subject will undergo maximal voluntary isometric contraction testing, voluntary
      activation, and rate of torque development testing in the same manner previously described.
      The same stimulator settings used during the pre-test will be used for the post-test. At the
      conclusion of data collection, the researchers will ensure the patient has a follow-up
      appointment scheduled at the Brooke Army Medical Center physical therapy clinic for the
      initiation of their formal rehabilitation, thus ensuring that all subjects receive the
      standard of care for their knee pain. As all data will be collected on a single day in one
      session no email or phone calls will be required at the completion of the lab testing.
    
  