
    
      Hypotensive patients in the intensive care unit may have extremely unstable hemodynamics.
      Blood pressure is the most important outcome in the diagnosis and treatment of shock.
      Vasopressor drugs are often required to maintain blood pressure in addition to fluid
      infusion. Noninvasive blood pressure measurement is unable to meet the clinical requirements.
      It is necessary to establish an invasive blood pressure monitoring method as soon as possible
      that can observe the real-time pressure. Radial artery cannulation has become the most
      commonly used due to its superficial location and less severe complication. However, radial
      artery cannulation is difficult to achieve in hypotensive patients due to weak radial artery
      pulsation, small arterial diameter, and peripheral vasospasm as blood flow is directed toward
      central vessels.

      Some studies have shown that ultrasound-guided cannulation is more successful than the
      palpation technique. However, the success rate is largely dependent on the ultrasound
      operator's experience and skills. The operator requires good hand-eye coordination, technical
      skills, and some experience to overcome this shortcoming of ultrasound, which limits the
      advantages of ultrasound-guided vascular puncture, especially for operators with insufficient
      experience. There are 2 basic approaches in needling techniques: short-axis
      out-of-plane(SA-OOP) and long-axis in-plane(LA-IP) techniques.

      In-plane technology requires the operator to be very skilled at ultrasound technology, which
      is more dependent on experience and can be difficult for novices to master; on the other
      hand, given that the long axis is subject to slice-thickness artifacts, due to the measurable
      thickness of the ultrasound beam itself, the cannula in the long axis appears to be in the
      same plane as the extremely small radial artery, even when the cannula has not been
      successfully inserted into the artery. Therefore, we prefer the out-of-plane technique.

      The short-axis view has the advantages of providing better visualization of the surrounding
      structures and easier imaging which is convenient for novices to master. The procedure of
      radial artery puncture can be divided into 3 steps. The first step is to locate the puncture
      site, the second step is the puncture, and the last step entails the insertion of the cannula
      into the radial artery.

      The first step is particularly important because appropriate localization facilitates the
      success of the puncture and insertion. The first difficulty encountered during radial artery
      puncture is the exact positioning of the puncture point. Ultrasound with developing lines
      guided by dynamic ultrasound has achieved a good effect in patients without hypotension. In
      the group with the modified technique, we use the developing line to locate the puncture
      site.

      The second difficulty encountered during radial artery puncture is the risk of posterior wall
      penetration. With the dynamic needle tip positioning(DNTP) technique, the operator keeps
      real-time track of the position of the needle tip at all times which significantly reduces
      the chance of posterior wall perforation. We combined the developing line and DNTP technique
      in the modified group and assume that the technique theoretically increases the success rate
      and decreases the complication rate of radial artery puncture. Therefore, in this trial, we
      compared the success rate of radial artery puncture using the traditional method and modified
      technique in hypotensive ICU patients.
    
  