
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a chronic disease characterized by the human body's inability to
      maintain appropriate blood glucose levels ( Buse et al. 2011). When inadequately managed,
      diabetes results in poor glycemic control, which, if prolonged, results in diabetes-related
      complications (Stratton et al. 2000). Diabetes is the major cause of blindness, kidney
      failure, and non-traumatic amputation in Canadian adults (PHAC, 2011). Foot ulcers are the
      major causes of amputations. Foot ulcers arise from poor circulation associated with
      peripheral vascular disease and neuropathy, injury and infections. Diabetes affects
      circulation and immunity, and over time the sensory nerves in the hands and feet may be
      damaged.

      There are more than 2.4 million Canadians living with diabetes, of which 1.2 million of them
      live in Ontario (MHLTC). Diabetes is the leading cause of non-traumatic lower limb amputation
      in Canadian adults, associated with approximately 70% of amputations performed in hospital.
      Compared to the general population, Canadian adults with diabetes are over 20 times more
      likely to undergo non-traumatic lower limb amputations, 85% of which are preceded by a foot
      ulcer (PHAC, 2011 and Singh et al.,2005). According to a recent report (CDA, 2016)
      commissioned by the Canadian Diabetes Association (CDA), of the 1.53 million people with
      diabetes in Ontario, between 16,600 and 27,600 were expected to have a diabetes foot ulcer in
      2015. Of these, nearly 2,000 were expected to need to have a lower limb amputated as a result
      of their condition and those amputations are associated with almost 800 premature deaths. In
      Ontario, diabetic foot ulcers (DFU) currently impose direct health-care costs of between
      $320-400 million and indirect costs of between $35-60 million (Hopkins et al.,2015).

      Strong evidence shows that up to 85% of diabetic foot amputations can be prevented,
      supporting the benefits of early recognition of diabetes-related foot complications (CDA,
      2013). Furthermore, timely assessment, referral, and provision of evidence-informed foot care
      are cost saving for the healthcare system. Use of a standardized diabetic foot assessment
      tool is required to ensure consistent approach to risk recognition and provide a framework
      for care. In response to the need for a tool that facilitates a consistent and standard
      screening procedure, the Primary Care Diabetes Support Program (PCDSP) at St. Joseph's Health
      Care, London, Ontario developed an evidence based, multi-disciplinary foot ulcer assessment
      tool. The SJHC harmonized foot ulcer assessment tool was developed to aid in the early
      detection of diabetic foot problems and to ensure prompt referral to the right foot care
      provider for appropriate treatment, thereby improving outcomes of the diabetic foot.
    
  