
    
      The outcome of peripheral nerve injury is related to age, level of injury, the injured nerve,
      the severity of injury, and the timing and the type of surgery interventions. In addition,
      high-level peripheral nerve injury would not full recovery, and the prognosis is determined
      by the nerve regeneration.

      Conventional physical therapy includes electrical stimulation for denervated muscles, and
      soft tissue massage, joint range of motion exercises to maintain the flexibility of the
      affected joint, muscle or connected tissues. However, the nerve regeneration takes several
      months in high-level median, ulnar or radial nerve injury. Prolonged median or ulnar nerves
      injury may interfere intrinsic muscular function, and radial nerve injury causes drop hand.
      Earlier nerve regeneration or motor training is essential for the patients to return to
      normal life and increase their quality of life. This research aims to explore the effects of
      mirror therapy for peripheral nerve injury. We will enroll 60 patients who suffer from
      median, ulnar or radial nerve injury at the level of elbow or proximal forearm. The subjects
      will be randomized into the mirror-therapy group or the control group. Each group will
      receive conventional physical therapy (i.e., electrical stimulation, joint range of motion
      exercise, muscle strengthening training, sensory reeducation training). The mirror-therapy
      group would be supplemented by motor learning by mirror therapy. The measurements include
      joint range of motion, pain status, sensibility, grip strength, pinch strength, hand function
      test and the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH). Demographic information will
      be collected and analyzed by the independent t-tests. The outcome variables taken during the
      three and six months after the interventions would be included. One-way ANOVA are used to
      compare the difference between measurements. This study may offer an evidence based results
      to explore the effects of mirror therapy for peripheral nerve regeneration and motor
      learning.
    
  