
    
      This study will include 10 patients complaining from non malignant mandibular lesions.
      nopatients will be selected from the outpatient clinic of the Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery
      department, faculty of Dental Medicine Cairo University.

      All the procedures will be explained for all patients before undergoing operation and
      informed consent process will be taken, this study will be displayed to the research ethics
      committee to obtain approval.

      Inclusion criteria for this study will be as follows:

        -  Age group: from 15 to 60 years old.

        -  Patients with with non malignant mandibular neoplasms indicated for segmental resection.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients with malignant mandibular neoplasms. 1- Pre-operative phase

      Patients will be subjected to:

      Case history including personal data, medical, a-surgical and family history b-Clinical
      examination c.Radiographic examination using orthopantogram, and computed tomography (CT)
      Preoperative anesthesia assessment for fitness for general anesthesia.d Treatment planning
      and fabrication of the digital template.e 2 -Operative phase All cases will undergo surgery
      under general anesthesia. The mandibular lesion will be segmentally resected. The cuts will
      be performed with the aid of the prefabricated digital template. The neurovascular bundle
      will be separated and protected. Then reconstruction will be performed.

      3-Postoperative care:

      Postsurgical instructions and follow up:

      Proper postoperative instructions will be given the patient, in addition to the postoperative
      medications including antibiotics, corticosteroids and analgesics.

      Postoperative patient evaluation:

      Neurosensory examination:

      Assessment of the inferior alveolar nerve function will be performed preoperatively, 2 and 12
      weeks postoperatively through Trigeminal somatosensory evoked potential technique. Six months
      postoperatively by CBCT for assessment of recurrence.

      Statistical analysis:

      Data will be analyzed using IBM SPSS advanced statistics (Statistical Package for Social
      Sciences), version 21 (SPSS Inc. Chicago). The data will be compared using paired t-test.
    
  