
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose and toxicities of clofarabine when administered
           with high-dose melphalan as a conditioning regimen in patients undergoing allogeneic
           stem cell transplantation for acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphocytic leukemia, or
           myelodysplastic syndromes.

        -  To assess the efficacy of this regimen in facilitating engraftment in these patients.

        -  To perform correlative laboratory studies of engraftment, immune reconstitution, and
           therapeutic outcomes.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of clofarabine. Patients are stratified according to
      age (< 18 years vs ≥ 18 years).

        -  Reduced-intensity conditioning regimen: Patients receive clofarabine IV over 30 minutes
           on days -9 to -5 and high-dose melphalan IV over 30 minutes on day -4.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of clofarabine until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

        -  Allogeneic stem cell transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic stem cell
           transplantation on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 10
           hours or orally twice daily beginning on day -1 and continuing until day 90-100,
           followed by a taper in the absence of GVHD. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil
           IV or orally twice daily beginning on day 0 and continuing until day 28, followed by a
           taper in the absence of GVHD.

      Patients undergo blood and/or bone marrow sample collection periodically for correlative
      laboratory studies. Samples are examined for markers of immune reconstitution (i.e., CD8+ T
      lymphocytes, CD4+ T lymphocytes, NK cells, B cells, and monocytes) by flow cytometry and for
      diversity of the reconstituted T-cell repertoire by PCR-based T-cell receptor repertoire
      analysis. Samples are also examined for gene expression of hRRM2 and markers of apoptosis
      (i.e., Bcl-2, Bid, NFkB2, and Bcl-3) by real-time RT-PCR and for markers of ribonucleotide
      reductase inhibition (i.e., dCTP levels in circulating peripheral blood mononuclear cells).

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  