
    
      Atrial fibrillation(AF) is the most common arrhythmia, and its frequency increases with age.
      Hemodynamic impairment and thromboembolic events related to AF result in significant
      morbidity, mortality, and cost. Management of patients with AF involves 3
      objectives-correction of the rhythm disturbance, rate control, and prevention of
      thromboembolism. Regardless of whether the rate-control or rhythm-control strategy is
      pursued, attention must also be directed to antithrombotic therapy for prevention of
      thromboembolism. Pharmacological cardioversion approaches appear simple but are less
      efficacious. The major risk is related to poor tolerance of side effects，drug-associated
      toxicity，and proarrhythmic potentia1 of antiarrhythmic drugs. Radiofrequency catheter
      ablation of AF has developed rapidly in recent years, but the number of AF recurrences during
      the long-term follow-up was significant. In addition, the complications associated with AF
      ablation procedures likely to result in prolonged hospitalization, long-term disability or
      death. Hypertension is the most important risk factor for AF , Hypertension is associated
      with left ventricular hypertrophy, impaired ventricular filling, left atrial enlargement, and
      slowing of atrial conduction velocity. These changes in cardiac structure and physiology
      favor the development and maintenance of AF, and they increase the risk of thromboembolic
      complications. In patients with AF, aggressive treatment of hypertension may reverse the
      structural changes in the heart, reduce thromboembolic complications, and retard or prevent
      the occurrence of AF. Recently, many clinical researches have verified that Catheter-based
      renal sympathetic denervation can safely be used to substantially reduce blood pressure,
      reduce left ventricular hypertrophy, improve glucose tolerance and sleep apnea severity.
      Simultaneously, a marked reduction in muscle and whole-body sympathetic-nerve activity(MSNA)
      is apparent, with a decrease in renal and whole-body norepinephrine spillover. Left ventricle
      hypertrophy, left atrial enlargement, high norepinephrine level，glucose tolerance abnormity
      and obstructive sleep apnea are all recognized as independent risk factors for the
      development and recurrence of AF. So, we design this randomized parallel control multi center
      clinical study to demonstrate whether renal sympathetic denervation is safe and effective in
      patients with hypertension and symptomatic atrial fibrillation.
    
  