
    
      There is increasing evidence to suggest that the mesentery may play an active role in the
      pathophysiology of Crohn's disease. There is significant clinical, endoscopic, and surgical
      recurrence of disease following ileocolic resection at the site of the anastomosis. The study
      is seeking to understand if the mesentery plays a role in recurrence following ileocolic
      resection.

      Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the intestinal tract with an
      unknown etiology and an unknown cure. The characteristic transmural inflammation can progress
      to refractory inflammatory disease, stricturing disease, and fistulizing disease - all
      potential indications for surgery when medical management has been exhausted. An important
      tenant to remember is that surgery is not curative but is rather an adjunct to maximal
      medical therapy.

      One third of patients with Crohn's disease (CD) will require a major abdominal resection
      within 5 years of their diagnosis, and two-thirds will ultimately require operative
      management at least once during the course of their disease.

      Unfortunately, surgery for Crohn's disease (CD) is not curative and disease recurrence is
      common with 62% having endoscopic recurrence at six months, and 80% and 30% of patients
      having endoscopic and clinical recurrence, respectively, at one year. A third of these
      patients will require a reoperation at 10 years and up to 80% will require an additional
      operation by 15 years.This undoubtedly leads to an increased probability of malabsorption
      syndrome and decreased quality of life.

      A significant volume of research has been conducted in attempt to determine how to prevent
      postoperative recurrence of CD following an ileocolic resection. Some studies have focused on
      the timing of resuming postoperative medical therapy. Others have looked at surgical
      technique at the time of ileocolic resection including anatomic configuration of the
      anastomosis and performing a stapled versus handsewn anastomosis. Various configurations
      include a side to side anastomosis, end to end, and Kono-S anastomosis. A randomized clinical
      trial compared a side to side versus an end to end, and found endoscopic recurrence rates
      were similar in the two groups (42.5% versus 37.9%) at a mean follow up of 11.9 months. A
      later multi-institution international trial of the Kono S anastomosis determined that the
      anastomosis was associated with a decreased surgical recurrence rate as compared to
      conventional anastomoses; 5 and 10 year surgical recurrence-free survival was 98.6%.15
      Several Cochrane Database reviews have reported no difference in a stapled versus handsewn
      anastomosis for an ileocolic resection. Therefore, other than the potential decreased
      recurrence with the Kono-S anastomosis, no other surgical techniques have altered the
      postoperative recurrence rate of CD following an ileocolic resection.

      Interestingly there is recent evidence to suggest that CD may be a disease of the mesentery
      rather than just the mucosa of the bowel alone. In CD, the transmural inflammation
      facilitates increased bacterial translocation into the creeping fat. These translocating
      antigens and activate adipocytes which are cells than have complex metabolic and immunologic
      functions. Additionally, it is thought that functional abnormalities in the mesenteric
      structures exert an inflammatory effect: the secretion of adipokines that have endocrine
      functions contribute to immunomodulation through a response to afferent signals,
      neuropeptides, and functional cytokines; mesenteric nerves are involved in the pathogenesis
      through neuropeptides; and lymphatics in the mesentery may obstruct, remodel, and impair
      contraction, contributing to the irregularly thickened mesentery seen in CD. Interestingly,
      the interaction between neuropeptides, adipokines, and vascular and lymphatic endothelia
      leads to adipose tissue remodeling. This makes the mesentery an active participant in CD,
      seemingly as much as the bowel itself. However, the mesentery is typically spared, or left in
      situ, during resection for CD, unlike resections for adenocarinocma of the colon. In
      adenocarcinoma, a 'high ligation' is performed, where the feeding vessel is taken at its
      origin in order to take sufficient mesentery and lymph nodes with the colon specimen.
      However, in operations for CD, the mesentery is spared and typically taken close to the bowel
      wall despite enlarged lymph nodes and thickened diseased mesentery. A high ligation of the
      ileocolic artery in order to sample an increased volume of mesentery and lymph nodes to
      prevent postoperative CD has never been evaluated in a randomized control trial. A recent
      retrospective study comparing surgical recurrence following a mesenteric sparing versus
      mesenteric resection approach with ileocecal resection found cumulative reoperation rates
      were significantly lower in the mesenteric resection group (40% versus 2.9%; p=0.003).

      The endoscopic recurrence of CD typically precedes clinical symptoms, and the severity of
      lesions can predict the subsequent symptomatic course of the disease. Over a four year
      follow-up period, 100% of patients with severe endoscopic recurrence (Rutgeerts score of
      i2-i4) developed symptomatic recurrence compared to only 9% of patients with a low score
      (i0-i1). With such a high rate of endoscopic recurrence, it is thought that post-surgical
      evaluation should be performed at six months rather than one year when considering adequate
      early treatment.
    
  