
    
      Background: Women Veterans are the fastest growing segment of Veterans Health Administration
      (VHA) users. This dramatic growth has created challenges for VHA. Gender disparities persist
      in cardiovascular (CV) and diabetes risk factor control, and rates of depression, anxiety,
      and mental health comorbidity are disproportionately high among women Veterans. Furthermore,
      a high rate of women Veterans' attrition from VA care, along with organizational barriers to
      care, substantiate that organizational changes are needed in order to engage and retain women
      Veteran VHA users in evidence-based, patient-centered care.

      Objectives: The Enhancing Mental and Physical health of Women through Engagement and
      Retention (EMPOWER) QUERI addresses VHA Blueprint for Excellence Strategy 6, by advancing
      "personalized, proactive, patient-centered" care models, and Transformational Strategy 7.2.g
      by implementation of innovative care models in women Veterans' health care." The EMPOWER
      QUERI Program is designed to improve women Veterans' engagement and retention in
      evidence-based care for three high priority health conditions, i.e., prediabetes,
      cardiovascular, and mental health. To achieve this impact goal, the investigators propose a
      cohesive portfolio of projects with the following aims: (1) To use an evidence-based
      implementation strategy that emphasizes local tailoring of care models, multilevel
      stakeholder engagement, and systematic evaluation of complex implementation processes in
      order to enrich organizational capacity for innovations in women Veterans' VHA health care;
      (2) To implement personalized, proactive, patient-centered innovations in VHA women's health
      that are acceptable, feasible, satisfactory, relevant, and effective for both providers and
      patients, thereby encouraging women Veterans' engagement and retention and sustainability of
      the innovations; and, (3) To generate implementation "playbooks" for the investigators'
      partners that are scalable and serve as guidance for future implementation of a broader array
      of evidence-based women's health programs and policy.

      Methods: Three projects will be conducted by an experienced multidisciplinary team. This
      trial pertains to "Implementation of Tailored Collaborative Care for Women Veterans," which
      will evaluate implementation of an evidence-based collaborative care model tailored to
      enhance provider- and system-level capabilities to address women Veterans' anxiety and
      depression treatment needs, thereby improving organizational primary care-mental health
      integration (PC-MHI) effectiveness and women Veterans' engagement and retention in PC-MHI.
      This implementation research study will use a nonrandomized stepped wedge design and will
      apply the evidence-based Replicating Effective Programs (REP) implementation strategy. Mixed
      methods implementation evaluation will focus on investigating primary implementation outcomes
      of adoption, acceptability, feasibility, and reach. Multilevel stakeholder engagement will be
      prioritized. Program-wide organizational-, provider-, and patient-level measures and tools
      will be utilized to enhance synergy, productivity, and impact.

      As a coherent program of women's health implementation research and quality improvement, the
      proposed EMPOWER QUERI will constitute a major milestone in achieving Blueprint for
      Excellence (BPE) strategies and realizing women Veterans' engagement and, ultimately,
      empowerment in the VHA system.
    
  