
    
      Type 1 diabetes is a disorder of glucose metabolism that results from insulin deficiency
      secondary to autoimmune destruction of insulin-secreting β-cells. The prevalence of liver
      disease among diabetics is estimated to be between 17% and 100%(1).

      Most of these data were obtained from studies of obese adults with non-insulin dependent
      diabetes(2). Data regarding frequency of aetiological causes of hepatomegaly in children and
      adolescent with type 1 diabetes mellitus are scanty even in international publication(2).

      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is associated with various structural and functional liver
      abnormalities, including non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and hepatic glycogenosis
      (HG)(3).

      NAFLD represents the most common liver disease(3) and is more typically found in obese adults
      with T2DM secondary to insulin resistance, while (HG) is more common in patients with lower
      body mass index and pediatric patients(4).

      HG involves pathological glycogen storage in hepatocytes and is characterized by hepatomegaly
      and a transient elevation in liver transaminases that is associated with poorly controlled
      DM, particularly type 1 diabetes (T1D)(5).

      The differential diagnosis of hepatomegaly in diabetic patients must consider several other
      potential causes of liver damage, such as infection (e.g., viral hepatitis), metabolic
      disorders (e.g., α1-antitrypsin deficiency and Wilson's disease), obstruction, autoimmune
      liver disease, hemochromatosis and celiac disease(6).

      Presence of hepatomegaly and/or hyperechogenic liver on ultrasound abdomen was an indication
      for further laboratory work up to investigate other possible liver pathologies .The screening
      work up included: HBV surface antigen, Anti-HCV antibody, serum immunoglobulins, anti-nuclear
      antibody, smooth muscle antibody qualitative test , serum ferritin, serum iron, transferring
      saturation, and total iron binding capacity, urine for organic acids and plasma for amino
      acids, to evaluate for possibility of viral hepatitis B and C, autoimmune liver disease,
      hemochromatosis, and metabolic disorder, respectively(7).

      It was considered that the finding of hyperechogenic liver and/or hepatomegaly on ultrasound
      and negative screening work up for underlying liver disease as consistent with a likely
      diagnosis of hepatic glycogenosis or less likely fatty liver(8).
    
  