
    
      The primary purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of antiplatelet
      monotherapy with aspirin or clopidogrel for 2 years in patients who have not experienced MACE
      (major adverse cardiac events) including all-cause death, acute coronary syndrome including
      non-fatal MI (myocardial infarction), or urgent revascularization under combined antiplatelet
      therapy for 12 ± 6 months after PCI (percutaneous coronary intervention) with DES
      (drug-eluting stents). The trial tests the hypothesis that clopidogrel is superior to aspirin
      in preventing clinical events and device-oriented outcomes. Clinical events are defined as a
      composite of all-cause death, non-fatal MI, stroke, readmission due to acute coronary
      syndrome (ACS), or Bleeding Academic Research Consortium (BARC) class ≥ 3.29 Device-oriented
      outcomes include target lesion/vessel revascularization (TLR/TVR) and Academic Research
      Consortium (ARC)-defined stent thrombosis.

      The primary endpoint of this study is the rate of clinical events defined as a composite of
      MACE and major bleeding complications. MACE includes all-cause death, non-fatal MI, stroke,
      and readmission due to ACS (acute coronary syndrome). Major bleeding is defined as bleeding
      (BARC class ≥ 3) at 24 months. Non-fatal MI is defined as any confirmed evidence of
      myocardial necrosis in a clinical setting consistent with myocardial ischemia without
      resulting in death, which is supported by electrocardiography, cardiac enzymes, or cardiac
      imaging according to the third Universal Definition of MI.37, 38 A readmission due to ACS is
      defined as any re-hospitalization definitely originating from an ACS event, which satisfies
      the definition of the American College of Cardiology Foundation and the American Heart
      Association.37, 39 A stroke is defined as any abrupt-onset, non-convulsive, focal, or global
      neurological deficit lasting more than 24 hours, which is caused by ischemia or hemorrhage in
      the brain.39 Secondary endpoints are the rate of device-oriented outcomes including TLR/TVR
      and stent thrombosis at 24 months, and minor gastrointestinal (GI) complications with the
      related cost-effectiveness. TLR is defined as any repeat revascularization procedure at the
      original lesion of the index procedure any time during the follow-up period.40 TVR is defined
      as any repeat revascularization procedure involving at least one of the target vessels that
      were treated in the index procedure.40 Stent thrombosis is defined according to the ARC.41,
      42 Minor GI complications are assessed on the basis of newly developed GI symptoms, newly
      added GI medications, or symptom-driven GI endoscopy. At each visit, clinicians will question
      the patient regarding GI symptoms from intermittent epigastric soreness or bloating due to
      melena/hematochezia. Any additional GI medications, including H2-blockers and proton pump
      inhibitors, will be documented for each patient. If a patient undergoes endoscopy, the type
      of endoscopy, test results, and further interventions will be recorded. Additional medical
      costs related to these minor GI complications (South Korean won/year) will be calculated to
      assess the cost effectiveness of each drug based on average Korean expenses. All endpoints
      will be assessed primarily by the investigator and adjudicated secondarily by the independent
      clinical event committee.
    
  