
    
      The purpose of this project is to evaluate a currently active community-based Recreational
      Therapy (RT) Wellness Recovery Program (WRP) for individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD) to
      determine the efficacy of the treatment intervention. Since PD is a progressive, degenerative
      neurological disease, it is critical that individuals with this diagnosis remain as active as
      possible to slow down the progression of the disease, improve balance and strength, and
      increase health-related quality of life. The overall goal of this project is to determine the
      efficacy of a neuroplasticity physical activity program in terms of improving balance,
      improving health-related quality of life, reducing stress, and increasing satisfaction in
      exercise including social connectedness of group exercise. There is evidence that the
      neuroplasticity model may be a more effective type of intervention than traditional exercise
      programs in improving symptoms of PD. The neuroplasticity approach requires repetition of
      complex tasks that are high intensity and present a novel challenge. This type of
      intervention has been shown to improve motor and cognitive behaviors which are critical areas
      of decline for those with PD. The WRP program uses a comprehensive neuroplasticity-principled
      program that integrates exercise and wellness. The PI, Julie Bradwell, LRT/CTRS is a
      Certified Instructor for Parkinson Wellness Recovery Power Moves. The RT Wellness Recovery
      program at Wake Forest Baptist Health is modeled on the Parkinson Wellness Recovery Power
      Moves. Components within the program include the Parkinson Power Moves and the exercise 4
      Brain Change. This study will be a 14-week study with the first two weeks of collecting
      baseline data and immediately following with a 12-week intervention program to increase
      balance, health-related quality of life, and satisfaction in exercise in individuals with PD
      as well as reduce stress. Most research on RT interventions for this population are in
      traditional settings (inpatient or rehabilitation settings). When discharged from these
      settings, many individuals become less active, have few social interactions and lose the
      benefits of exercise and physical therapy they gained while in these programs once they are
      home. The WRP community-based program at Wake Forest Baptist Health has the potential to
      prevent secondary complications as well as slow down the progression of the disease for
      participants. If the outcomes of this project suggest this type of intervention will improve
      the functional skills, quality of life, and/or satisfaction in exercise for individuals with
      PD and reduce stress, it will provide the RT discipline with evidenced based practice
      intervention for this population
    
  