
    
      Hypotheses

        1. Holistic review by a multidisciplinary team leads to improved outcomes such as improved
           disease activity, physical function and quality of life (QOL) in patients with
           rheumatoid arthritis (RA).

        2. These improved outcomes are likely mediated via improvements in medication adherence,
           coping, disease specific knowledge and improved self-efficacy.

        3. A "One Stop Arthritis Clinic" (OSAC) where patients are seen by a multidisciplinary team
           co-located in time and space, is an effective solution to delivering multidisciplinary
           care.

      Specific aims Primary: To determine whether a multidisciplinary review, as compared to
      routine review by the treating rheumatologist, leads to improved QOL as measured by the
      European Quality of Life-5 Dimension 3 Level (EQ-5D) index at 6 months in patients with RA
      with deemed stable disease activity.

      Secondary:

        1. To examine the effect of the multidisciplinary review, as compared to routine
           rheumatologist review on RA disease activity (measured using the disease activity score
           in 28 joints, DAS28), pain (measured using a 100mm visual analogue scale (VAS), and
           physical function (measured using the modified Health Assessment Questionnaire, mHAQ).

        2. To examine the effect of the multidisciplinary review, as compared to routine
           rheumatologist review on several secondary measures including self-efficacy (as measured
           using the Rheumatoid Arthritis Self Efficacy, RASE), Disease Specific Knowledge (DSK)
           using a Patient Knowledge Questionnaire (PKC), coping and medication adherence (using
           the MARS questionnaire, pill counts and adherence proportion percentage)

        3. To examine the effect of the multidisciplinary review, as compared to routine
           rheumatologist review on patient experience

           Background and Significance Burden of disease: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic
           disease affecting approximately 0.5 -0.7% of the population; and most common in
           working-age adults. Inadequately treated RA is a leading cause of disability, work loss
           and productivity loss due to irreversible joint damage in this relatively young group of
           the population, in the prime of their productive work-life.

           "Treat to Target" (T2T) approach: It has been clearly shown, that a T2T approach, in
           which therapy is escalated at regular intervals according to a pre-determined protocol
           and driven by consistent measurement of disease activity, is superior to routine care in
           achieving remission, and T2T is now standard of care. A validated, clinically sensitive
           composite disease activity measure, the DAS28 is routinely used to measure disease
           activity, and is a good predictor of disability. DAS28 values of <2.6 are defined as
           remission. About 50% of patients with early RA treated at the NUH rheumatology clinic
           achieve remission at 6 months (unpublished data, from the Singapore Early Arthritis
           Cohort).

           Multidisciplinary care: The multidisciplinary team (MDT) concept is increasingly gaining
           popularity and traction, and has been shown to improve outcomes in complex cancer care.
           Several rheumatology societies and quality standards recommend that patients with RA
           should have access to a multidisciplinary team consisting, at the minimum, of a
           specialist nurse, physiotherapist (PT), occupational therapist (OT) and podiatrist. This
           is based on the results of several randomized controlled trials showing the benefit of
           occupational therapy on grip strength, and physiotherapy on physical function and
           cardiovascular fitness in RA.

           The multidisciplinary "One Stop Arthritis Clinic" (OSAC) at the National University
           Hospital (NUH), Singapore. An OSAC was set up in the specialist outpatient clinic (SOC)
           at the National University Hospital (NUH) in January 2016 with the aim of providing
           point of care access to MDT care. Prior to the OSAC, MDT care for RA patients was
           sporadic, if at all. Most patients were treated solely by the physician
           (rheumatologist), with referral to members of the MDT on an "as needed" basis, and with
           appointments made on a different day, at a different location. Many patients declined
           the appointment due to the inconvenience of a separate visit and because they often
           perceived it as unnecessary.

           The OSAC team currently consists of 6 members, namely a rheumatologist, specialist
           nurse, PT, OT, podiatrist and medical social worker. Existing RA patients on follow up
           in NUH may be referred, on the discretion of their rheumatologist, to the OSAC.
           Consenting patients are seen at the OSAC at the next review, in lieu of their routine
           rheumatologist review. Preliminary patient surveys have reported excellent patient
           experience. As previously reported, and as per our experience, early success has come
           from careful planning of the logistics and organization of the clinic, along with full
           and equal participation of all stake-holders who share the same egalitarian values, thus
           avoiding conflict.

           However, there have been some barriers to OSAC referral, namely:

           (i) Cost: As outpatient specialist consultation in Singapore is typically paid out of
           pocket, with varying amount of government subsidization, patients pay anywhere from
           twice to 3 times the consultation fee to attend the OSAC as compared to a routine
           rheumatologist review. Therefore, cost to the patient plays a major role in health care
           decisions.

           (ii) Poor uptake on the part of the patients: A survey among our patients revealed that
           they have poor general awareness of allied health services. This is possibly because
           Asian cultures traditionally tend to adopt a doctor-centred care delivery, especially
           older patients who have experienced doctor-led consultations through most of their
           lives.

           Gaps in knowledge:

           i. Although the individual benefits of OT and PT interventions have been clearly shown,
           these have been mostly limited to intensive regimens involving multiple sessions with
           close supervision.17-20 The recommended "annual MDT review" has never been shown in a
           controlled trial to improve outcomes. The recommendation for annual MDT review is based
           mainly on observational studies and expert opinion.

           ii. Most trials of OT and PT were performed prior to the treat to target (T2T) era. It
           remains to be seen, whether with current effective treatments, an MDT review can further
           confer an additive benefit.

           Our study aims to fill some of these gaps by randomly assigning patients to either the
           OSAC or to routine rheumatologist care, and comprehensively studying outcomes in both
           groups.

           Methods

           Study design:

           Single centre, randomised, single-blind, controlled trial.

           Recruitment:

           Patients will be recruited from the rheumatology outpatient clinic at NUH, and informed
           consent will be taken for patients who are agreeable to participate. Consented patients
           will be randomised via a random number sequence generated by the Stata® statistical
           software and placed in sealed envelopes.

           Study visits:

           The study visits will be at 0, 3 and 6 months, timed to coincide with routine
           rheumatology clinic visits. The baseline visit will be approximately 3 months after the
           randomisation visit. Patients randomised to the intervention arm will be seen in the
           OSAC once, followed by visits to the routine rheumatology clinic at month 3 and 6.
           Patients in the control arm will be seen at the routine rheumatology clinic on all
           visits (0, 3 and 6 months).

           Data collection and follow-up: Patients will be followed for 6 months from the baseline
           visit (approximately 9 months from randomisation). Data will be collected by
           self-administered questionnaires and face to face interviews administered by a trained
           research nurse to both the intervention and control arms and blood will be drawn for
           potential future research from all participants at the baseline visit. Data on
           demographics, disease severity (seropositivity, presence of erosions) and disease
           activity using the DAS28 will be collected using a standard case report form (CRF) at
           baseline and at 6 months. Joint counts will be performed by either ML, PC, AS or the
           research nurse at the baseline visit. At the 3 month and 6-month visit, joint count will
           be performed by an independent assessor (a second research nurse), who is blinded to the
           study arm. A standardisation session will be conducted to improve inter-rater
           reliability between the various joint count assessors prior to commencement of the
           study. Physical function will be assessed according to the mHAQ and HR-QOL will be
           measured using the EQ-5D instrument at baseline and at 6 months. Pain score,
           self-efficacy, coping, adherence and disease specific knowledge will be measured at
           baseline, 3 months and 6 months using the VAS for pain, RASE, coping, MARS and Hennel
           patient knowledge questionnaires (PKC) respectively and foot pain will be measured using
           the Manchester Foot Disability Index (MFI). In addition, data on comorbidities, exercise
           frequency, smoking, alcohol, traditional medication use, vaccination status and
           adherence to recommended cancer screening will be collected. Laboratory tests and
           imaging will be done as part of the routine clinical care of patients with RA and
           relevant data will be abstracted from the electronic medical record. Treatment changes
           at each visit will be recorded. Resource utilisation in the form of number of clinic
           visits (including separate visits to see allied healthcare professionals), laboratory
           tests, imaging, prescriptions and procedures will be abstracted from the hospital
           billing database. Utilisation of the specialist nurse helpline will be recorded. Work
           status and number of days off work for both the patient and the caregiver (if any) will
           also be collected. Data on patient experience will be abstracted from the hospital
           electronic patient experience survey, which will be administered to all patients at the
           baseline visit.

           Primary outcome measure:

           European Quality of Life-5 Dimension 3 Level (EQ-5D) index at 6 months

           Secondary outcome measures:

           i. Proportion of patients in clinical remission or low RA disease activity (measured
           using the disease activity score in 28 joints, DAS28) (remission = DAS28 ≤ 2.6, low
           disease activity = DAS28 > 2.6 & ≤ 3.2) ii. Pain (measured using a 100mm visual analogue
           (VAS) scale iii. Physical function (measured using the modified Health Assessment
           Questionnaire, mHAQ).

           iv. Self-efficacy (measured using the Rheumatoid Arthritis Self Efficacy, RASE) v.
           Disease Specific Knowledge (DSK) using a Patient Knowledge Questionnaire (PKC) vi.
           Coping vii. Medication adherence (using the MARS questionnaire and pill count to
           calculate medication adherence proportion percentage) viii. Patient experience (using
           the standard hospital electronic patient experience survey, e-PES) ix. Foot pain (using
           the Manchester foot disability index, MFI) x. Proportion of patients who achieve
           adherence to guidelines for vaccination xi. Proportion of patients who achieve adherence
           to guidelines for cardiovascular risk management xii. Proportion of patients who achieve
           adherence to guidelines for bone health optimisation xiii. Proportion of patients who
           achieve adherence to guidelines for cancer screening xiv. Utilisation of healthcare
           resources (clinic visits, laboratory, imaging, procedures, prescriptions, calls to the
           nurse helpline) xv. Days off work (patient) xvi. Days off work (caregiver) xvii. Hours
           per week in productive paid or unpaid work (patient) xviii. Hours per week in productive
           paid or unpaid work (caregiver)

           Sample size calculation and feasibility:

           Using baseline values from patients seen at OSAC, the mean baseline EQ-5D index
           (descriptive) is 0.722 with a standard deviation (SD) of 0.156. Allowing for an alpha
           error of 5%, and 95% power to demonstrate a minimal clinically important improvement of
           0.1 in the EQ-5D index, we would need a sample size of 128 for a 1:1 randomisation (64
           in each arm). After allowing for a 10% dropout rate, we plan to recruit 140 patients (70
           in each arm) to this study.

           Approximately 60 patients with RA are seen weekly at NUH. The OSAC runs once a week and
           has a capacity of 6 patients per clinic session. If we can randomize 8 patients per week
           (of which half would be randomized to the intervention arm, to be seen at OSAC), we
           would be able to recruit an adequate number of subjects in about 18 weeks. The
           consultation fee for the study participants' baseline visit (OSAC or routine
           rheumatology review) would be paid for through the grant funding; thus providing an
           incentive for patients to participate, and also overcoming the cost barrier for referral
           to OSAC. Follow up for all patients would be completed about 9 months after the last
           patient is recruited; thus the study can be completed in about 14 months.

           Statistical analysis: All analysis will be done using Stata® statistical software. The
           mean EQ-5D index at 6 months of patients in the intervention and control groups will be
           compared using the Student's t-test. Logistic regression will be used to calculate the
           odds of achieving a minimal clinically important difference in QOL (as measured by a 0.1
           increase in the EQ-5D index) between the intervention vs. the control group while
           controlling for confounders such as age, gender, disease duration, disease severity
           (seropositivity, presence of erosions at baseline), disease activity (DAS28) and mHAQ at
           baseline. We will further determine whether self-efficacy, coping, adherence and DSK can
           improve prediction of QOL when they are added to the regression model.

           Strengths and limitations This is a randomized controlled study, thus controlling for
           bias in terms of allocation of patients to MDT care. Disease activity outcomes are
           blinded; as joint counts will be performed by a blinded assessor. The case report form
           is designed to be comprehensive, such that all possible outcomes of importance will be
           collected. Though cost-effectiveness is not one of the outcomes to be studied, the data
           collected are adequate to do a cost -effectiveness analysis if necessary.

           The main limitation of the study is that the patients cannot be blinded to the
           intervention (MDT care). This is inherent to the nature of the intervention. In
           addition, outcome assessors cannot be blinded to several of the outcomes, as they are
           determined from patient reported questionnaires; thus may be biased in favour of MDT
           care. Radiographic outcomes in terms of joint space narrowing and erosions are not
           collected as part of this study, as typically changes in these need time (≥ 1 year) and
           are relatively insensitive to subtle interventions such as ours. However, increasingly
           outcomes important to the patient are thought to be the most preferred outcomes to
           study, and have been shown to be predictive of radiographic damage.
    
  