
    
      Urinary tract stones may form in the kidneys or along the ureteric tracts and when left
      untreated, may result in complications such as pain, bleeding, infection and obstruction.
      ESWL (extra-corporeal shock wave lithotripsy) has been shown to be an effective and safe
      method of treatment for kidney and ureteric stones in-situ. In our centre, ESWL is done on an
      outpatient basis with oral pain killers in the weeks following treatment. Patients are also
      instructed to increase their fluid intake during this period to expedite the clearance of
      stone fragments. Alpha1-adrenergic blockers have been shown to improve stone free rates in
      renal stones and lower ureteric stones. Tamsulosin has been the agent most commonly
      investigated. There have been no studies done to study the effectiveness of Alfuzosin in
      stone treatment. Alfuzosin has been shown to be effective in treating benign prostatic
      hypertrophy, and has a good safety profile. Deliveliotis et al has shown that alfuzosin
      improves symptoms and quality of life in patients with double-J stents.

      This is a prospective, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study involving patients
      undergoing ESWL for renal and ureteric stones. Exclusion criteria applies (please see below).
      The patients will be randomised into 2 groups: study VS control. Randomisation is done by
      using a computer generated list with block randomisation, assigning consecutive patients to
      either treatment arms. Our standard treatment is intravenous pethidine 50mg and intravenous
      maxolon 10mg at the onset of the ESWL session, followed by oral analgesics- NSAIDs with a
      gastroprotective agent. For this study, we will standardise all to oral naproxen 550mg BD
      with oral omeprazole 20mg BD. The study group will receive the standard treatment, with oral
      alfuzosin 10mg ON for 1 month, while the control group will receive a placebo. Patients will
      be given a diary in which to chart their pain scores, use of analgesics, episodes of pain,
      passage of stones, side-effects of the medications and complications of treatment. At the end
      of one month, all patients will be called back for review. Stone free status is ascertained
      with an X-ray, and the diary will be collected for further analysis.
    
  