
    
      Fatigue and cognitive impairment are commonly reported symptoms associated with impaired
      quality of life (QOL) and productivity in breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.
      Working memory, the brain's system for temporarily storing and manipulating information
      required to carry out more complex cognitive tasks, is particularly affected by cancer and
      its treatment.

      In women who have undergone chemotherapy for breast cancer, neuroimaging studies show
      structural brain changes as well as functional inefficiencies in a region critical for
      working memory, the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). Fatigue appears to play a
      critical role in the recruitment of the DLPFC during cognitive tasks.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a safe, portable, non-invasive form of
      electrical brain stimulation that enhances neuronal transmission beneath scalp electrodes.
      Our group and others have shown that when applied to the left DLPFC, tDCS improves energy in
      patients with fatiguing medical conditions and that it improves cognition in both healthy
      adults and those with neurodegenerative diseases.

      The proposed feasibility trial is a randomized, sham-controlled, double-blind experiment.
      Eligible individuals will be ≥ age 18 years with stage I-IV breast cancer undergoing
      docetaxel-based chemotherapy every 3 weeks (at least 60 mg/m2 dose) with or without
      HER2-targeted therapy who self-report moderate or severe fatigue (rated ≥ 4 on a scale of
      0-10) during at least 3 days of their most recent chemotherapy cycle. Participants will be
      randomized to either active or sham tDCS and will undergo 5 consecutive treatments of daily
      tDCS beginning the Monday following the first day of their on-study chemotherapy cycle.
      Active treatment will consist of a mild electrical current (2mA) administered via
      saline-soaked sponge electrodes placed along the intact scalp for 30 minutes a day for five
      days. Sham stimulation will involve brief delivery of current in a manner that does not
      result in changes in neuronal firing patterns, but that is perceived as active treatment by
      participants.

      Participants will complete self-report measures of fatigue, cognitive function and QOL along
      with cognitive testing at the beginning and end of the five-day intervention. Subjective
      fatigue, QOL and cognitive function will be also assessed prior to administration of the next
      cycle of chemotherapy. Total time on study will be approximately 3 weeks (one cycle of
      chemotherapy). Daily subjective fatigue will be monitored throughout participation.
    
  