
    
      Itch is a very common complication of diamorphine used in spinal anaesthesia for caesarean
      section with a local incidence of 78%. It ranges from irritating to distressing and difficult
      to treat and can adversely affect maternal satisfaction, wellbeing and bonding with their
      baby.

      This trial aims to determine whether acupuncture using a commercially-available acupuncture
      stud at the LI11 point reduces the incidence and severity of post-operative itching in
      patients undergoing elective caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia with intrathecal
      diamorphine.

      80 women having a planned caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia will be recruited by
      informed consent and randomised to the intervention group or the control group. The
      intervention group will receive an acupuncture stud at the LI11 point on either arm and the
      control group will receive acupuncture with a similar stud containing a smaller needle at a
      non-acupuncture point on either arm. The stud can be left in-situ until the followup visit
      the following morning or removed earlier at the participants discretion. All other care will
      be the usual clinical care including access to anti-itching drugs as required. Participants
      will be visited by a member of the research team at 3-5 hours following the start of their
      spinal anaesthetic and asked to mark their itch on an 11 point visual analogue scale (VAS).
      They will also be visited by a member of the research team the following morning, asked to
      rate their worst itch on the same scale and asked how troublesome they have found their itch
      (none, mild, moderate, severe). The administration of any anti-itch drugs will be recorded
      and if the acupuncture stud has not been removed it will be removed at this time.

      If effective, acupuncture with an acupuncture stud would provide an acceptable, convenient,
      safe and cost-effective treatment.
    
  