
    
      On the first study day, the subjects will come to the Clinical Research Center (CRC) early in
      the morning. In the first 90 minutes (acclimation session) of the study day EEG electrodes
      will be applied and EEG signals will be measured continuously throughout the session.
      Subjects will be instructed of the controls and operation of the driving simulator and
      perform a 10 minute test drive to familiarize with it. Afterwards they will perform a battery
      of cognitive tests including the Motor Praxis Task, the Visual Object Learning Test, the
      Fractal-2-Back, the Abstract Matching, the Line Orientation Test, the Digit-Symbol
      Substitution Task, the Balloon Analog Risk Test, and the Psychomotor Vigilance Test to get
      familiar with the cognitive tests. The cognitive battery will last approximately 25 minutes.
      The collected data of the conditioning session won't be part of the analysis. The purpose of
      the session is that subjects adapt to the measures.

      Following the acclimation session, the resting baseline for the subjects will be measured
      which will consist of a simultaneous assessment of cognitive performance and brain activity.
      The subjects will first drive for 30 minutes on the driving simulator to establish a resting
      baseline of the driving performance. Afterwards a resting baseline for cognitive tests will
      be established to measure attention, vigilance, risk-taking and decision-making. EEG will be
      recorded concurrently during driving and cognitive tests. No blood samples will be taken
      during the assessment of the resting baseline. Subjects will be discharged from the CRC after
      completion of the baseline session (approximately 2 hours) until the evening. During this
      time subjects are not allowed to sleep and they will be informed to not consume any caffeine
      containing products (e.g. Red Bull, coffee). Upon return to the CRC, the subjects will be
      sleep deprived and supervised by at least one of the study coordinators and at least one
      additional person to make sure the subjects don't fall asleep during the night.

      The following day, 24 hours after the resting baseline session, the fatigue baseline session
      will start. Sessions of resting baseline and fatigue baseline will be scheduled for the same
      time of day on two consecutive days to account for circadian alignment. The testing procedure
      will be identical to the resting baseline session that means subjects will drive for 60
      minutes on the driving simulator and perform the same cognitive tests as in the baseline
      session. After completion of the fatigue baseline session, the study drug (armodafinil 250 mg
      or placebo) will be administered. To determine the pharmacokinetics, blood samples will be
      obtained prior to drug dosing and at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 and 10 hours post-dose
      through an intravenous catheter placed in the arm vein of the subjects. After study drug
      intake subjects will perform 5 sessions on the driving simulator consisting of 30-minute
      drives. The same battery of tests performed at baseline will be performed between the drives.
      The tested cognitive abilities play an important role during driving and the investigators
      will investigate to what extent sleep deprivation alters these abilities and how armodafinil
      is able to counter the deteriorating effects of sleep deprivation on these capabilities.
    
  