
    
      Smoking remains the leading cause of preventable death and disability in the United States.
      Whereas smoking has declined significantly among individuals in the general population, it is
      clustered in populations of vulnerable individuals such as people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWH)
      in whom smoking prevalence rates and resulting comorbidity rates remain high. Medical
      advances in the treatment of HIV have resulted in substantial increases in life expectancy
      among PLWH and as a consequence PLWH smokers are now, more than ever, at heightened risk for
      tobacco-related illnesses and death. PLWH smokers engaged in treatment lose more years of
      life due to smoking now than to HIV disease. Although PLWH smokers engaged in HIV care
      typically see a medical provider every 4-6 months, smoking cessation treatment and referral
      is often not part of routine HIV care. While 94% of HIV treatment providers indicated that
      they would be willing to provide smoking cessation services to their patients, few have
      received training in how to provide smoking cessation services. With seven first line
      pharmacotherapies available for smoking cessation, development of algorithms to assist
      providers in selecting the most appropriate pharmacotherapy is an important but untested
      strategy to increase smoking cessation in PLWH. The purpose of this proposal is to conduct a
      mixed efficacy/effectiveness trial comparing an algorithm treatment with prescription cost
      off sets and quit line referral (AT) to an enhanced Treatment as Usual (quit line referral
      only; eTAU) group. Six hundred PLWH smokers will be recruited at the University of Alabama at
      Birmingham, University of Washington, and Fenway Health HIV clinics and will be randomized to
      receive AT or eTAU. All AT smokers will receive active treatment for twelve weeks regardless
      of stated motivation or intention to quit. eTAU smokers will be referred to quit line
      services and HIV providers may elect to treat smoking as part of standard of care.
      Participants will remain in the study for 12 months.
    
  