
    
      1. Background

           In Switzerland, the proportion of over-fifty-year-olds is growing rapidly - between 1996
           and 2007, the proportion of people over 50 in employment grew from 26% to 31%. By 2020,
           the proportion will increase to one-third (Meyer, 2008). In addition, the baby boomers
           will retire in the next few years. In the canton of Glarus, about 26% will be older than
           65 years in 2030, compared to only 18% today. The use of health services and the
           consequential higher costs for the health system will rise dramatically (Cruz et al.,
           2014). It is believed that approximately 2 billion Swiss Francs could be saved by 2030
           by means of health promotion and disease prevention programs in this age group (Stuck et
           al., 2009). In 2007, the Federal Council designed the "Strategies for the Swiss old-age
           policy", which is based on the assumptions of "active aging" by the WHO in 2002. The
           knowledge gained showed that in particular individual health literacy and behavioral and
           relationship-oriented health promotion efforts strengthen the health and social
           integration. Moreover, the Federal Council describes that health promotion and the
           prevention of chronic diseases and functional disability will be future needs (Rielle,
           Wirz, & Wiesli, 2010). This is supported by the data available from the Federal Office
           of Statistics, which identified a permanent health problem by 43.2% among 55-64 year
           olds and 47.2% among 65-74 year olds (BFS, 2012).

           For the above mentioned reasons the existing LINTHPRAXEN Medical Center is expanding
           their facilities and services in the form of a prevention center. One part of the
           expansion is creating an occupational therapy-led health promotion program. The program
           is based on the essential components of the already existing programs "Tatkraft - Gesund
           im Alter durch Betätigung" (Ferber et al., 2012) "Lifestyle Matters" (Mountain et al.,
           2008) and "Life-Redesign-Prgram" (Jackson et al., 1998, Hay et al., 2002, Clark et al.,
           2012) .

           A demand for this program can be seen especially in the municipality of Glarus Süd.
           According to the "Report on the aging policy in the cantons" of Rielle et al. (2010) the
           Canton of Glarus and the municipality of Glarus Süd carry out a barely effective age
           policy. The report lists the relevant issues as: living in old age, health / prevention,
           finances, volunteer work, social integration and the maintaining of independence of the
           elderly. When implementing an age strategy, the community setting is of great
           importance. The "Model Health Canton Glarus", published in February 2014, reflects the
           problematic situation of the aging population in Glarus and defines principles that
           describe strategies for health care. Among other things, the Canton aims to expand the
           health promotion and prevention services and to link local players in health care (Cruz
           et al. 2014). The project "bliib gsund" is therefore a suitable first initiative in this
           area.

        2. Program objectives

           The program objectives are primarily aimed at learning skills to integrate
           health-promoting aspects in daily life and to maintain the quality of life (strengthen
           the sense of coherence, increase quality of life, increase self-efficacy). The main
           aspect is to maintain the autonomy and independence of the people in everyday life as
           long as possible.

        3. Intended Curriculum

           The main aspect of this study is the pilot implementation of the health-promoting
           program "bliib gsund". The approach chosen is based on participation to increase the
           chances of the program to be based on the specific needs of the target audience and to
           be able to recruit enough participants (at least five to eight) and to communicate the
           program content effectively. Paying close attention to the needs of the participants
           concerning program development via a needs analysis increases the chances of success.
           The project steps are thus as described below.

           3.1 Needs Analysis

           For the needs analysis, existing patients (older than 50) of the LINTHPRAXEN Medical
           Center health center were interviewed about their expectations of and interests in
           health-promoting services. The aim was to identify how and by what measures the
           participants feel best addressed. The questions' structure was mostly nominal scales and
           semi-open to give the respondents the opportunity to state their individual response
           (Porst, 2011).

           We sent 2'000 questionnaires to 1'000 households, of which 265 (13.3%) were sent back
           and then evaluated. This response rate is considered satisfying. Of the 265 responding
           persons, 162 are women and 93 men. The age distribution shows that 147 persons are aged
           50-64, 105 between 65-79 years and four persons are over 80 years of age.

           The questions that dealt with the "bliib gsund" program showed that 43.4% were
           interested in taking part in it. The reasons for not being interested were participation
           in other activities or lack of time. Topics for the program content specified in the
           questionnaires were: adequate exercise in everyday life, healthy diet, memory training,
           getting acquainted with new technologies, skill training, social relationships, getting
           to know other health promotion programs in the community as well as safety indoors and
           outdoors. These specifications provide a good program content basis. The financing of
           the program participation is accepted by the participants. 89.1% would be willing to pay
           money for such a program. 66.8% would pay 11-20 Swiss Francs per lesson, 22.8% up to 10
           Swiss Francs. A subscription of 300 Swiss Francs for the six-month program as well as
           other options at the LINTHPRAXEN prevention center would be acquired by 64.2% of the
           people. Of those who are interested in the program, 86.5% would even be willing to
           acquire the subscription. A large proportion of the potential participants could imagine
           participating in the program once per week (47.2%), 23.6% once every two weeks and 13.7%
           one to two times a week.

           These results clearly show that a need exists in the community Glarus Süd. The
           inhabitants would even be willing to finance the cost of the program and they would make
           time for it. There were participants from the age groups of 50-64 year olds as well as
           65-79 year olds. If as many participants as the survey suggests could actually be
           recruited for the program (approx. 100 people), they could be split up into groups
           according to interests and availability during the week. The survey among the potential
           participants has acquainted them with the program so that recruiting and advertising
           should be easier. The results of the survey can therefore clearly be rated as very
           positive and helpful.

           3.2 Program development

           The results of the above described needs analysis are used for the design of the
           program. Contents and interventions are matched with findings from previous
           implementation of the program in other countries. The overall planning is carried out by
           the Zurich University of Applied Sciences (ZHAW) in collaboration with Angelika Beck, an
           occupational therapist in the region. She also will lead the implementation of the
           program.

           3.3 Recruitment of program participants

           Potential participants are recruited from the address file of the LINTHPRAXEN Medical
           Center, through local cooperation partners (Pro Senectute, and occupational therapy
           practice "ergoalltag", through doctors and public media, i.e. newspapers, posters and
           flyers). Another access might be through the church and other seniors' organizations.
           The aim is to reach a group size of up to ten participants. The program might also run
           parallel courses, separated according to their activity level and program contents.

        4. Intended project steps and duration of the project

      The time frame of the entire project is set for November 2013 to September 2015. The planning
      and conceptual design of the study has been processed since November 2013. The actual start
      of the program is scheduled for January 2015, and it will then run six months with ten
      participants (per group). The realization of the project will take place in the existing and
      newly built facilities of LINTHPRAXEN in Linthal. The project phases as follows:

        1. Develop project idea (November 2013 to December 2013)

             1. Getting familiar with the project idea, first literature search

             2. Exchange with developers of the program in foreign countries (Germany, Austria,
                Great Britain, The Netherlands)

             3. Project concept design handed over to Dr. Fasol, including preliminary budget

             4. Meetings / consultation with the client (Dr. Fasol)

        2. Needs analysis (December 2013 to April 2014)

             1. Postal survey (devise questionnaire content and layout, questionnaire distribution)

             2. Systematize results (for further financial requests, for feedback to participants,
                for feedback to the client)

        3. Devise funding applications (December 2013 to March 2014)

             1. Detailed literature search, composing of individual applications

             2. Funding applications

        4. Adaption of the program "bliib gsund" for Glarus Süd (May 2014 to November 2014)

             1. Business plan for the offer

             2. Contracting staff / occupational therapist in program

             3. Adapting the content of the program in accordance with needs analysis

             4. Find local cooperating partners (information sheet, establish contact, information
                meetings for local potential cooperation partners)

             5. Planning evaluation (select survey instruments, adjust evaluation sheets from the
                German version of the program)

        5. Pilot implementation of "bliib gsund" (January 2015 to February 2016)

             1. 12 modules of 90 min; two parallel courses if possible

             2. Ongoing adaptation (preparing for each module)

             3. Evaluation before - after

             4. Evaluation after six months

        6. Project completion (January 2016 to March 2016) Transfer program from ZHAW to
           LINTHPRAXEN

        7. Project management (January 2014 to March 2016)

             1. Contracting

             2. Communication (reporting to donors, ZHAW internal communication, local media work,
                two publications in scientific journals, two conference visits: presentation of the
                project)
    
  