
    
      Squamous cell cancer of the head and neck (SCCHN) is believed to be caused by the long-term
      exposure of the mucous membrane on the inside of the mouth to different types of
      cancer-causing agents. This results in changes in the mouth, which can lead to the
      development of cancer.

      Infection with HPV-16 has been linked with SCCHN. Half of all cancers of the oropharynx (the
      middle part of the throat including the soft palate, base of the tongue, and tonsils) are
      caused by HPV-16. HPV-16 is normally sexually transmitted, and is the cause of cervical
      cancer in women. By finding out if the virus is also sexually transmitted to the oropharynx,
      doctors may be able to educate patients about risk factors for developing cancer in this
      region. Eventually, doctors may be able to vaccinate people who are at risk for getting this
      virus.

      You have received this questionnaire because you gave researchers your verbal consent for the
      mail-out. Along with the questionnaire, included are 2 self-addressed stamped envelopes for
      you to return the questionnaire and consent separately.

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will complete the questionnaire about your
      sexual history such as specific sexual practices and number of partners, exposure to HPV and
      other viruses, and any relevant medical history. This questionnaire should take about 10
      minutes to complete. The questionnaire will be given a study code number so that your name or
      M. D. Anderson patient ID number will not appear on the questionnaire.

      Once you have finished the questionnaire, for added privacy and confidentiality, you should
      place the signed consent form in 1 self-addressed stamped envelope (SASE) and the completed
      questionnaire into the other self-addressed stamped envelope (SASE) that has been provided.
      Please mail both envelopes back within 15 days of receiving the questionnaire.

      Once you have completed the questionnaire, your participation in this study is over.

      This is an investigational study. About 1,267 patients will be enrolled in this study. All
      will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  