
    
      After an initial infection of chicken pox, the varicella-zoster virus can remain dormant
      inside nerve cells. Years later, the virus can be reactivated, causing a repeat outbreak
      called shingles. The first symptom of shingles is usually a burning or tingling pain in one
      particular location and on one side of the body. This pain can range from mild to severe.
      Other possible symptoms of shingles include numbness and itching. After several days or 1
      week, a rash of fluid-filled blisters similar to chicken pox appears. For most healthy
      people, a case of shingles heals within a month. However, some people continue to feel pain
      after the rash and blisters have resolved; this pain is known as postherpetic neuralgia.
      Current treatments for postherpetic neuralgia include antiviral drugs, steroids,
      antidepressants, anticonvulsants, and topical products. A new topical treatment consists of a
      liquid product that is applied directly to the skin to let dry and form a thin, transparent
      barrier film. In contrast to creams or ointments that can stay in contact with skin for only
      minutes, this product remains intact on the skin for many hours, providing sustained delivery
      of a drug or medication while maintaining barrier protection for the skin. The purpose of
      this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of this new topical treatment for postherpetic
      neuralgia in adults.

      This study will last about 3 weeks and will include seven study visits on Days 1, 8, 9, 15,
      16, 22, and 23. All study visits will include questionnaires on pain levels and an
      examination and digital photos of the affected skin area. The study visit on Day 1 will also
      include a urine pregnancy test and a review of medical and medication history. During the
      study visits on Days 8, 15, and 22, one of three topical products will be applied to
      participants' affected skin. The product will dry on the skin in 30 to 45 seconds.
      Participants will then wait at the study site for 1.5 hours, after which they will record the
      time when they experienced pain relief. At each of these three treatment visits, participants
      will receive one of the following three topical products: Epikeia coatings with aspirin,
      Epikeia coatings with local anesthetic, and Epikeia coatings alone. At these three study
      visits, questionnaires, examinations, and digital photographs will occur both before and
      after the products are applied to the skin. Throughout the study, participants will record
      their pain levels and medications in a diary, which will be reviewed at all study visits.
    
  