
    
      Pain is a therapeutic challenge as well as a public health problem that is estimated to
      affect over 116 million American adults [1]; reduces quality of life; and is estimated to
      cost up to $635 billion annually. Growing recognition of the need for evidence-based,
      individual-centered treatment strategies raises expectations that health care will be
      improved by matching proven effective treatments with knowledge of patients' unique
      characteristics to optimize efficacy and safety. Essential to the goal of matching treatments
      to patients to enhance analgesic drug development and therapy is identification of
      intermediate phenotypes that capture the mechanistic complexity, genetic expression and
      epigenetic changes of hundreds of ongoing processes and mediators that influence treatment
      efficacy and safety and may form the basis for differential responses to drug therapy. The
      ability to identify functional variants in the genomic responses to pain and therapeutics at
      the sub-group and patient levels, however, has been limited to date by lack of thorough
      phenotyping for patients with pain.

      The need for a more comprehensive understanding of human phenotypes has spawned a new method
      of phenotyping studies referred to as "deep phenotyping." Deep phenotyping for
      pharmacogenomic studies requires both breath and depth to better interpret the complexities
      of genomic variations that may underlie individual differences in pain report. One approach
      to address this complexity is to use quantitative testing of clinical features to identify
      more homogeneous subsets within a group of patients with a given diagnosis or characteristic.
      Variations in quantitative measures may identify intermediate phenotypes that are genetically
      less complex yet have potentially stronger signals closer to the site of gene action. In
      pain, quantitative testing is often termed "quantitative sensory testing", or QST.

      Exclusion

        1. Current or history of mental disorder or substance abuse

        2. Allergy to aspirin, NSAIDS, or sulfonamide

        3. Pregnant and/or nursing

        4. History of peptic ulcers and/or GI bleeding

        5. Concurrent use of agents which may obscure pain report, e.g., alcohol, opioids,
           benzodiazepines, and depressants, etc

        6. Chronic use of medications confounding assessment of the inflammatory response or
           analgesia, e.g., antihistamines, NSAIDS, steroids, antidepressants

        7. Concurrent or history of chronic diseases, e.g., diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, liver
           disease, cancer, hypertension or obesity (body mass index >35)

        8. Expectation of excessive surgical difficulty, resulting in a difficulty score of 5 for
           any tooth (determined from panoramic radiograph)

        9. Subjects with extreme anxiety and who are candidates for general anesthesia or conscious
           sedation
    
  