
    
      The rising incidence of infections caused by extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL)
      producing Enterobacteriaceae is of worldwide dimensions, particularly in developing
      countries. At the American University of Beirut Medical Center (AUB-MC), the proportion of
      ESBL producing E. coli (ESBL-EC) and K. pneumoniae (ESBL-KP) strains has risen from 2.5% and
      9.8% to 22% and 27%, respectively between 1999 and 2008. The rapid spread of these multi drug
      resistant pathogens prompted the study of factors aiming at limiting the ongoing transmission
      of these organisms. Infection control interventions, such as contact isolation of infected
      patients, have been used to control outbreaks of infections caused by ESBL producing
      organisms in settings where the pathogens were isolated from rectal and axillary samples, as
      well as from upper respiratory tract secretions. These few reports raise concern for
      colonization of infected patients at sites other than the primary site of infection.
      Colonization in the absence of outbreaks has so far not been looked at systematically,
      especially in a high-endemicity area such as Lebanon. The present study ultimately aims at
      assessing the usefulness of placing patients with ESBL-EC and ESBL-KP infections on contact
      isolation during their hospital stay, and whether this practice would limit the spread of
      such infections. This is a prospective study screening hospitalized patients with ESBL-EC and
      ESBL-KP infections for colonization with the same organism at sites other than the primary
      site of infection through cultures of the rectum, skin, nasopharynx, urine and, if
      applicable, wounds. Cases will be identified through the Clinical Microbiology Laboratory at
      AUBMC and study subjects will be enrolled according to the inclusion/exclusion criteria. In
      addition to cultures of multiple body sites, molecular analysis will be performed on the
      isolated ESBL-producing strains to identify clonal relatedness. Cultures will be repeated
      monthly for a period of 6 months. The sample size is estimated at 100 patients over a two
      year period. The results of this study will have implications on infection control practices
      and will constitute a prerequisite for further studies in the future.

      The objective of this proposal is to evaluate the extent of colonization with ESBL-EC and
      ESBL-KP in hospitalized patients with active infections and designing recommendations
      accordingly.

      The specific aims include:

        1. Identify hospitalized patients with infections due to ESBL-producing organisms at a
           primary site

        2. Screen patients for colonization with ESBL-producing organisms at body sites other than
           the primary site of infection through cultures of:

             -  Rectum

             -  Skin (axillae, groin, umbilicus)

             -  Nasopharynx

             -  Urine

             -  Wound (if applicable)

        3. Perform susceptibility testing on all the collected isolates to detect ESBL-EC and
           ESBL-KP

        4. Perform molecular testing on ESBL-producing pathogens isolated from sites of
           colonization and compare them to the organisms recovered from the primary site in order
           to identify clonal relatedness

        5. Perform follow up cultures from the above mentioned sites after treatment for the
           primary infection is completed to determine duration of colonization

        6. Draw conclusions regarding extent of colonization with ESBL-producing organisms in
           hospitalized patients with a primary infection and to evaluate infection control
           implications (particularly with respect to placing patients on isolation precautions)
    
  