
    
      Eighty-six individuals with acute (admission to in-patient rehabilitation) severe hemiparetic
      stroke (Chedoke McMaster Stroke Assessment arm score of Stage 2 or 3 out of 7) will
      participate in this study. All participants will be recruited upon admission to the Shirley
      Ryan AbilityLab (formally Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago) for stroke rehabilitation
      under the administration of the study physician. Participants will receive experimental or
      comparison group therapy as adjuvant to regular in-patient and day-rehabilitation therapy.
      Participants will be evaluated weekly while in therapy and then bimonthly (every other month)
      after discharge until 1-year following baseline evaluation.

      From the admission evaluations by the study physician and other rehabilitation services,
      patients with adequate language, visuospatial, cognitive and motor function will be consented
      for participation and then screened by a study evaluation physical therapist and
      board-certified neurological clinical specialist for the specific motor inclusion criteria.
      After consent, a REDCap screening form will be initiated by the study physician's project
      coordinator with relevant data from the participant medical record. The study evaluation
      therapist will then conduct the screening that will include verification and completion of
      the inclusion/exclusion criteria and the transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) safety
      checklist that will identify any contraindication to TMS-based assessment of motor evoked
      potentials (MEPs). The Chedoke McMaster Stroke Assessment (primary motor inclusion criteria)
      is very time efficient reducing interference with in-patient therapy activities and rapidly
      identifying individuals with severe impairment facilitating participant recruitment. The
      study evaluation therapist will not need to complete the entire assessment instead only
      confirming patients at level 2 and 3 out of 7 for inclusion. The REDCap screening form and
      TMS checklist will be reviewed by the study physician. The study physician will grant medical
      clearance for TMS-based MEP assessment and participation in the study.

      Regarding motor criteria; participants not meeting the minimum of Stage 2 out of 7 on the
      Chedoke McMaster Stroke Assessment will be monitored for emergence of adequate movement.
      Shirley Ryan AbilityLab therapists routinely report Chedoke scores in daily documentation.
      The study physician and project coordinator will notify the study evaluation therapist once
      minimal movement emerges in these patients and the screening process can be initiated.
      Participants who subsequently pass screening and medical clearance for TMS-based MEP
      assessment will undergo conventional MEP assessment. Participants will later be randomly
      allocated to either the experimental or comparison treatment groups within REDCap by the
      study intervention therapist upon the first intervention session. The REDCap randomization
      algorithm is managed by the study biostatistics team and employs a concealed allocation
      table. The allocation table is constructed to balance the allocation of participants (2
      groups of n=43) by sex, presence or absence of MEPs, and level of severity as measured by the
      Fugl-Meyer Arm Motor Assessment in order to ensure equivalent baseline characteristics of
      each group. The Fugl-Meyer score will be divided in bins of 6 points. Participants,
      evaluation therapists, biostatisticians, and the study PD/PI will be blinded to group
      assignment. Intervention therapists and the study physician will not be blinded to group
      assignment. Participants will not be able to tell the difference between interventions since
      both will involve reaching practice. Participants that are not medically cleared for
      TMS-based MEP assessment will be randomly allocated to group without MEP status. It is
      anticipated that only 1-2% of participants will not be cleared for MEP assessment.

      Baseline and subsequent evaluations will include a kinematic/kinetic measurement of reaching
      function (primary endpoint, reaching distance under standardized abduction loading, normal
      gravity) and a kinematic/kinetic measurement of shoulder/elbow impairment (secondary
      endpoint, loss of independent joint control). The primary and secondary endpoints will be
      conducted at Shirley Ryan AbilityLab during both in-patient and day-rehabilitation by the
      study evaluation therapist under following initial training and certification by the study
      PD/PI. Standardized clinical evaluations of arm impairment, activity limitation, and
      participation restriction will also be performed during this phase at Shirley Ryan AbilityLab
      by the study evaluation therapist who will be blinded to intervention group. Evaluations will
      take place at baseline, weekly until discharge from rehabilitation, and then bimonthly until
      12 months post-baseline measurement. Following discharge from rehabilitation, patients will
      receive follow-up evaluations bimonthly at Northwestern University Department of Physical
      Therapy and Human Movement Sciences. These evaluations will be conducted by a second study
      evaluation therapist and board-certified neurological clinical specialist following initial
      training and certification by the study PD/PI. The second study evaluation therapist will
      also serve as the backup for the first study evaluation therapist in case of illness/absence.

      During in-patient rehabilitation and day-rehabilitation, experimental and comparison
      intervention sessions will parallel regular therapy and be conducted at Shirley Ryan
      AbilityLab and Streeterville Day Rehabilitation Center respectively by two Shirley Ryan
      AbilityLab study intervention therapists. Study intervention therapists will be initially
      trained and certified by the study PD/PI. Study intervention sessions will be 5 days per week
      during in-patient therapy and 3 days per week during day-rehabilitation. The intervention
      period for both groups will be ~45 minutes (truncated at 1 hour) in addition to the regular
      therapy schedule until discharge. Both interventions will involve performing standardized
      reaching exercises to outward targets displayed on a monitor. The experimental group
      receiving progressive abduction loading therapy will practice reaching exercises with
      abduction loading and the comparison group will practice reaching supported on a horizontal
      haptic table. All participants will have the same maximum number of sets and repetitions of
      exercise during sessions and the sessions will be truncated at 60 minutes of total contact
      time. Half of the enrolled participants are expected to transition to day-rehabilitation
      following in-patient rehabilitation. In day-rehabilitation, participants will continue to
      receive the same study intervention but only 3 days per week matching the day-rehabilitation
      schedule.
    
  