
    
      The 60 acute patients will be randomized into 4 groups. Acute patients must be enrolled
      within 3 weeks of their admission to be eligible for study. Treatment is defined as provision
      of a supplement of 1000 mg elemental calcium with 400 IU of vitamin D daily as available in
      our standard hospital formulary and deemed appropriate by the pharmacist. Group 1 will take
      the supplement of from the day of enrollment in the study to the time of wound closure. Each
      group will consist of 15 patients. Upon enrollment into the study, 10 mL of blood will be
      obtained to measure baseline 25 and 1,25 vitamin D, parathyroid hormone, alkaline
      phosphatase, vitamin D binding protein, tumor necrosis factor, and IL-6 . The patients will
      be randomized into one of 4 groups: the early treatment group (Group 1), late treatment group
      (Group 2), total treatment group (Group 3) and the no treatment group (Group 4). Group 1 will
      take a supplement of 1000 mg calcium with 400 IU of vitamin D daily during their early acute
      phase of care (from the day of enrollment in the study until the time of wound closure).
      Group 2 will take the supplement during their rehabilitation phase of care (from the time of
      wound closure to the time of discharge). Group 3 will take the supplement for the entire
      duration of their stay (from the time of enrollment into the study to the time of discharge).
      Group 4 will receive no supplement. Patients who have a DXA scan of less than -2 SD units and
      who are in a group that is not receiving a supplement at that time (Groups 1 or 4), will
      begin supplementation (1000 mg calcium and 400 international units vitamin D) as part of
      routine care. They will remain in the study for monitoring and reporting of results. Blood
      levels as described above for baseline assessment will be repeated every 4 weeks for all
      acute patients during their initial hospital admission. At the time of wound closure, all
      acute patients will have their bone mineral content, bone mineral density, lean body mass,
      fat mass and total body water measured. This will be repeated immediately prior to discharge
      and at their next 2 planned reconstructive admissions (approximately 6 months to 1 year; and
      again at 2 years). A 10 mL blood draw to measure biochemical indices as described above will
      be obtained during these repeat hospital admissions as well.
    
  