
    
      The human intestinal microbiota is composed of complex community of 10*13 to 10*14 commensal
      microorganisms[1]. Human intestine provides a nutrient-rich habitat for intestinal
      microorganism which allows a diverse ecosystem to enhance their host's immune system and
      facilitate digestive activities. Numerous researches are investigating the role of gut
      microbiota in human homeostasis, which may be related to the pathogenesis of gastrointestinal
      disease and autoimmune disorder. A research using gene-sequencing technique showed an
      abnormal microbiota composition such as specific group of Escherichia coli and decreased
      diversity of intestinal microbiota in individuals with Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD)
      [2-4]. These microbiotas may stimulate the production of cytokine and chemokines that leads
      to the mucosal inflammatory activity[5]. Gut microbiota may also link with the development of
      obesity and diabetes by affecting host fat storage and increasing energy harvest from the
      diet[6-7].

      Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) is defined as infusion of feces from healthy donors to
      affected subjects. FMT works by altering the patient's microbiome and it is now recommended
      as an effective therapy for Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) not responding to standard
      therapies8. It has attracted great interest in recent years and many researches are exploring
      the FMT's potential role for treating other gastrointestinal disease such as IBD. A recent
      clinical study evaluated the efficacy of FMT in active Ulcerative Colitis. It showed
      one-forth cases of the FMT group were in UC remission and an increase in diversity of
      microbiota composition. However, these results were dependent on the donor[9].

      There will be increasing use of FMT in clinical practice, as well as more studies
      investigating the effectiveness of FMT on other diseases in the future. However, as an
      emerging procedure, there is currently no registry system to track patient safety information
      of FMT. It is also equally important to promote scientific investigation around gut
      microbiome. Therefore, the investigators aim to establish a FMT registry platform to collect
      clinical data and specimen from FMT recipients and donors. This registry is initiated Hong
      Kong, and will be expanded to other part of Asia.
    
  