
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The Charleston Heart Study and the Evans County Study were both begun in 1960 as prospective
      cohort studies designed to study risk factors of cardiovascular disease in biracial
      communities. The Charleston Heart Study cohort comprised a random sample of Black and white
      men and women residents of Charleston County South Carolina who were 35 years of age or older
      in 1960 (n=2281). For the Evans County Study (n=3102), 100 percent of the population of Evans
      County, Georgia who were 40 years and older and 50 percent of the residents 15-39 years of
      age were recruited (92 percent response rate).

      Because of the paucity of data on Blacks and women, the data from the combined Charleston and
      Evans County studies provided important information on the existence of a low
      cholesterol/mortality association and potential effect modifiers in these understudied
      populations..

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Using datasets, the study: (1) determined if a J-shaped or U-shaped relationship between
      cholesterol and all-cause and non-CVD mortality was observed in the Charleston and Evans
      County Georgia cohorts of Blacks and whites; (2) investigated the existence of racial,
      gender, and place of residence (urban versus rural) differences in the relationship of
      cholesterol to mortality with particular emphasis on identification of racial and gender
      differences in the low cholesterol/mortality association; (3) determined if socioeconomic
      status (SES) modified the effect of cholesterol on mortality in Black and white women and
      Black and white men and determined if the effect modification of SES, if found to exist, was
      different in urban and rural settings. Data were analyzed both separately for each cohort for
      comparison across cohorts and were pooled for combined analyses. Cox proportional hazards
      regression analyses were used to model the relationship of total cholesterol to the following
      mortality endpoints: all cause, cardiovascular disease, coronary heart disease, stroke,
      cancer, non-cardiovascular disease/noncancer. Racial and gender differences in the
      relationship of cholesterol to mortality were investigated through both race-sex stratified
      analyses and inclusion of interaction terms for these variables in the regression model.
      Urban/rural differences in the cholesterol/mortality association were evaluated by testing
      for significance of difference in the regression coefficients for the cholesterol term in the
      regression models run separately for both study cohorts. The effect modification of the
      cholesterol/ mortality association by SES was investigated by comparison of the regression
      coefficients for cholesterol in models analyzed separately by high and low SES strata and in
      models containing an SES by cholesterol interaction term.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  