
    
      1. Purpose To evaluate the use of mitomycin-C (MMC) as an intraoperative adjunct during
           photorefractive keratectomy (PRK), its effect on postoperative healing and its ability
           to reduce the postoperative topical steroid course after the surgery.

        2. Research Design This is a single-center, prospective, comparative cohort study.

        3. Hypothesis There will not be a significant difference in the refractive corrections
           amongst the treatment groups, 12 months after surgery.

        4. Objectives The primary study objective is to compare the effect of intraoperative MMC
           and a postoperative short topical steroid taper of 3 weeks, intraoperative MMC and a
           rapid topical steroid taper of 1 week, and a more commonly accepted postoperative
           regimen of a 2 month long topical steroid taper without any intraoperative MMC. The
           primary endpoint evaluated will be objective estimates of refractive error (WaveScan
           WaveFront™ System) at 12 months post-surgery. Secondarily, the extent of haze formation
           will be evaluated objectively using densitometry maps generated by automated Scheimpflug
           imaging of the cornea (Pentacam®). Furthermore, the subjective vision from the patients'
           perspective will be evaluated by questionnaire.

        5. Methodology At the Navy Refractive Surgery Center San Diego (NRSC SD), a total of 300
           patients will be enrolled and randomly assigned to three cohorts. PRK will be performed
           in a standard fashion for all treatment groups. In the first two groups, intraoperative
           MMC 0.01% for a contact time of 15 seconds will be utilized. During the postoperative
           period, the first cohort will use the short steroid taper and the second cohort will use
           the rapid steroid taper. The third cohort will not receive any intraoperative MMC and
           will self-administer postoperative steroids, tapering for two months. All cohorts will
           be followed at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months after the procedure.
           Standard clinical measures of visual performance will be recorded. Since visually
           significant corneal haze is relatively rare, corneal densitometry will be used as an
           objective measure to detect subclinical corneal haze in addition to our usual subjective
           haze evaluation done by the clinical optometrists.

      The patients will complete a voluntary questionnaire that evaluates their subjective
      impression of the refractive surgery, their recovery and their outcomes. Specifically, the
      patient will report the use of refractive correction, usefulness of the surgery at work, dry
      eye complaints, and subjective appraisal of their vision.
    
  