
    
      This study registration at clinicaltrials.gov is divided into 2 records. This record
      (NCT00846612) is for pharmacokinetics of Doxil. Another record (NCT00945139) describes the
      efficacy and safety of the combination treatment.

      Treatment upon diagnosis of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) consists of surgery to achieve
      maximal tumor debulking followed by platinum-based chemotherapy (carboplatin + paclitaxel).
      Recently, optimally (e.g., < 1 cm residual disease) debulked patients appear to benefit from
      regimens that include intraperitoneal administration of cisplatin. While complete response
      (CR) is frequently achieved, by two years 50% of the patients show signs of recurrence.

      When EOC presenting at an advanced stage recurs, even after a CR had been achieved, it can no
      longer be totally eradicated. Nevertheless, a number of drugs lead to objective responses,
      patients benefit with a prolongation of survival. Anti-tumor activity of Doxil against
      ovarian cancer was noted in a phase I study, and this was followed by a phase II study that
      demonstrated activity in platinum and paclitaxel refractory disease. In the expanded phase II
      experience at the University of Southern California, responses to Doxil occurred preferably
      in disease that was not bulky and after fewer prior treatments. Typically, several cycles
      were required for maximum response, and some patients had prolonged stable disease.
      Subsequently, the study of Gordon et al established the preferred role of this drug
      formulation in the 2nd line-setting. It is logical, therefore, to build on this agent in
      trying to improve the outcome of patients with recurrent ovarian cancer, and in particular,
      to consider a combination with Avastin, since Avastin has shown agent activity in
      retrospective data and recent studies in EOC.

      A combination of Doxil with Avastin has several aspects of interest to ovarian cancer
      treatment: 1) independent single-agent activity, 2) enhanced localization of Doxil is
      possible via increased half-life (if liposomal egress is diminished) and decreased tumoral
      interstitial pressure, 3) improved Doxil distribution, and 4) likely favorable toxicity
      profile since Doxil's only common problematic toxicity is to the skin (palmar-plantar
      erythrodysesthesia or PPE). Pharmacokinetic issues will be addressed in selected patients, by
      comparing cycle 1 (without Avastin) with cycle 2 (with Avastin).
    
  