
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, your doctor will decide which
      group you will be in based on your medical history.

        -  Group 1 will receive SIR-Spheres with yttrium-90 attached and cetuximab.

        -  Group 2 will receive SIR-Spheres with yttrium-90 attached, cetuximab, and erlotinib.

      Once it is decided which combination you will receive, you will be assigned to a dose level
      of cetuximab based on when you join the study. Up to 3 dose levels of cetuximab will be
      tested. Three (3) to 6 participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group of
      participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a higher dose
      than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until
      the highest tolerable doses of the combinations are found.

      All study participants will receive a dose level of the SIR-Spheres with yttrium-90 attached
      based on the results of the "break-through" scan (described below).

      If you are assigned to Group 2, you will also receive erlotinib. If you are tolerating
      erlotinib well after 1 cycle, you may begin receiving a higher dose of erlotinib in Cycle 3
      and beyond.

      Break-through Scan:

      You will have a "break-through" scan within 29 days before receiving the SIR-Spheres with
      yttrium-90 microspheres. This scan will measure the supply of blood in your lungs and will
      also be used to check your liver. For this test, a small amount of radioactive material will
      be injected into your liver and images will be taken to see how the material moves through
      your lungs and liver. The radioactive material will be given through a catheter in a vein in
      your groin. A catheter is a sterile, flexible tube that will be placed through your groin
      artery into the artery leading to your liver while you are under local anesthesia. Your
      doctor will explain this procedure to you in more detail.

      The results of this test will be used to determine if you will receive a full or partial dose
      of SIR-Spheres with yttrium-90 microspheres.

      Radiation and Study Drug Administration:

      Each study cycle is 28 days.

      You will receive the SIR-Spheres with yttrium-90 microspheres on Day 1 of Cycle 1 only.
      Before you receive the SIR-Spheres with Yttrium-90 microspheres, you will receive sedative
      drugs by vein to put you to sleep. SIR-Spheres with yttrium-90 microspheres will then be
      given to you through a catheter in a vein in your groin.

      After you are given the yttrium-90 microspheres, the catheter will be removed and pressure
      will be applied to your groin to stop any bleeding. You will then be monitored for 6 hours to
      check for any side effects. If needed, you will be given pain medication after the infusion.
      Your study doctor will decide which pain medications to give you.

      Cetuximab will be given by vein 1 time each week during Weeks 2-4 of Cycle 1, and then 1 time
      every week for Cycles 2 and beyond. The first time you receive cetuximab, it will be given
      over 2 hours. Every time you receive cetuximab after that, it will be given over 1 hour.

      If you are assigned to receive erlotinib, you will take it by mouth 1 time each day starting
      on Day 1 of Cycle 2. You should take it at the same time each day . You should take it on an
      empty stomach either 1 hour before or 2 hours after eating. The study staff will give you
      more instructions for taking erlotinib.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of Cycle 1:

        -  Before you receive the SIR-Spheres with yttrium-90 microspheres, your blood vessels will
           be checked. For this test, you will receive an x-ray dye through the catheter that will
           help the study staff look at the arteries leading to your liver and surrounding areas.

        -  You will have a physical exam and your medical history will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      During Weeks 2 and 4 of Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam and your medical history will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Every 8 weeks, you will have an x-ray, CT scan, MRI scan, and/or PET/CT scan to check the
      status of the disease.

      About every 4 weeks starting at the beginning of Cycle 2:

        -  You will have a physical exam and your medical history will be recorded

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. This routine blood draw will
           include a pregnancy test if you are able to become pregnant.

      Length of Study:

      You receive the study drugs for as long as you are benefitting. You will no longer be able to
      take the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you
      are unable to follow study directions.

      This is an investigational study. SIR-Spheres are FDA-approved and commercially available to
      treat metastatic colorectal cancer that has spread to the liver. Yttrium-90 microspheres are
      FDA-approved for hepatic arterial therapy and the treatment of liver metastases. Cetuximab is
      FDA-approved and commercially available to treat head and neck and colorectal cancer.
      Erlotinib is FDA-approved and commercially available to treat non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) and pancreatic cancer. The use of this combination to treat advanced cancer is
      investigational.

      Up to 136 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  