
    
      The SMS intervention was developed in 2 phases: (i) stakeholder consultation and (ii)
      technical design. Twenty-three consultation meetings were held with 78 drug store owners and
      attendants, 45 dispensary and health centre clinical officers and nurses, and 148 adolescents
      in communities. These stakeholders prioritised key deficiencies in existing RH provision and
      preferred strategies to address them. Detailed methods and results of these consultations are
      presented elsewhere (Consultation Paper in preparation). In brief government health
      facilities wanted an intervention that allows dispensaries and health centres to take charge
      of STI treatment and provide skilled service for other RH needs. Drug stores wanted an
      intervention that recognises and integrates their contribution to the health system, while
      adolescents wanted an intervention that promotes accessibility, confidentiality and trust of
      service providers. Through subsequent meetings, an SMS intervention strategy was identified
      because all clinical officers and drug store attendants demonstrated use mobile phones on a
      day-to-day basis.

      The intervention design prioritised patients' ease of access to service: when a patient comes
      to a drug store to buy medicines for a RH related problem that may require a prescription
      drug, the drug store explains the referral system. If the patient accepts, the drug store
      sends a text message with the patient details to a toll-free number connected to a
      web-system. The system processes and forwards the patient details including a password to a
      dispensary matched with the referrer drug store. At the same time, that password is sent back
      to the referrer drug store so that it can be passed on to the patient. While at dispensary,
      patients with a password are received, matched with details received in text messages, and
      given fast track RH service, after which the dispensary sends a text message to the toll-free
      number confirming the completeness of patient treatment. This intervention is implemented in
      all 9 intervention wards in Mwanza. No intervention is implemented in the 9 comparison wards.
    
  