
    
      Hoarding disorder (HD) is a common and severe new diagnostic category. HD has two core
      dimensions: difficulty discarding items and the resultant clutter, which may preclude the use
      of living spaces for their intended. Other HD criteria, distress and impairment, often
      include unemployment, removal of children, health risks (e.g. infestations, falls, fires,
      etc.). The estimated prevalence of hoarding is 5.3% in adults and 2% in youth.

      Existing treatments of hoarding are only partially effective. Emerging evidence supports the
      partial efficacy of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) in the treatment of HD though,
      paradoxically, this therapy mostly addresses the excessive attachment to possessions but not
      the above-identified cognitive deficits. On the other hand, the study of pharmacological
      treatments for hoarding is in preliminary stages and there currently are no well-validated or
      official guidelines for the use of psychotropic medications in HD. Given that HD is a highly
      prevalent and severe condition, there is an urgent need to address this gap in the literature
      to improve the well-being of patients with the disorder.

      Emerging evidence suggests that serotonergic medications may have an important role in the
      treatment of HD. First, HD is highly comorbid with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and
      major depressive disorder (MDD), two disorders that respond well to serotonergic medications.
      Second, a recent meta analysis of 14 clinical trials suggested that hoarding symptoms had
      responded to selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRIs) (i.e., paroxetine and sertraline)
      and venlafaxine, a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, with response rates
      ranging between 37%-76% of participants. Interestingly, this response rate is similar to
      response rates reported by meta-analyses of the treatment response of OCD to SRIs. However,
      those findings should be interpreted with caution given the lack of controlled studies and
      the diagnostic heterogeneity, the latter a result of the diagnostic ambiguity that prevailed
      prior to the introduction of HD in the fifth version of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
      (DSM-5).

      Treatment of hoarding symptoms should ideally target the obsessional aspect of the syndrome
      (abnormal attachment to possessions), some or all of the identified cognitive deficits and
      commonly associated comorbidities. Although preoccupation with possessions, an OCD/MDD-like
      feature of hoarding, can arguably be addressed by the use of Serotonin reuptake inhibitors
      (SR) medications that are highly effective for the treatment of OCD and MDD , targeting
      cognitive deficits in hoarding likely requires a different approach and the use of newer
      generation serotonergic medications.

      Vortioxetine is a novel serotonergic antidepressant with a unique pharmacodynamics profile,
      reported precognitive effects and proven efficacy for the treatment of MDD . Vortioxetine is
      a 5-HT3, 5-HT7 and 5-HT1D receptor antagonist, 5-HT1B receptor partial agonist, 5-HT1A
      receptor agonist and serotonin (5-HT) transporter (SERT) inhibitor. There is preliminary
      evidence that Vortioxetine's unique serotonergic modulation profile may be associated with
      distinct mechanisms of action at the brain network level. In addition, several studies1
      report that Vortioxetine is associated with improved cognitive performance in patients with
      MDD. These procognitve effects appear to distinguish Vortioxetine from other antidepressant
      agents. As such, Vortioxetine should be considered a prime candidate for medication trials in
      HD. To date, however, no studies of vortioxetine in HD have been published.

      With this in mind the goal of the present study is to conduct a preliminary, single-group
      open-label investigation of the potential efficacy of Vortioxetine for treatment of 30 adult
      volunteers with HD (flexible-dose study, with a target dose range 5-25mg). The proposed study
      will be the first Vortioxetine study in HD, and conducted at the ATRC Canada's largest
      academic anxiety clinic, a regional referral center for individuals with HD. The study
      requires a letter of no objection from Health Canada and the study will be approved by
      Hamilton Integrated Research Ethics Board (HiREB).
    
  