
    
      Background: Keloids affect upto 16% of Africans and often demonstrate more aggressive
      behaviour with poor response to existing therapies.

      Adipose derived stem cells have been described to have inhibitory effects on keloid growth
      with several invitro studies and case series reporting promising findings.

      Despite this knowledge, no clinical trial has been conducted to compare the efficacy of these
      adipose derived stem cells to existing standard therapy. We intend to conduct a clinical
      trial comparing the adipose derived stem cells to the existing standard of care here in
      Uganda which is Triamcinolone Acetanoide a trial that is registered under the clinical trial
      number NCT04391621. Before scaling up this study, we intend to evaluate the feasibility to
      conducting a full scale study by first piloting the same trial to a smaller number of
      participants.

      The primary objective of this study will be to describe the feasibility and safety of adipose
      derived stem cells in the treatment of keloids as well as to document the process of
      autologous adipose derived stem cells harvesting and processing. The secondary outcome will
      be the clinical endpoints of keloid regression and symptom relief at the end of one month.

      This will be a pilot parallel and un-blinded randomised controlled trial that will be
      conducted at Mulago National Referral Hospital. 6 patients will be allocated randomly into
      either Triamcinolone group and Adipose Derived Stem cells group. Each arm will receive the
      respective single dose infiltration of the selected treatment.

      The patients will be followed up for three months for keloid regression and symptom relief as
      well as development of side effects.

      Utility: This pilot study is intended to evaluate the feasibility of conducting a clinical
      trial on the efficacy of Autologous adipose derived stem cells in the treatment of keloids
    
  