
    
      Background:

        -  Enzalutamide is a well-tolerated, modern androgen receptor antagonist (ARA) with more
           enhanced anti-tumor activity compared to previous ARAs. Phase III trial has demonstrated
           a 4.8 month improvement in survival and a 37% risk reduction in death in metastatic
           castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients who have had previous docetaxel.

        -  PROSTVAC is a therapeutic cancer vaccine which is designed to induce an anti-tumor
           immune response. In a randomized controlled Phase 2 trial, PROSTVAC therapy was
           associated with a prolongation of survival by 8.5 months in men with metastatic
           castrateresistant prostate cancer. An international Phase 3 trial is on-going.

        -  Preclinical data has demonstrated that hormonal therapies such as ARAs can enhance the
           immune response through multiple mechanisms. Specifically, our group has shown that
           enzalutamide can increase thymic production of na(SqrRoot) ve T-cells, which could be
           activated by a cancer vaccine. Together, these data provide an important rationale to
           combine enzalutamide with PSA-TRICOM in mCRPC.

        -  Data from the clinical trials with these therapies suggest that they are very well
           tolerated and without overlapping toxicity.

      Objective:

      -Determine if PSA-TRICOM combined with enzalutamide will increase time to progression (as
      defined by Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 2 criteria, incorporated in section
      5.2) in chemotherapy-naive metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer patients compared
      to enzalutamide alone.

      Design:

        -  The study will randomize chemotherapy-naive, mCRPC patients to either enzalutamide alone
           or enzalutamide with PSA-TRICOM. Enzalutamide will be given at the standard dose of 160
           mg daily.

        -  PSA-TRICOM will be administered identical to the Phase III dosing with vaccine given
           week 1 (vaccinia-PSA-TRICOM, 2x10(8) units subcutaneously) and then week 3, 5 and then
           monthly fowlpox-vaccine (1x10(9) units subcutaneously).

        -  After completing 6 months of vaccine, fowlpox-vaccine (1x10(9) units subcutaneously will
           be administered every 3 months. Patients will be treated until radiographic progression
           on scans using Prostate Cancer Working Group Criteria.

      Eligibility:

        -  mCRPC patients with rising PSA or progressive disease despite castration levels of
           testosterone.

        -  Chemotherapy-na(SqrRoot) ve with minimal or no symptoms related to prostate cancer.

        -  Patients with history of autoimmune disease, brain/leptomeningeal metastasis, a second
           malignancy within 3 years of enrollment, or a severe co-morbid condition will be
           excluded.

        -  Patients who have received abiraterone will be excluded

        -  Patients will be stratified based on previous immunotherapy used as cancer treatment.
    
  