
    
      Background: Background/Rationale: Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the leading cause of death
      in the United States, resulting in more than 500,000 heart attacks and another 500,00 deaths
      per year. More than 80% of veterans have > 2 risk factors for CHD, underscoring the need for
      intervention. One major modifiable risk factor for CHD is elevated low-density lipoprotein
      cholesterol (LDL-C). Despite the proven success of diet, exercise, and medication, LDL-C
      frequently is not at the optimum level, due in part to patient nonadherence. Therefore,
      interventions are needed to increase adherence, thereby lowering LDL-C.

      Objectives: Objectives: We examined the effect of a patient-spouse intervention to lower
      LDL-C by increasing patient treatment adherence. The primary hypothesis was that patients
      enrolled in a telephone-based, spouse-assisted intervention will experience a clinically
      meaningful 7% reduction in LDL-C. The secondary hypotheses were that patients who receive the
      intervention would show a significant increase in adherence to medication, diet, and
      exercise.

      Methods: In a 3-year study, a randomized controlled trial compared a 10-month,
      telephone-based, spouse-assisted intervention to usual care. Married patients with above-goal
      LDL-C and their spouses were consented, completed a baseline assessment, and then were
      randomly assigned to the intervention or usual care arm. Month 1 involved an educational call
      delivered to patients and spouses. Months 2-10 (except month 6) involved monthly goal setting
      calls delivered to patients and calls focused on increasing social support to spouses. The
      patient phone call will always preceded the spouse phone call. At 6 and 11 months, LDL-C and
      adherence were re-assessed. The primary outcome was LDL-C measured three times (baseline, 6
      months, 11 months); secondary outcomes were adherence to medication, diet, and exercise, also
      assessed at baseline, 6 months, and 11 months. Descriptive statistics were computed for all
      study variables within each study arm. Mixed effects models were used to evaluate the
      intervention's effect on the primary and secondary outcomes at 11 months. We also calculated
      intervention cost.

      Status: Enrollment began in Fall, 2007 and was completed in July of 2009.

      Impact: Elevated LDL-C is a major risk factor for CHD, stroke, and peripheral vascular
      disease, all of which are common among veterans. The expected increase in prevalence of CHD
      over the next several decades will result in an increased burden for both veterans and the VA
      health care system. Despite the known risk of hypercholesterolemia, many veterans have
      suboptimal LDL-C levels. As the latest evidence and recommendations suggest that these goals
      should be even lower, interventions to assist patients to lower LDL-C increasingly will be
      needed. The VA considers the reduction of LDL-C an important goal, as indicated by the major
      effort of the Ischemic Heart Disease Quality Enhancement Research Initiatives (QUERI). This
      study is important because (1) it addresses a highly prevalent risk factor for CHD among
      veterans; (2) it proposes a potentially low-cost method for improving LDL-C levels, which in
      turn could reduce VA healthcare costs; (3) the intervention is practical and could be
      disseminated easily in the VA healthcare system if proven effective; and (4) this
      intervention provides a model for self-management of other chronic diseases, such as diabetes
      and hypertension.
    
  