
    
      The primary objective of the SPIRIT-HF study is to compare Spironolactone to Placebo in
      reducing the rate of the composite endpoint of recurrent heart failure hospitalizations and
      cardiovascular (CV) death in symptomatic HF patients (NYHA II-IV) with mid-range (LVEF 40- 49
      %) or preserved (LVEF ≥ 50 %) ejection fraction.

      The efficacy and safety of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist (MRA) in reducing the risk
      of death and hospitalizations has been proven with two separate substances (Spironolactone;
      RALES 1999 and Eplerenone; EMPHASIS 2011) in symptomatic heart failure patients with reduced
      left- ventricular ejection fraction (HFrEF). In 2013 the TOPCAT investigators tried to proof
      similar efficacy in patients with heart failure and preserved ejection fraction (≥ 45%).
      Because of regional variations in the enrollment process and difficulties regarding drug
      adherence the trial revealed neutral findings but the substance spironolactone was still able
      to show its potential benefit in the American cohort. Hence, the investigators see a strong
      rationale for testing a mineralocorticoid receptor blocker in patients suffering from heart
      failure with mid-range or preserved left ventricular ejection fraction.

      Intervention:

      Mineralocorticoid receptor blocker Spironolactone in tablet form taken daily. Starting dosage
      will be 25 mg OD with dosage escalation to 50 mg OD within 4 weeks if kidney function at VR
      was > 30 mL/min/m2 and potassium < 4.5 mmol/L. Spironolactone is not approved for the
      treatment of HFmrEF and HFpEF.

      Matching placebo in tablet form taken daily with dosage escalation rules in accordance with
      dosage of the study drug Spironolactone.

      Visits:

      Screening (VScr), Visit of Randomization (VR), V1 Safety Visit (1 week), V2 (4 weeks), V2S
      Safety Visit (5 week), V3 (4 months), V4 (8 months), V5 (12 months), V6 (18 months), V7 (24
      months), V8 (30 months), V9 (36 months), V10 (42 months), V11/EOT (48 months); VXS (1 week
      after Visit X).

      Individual intervention duration with spironolactone or placebo will be continued until the
      overall expected event rate is reached or until withdrawal of informed consent. Based on
      previous HF trials the investigators calculate a mean follow-up duration of 3 years (range
      2-4 years) depending on the individual inclusion date.

      Duration of follow-up will be event-rate based, with an expected overall study duration of 60
      months. With an anticipated recruitment phase of 24 months; this will result in a maximum
      follow-up of 48 months and an average follow-up per patient of 36 months assuming a constant
      recruitment rate.
    
  