
    
      To address the aims a proof-of-concept study will be conducted to ascertain whether a dietary
      nitrate approach might prove useful adjunctive therapy improving vascular function in
      patients with stable angina post elective angioplasty.

      Design: A prospective randomised, single-centre, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial

      Setting: Patients with stable angina and single/multiple coronary artery stenosis undergoing
      elective percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) who are haemodynamically stable (systolic
      BP>100 mmHg). These patients will be recruited at The Barts Health Heart Centre, based at St.
      Bartholomew's Hospital. This is one of the biggest centres in the United Kingdom, serving a
      population of almost two million people from The City of London and The North East up to the
      M25 and is a 24/7 centre performing approximately 2000 non-primary angioplasties a year.

      The study will take place in the Clinical Trials Unit, William Harvey Heart Centre.

      Target population: A total of 246 patients (male and female, age 18-85) with stable angina as
      per requirements indicated above. Follow-up will take place in the Clinical Trials Unit,
      William Harvey Research Institute.

      Treatment: Patients will be randomised (using an on line randomisation database) to receive
      70 ml of a beetroot juice concentrate containing 4-5 mmol nitrate or nitrate-deplete placebo
      juice concentrate. This intervention will be taken by the patient daily from one day prior to
      re-establishment of flow with PCI and stent implantation.

      Analysis: We will analyse the results based on an intention to treat analysis. We will also
      carry out further per protocol analyses and a subgroup analysis on patients who are on
      organic nitrates as part of their routine therapy and a comparison of DES (drug-eluting
      stents) versus BMS (bare-metal stents).
    
  