
    
      Purpose: Resuscitation and hemodynamic support with intravenous (IV) vasopressors is a prime
      indication of treatment in intensive care unit (ICU) settings. Hemodynamic support is
      typically provided with intravenous (IV) vasopressors. However, these have been shown to have
      significant negative effects including increased central venous catheter line associated
      infections, venous thromboembolic disease, impaired mobility and gastrointestinal injury and
      ischemia. Oral vasopressors, such as midodrine, have been historically used for hemodynamic
      support in non-critically ill patients, but their study in patients as IV pressor sparing
      therapy has been limited.

      Hypothesis: to evaluate the expanded role of midodrine for any vasoplegic patients in the
      ICU.

      Justification: In 2018, there were 1,613 admissions to the adult general systems ICU (GSICU)
      at the University of Alberta Hospital (UAH). Patients were sick, with a mean Acute Physiology
      and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE) score of 21.3, with 36.4% requiring vasopressors on
      admission, accounting for 1942 patient-days (data from eCritical TRACER database). In the
      environment strained healthcare resources and limited ICU capacity, the ability to safely
      wean patients from IV vasopressors with transition to oral hemodynamic supporting agents
      would greatly improve how patients navigate through the healthcare system. This in turn will
      improve patient-centered case.

      Primary Objective:

      To determine if recruitment for LIBERATE is achievable and feasible To compare the effect of
      enteral midodrine vs placedo on duration of vasopressor support

      Secondary Objective: To compare the effect of enteral midodrine vs. placebo on:

      ICU length of stay 90-day all-cause mortality Rate of re-initiation of IV vasopressors Rates
      of ICU re-admission Adverse events Research Method/Procedures: The LIBERATE Trial is a single
      centre, concealed-allocation parallel-group blinded pilot RCT. Patients will be randomly
      assigned to midodrine (enteral, 10mg every 8h) or placebo (carboxymethocellulose sodium) for
      the duration of their IV vasopressor therapy and 24h following the discontinuation of their
      IV vasopressor therapy. The recruitment target is 60 patients (i.e., 30 patients per arm)
      with full follow-up to ensure feasibility. Study personnel at the clinical sites will
      document the ICU length of stay. Daily assessment will occur for re-initiation of IV
      vasopressors and ICU re-admission. Patients will be followed at 90 days for mortality.

      Plan for Data Analysis: Analyses of the primary and secondary outcomes will involve summary
      measures obtained by aggregating the endpoints using Stata software package (StataCorp,
      Texas, USA). Baseline comparisons will be performed using chi-squared test for equal
      proportions with results to be reported as numbers, percentages, and 95% confidence
      intervals. Continuous normally distributed variables will be compared using paired t-tests
      and reported as means with 95% confidence intervals, while non-normally distributed will be
      compared using Wilcoxon rank sum tests and reported as medians and interquartile ranges.
    
  