
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a hormonal disorder affecting the women of reproductive
      age. It is a heterogeneous health condition that affects 1 in every 10 women of childbearing
      age. Women of all races and ethnicities are at risk for PCOS, but risk increases multiple
      folds if the BMI is greater than 30kg/m2. The common signs and symptoms, the women usually
      represent with are menstrual irregularities, hyperandrogenemia and multiple cysts in ovaries.
      The exact cause of PCOS is still unknown but genetic and obesity is considered to be the most
      common cause.

      Metformin has been considered as the first line agent for the treatment of non-insulin
      dependent diabetes mellitus and up till now it has been used as a first line drug for PCOS.
      Despite its beneficial effects in PCOS it has several adverse effects. Moreover, patients
      usually seek two or more drugs along with metformin to relieve maximum symptoms of PCOS like
      for ovulation clomiphene citrate must be given etc. So there is a need of novel and
      comprehensive agent that can prove to be effective in improving maximum symptoms of this
      disease. Probiotics have received renewed attention in the 21st century through research
      studies. World Health Organization's (WHO) 2001 defines probiotics as live micro-organisms
      that, when administered in adequate amounts, confer a health benefit on the host. In recent
      year it has shown tremendous promising effect in treatment of different diseases like
      diarrhea, gingivitis and obesity etc with negligible side effects.

      In this context the investigators are going to evaluate and compare the effects of
      probiotics, metformin and their combination therapy in treatment of various symptoms of
      PCOS.60 newly diagnosed PCOS patient will be assigned in the open label randomized clinical
      trial. As mentioned above patients will be divided into three groups with 20 patients each.
      In group 1, the dosage of metformin will be 500mg B.D and 2 gm of probiotic sachet O.D, the
      second group will be given metformin 500mg B.D. and the third group will be 2mg of probiotics
      B.D. It would be a follow-up study that would be conducted in Gynecology OPD of Tertiary Care
      Hospital
    
  