
    
      Aim of the study

      The objective of this study is to compare the effectiveness of acupuncture versus Sham
      acupuncture in reducing patient's discomfort and pain during colonoscopy with a standard
      sedation protocol. This will be objectively measured by the reduction in the amount of
      analgesia used as well as the time spent in the recovery room.

      Background and significance

      Colonoscopy is an invasive procedure, known to be uncomfortable for patients, necessitating
      the use of sedative drugs. The standard practice at the institution is to use conscious
      sedation with midazolam and fentanyl to achieve a satisfactory level of relaxation,
      cooperation, and amnesia during the procedure. Patients undergoing colonoscopy might
      experience abdominal cramps, pain and distension necessitating an increase in the sedation
      used in most of the times, in addition to aborting the procedure in rare cases. Previous
      studies have reported that the use of sedative and analgesic drugs frequently prolongs
      recovery room observation and brings rare but well-known adverse events like hypotension and
      respiratory compromise. To note that the former complications of conscious sedation are
      dependent on the doses of drugs used.

      Acupuncture is a form of alternative medicine and is used worldwide for different
      indications, mainly for pain management. It relies on the stimulation of specific acupuncture
      points along the skin of the body using thin needles. It is based on the belief that a "life
      force" circulates within the body in lines called meridians. Each meridian corresponds to an
      internal organ. Only few publications exist with respect to the role of acupuncture for
      sedation during gastrointestinal procedures. These studies showed that that the stimulation
      of LI4, S36, SP6 and SP9 acupuncture points can decrease the demand for sedative drug, as
      well as gastrointestinal discomfort and pain by electrically stimulating bilateral active
      points.Sham acupuncture on the other hand uses analogous stimulation of inactive symmetrical
      points near the active points.

      A similar study found a decrease in both frequency and intensity of post-procedural abdominal
      pain, abdominal distension , along with a shorter duration in the recovery room, however, the
      study didn't assess the decrease in the sedation requirements between the different groups.

      Another study showed that the time to pass the sigmoid and splenic flexure and time to reach
      the cecum were significantly shorter in the acupuncture group compared to the control group.

      The researchers hypothesize that "true" acupuncture or sham acupuncture can have an analgesic
      and a sedative effect that will lead to a reduction of the dosage of midazolam or fentanyl
      needed for satisfactory sedation during colonoscopies.

      Research design and methods:

      This study is designed as a single center, randomized, sham controlled trial. To test this
      hypothesis the researchers will compare three groups. Group 1 will receive true-acupuncture
      at the traditional acupuncture points P6, SP9, ST36, LI4; group 2 will get sham-acupuncture
      and group 3 will be the control group without any acupuncture needle insertion. All three
      groups will receive standard sedation with midazolam/fentanyl as it is the standard practice
      at the institution. To note, that the sedation requirements are dependent on patients and
      physician preferences. The endoscopist performing the procedure will be blinded to the
      randomization.

      The acupuncture will be performed by a qualified staff physician, and the patients enrolled
      in group A will have acupuncture bilaterally on the upper arms and lower legs as per the
      following points:

        1. LI4 (Hegu, the 4th point on the Large Intestine channel), on the dorsum of the hand,
           between the first and second metacarpal bones, at the midpoint of the second metacarpal
           bone, and close to its radial border.

        2. S36 (Zusanli, the 36th point on the Stomach channel), below the knee, one-finger breadth
           lateral to the anterior crest of the tibia, three-finger breadth inferior to the hollow
           that is formed below the patella, and lateral to the patellar ligament when the knee is
           flexed.

        3. SP9 (Yinlingquan, the 9th point on the Spleen channel), on the medial side of the lower
           leg, in a depression in the angle formed by the medial condyle of the tibia and the
           posterior border of the tibia.

        4. P6 (Nei Guan, the 6th point on pericardium channel) is located three finger breadths
           below the wrist on the inner forearm in between the two tendons.

      I. Patient Recruitment

      This study will take place at the endoscopy unit of the American University of Beirut Medical
      center. Eligible patients for participation in this clinical trial are those planned to
      undergo elective diagnostic or therapeutic colonoscopy under midazolam/fentanyl sedation,
      aged above 18 years, and ASA (American Society of Anaesthesiology) classification I-III, who
      give written informed consent. After checking the inclusion and exclusion criteria, the
      participant will be approached in the clinic by the primary physician or someone responsible
      for his clinical care to inform him about the study. After gaining the participant's
      permission to participate in the study, the participant will be approached by Mrs. Ghada
      Shami, the Registered Nurse responsible for explaining the preparation for colonoscopy will
      screen for interested patients. She will then notify the divisional research fellow, Dr
      Mahmoud Rahal to further explain the study concept and details to these patients in a private
      setting in the clinics area.

      II- Primary endpoints:

      Primary endpoint of the study is the used dosage of midazolam, in combination with fentanyl.

      III- Secondary endpoints:

      Secondary endpoint is patients' and gastroenterologists' satisfaction with the procedure,
      determined with a visual analog scale, from 0 to 10. The researchers will also compare the
      time needed to complete the procedure and the time spent in the recovery room, between all
      three groups.

      V- Study Plan

      After the patient has signed the informed consent form, randomization will be performed as a
      permuted block randomization. Allocation to treatment group will be performed by sealed
      consecutively numbered envelopes. One experienced and qualified staff acupuncturist (Dr
      Fadila Nagi) will perform the intervention in the preparation room. Needles inserted will be
      disposable and single use. The participants will be connected to a portable
      electro-stimulator and left in place for 20 min. The intervention with electroacupuncture
      will be stopped after 20 mins and the colonoscopy will start afterwards.

      In group A, the true acupuncture group, the needles will be placed in the following points,
      which are considered relevant both - for sedation and for abdominal distension: Pericardium 6
      (P6), Spleen 9 (SP9) ,Stomach 36 (ST36), and Large intestine 4 (LI4).

      In group B, patients will receive Sham-acupuncture with the same sort of needles. The needles
      will be placed 2-3 cm distal and lateral to the used acupoints (P6, ST36, and LI4) on
      locations that are not known as acupuncture points. The electrostimulator to be used in the
      study is "AS SUPER 4 digital" made in Germany with a frequency of 2 Hz, pulse width 210
      microseconds alternating with 15 Hz, pulse width 120 microseconds. Aiming to reach an
      intensity of 3 mA.

      In group C, the control group, patients will not have any needles inserted.

      Patients will be monitored using SpO2, heart rate and noninvasive blood pressure measurements
      as it is usually performed prior, during and after each colonoscopy.

      The risks associated with this study are minimal. The needles used will be single use, this
      is why there is no associated infectious risk; however, participants might experience minimal
      pain and small hematomas at the acupuncture needle insertion site and some patients might
      experience vasovagal reaction from the needle insertion. The risks concerning the electrical
      stimulation of acupuncture needles are limited to mildly uncomfortable muscle twitching
      around the sites of needle insertion at the level of the hands and legs. If acupuncture
      proves to be able to reduce the required amounts of sedative drugs employed during
      colonoscopy, this will translate into a better patient tolerance of the procedure and
      potentially less associated cardio-vascular and pulmonary side effects.

      VI-Sample size calculation and data analysis:

      The sample size calculation was in fact done after determining the median doses of Midazolam
      and fentanyl administered in the endoscopy unit during a 3 months period. Dr Hani Tami was
      the statistician consulted. The average fentanyl dose is 73, and the standard deviation is
      24. Accordingly, to detect a 20% reduction (which is 15 units), and a standard deviation of
      24, 42 patients are needed in each group (total is multiplied by 3), to detect this
      difference, at an 80% power and 0.05 error. As for the midazolam, average is 4.3 and standard
      deviation is 1.6, and accordingly, 55 patients in each group is needed to detect a 20%
      reduction, and a total of 165 patients will be needed. The sample size was then increased to
      180 for each group to allow for possible dropouts.

      VII-Funding for the Study

      Dr. Fady Daniel will generously provide the acupuncture needles needed for this study.
    
  