
    
      This is a joint endeavor of the Zambian Ministry of Health (MoH), Ministry of Community
      Development, Mother & Child Health (MCDMCH) and the Centre for Infectious Disease Research in
      Zambia (CIDRZ) with funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

      The study evaluates four models of streamlined HIV care in reducing patients' time and cost:
      (1) community adherence groups (CAG), (2) urban adherence groups (UAG), (3) Fast-Track clinic
      visits and (4) streamlined ART initiation (START). CAG and UAG are assessed using a
      cluster-randomized design; Fast-Track and START using an observational approach to compare
      changes in the outcome through a difference in difference approach.

      1. Specific Objectives

      Objective 1:

      To determine acceptability, appropriateness, and feasibility of a differentiated care system
      in Zambia, by assessing perspectives of (1) patients and family members (2) health care
      workers and (3) government and local leaders.

      Objective 2:

      To evaluate effectiveness (retention), efficiency (cost-effectiveness), and health care
      quality (quantitative and qualitative measures) of a differentiated and targeted care system.

      Objective 3:

      To develop a "methodologic" toolkit for assessment of local needs, preferences and scale-up
      of differentiated care models in varied contexts, using data from Objectives 1 and 2.

      2.0 Methodology 2.1 Objective 1 Mixed methods approach will be used to evaluate perceptions
      on challenges in accessing and adhering to life-long HIV treatment and to assess
      needs/preferences for differentiated care models collected from patients and family members
      (demand side), health facilities -professional and community health workers (supply side),
      and government and local leaders using in-depth interviews (IDIs), focus group discussions
      (FGDs), and discrete choice surveys (DCS) to sequentially analyze supply and demand side
      factors that may influence uptake.

      Population Key government and other stakeholders in HIV or other relevant community based
      service delivery will be interviewed. Professional and lay health workers in ART program,
      Pre-ART and ART patients and, a sample of household members of ART or pre-ART patient
      registered at selected health facility will be interviewed.

      Measurements/Procedures For Objective 1: IDIs, FGDs, medical chart reviews, DCS/general
      survey Semi-structured guides by participant type will be used to conduct IDIs and FGDs in
      English or a local language (Nyanja, Bemba, or Tonga). Where permitted, IDIs/FGDs will be
      audio-recorded for transcription and analysis. Participants will be reimbursed for travel.
      IDIs will last 1 and FGDs 1-2 hours.

      A cross-sectional survey will be used to measure patient access and psychosocial needs.
      Access needs will be assessed by questions on appropriateness of current clinic operating
      hours; distance, cost, and time to reach clinic; household income, assets, and expenditures;
      and opportunity costs of a clinic visit. Patient costs related to health care utilization,
      including transport, communication, and food costs will be elicited. To assess psychosocial
      needs, validated scales and indices to measure stigma (Revised Berger), depression (PHQ-9),
      alcohol consumption (AUDIT-C), and domestic violence will be applied. The survey administered
      in the language of participant's choice by trained survey enumerators using tablets will take
      approximately 30-45 minutes and uploaded to the central database.

      The electronic clinical information system (SmartCare) will be utilized to evaluate patient
      clinical needs. Distribution of clinical needs will be assessed for degree of
      immunosuppression at entry into care, frequency of opportunistic infections after treatment
      initiation, and frequency of "ill" versus "healthy" visits.

      DCSs will be used to assess patient preference for different, discrete characteristics of
      various models of community-based ART delivery. All possible combinations of key
      attributes/aspects of community-based ART models and number of levels/options for them will
      be put in subsets divided in blocks. Each participant is asked only one possible block of
      about 10 questions.

      Analytic Approach Qualitative data will be imported into software for managing qualitative
      analysis (e.g. N-Vivo or Atlas TI), iteratively coded and cross-referenced with survey data.
      Scale scores may be analyzed using descriptive statistics and linear regression modeling. For
      DCS, main effects plus two-way interactions between different parameters will be estimated
      using a nested logit framework.

      Sampling Approach/Sample Size Considerations The convenience sample consists of 20 IDIs with
      government and community leaders; two FGDs each with professional HCW, Lay HCW and family
      members from1 urban and 1 rural clinic in each province; 4 FGDs with ART patients (2 urban
      and 2 rural clinic) in each province; and 2 FGDs with pre-ART patients (1 urban and 1 rural
      clinic) in Lusaka province only.

      General survey: 1,600 patients (of which 800 are ART and 800 are pre-ART). A precision
      approach was used to calculate number of ART and pre-ART participants respectively necessary
      to estimate a binary indicator with 5% margin of error and 95% confidence interval, assuming
      a prevalence of p=0.5 and a design effect of 2 [ n=((1.96^2) * 0.5* 0.5 *2)/(0.05^2)=768].

      2.2 Objective 2: To evaluate the effectiveness, efficiency, and health care quality of a
      differentiated system of care that includes targeted models of care.

      Effectiveness of a differentiated system of HIV care delivery in which frequency, type, or
      intensity of contact with the health system is tailored to patient needs will be evaluated.
      CAGs, UAGs, fast-track, and START will be simultaneously implemented and evaluated using a
      common evaluation framework that includes effectiveness (retention), efficiency, and quality.

      Methodology A matched cluster randomized design approach is proposed for CAG and UAG models
      to account for the clinic-level intervention and possible selection bias. With little to no
      observational/ implementation data for Fast-Track and START models globally, a
      difference-in-difference design will be used to calculate effect of the models on outcomes.

      Population See inclusion and exclusion criteria Procedures Description of Interventions:
      Entered elsewhere

      Patient recruitment:

      At all intervention sites: Facility staff will identify eligible patients during routine
      clinic visits and notify the study research assistant about potential study participants. The
      research study assistant will assess patient willingness to participate in the intervention
      and will obtain informed consent for study participation.

      START model: Staff will use national guidelines to determine ART eligibility and, with
      participants' informed consent, expedite provision of on-site CD4 testing using point of care
      platform for all newly diagnosed and ART-naive patients due for routine CD4 monitoring.
      Participants will not be actively followed in the 12-months after ART initiation.

      At control sites: Eligible patients at control sites, willing to join CAG and UAG studies,
      will be enrolled. Consent will be obtained to extract their SmartCare data.

      Baseline viral load testing:

      For participants enrolled into CAG, UAG and Fast-Track intervention, dry blood spot specimens
      will be obtained via finger prick. Specimens will be transmitted to CIDRZ central laboratory
      for baseline viral load testing. Results will be communicated to providers and patients and,
      documented in SmartCare.

      Costing A subset of participants in each model will be interviewed on direct and indirect
      health costs of the intervention using a semi-structured questionnaire. Administrative data
      may also be used.

      Exit viral load testing and patient exit-survey All participants will have an exit viral load
      test in the 12th month. In CAG, UAG, and Fast-Track models, a patient exit-survey will assess
      patient satisfaction and patient centeredness.

      Measurements Standard de-identified socio-demographic, laboratory and clinical data will be
      extracted from SmartCare.

      Information in model-specific registers (attendance, receipt of medications, symptom
      checklist, patient preference between intervention and standard care, up-referral due to
      presence of symptoms or a patient's desire to return to standard care, or down-referral to
      model when patients with acute illness stabilize) will be entered into the study database
      using a tablet.

      Patient satisfaction and centeredness will be captured by the semi-structured patient-exit
      survey conducted after the 12-month intervention period.

      Baseline and exit viral load testing will be conducted. A semi-structured costing
      questionnaire used with a subset of intervention participants will assess related direct and
      indirect health costs. To calculate resource use of each activity, time-in-motion studies
      will be conducted among patients and health care workers prior to and during the
      intervention.

      Process data will be collected facility-level assessments of pharmacy stock outs and through
      HCW interviews at end of follow-up period.

      Analytic Approach For START, date of ART initiation is the primary outcome. For CAG and UAG
      interventions, Kaplan-Meier estimates of time to the primary outcome, stratified by
      intervention condition, using log rank tests will be calculated. For Fast-track and START,
      primary analysis will take a difference-in-difference approach to estimate difference in the
      change in the rate of the outcome in intervention settings. In secondary analyses of the
      primary outcome, longer intervals of lateness that comprise a missed pharmacy visit (14 and
      30 days) as well as adjustment for baseline patient characteristics will be explored along
      with analysis using medication possession ratio (MPR) as the outcome and other metrics of
      retention that incorporate both frequency of missed visit and interval of time before return.

      Sample Size Considerations CAG/UAG: Program data suggest that 65% of patients are > 7 days
      late for a pharmacy refill visit in their first year of ART in 95% (+15%) of clinics.
      Assuming a conservative matched co-efficient of variation of 0.10 and a 50% reduction in
      missed pharmacy visits, selection of five clinics and 90 patients per site will yield power
      of 96% for CAG intervention. Under more conservative assumptions about between clinic
      variability and the effect size, this sample size yields >80% power. For UAG intervention,
      target sample size is 4 UAGs of 30 people each in five intervention sites (120 participants
      per site; 600 across sites). Under the same assumptions as the CAG model, this sample size
      yields power of > 90% and is robust to varying assumptions about correlation.

      Fast-track: Targeting 200 patients at each of four sites (2 intervention and 2 control
      sites), a fall to 40% of the assumed 80% patients that miss a pharmacy visit in the first
      year, gives 80% power.

      START: Assuming ART initiation at 2 weeks rises from 60% to 85%, 100 patients at each of
      eight sites (4 intervention and 4 control sites; n=800), rho of 0.15 yields an anticipated
      power of 78%.

      2.3 Objective 3: Methodological Toolkit After data synthesis, a methodological toolkit will
      be developed to guide assessment of feasibility, acceptability, needs, preferences and
      implementation for differentiated care models. Data will be collected using work process
      tracking and costing; and interviews with study staff and key decision makers. The toolkit
      will be easily digestible and lead to actionable plans to move from current to differentiated
      care models in differing circumstances and contexts. With input from reviewers, the toolkit
      will be finalized and digital and hard copies will be distributed at dissemination events
      with the MoH, MCDMCH and other national and sub-national stakeholders.
    
  