
    
      OBJECTIVES: The long-term objective of this research program is to improve treatments for
      tobacco smokers by investigating the effects of medications on self-reported and
      psychophysiological responses to smoking cues and on behavioral-economic measures of smoking
      reinforcement during a period of tobacco deprivation. The specific objectives of the present
      application are to investigate the dose-response effects of baclofen (a gamma-aminobutyric
      acid B agonist), 1) on urge, and withdrawal, and 2) on the reinforcement value of smoking as
      measured by choices for puffs on cigarettes versus an alternative reinforcer among current
      smokers after 4 hours of smoking deprivation. RESEARCH PLAN: The study will use a randomized
      placebo-controlled between-subjects design with 64 smokers to investigate the effects of
      placebo and two doses (20 or 40 mg/day) of baclofen on urge to smoke and withdrawal and on
      choices for smoking versus money after 4 hours of deprivation. METHODS: Participants will be
      healthy people who smoke at least 10 cigarettes per day and who are motivated for future
      smoking cessation. On Day 0, a baseline session will occur after 4 hours of smoking
      deprivation and on Day 10 of medication the same assessments will be repeated after the final
      medication dose has been stabilized for at least 3 days and after 4 hours of supervised
      smoking deprivation has occurred. Medication differences in urge and withdrawal and in the
      reinforcement value of smoking cigarettes will be investigated. Dependent measures of urge
      and withdrawal will be by self-report. The dependent measure of reinforcement value is the
      ratio of choices for cigarette puffs versus money during a subsequent 2-1/2 hr period. The
      choice procedure will clarify the relative reinforcement value of smoking while controlling
      for non-specific decreases in general activity level resulting from sedation. Nicotine
      self-administration during the medication period will be quantified using saliva cotinine, as
      a secondary effect. CLINICAL RELEVANCE: More effective interventions for tobacco use could
      result in less suffering and mortality and in considerable savings in health care costs
      associated with cardiovascular disease, pulmonary disorders, and cancer.
    
  