
    
      Part 1:

      A population-based survey of Danish inhabitants, will by screening of approximately 10.000
      Danes identify approximately 425 persons who report to have psoriasis(PsO) with or without
      psoriatic arthritis (PsA). These will receive an e-mail invitation to an internet based
      questionnaire regarding demographics, skin and joint complaints, diagnosed diseases, contact
      to health care providers, and different aspect of psychological and physical function and
      wellbeing (incl. function, health-related quality of life, depression, anxiety, social
      participation, and sleep disturbances). In the questionnaire the participant will be asked if
      he/she would be interested in participating in a clinical study.

      Part 2:

      Participants who accept the above mentioned invitation (estimated 273) will be seen in a
      Department of Rheumatology, for the following examination programme: Clinical examination
      with a focus on skin, joints and entheses,ultrasonic (US) examination of joints and entheses,
      patient-reported outcomes and blood sampling for both stratification and identification of
      biochemical signs of inflammation.

      Patients with musculoskeletal pain and certain joint and/or entheseal inflammation documented
      by US, will be invited to participate in a 12 months' interventional study (part 3a, below),
      whereas patients without musculoskeletal pain but with US findings (as above) will be invited
      to participate in a 12 months non-interventional follow-up study (part 3b, below). Patients
      with pre-diagnosed PsA that by US have active inflammation (same definition and criteria as
      above), will also be invited to participate in the interventional study if they fit the
      criteria, especially those described under concomitant medication, otherwise they will be
      offered to participate in the non-interventional study.

      Part 3a:

      Patients with musculoskeletal pain in relation to joints and/or entheses (that is not
      explained by alternative diagnosis, as assessed by including rheumatologist) and "US-defined
      PsA", i.e. with certain joint and/or entheseal inflammation as documented by US, will be
      offered inclusion in a 12 months' interventional study, in which 6 month induction therapy
      with apremilast (in addition to their usual therapy) will be followed by cessation of
      apremilast and 6 months of observation. Patients will be followed with clinical examination,
      PRO's, blood sampling and US at months 3, 6, 9 and 12.

      MRI will be performed at inclusion and at 6 months follow-up in selected patients (patients
      with dactylitis or with enthesitis in the ankle region (Achilles enthesitis or plantar
      fasciitis)).

      Part 3b:

      Patients without musculoskeletal pain but with certain joint or entheseal inflammation
      verified by US will be offered inclusion in a 12 months' non-interventional study. Patients
      will continue their current therapy and be followed with clinical examination,
      patient-reported outcomes, blood sampling and US at months 3, 6, 9 and 12.
    
  