
    
      The randomized study compares three interventions. All eligible women are randomly assigned
      to 1 of 3 interventions. If they become 18 or more months from a prior mammogram, they will
      receive the intervention to which they were assigned.

      The 3 arms are

        1. RL ARM: (reminder letter) a control arm which consists of a reminder letter only that
           states when the last mammogram was, contains a standard recommendation from her primary
           care provider (PCP), and requests that the woman call a special number for help
           scheduling a mammogram.

        2. RC ARM: (reminder call) a reminder letter as above, followed, if no response, by a
           reminder call from a study scheduler who offers to help schedule a mammogram.

        3. ETTC ARM: (enhanced tailored telephone counseling call) a reminder letter as above,
           followed, if no response by a second letter, a mammography educational booklet and a
           second request to call a special number to schedule a mammogram. If no response, a study
           counselor/educator will call.

      A complex computer-based tracking system identifies women coming due for a mammogram or those
      overdue for a mammogram. The system interfaces with the clinic database systems and stores
      information re age, telephone number, address, prior screening dates, primary care provider
      name, scheduling dates, etc. The system can generate reminder letters as appropriate.

      The tracking system also interfaces with computer-assisted telephone script systems(CATI)
      which prompt the study scheduler or the study counselor to follow the protocol that is
      tailored to the individual patient.

      The CATI system captures data from all calls, including how ready a woman is to schedule, the
      answers to a brief socio-demographic survey and in the counselor call script barriers and
      misinformation about mammography.

      The computer system also interfaces with the radiology scheduling system so that study
      personnel can assist women in scheduling a mammogram during the phone call.

      The primary outcome is the number of women in each arm getting a mammogram. This data will
      come from the clinic data base and the healthcare plan billing system.

      Secondary outcomes include evaluation of the effect of booster or repeat interventions in
      women failing to respond to prior request for mammogram.
    
  