
    
      Objectives:

      Primary Objectives:

      To evaluate the efficacy of intra-wound administration of vancomycin powder as add-on
      prophylactic intraoperative antibiotic in patients at high risk for surgical site infections
      after receiving open posterior spinal surgery

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To evaluate the safety of intra-wound administration of vancomycin powder as an add-on
           prophylactic intraoperative antibiotic

        -  To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of intra-wound administration of vancomycin powder as
           an add-on prophylactic intraoperative antibiotic compared to standard prophylactic
           intraoperative care

      Hypothesis to be tested:

      The intra-wound vancomycin powder as add-on prophylactic intraoperative antibiotic can
      significantly reduce the rate of surgical site infection.

      Design and subjects:

      The study is a prospective, parallel group, single-blinded randomized controlled trial.

      All eligible patients who have consented to take part in the study will be randomized to
      either intervention or control group with a 1:1 allocation ratio. Patients allocated to the
      intervention group will receive intra-wound vancomycin powder 1gram as add-on prophylactic
      intraoperative antibiotic during the surgery. Patients allocated to the control group will
      not receive any add-on prophylactic intraoperative antibiotic. Patients will not know their
      treatment allocation until study termination.

      Surgical site condition of all the patients will be assessed after the surgery. Investigator
      will examine the surgical wound and observe any signs and/or symptoms of SSI during
      hospitalization and follow-up visits until 1 year post-operation. For patients received
      instrumentation and fusion operation, additional radiographs of the operated sites will be
      performed for assessing any implant loosening and non-union at 3, 6 and 12 months
      postoperatively. All clinical and radiological outcomes will be evaluated throughout the
      study period.

      Instruments: Parameters include age, gender, smoking and drinking history, pathology
      (deformity, tumor, trauma, degenerative), location and spinal levels of surgery, if
      instrumentation is used, operative time, blood loss, need for transfusion, significant
      co-morbidities including diabetes mellitus, renal failure, immunocompromised state, and dural
      tear events.

      Interventions: Patients are randomized into the treatment group where 1g of vancomycin powder
      is administered to the deep and superficial spinal wound, and the control group without
      vancomycin powder use.

      Main outcome measures: Primary outcome is the rate of surgical site infection. Secondary
      outcomes include vancomycin toxicity measured by vancomycin levels and renal function for
      three consecutive postoperative days, and cost-effectiveness calculation for each disease
      group. Additionally for those undergoing fusion surgery, 1-year follow-up assessment for
      fusion rates.

      Data analysis:

      For descriptive statistics, means and standard deviations or medians and interquartile ranges
      will be presented for continuous variables, frequencies and percentages will be presented for
      categorical/ discrete variables.

      Baseline Comparison The baseline characteristics of the intervention and control group will
      be evaluated. The Student's t-test or Wilcoxon Rank-Sum test (according to the frequency
      distribution of the variables studied) will be used to compare continuous variables, and
      Chi-square or Fisher's exact test will be used to compare categorical/discrete variables.

      Primary Efficacy Analysis Fisher's exact test will be performed to evaluate the difference of
      SSI rates between the intervention and control group. The respective 95% confidence interval
      (CI) will be calculated and presented. If it is appropriate, the adjustment for baseline
      covariates will be made to the primary efficacy comparison. The analysis will primarily be
      carried out according to ITT population and subordinately based on PP population. Both ITT
      and PP results will be reported.

      Adjusted Analysis for Confounding Factors:

      If baseline imbalance is observed, adjustment for confounding factors in the primary analysis
      will be investigated by a multiple logistic regression for the potential risk factors with
      SSI as follows:

        -  Patient-related risk factors include socio-demographics and co-morbidities including,
           diabetes mellitus, ischemic heart disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, renal
           impairment/failure, immunocompromised state and nutritional deficiency.

        -  Procedure-related risk factors include type and site of surgery, intraoperative details
           including number of spinal level operated, length of instrumentation, use of fusion, use
           of drain, operation duration, presence of dural tear and number of surgeons in operating
           room

        -  Intra- and post-operative blood loss and blood product transfusion.

      Cost-effectiveness analysis The cost-effectiveness analysis will estimate the Incremental
      cost-effectiveness ratio(ICER), which is the incremental cost per SSI prevented for the
      add-on administration of vancomycin powder compared with standard care over a 1-year
      post-operative period.

      The total cost for SSI will be calculated by multiplying the quantity of resource use by unit
      costs. Future costs will be discounted at a rate of 3% per year.

      Non-parametric bootstrapping will be used to determine the 95% CIs for ICERs. A
      non-parametric bootstrap replications of 1000 with replacement generating multiple data sets
      from the original data will be used. In each dataset, the statistic of interest (mean costs,
      SSIs, and ICERs) will be calculated. Multiple sensitivity analysis will be performed to
      evaluate the robustness of the findings.

      Uncertainty in the estimates of the cost-effectiveness evaluation will be visualized by
      plotting the cost-effectiveness plane and acceptability curves. The acceptability curves will
      be used to determine the probability that the additional use of vancomycin powder will be
      cost-effective compared with standard care, at different values of ceiling ratio or
      acceptable willingness-to-pay threshold.

      The cost-effectiveness analysis will be carried out according to the ITT population.

      Safety Analysis The incidence of adverse effects (AEs) will be summarized by system organ
      class and severity grading according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity
      Criteria for Adverse Event (CTCAE) version 5. AEs will be tabulated by severity grading and
      relationship with study intervention.

      The AESIs will be summarized in similar manner as all AEs. The safety analysis will be
      carried out according to in the safety population.

      Expected results: Intra-wound administration of vancomycin powder reduces surgical site
      infections, is not toxic, and the most cost-effective disease groups are deformity correction
      and tumor surgery.
    
  