
    
      BACKGROUND: The project proposes to fill gaps in the understanding of disparities in
      healthcare and primary care provider (PCP) quality from the perspectives of adult Medicare
      beneficiaries with disabilities compared to those without disabilities. Studies document
      racial/ethnic, economic, and education-related disparities, but little is known about
      healthcare disparities related to disability.

      OBJECTIVE: The investigators' goal is to engage stakeholders as peers and partners in the
      development of an evidence-based Patient-Inspired Surveillance Tool for documenting
      variations in healthcare and PCP quality and any outcome consequences associated with these
      variations among people with disabilities (PWD) and people without disabilities (PWOD). The
      tool is intended to provide guidance on programs and policies to ameliorate disparities,
      improve function, and enhance autonomy in populations of people.

      METHODS: The investigators will explore perceptions about the determinants of healthcare and
      PCP quality in partnership with stakeholders including PWD, PWOD, family of PWD, and
      healthcare providers in efforts to better understand underlying determinants of healthcare
      disparities that might be accelerating clinical deterioration. Applying population weighted
      data and multi-variable methods to patient information included in the Medicare Current
      Beneficiary Survey (MCBS), the investigators will determine the presence or absence of
      perceived problems across 5 healthcare and PCP quality "comparators" and (if present) the
      magnitude of impact on likelihood of patients' functional improvement, functional decline,
      institutionalization, or death referenced to no status change by 1, 2, and 3 years. A decade
      of data from the MCBS (on about 40,000 working age and elderly patients) will be applied to
      ensure adequate statistical power for comparisons. Stakeholders will help interpret the
      implications of findings and partner with clinician researchers in building the Tool.

      PATIENT OUTCOMES: For aim 2, the outcome will be healthcare and PCP quality across 5 "quality
      comparators" including patients' perceptions about care coordination and quality, access
      barriers, technical skills of PCP, interpersonal skills of PCP, and the quality of
      information provided by PCP. Comparisons will be cross sectional contrasting the proportions
      of people at each stage of disability referenced to PWOD perceiving lower verses higher
      quality on each comparator. These 5 comparators will become the exposure for aims 3 and 4.

      For aims 3 and 4, the outcome will include "no change" (individual remains at the same
      Activity of Daily Living (ADL)/Instrumental Activity of Daily Living (IADL) stage),
      "functional improvement" (recovery to a lower ADL/IADL stage), "functional decline"
      (deterioration to a higher stage of ADL/IADL limitation), "institutionalization" (long-term
      nursing home), or "death." Comparison will be longitudinal prediction at 1, 2, and 3 years in
      contrast to no change according to each comparator.
    
  