
    
      Proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) is manifested in retinal neovascularization at the
      disc (NVD) or elsewhere (NVE). Vitreous hemorrhage or tractional detachment from PDR is a
      leading cause of severe visual loss and new onset blindness. Without intervention, 60 percent
      of individuals with diabetic retinopathy will eventually develop PDR, resulting in
      significant visual loss in nearly fifty percent.

      Proliferative diabetic retinopathy is currently treated with panretinal photocoagulation
      (PRP) which destroys areas of the retina but preserves central vision. PRP is most
      effectively seen in a regression of new vessels, stabilization of the neovascularization, and
      reduced risk of visual loss. However, the treatment is associated with unavoidable side
      effects including macular edema with transient or permanent central vision loss, diminished
      vision loss, and night vision loss. The treatment applies laser burns to the peripheral
      retinal tissue, destroying outer photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelium of the retina,
      and is thought to exert its effect by increasing oxygen delivery to the inner retina and
      decreasing viable hypoxic cells which are producing growth factors such as VEGF. Studies have
      implicated vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) as the substance leading to
      neovascularization and/or increased vascular permeability. Thus, it is reasonable to expect
      that inhibition of VEGF could reduce both PDR and transient vision loss from macular edema.
      There are several anti-VEGF drugs. Ranibizumab is the drug to be evaluated in this trial. In
      one trial of ranibizumab on DME, ten patients with chronic DME received a series of 0.5 mg
      intraocular injections. The treatments were well tolerated with no ocular or systemic adverse
      events. Since intraocular injections of ranibizumab significantly reduced foveal thickness
      and improved visual acuity in all ten patients, there is strong rationale to consider this
      drug as adjunctive therapy to PRP in a attempt to reduce the acute, transient edema that may
      occur with PRP.

      Similarly, corticosteroids, a class of substances with anti-inflammatory properties, have
      demonstrated to inhibit the expression of VEGF. Triamcinolone acetonide is often used as a
      periocular injection for the treatment of cystoid macular edema (CME) secondary to uveitis.
      Clinically, triamcinolone acetonide is used in the treatment of proliferative
      vitreoretinopathy and choroidal neovascularization. Studies on patients with proliferative
      diabetic retinopathy randomly assigned to receive 4 mg triamcinolone 10 to 15 days prior to
      PRP treatment showed a reduction in central macular thickening, and fluorescein leakage was
      greater in the injection group than in the control group at 9 and 12 months follow up. Mean
      visual acuity improved by one line in the injection group and worsened by two lines in the
      control group.

      In summary, there is strong rationale that using either intravitreal ranibizumab or
      intravitreal triamcinolone acetonide as an adjunct to PRP could reduce the magnitude of
      vision loss.

      This study is being conducted to determine whether intravitreal injection of an anti-VEGF
      drug or an intravitreal injection of a corticosteroid can reduce the occurrence of macular
      edema and visual acuity impairment following PRP. Subjects will be randomly assigned with
      equal probability to one of the following three injection groups:

        -  Intravitreal injection of 0.5 mg ranibizumab (Lucentis™) at baseline and 4 weeks

        -  Intravitreal injection of 4 mg triamcinolone acetonide at baseline and sham injection at
           4 weeks

        -  Sham injection at baseline and 4 weeks

      The initial injection (or sham) is given on the day of randomization. Focal (macular)
      photocoagulation is given 7 to 10 days following the injection. Panretinal (scatter)
      photocoagulation can be initiated either on the same day as the focal photocoagulation
      (immediately following the focal photocoagulation) or on a subsequent day but must be
      initiated within 14 days of the baseline injection. Required follow-up visits occur at 4, 14,
      34 and 56 weeks.
    
  