
    
      In total hip arthroplasty (THA), incorrect cup orientation markedly increases the risk of
      dislocation, wear, and impingement. The primary method of cup placement is based on the
      surgeon's interpretation of orientation within a "safe zone" defined by Lewinnek almost 40
      years ago. This approach has undergone little change despite consistent dislocation rates and
      a large proportion of dislocations occurring in patients with cups within the safe zone. One
      reason for this may be that it does not account for a patient's natural pelvic posture, which
      affects the functional cup anteversion. Some modern techniques of cup placement assess a
      functional anteversion based on supine and others on standing orientation. However, these
      methods do not account for lumbar mobility and the effects on spinopelvic mechanics when in
      the seated position, the most common position in which dislocation occurs. The investigators
      have shown that patients with lumbar fusion have a higher rate of THA dislocation. This risk
      also correlated with length of fusion construct. This suggests that decreased lumbar
      mobility, whether a result of arthrodesis, disease or age related degeneration, may play an
      important role in the risk of THA dislocation. Some studies have measured change in pelvic
      orientation and cup anteversion between sitting and standing. Others have used modeling to
      estimate change in functional anteversion based on pelvic tilt. Presently, however, there are
      no studies that have investigated the quantitative relationship, in vivo, between
      patient-specific changes in spinopelvic parameters and cup anteversion between sitting and
      standing. Within this exploration, identification of an appropriate safe zone in individuals
      with mobility restrictions of the lumbar spine is not possible.

      The investigators will test the hypothesis by addressing the aims presented below. These aims
      will be approached by directly measuring the spinopelvic parameters on standing and seated
      radiographs in 100 patients who have undergone primary THA. Computer models of cups and
      pelvises generated from patient-specific pelvis CTs will be manipulated based on the measured
      changes in pelvic alignment. The change in functional cup anteversion will then be directly
      measured from each patient's model.

      Specific Aim #1: To quantify the relationship between the change in pelvic tilt and
      functional acetabular cup anteversion between the standing and sitting positions in patients
      who have undergone primary THA. The investigators hypothesize that there will be a directly
      proportional relationship between the increase in pelvic tilt and increase in functional
      anteversion. The investigators anticipate that Aim #1 will identify the importance of
      functional anteversion in the seated position and support its consideration when defining a
      patient-specific cup safe zone. This data will serve as the foundation for development of a
      clinical tool used in pre-operative planning and post- operative rehabilitation that accounts
      for spinopelvic mechanics to maintain safe cup orientation when in the vulnerable seated
      position.

      Specific Aim #2: To quantify the relationship between the change in lumbar lordosis and
      functional acetabular cup anteversion between the standing and sitting positions in patients
      who have undergone primary THA. The investigators hypothesize that there will be a directly
      proportional relationship between the decrease in lumbar lordosis and increase in functional
      anteversion and that patients with history of lumbar immobility will have decreased change in
      functional anteversion. The data obtained in Aim #2 can be used to identify those at
      increased risk of dislocation. It will also provide insight into, and a basis for further
      study of, the relationship between seated functional anteversion and specific etiologies of
      lumbar immobility (spinal fusion, ankylosing spondylitis, flat back syndrome, degenerative
      changes, etc.) that may affect THA dislocation.

      The overall objective of this study is to define a clinically relevant and applicable
      quantitative correlation between the change in spinopelvic parameters and change in
      functional anteversion between the standing and seated positions and challenge the historical
      safe zone paradigm. The central hypothesis is that the change spinopelvic mobility correlates
      with the change in functional anteversion. The investigators believe that this quantitative
      relationship will provide the clinician a tool to identify at-risk THA candidates and make
      appropriate patient-specific modifications to cup anteversion and post-operative
      rehabilitation.
    
  