
    
      Endothelial dysfunction contributes to different cardiovascular diseases, such as
      atherosclerosis, myocardial infarction, stroke and peripheral artery diseases. Recent
      evidence also demonstrated that endothelial dysfunction is associated with vascular venous
      diseases. In this regard, venous endothelial dysfunction contributes to the development of
      varicose veins and deep vein thrombosis. Disequilibrium in endothelial function is also
      present in venous traits derived from saphenous veins which are routinely used as
      aortocoronary by-pass. The molecular mechanisms involved in venous diseases require further
      investigations. Autophagy, the intracellular mechanism devoted to the removal of
      dysfunctional or senescent cytoplasmic elements may represent a new therapeutic target for
      the treatment of vascular diseases. In this regard, it has been demonstrated that the
      enhancement of autophagy limits cardiac injury in pre-clinical models of cardiovascular
      diseases. However, the association between autophagy and vascular disease is still unknown in
      humans. Spermidine is a natural activator of autophagy which has been demonstrated to extend
      lifespan in mice and to reduce cardiac dysfunction through autophagy-dependent mechanisms.
      The objectives of this study will be the following: 1) to test whether spermidine is able to
      improve vascular function and to reduce oxidative stress in saphenous veins obtained from
      patients subjected to saphenectomy due to chronic venous insufficiency or varicose veins; 2)
      to test whether spermidine is able to improve vascular function in saphenous veins derived
      from patients with atherosclerotic obstructive disease of lower limbs subjected to
      revascularization through implantation of arteriosus by-pass. In a different set of
      experiments, the investigators will also test whether vein portions incubated with spermidine
      show increased autophagy and decreased markers of oxidative stress with respect to controls.
      The investigators expect that venous segments treated with spermidine will show an
      amelioration of endothelial function
    
  