
    
      Previous research has suggested that earlier intervention may contribute to better outcomes
      in autism. Answering the question "how early?" has significant health and educational
      implications for age of screening for autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and age of entry into
      early intervention for children with ASD. With the increased number of young children
      identified with ASD, there is a pressing need for evidence-based, manualized intervention
      that is accessible to and implemented by parents within their natural environments. This
      collaborative project is directed by Dr. Amy Wetherby at Florida State University and Dr.
      Nathan Call at Emory University to compare the effectiveness of parent implemented
      intervention for toddlers with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). The major objective is to
      directly compare two parent intervention conditions: 1) a parent-implemented intervention
      (PII) offered in a 2-3 weekly sessions to teach parents treatment strategies to support
      social communication skills within everyday routines, activities, and places for 25 hours a
      week; and 2) an information, education and support group (IES) offered twice monthly.
      Ninety-two children who 12 months of age and are at risk for developing an ASD because they
      have an older sibling who has an identified ASD will participate. Participants will be
      recruited from those children who are part of prerequisite studies on ASD in infancy that are
      also being conducted at Emory University. Families will be randomly assigned to either PII or
      IES at 12 months of age for a total of 9 months of intervention. The effectiveness of PII and
      IES will be examined with growth trajectories of social communication and autism symptoms and
      group outcomes on developmental level and adaptive behavior. The findings of this study will
      provide evidence of the effects of parent implemented intervention beginning at 12 months of
      age and substantiate that autism screening for toddlers is crucial for families to access
      early intervention.
    
  