
    
      Chronic wounds affect a large fraction of the world population and poses major threat to the
      public health and economy of the United States affecting 6.5 million patients. It has been
      estimated that approximately 2% of the population residing in developed countries, will
      experience at least one chronic wound during their lifetime. Current treatment options for
      chronic wounds are insufficient due to lack of individual specific genetic information. To
      improve therapy, an increase in the investigator's understanding of the genetic
      predisposition of individuals which result in impaired wound healing response is warranted.
      Information about these individual specific genetic and epigenetic regulations can altogether
      yield subset of repair genes which can serve as master regulators of wound healing. The
      effect of specific genetic information is also modified a lot by environmental epigenetic
      factors. Epigenetic changes have been shown to control the wound healing outcomes.

      In this prospective pilot study, patients with chronic wounds visiting Indiana University/IU
      Health clinics/ hospitals will be enrolled. Patients enrolled in the study will be followed
      for 16 weeks. Within this time, debrided wound tissue will be collected, when available, as
      part of their standard of care at the clinics. The study consists of two study visits (week 1
      and week 16 or earlier if target would is healed before that time). Study visit 1 consists of
      obtaining informed consent, medical history, current medications, and baseline demographics
      including, but not limited to: age, gender, zip code, ethnicity/race, marital status,
      education level, employment history, household income, number of household member. Digital
      imaging along with the collection of a saliva and blood sample will be performed during the
      visit. Participants will be asked to complete eight health questionnaires. Study visit two
      consists of digital imaging, along with a medication and adverse event review.
    
  