
    
      Head and neck carcinomas constitute about 5% of all cancers annually worldwide. In the US
      there are about 37,000 new cases annually. Ninety percent are advanced primary squamous cell
      carcinoma (SCCHN). Approximately 2/3 of SCCHN patients present on their first visit with
      locally advanced disease. The median 3 year overall survival(OS) for these patients with
      existing standard of care (SOC) therapies - surgery followed by radiotherapy or combined
      radiochemotherapy - is between 52 and 55%; the 5 year OS is 43%. There are clearly a large
      number of SCCHN patients not well served by available modalities.

      Regional intra or perilymphatic and/or intratumoral or peritumoral low dose cytokine therapy
      may have important therapeutic effects in SCCHN patients and constitute an additional
      anti-tumor mechanism of action different and distinct from current SOC. Leukocyte Interleukin
      Injection (LI) [Multikine]contains a defined mixture of naturally derived cytokines and
      chemokines with demonstrated safety and immunomodulatory activity in animals and in man in
      Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials. LI was administered prior to SOC and in combination with low
      non-chemotherapeutic doses of cyclophosphamide, indomethacin, and zinc (CIZ) in studies with
      LI. The results of these studies indicate that the local/regional injection of mixed
      interleukins (LI) with CIZ prior to SOC can overcome local immunosuppression, break tumor
      tolerance to tumor antigens and allow for a sustainable and effective anti-tumor immune
      response.

      LI is being tested in this large, global, multinational Phase III clinical trial to develop
      definitive proof of its efficacy and safety in treating SCCHN. The trial is an open-label
      randomized multi-center controlled study of LI + CIZ + SOC in subjects with advanced primary
      SCCHN of the oral cavity/soft palate vs. SOC [The Comparator Arms for, Overall Survival, the
      Primary End Point of this Study].
    
  