
    
      Aggressive periodontitis is an enigmatic periodontal disease that characterized by massive
      and undeterminable periods of tissue destruction. It gets along well to young individuals
      with successive periods of disease activity. Aggressive bone destruction with limited plaque
      and calculus deposits usually detected. According to microbial theory, Aggregatibacter
      actinomycetemcomitans (A.a) and P. gingivalis (P. G) were claimed for such a disease.
      Patients of aggressive periodontitis have disturbed esthetic and masticatory function
      problems.

      After wards, microbial theory was modified to enroll the genetic background that can be the
      cause behind the developed body resistance. Although the importance of the genetic treatment
      to improve the body response, it was totally dismissed during the routine periodontal work
      attributable to high cost effectiveness of the needed genetic analysis especially in
      developing countries.

      Further researches tried to explain the cause behind the impaired body response. Impaired
      functions of the immune cells and the massive amounts of catabolic cytokines such as IL-1,
      IL-6, Il-17, TNF- α and prostaglan¬din E2 (PGE2) are usually released during the active
      periods of the disease. On the other hand, matrix-metalloproteinases are destructive enzymes
      that released in an uncontrollable manner. Host modulators were suggested to control the
      released of the destructive agents.

      Immediate implant placement provides an efficient modality that shortens the dental
      management period. The aim behind immediate implant placement is the proper implant
      positioning to counteract the advanced bone resorption following extraction.

      Periodontitis is considered an important risk factor for peri-implantitis. The pre-existing
      periodontitis must be treated prior to implant placement in order to avoid the bacterial
      accumulation in the periodontal lesions regardless the type of periodontitis. Local and
      systemic supportive therapy is strongly recommended in order to reduce the microbial colonies
      and post-operative bone loss.

      Higher rate of implant failure (peri-implantitis) has been reported in immediately placed
      implants when compared with the delayed conventional technique. The failure rate markedly
      increased with the immediate placement of implants in patients with history of periodontitis
      especially the aggressive form.
    
  