
    
      Influenza and Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) are the two most common causes of severe
      viral respiratory tract infection. Seasonal influenza has an overall incidence of 10-20% per
      annum with frequent complications, and the annual mortality in the USA has been estimated at
      up to 9.9 deaths per 100,000. According to World Health Organization (WHO) estimates, RSV
      causes around 64 million infections per annum and 160,000 deaths. It is the leading cause of
      severe respiratory illness in young children (associated with severe infant wheezing illness)
      and is also a significant problem in susceptible adults (including the elderly and those with
      airways disease) in whom RSV is responsible for around 22% of winter respiratory illnesses
      with a case fatality rate of 2-8%. No vaccines or specific antivirals are available for RSV
      and those licensed for influenza remain suboptimal. Further understanding of the human immune
      response to these viruses particularly in the context of the respiratory tract is therefore
      essential. Experimental human infection studies have the advantage of studying these
      pathogens in their natural host with the capacity to sample different anatomical sites
      intensively. Thus the investigators aim to use these models in helping to test vaccines and
      therapeutics as well as providing critical information on immunity and pathogenesis.

      The investigators will use previously characterised Good Manufacturing Practices-certified
      RSV and influenza viruses derived from recent clinical isolates to investigate the response
      to infection in healthy adult volunteers. Subjects will be recruited via advertisement and
      screened at Imperial College London. Healthy individuals will be enrolled in the study and
      undergo baseline investigations including sampling from blood, upper and lower respiratory
      tract. They will then be inoculated with RSV or influenza by intranasal drops and quarantined
      for 10 days. During this time, they will have further blood and respiratory sampling. After
      the 10 day isolation period, they will be discharged and followed up for up to 6 months
      post-infection.

      These samples will undergo analysis for antibody, B and T cell responses to correlate with
      outcome of inoculation, which may include no infection, asymptomatic or symptomatic
      infection. Thus the investigators will infer the role of immune correlates in protection
      against infection or symptomatic disease.
    
  