
    
      This study will use a three-site (Winnipeg, Vancouver, and Quebec City) randomized controlled
      trial to compare differences in current wheelchair training practice and a 1-month, peer-led
      (virtual due to SARS-CoV-2; COVID-19) eHealth training program (TEAM Wheels). Subjects will
      randomly be assigned to the TEAM Wheels or control group using a 1:1 allocation ratio between
      groups. To support balance between groups and masking of assignment, our statistician will
      create a computerized randomization process with undisclosed block size. Once subjects are
      enrolled, baseline data will be collected and entered into a secure database. A site
      coordinator or assistant will then obtain the participant's group assignment and coordinate
      the first in-person peer trainer session. For treatment group assignments this will occur as
      soon as it is practical and for control group assignments this will be scheduled after
      blinded post-treatment data collection is complete. To address bias, subjects will be
      instructed not to discuss their program.

      The treatment group will receive the TEAM Wheels program over a 4-week period. An initial
      meeting (Session 1) will be arranged via teleconference (MS Teams). The peer trainer is an
      experienced Manual Wheelchair (MWC) user trained to deliver the TEAM Wheels program. At least
      2 peers will be hired and trained at each site to offer multiple trainer attributes. We will
      intentionally include a male and female, one being at least 50 years of age. Participants
      will pre-select a peer trainer based on a biosketch to optimize training effect (e.g.,
      preference for age, sex factors); comparability in age has been identified as preferential
      among older adults and influential to self-efficacy. Following Session 1, participants engage
      in 4 weeks of training with the eHealth home program. They are instructed to practice for 75
      to 150 minutes per week. Consistent with motor learning principles, we encourage training in
      15-30 minute blocks 1-2 times per day, 3-5 days per week. The peer trainer will arrange with
      the participant the remaining two virtual sessions, approximately one week apart.

      Control Group. The control group receives no specific intervention over the course of the
      4-week period. This reflects "usual practice" or the typical experience of a MWC user in
      their provincial context. Control group participants placed on the wait-list will receive the
      TEAM Wheels program, as described, following completion of the study (i.e. after
      post-treatment data collection). The site Research Coordinator will make telephone or email
      contact with control group participants at the end of weeks 2 and 4 during the study period
      to deter attrition/drop-out. When contact is made at week 4, the Research Coordinatort will
      schedule an appointment for post-treatment data collection (week 7). Any formal MWC training
      received during the wait-list period will be documented for potential post-hoc analysis as a
      confounding variable; however, research evidence and the investigators' clinical experience
      confirm that in all 3 provinces formal training is not provided once MWC users are discharged
      from hospital.

      Assessments. The outcome measures will be collected at baseline (pre-randomization) and
      post-intervention. A Research Assistant/Coordinator at each site will attend to the
      participant's home at baseline and subsequent data collection points to administer the
      outcome measures. They will show participants how to apply an Actigraph device (i.e. small
      battery-operated accelerometer) to the participant's wheelchair spokes and after 2 weeks will
      either retrieve it or provide a self-addressed stamped envelope for the participant to return
      via post. Post-treatment data will be collected at week 7 to incorporate a 2-week window for
      consolidation of learning following the 4-week intervention. Follow-up (retention) data will
      be collected from treatment group participants 6 months later (week 31).

      Outcome measures. At baseline, MWC device characteristics will be collected using the
      Wheelchair Specification Form. Descriptive characteristics including age, sex, gender,
      marital status, the highest level of education, primary diagnoses related to MWC use, Wheel
      diameter, and length of time using the MWC will be collected. Five outcome measures (see
      attachments in Appendix A) will be administered at baseline, post-treatment, and 6-month
      follow-up (for treatment group participants).

      Wheelchair Skills Test - Questionnaire (WST-Q). To address environmental barriers, MWC users
      must learn specific mobility skills such as managing inclines, thresholds, and doorways. This
      is of considerable importance since training also involves learning to recognize risks and
      limitations. WST-Q evaluates 34 discrete skills; respondents rate their capacity (i.e.
      ability) with each skill as well as performance frequency. Capacity is rated as Yes (2), Yes
      with difficulty (1), or No (0); performance is rated as Always (2), Sometimes (1), or Never
      (0). Total skill Capacity (0-100%) and Performance (0-100%) scores are calculated. The WST
      has demonstrated excellent reliability for test-retest (ICC=0.90), intra-rater (ICC=0.96),
      and inter-rater (ICC=0.97) administration.

      Wheelchair Outcome Measure (WhOM). The rehabilitation literature strongly suggests that
      intervention outcomes should include not only externally defined measures but also measures
      of user-identified activities of relevance and perceived satisfaction with performance. A
      2008 review of wheelchair-specific outcomes found the WhOM was the only tool that included
      activities selected and weighted by the user and featured participation in social roles.Two
      published literature reviews identify the WhOM as the most client-centred and
      psychometrically robust tool among participation outcomes for wheelchair users. WhOM is
      administered as a semi-structured interview. Respondents identify 10 activities (5 performed
      inside and 5 performed outside of the home), rating their satisfaction with performance on an
      11-point scale (0-10) for each activity. The WhOM demonstrates good reliability (Test-retest
      ICC = 0.83-0.88; Inter-rater ICC = 0.90-0.91) and validity (correlations with LIFE-H: rs =
      0.3-0.5) in use among individuals with spinal cord injury and older adults (Test-retest ICC =
      0.77-1.00; correlation with QUEST rs = 0.36 -0.45).

      Wheelchair Use Confidence Scale-(WheelCon-SF). Self-efficacy has been identified as a key
      component in the performance of wheelchair mobility skills. Incorporating the principles of
      cognitive theory, including self-efficacy, can promote program adherence and skill
      acquisition. Preliminary research has suggested that standardized training can increase
      wheelchair confidence among older adults. WheelCon-SF is a self-report questionnaire with 21
      statements related to confidence using a wheelchair in various activities and environments.
      Items are rated on a scale from 0 ("not confident") to 10 ("completely confident"), providing
      a total mean score (0-10). The WheelCon-SF is more responsive than the original 65-item
      version; a recent study reported high test-retest reliability (ICC=0.98) and internal
      consistency (Cronbach's alpha = 0.95).

      Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI3). Health utility measurement is useful when evaluating
      the impact of rehabilitation interventions. National guidelines for healthcare economic
      analyses strongly advocate the use of a validated measure of health-related quality of life
      (HRQL), which can be converted to quality-adjusted life years (QALY). HUI3 is a brief
      questionnaire that asks subjects about their health status. The multiple-attribute utility
      scale is scored from -0.36 to 1.00, with higher scores, reflected better health and quality
      of life. Acceptable test-retest reliability was found among patients recovering from hip
      fracture (ICC = 0.72).

      Objective Wheelchair Mobility. To triangulate measurement of improvement in mobility and
      community engagement, accelerometry data (ActigraphTM, Pensacola FL) will be used to
      objectively measure MWC activation over a 10-day period at baseline, post-treatment, and
      follow-up data collection points. The Actigraph is attached to a rear wheel on the MWC; a
      battery provides up to 14 days of passive data collection without impeding MWC operation.
      Data loggers have demonstrated valid and reliable measurement of MWC movement, with accuracy
      beyond 90%. A tri-axial accelerometer records acceleration forces during MWC use,
      downloadable as a .csv file. Algorithms developed by our team convert data into total and
      mean values of distance, speed, and 'bout' frequency (meaningful transitions between
      functional activities), parameters that reflect mobility patterns and activity of MWC users
      which we expect to change as a result of improvements in skill and participation.

      Program details TEAM Wheels is a 4-week, community-based, tailored program integrating
      eHealth and peer-led components to optimize learning while limiting the time demands of
      health care professionals. The eHealth component is a 10" computer tablet with a custom
      training application. The tablet mounts conveniently on the lap for "in-chair" training,
      enabling MWC users to learn and practice mobility skills in authentic contexts of home and
      community. The interactive application includes a structured curriculum with over 200 video
      clips featuring education, peer demonstration, and training activities. The peer-led
      component involves experienced MWC users with specialized training who can leverage their own
      experience and ability to relate as influential peers. The peer trainer conducts 3
      virtual/teleconference (MS Teams) sessions with the participant, negotiating individualized
      goals, introducing wheelchair skills and management strategies, and providing an orientation
      to the eHealth home program. Peer trainers monitor eHealth training activity, which the
      tablet uploads to a secure website, intervening or modifying the program when required.
      Additional communication can be initiated between MWC user and peer trainer using a video
      messaging through MS Teams (on the computer tablet). The tablet is menu driven and
      interactive, using a touch-screen interface. A tablet offers considerable advantages over
      traditional paper/hand-out home programs. Training is provided in a multi-modal format with
      illustrations and videos, allowing detailed step-by-step guidance, close-ups, and
      demonstrations using age-appropriate older adult models. Practice activities can be clearly
      demonstrated (to ensure they are performed appropriately) and include imitative,
      function-based, and interactive game-related activities. Subjects can also contact their
      Peer-Trainer using the MS Teams (on the tablet); Trainers will review and respond within 48
      hours. The tablet is housed in a rigid case with a simple strap that wraps around the
      participant's thighs. Subjects can secure the tablet on their lap and practice anywhere in
      their home or community, or place the tablet on another surface for viewing or video
      recording. Training activities are highlighted/checked off after completion, indicating to
      the subject they can advance to the next component. A "Progress" tab provides regular updates
      on the number of minutes practiced each week to reinforce adherence. The tablet will have
      Internet access for communication and data transfer/update capability, but the training
      program can operate in stand-alone mode as well.
    
  