
    
      The trial is a single center randomized, 3-arm, controlled, within-subject crossover study
      utilizing a multiple sampling, repeated measures paradigm. The trial will test 3 treatment
      conditions in 30 relatively healthy men and women 25-60 years of age. Study treatments
      include Control (without avocado), Test Meal 1 (1/2 avocado; ~68g), and Test Meal 2 (1
      Avocado; ~136g).

      Subjects will be required to meet several inclusion and exclusion criteria, which will be
      assessed through online and clinic mechanisms, including questionnaires, blood analysis and
      anthropometric measures. Eligible subjects will be invited to participate in the study. Each
      subject will be asked to come for one Information Session/Screening Visit, one Pre-Study
      Visit, three dinner pick-ups (the day before each test day visit) and three Test Day Visits.
      Subjects will be randomized to receive test treatments based on randomization schedule at the
      Pre-Study Visit.

      During the Pre-Study Visit subjects will be instructed on the process for completing study
      questionnaires and counseled to restrict avocado intake and intake of colored plant foods
      rich in phytonutrients the 3 days prior to each Test Day Visit. They will be asked to
      restrict alcohol intake, coffee/tea/ caffeinated beverage intake and moderate / vigorous
      physical activity and to drink plenty of water to maintain hydration in the 24 h prior to
      each Test Day Visit. They will be instructed to come to the CNRC the day before each Test Day
      Visit to pick up their dinner meal and evening snack. Subjects will be asked to get at least
      7 hours sleep and to come to the CNRC after an overnight fast of 10 h on each Test Day Visit.

      Each Test Day Visit will require subjects to be in the clinic for ~7 h to complete all
      baseline and post challenge meal testing procedures. Subjects will be evaluated for
      compliance with the protocol (diet, exercise, sleep, fasting), have their body weight and
      blood pressure measured and baseline flow mediated dilation (FMD) will be recoded before
      placement of a catheter and baseline blood sample is taken. Baseline subjective satiety will
      be measured by visual analogue scale (VAS) just before consuming one of the 3 breakfast
      treatment meals. FMD will be measured at 2 time points after breakfast and blood samples and
      VAS questionnaires will be collected at multiple time points over the 6 h postprandial
      period.
    
  