
    
      The exact mechanisms by which AMS develops remains poorly understood. Interestingly, brain
      and spinal cord swelling due to low oxygen levels can also occur in the period following
      surgery to treat thoracic and abdominal aortic aneurysms, dangerous swellings of the major
      blood vessel in the body. Therefore, if we find a therapeutic benefit of receiving a dose of
      Dexamethasone in a controlled, reversible setting of hypoxia, it is possible that this could
      be useful in the treatment of post-operative hypoxia as well.

      Work with MRI imaging has demonstrated reduced measures of water movement in patients
      suffering from cerebral or spinal ischaemia, due to swelling. Specific water channels in
      brain cells (astrocytes) are involved in the movement of water, and Dexamethasone has been
      shown to reduce expression of these channels in animal models. Dexamethasone already plays a
      role in lowering pressure in the brain in the setting of brain tumours. Although high doses
      are typically used in this setting, there is evidence that lower doses may be equally
      effective, especially in patients with less severe swelling.

      Subjects will be consented and randomised in the weeks before the actual study.

      Before entering the tent, the following data will be collected:

        -  Lake Louise Acute Mountain Sickness self-assessment questionnaire

        -  Pulse oximetry

        -  Non-invasive cardiac monitoring (ECG)

        -  End tidal CO2

        -  Venous blood collection (Full blood count, renal function, S100 and GFAP)

        -  Finger-prick blood collection (Purines)

        -  Magnetic Resonance Angiography

      Non-invasive monitoring will continue every 2 hours at the start of the study and around the
      time of administration of the study drug. They will continue at less frequent intervals
      throughout the study period. This includes ECG trace and an AMS self-assessment
      questionnaire.

      Venous sampling will be performed on 5 occasions throughout the study. Finger prick sampling
      will be done at the same time points

      Each subject will have 5 MRI scans during the course of the study.

      Subjects will be begin hypoxication 1 hour after entering the tent. They will be returned to
      normal oxygen levels after 24 hours.
    
  