
    
      This study aims to compare the impact of three different music listening interventions on
      stress and pain parameters. Participants will be assigned randomly to one of the conditions.
      In order to avoid expectancy-related effects, participants in both the researcher- and
      self-selected condition are told that they were allocated randomly to frequency-modulated or
      non-modulated music. Therefore, subjects are fully blinded with regards to
      frequency-modulation.

      The study design is as follows:

        -  Baseline measurement: assessment of resting state biological parameters and
           questionnaires, CPT

        -  Music listening sessions: ten sessions in three consecutive weeks including:

             1. 60 minutes of music listening

             2. CPT following music listening (sessions 1, 3, 6, 10 only)

             3. Assessments: biological and subjective pain and stress parameters; music and mood
                related parameters

        -  Post measurement: assessment of resting state biological parameters and questionnaires,
           CPT

        -  Follow-up measurement: 4 weeks after intervention, assessment of resting state
           biological parameters and questionnaires, CPT

      Participants respond to health-related questions (chronic stress, stress reactivity, sleep
      quality, fatigue, menstrual cycle phase) as well as mood and music-related questions at
      baseline, post-intervention, and follow-up which are assessed as potential outcome,
      moderator, and/or control variables. In addition, pain and stress parameters (both biological
      and subjective) are being assessed at baseline, post-intervention and follow-up as well as in
      the course of the ten music listening sessions. Furthermore, participants respond to specific
      music and mood related items following each music listening session (e.g. perceived valence,
      arousal, familiarity, liking, induced emotions, etc.).

      It is hypothesized that listening to researcher-selected frequency-modulated music and
      self-selected non-modulated music results in stronger increases in pain tolerance and
      stronger decreases in pain intensity from baseline to post compared to listening to
      researcher-selected non-modulated music. Furthermore, stronger decreases in stress parameters
      (e.g. increases in HRV) from baseline to post are expected in the researcher-selected
      frequency-modulated music and self-selected non-modulated music than in the
      researcher-selected non-modulated music listening condition. Moreover, it is expected that
      there will be no differences in researcher-selected frequency-modulated music and
      self-selected non-modulated music with regards to pain and stress parameters. Additionally,
      it will be tested whether changes in pain parameters are being mediated* by changes in
      markers of stress-responsive systems (e.g. heart rate variability indices).

      Finally, process analysis over the course of the music listening sessions sessions will be
      conducted with biological and subjective pain and stress indices as well as music and mood
      related parameters.

      *Although checking for spelling mistakes before submitting the first record, a mistake in
      wording was discovered only after the release of the record and therefore corrected
      corresponding to our original hypothesis.
    
  