
    
      Halitosis (bad breath) is a term used to describe an unpleasant odor emanating from the mouth
      that could originate in the oral cavity itself or as a result of systemic factors. Halitosis
      is a common problem that affects most of the population worldwide and is caused mainly by the
      volatile sulfur compounds produced by anaerobic Gram-negative microorganisms in the oral
      cavity on sulfur-containing substrates in the oral cavity. On the dorsum of the tongue, the
      volatile sulfur compounds produced from this metabolism are hydrogen sulfide (H2S), methyl
      mercaptan (CH3SH3) and dimethyl sulfide (CH3-S-CH3). The concentration of these gases is used
      as an indicator of the severity of halitosis. Recently, the Gram positive anaerobic bacterium
      Solobacterium moorei (formerly known as Bulleidia moorei) has also been associated with oral
      malodor by volatile sulfur compounds production, particularly hydrogen sulfide in the
      presence of different supplements with amino acids more specifically cysteine, wich agrees
      with studies showing that the cysteine challenge is a in vivo and in vitro model for
      analyzing the production of hydrogen sulfide.

      The measure of volatile sulfur compounds can be performed by an organoleptic evaluation of
      the air emanating from the oral cavity through gas chromatography or the use of a sulfide
      monitor, such at the Halimeter (Interscan Corporation), which determines the amount of
      volatile sulfur compounds in parts per billion (ppb) in the exhaled air. Gas chromatography
      is the most appropriate means for detecting halitosis of different origins. In 2004, the Oral
      ChromaTM (Abilit Corporation) was developed in Japan for the individual measurement of the
      three main gases (hydrogen sulfide, methyl mercaptan and dimethyl sulfide), allowing the
      evaluation of the intensity and origin of halitosis.

      Light, either alone or in combination with chemical compounds, has been used for its
      therapeutic and antimicrobial effects. Photodynamic therapy encompasses the simultaneous
      action of a light source and photosensitizing agent in the presence of oxygen in tissues.
      Individually, each of these substances is innocuous, but their interaction is capable of
      giving rise to cytotoxic species that lead to cell death.The advantage of this approach is
      the avoidance of the development of resistance on the part of the target bacteria and damage
      to the adjacent tissues, since the antimicrobial effect is confined to the area covered by
      the dye and irradiated by the light, acting quickly on the target organisms. The efficacy of
      photodynamic therapy depends on the energy dose and output power employed.

      Evaluation of degree of halitosis:

      The portable Oral ChromaTM device (Abilit, Japan) will be employed. This device uses a highly
      sensitive gas semiconductor sensor.It will be connected to the computer with a specific
      software program that allows the creation of a graph corresponding to the peaks and
      concentrations of gases, measuring the VSC thresholds (0 to 1000 ppb), with considerable
      precision after eight minutes.

      Analysis of volatile sulfur compounds:

        -  Hydrogen sulfide: values greater than 112 ppb indicate halitosis (SH2 ≥ 112 ppb);

        -  Methyl mercaptan: values greater than 26 ppb indicate halitosis (CH3SH ≥ 26 ppb);

      A quantitative, controlled, cross-sectional, clinical trial will be carried out involving 130
      teenagers. All individuals will be submitted to evaluations with Oral ChromaTM for the
      diagnosis of halitosis (scores SH2 ≥ 112 ppb and CH3SH ≥ 26 ppb) at the beginning of the
      study. Three post-treatment evaluations will be carried out: one hour, 24 hours and one week
      after treatment. The subjects selected will be randomly allocated to five groups:

        1. Group 1 will receive treatment with a tongue scraper;

        2. Group 2 and 3will receive photodynamic therapy applied to the posterior two thirds of
           the dorsum of the tongue;

        3. Groups 4 and 5 will receive combined treatment (tongue scraper and photodynamic
           therapy).

      The statistical analysis will include the chi-square test and Fisher's Exact Test. The
      Student's t-test and analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used for the comparison of means.
      Pearson's correlation coefficients will be calculated to determine the strength of
      correlations between continuous variables. A 95% significance level will be considered on all
      statistical tests (p < 0.05).
    
  