
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Although coronary heart disease has long been known to aggregate in families, in 1986 little
      was known about the relative importance of genetic and environmental factors. This was partly
      due to the heterogeneous nature of the disease. Instead of analyzing complex endpoints, the
      tendency had been to focus on the individual risk factors or phenotypes. Plasma lipids and
      lipoproteins are heterogeneous risk factors that have been analyzed as subgroups from a
      genetic epidemiological perspective. Attention turned to the familial aggregation of risk
      factors, particularly the hyperlipidemias, hypertension, and diabetes.

      In 1971, the National Heart and Lung Institute began a series of epidemiologic studies at
      several North American sites under the Lipid Research Clinics Program. The Family Study was
      designed to investigate the familial association of blood lipids, lipoproteins, and
      dyslipoproteinemias. This study complemented and did not duplicate ongoing analysis of Lipid
      Research Clinics data.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study addressed seven phenotypes, all derived from fasting blood samples: total
      cholesterol, total triglyceride, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, VLDL-cholesterol, uric
      acid, and glucose levels. The data had already been collected at Lipid Research Clinics in
      Cincinnati, Iowa, Oklahoma, Minneapolis, and Stanford. Univariate and bivariate segregation
      analysis were conducted on the mode of inheritance of familial combined hyperlipidemia and
      familial primary hypoalphalipoproteinemia. Path analysis was used to resolve cultural and
      biological inheritance for each phenotype within each clinic and for resolution of population
      heterogeneity among the five Lipid Research Clinics. A general bivariate path model was used
      to analyze the associations among the various phenotypes. General models were used to analyze
      temporal trends in family resemblance for the seven phenotypes.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  