
    
      Cervical cancer is the second most commonly diagnosed cancer and third leading cause of
      cancer death in women worldwide. Pre-cancerous cells can be detected with regular Pap smear
      screening and diagnosed and treated with colposcopy. This process is limited by patient
      adherence to the follow-up and treatment recommendations. Currently at Vancouver General
      Hospital (VGH), the largest colposcopy clinic in the province, results are forwarded from the
      colposcopy clinic to the family or referring physician who informs patients of results and
      recommendations. Inefficiencies or errors in this step may cause patient dissatisfaction,
      missed appointments, increased costs, and compromise patient outcomes. The primary objective
      of this study is to examine whether having a trained colposcopy nurse directly contact
      patients with their results and follow-up recommendations while providing education and
      support will improve patient satisfaction and reduce anxiety, with the secondary aim being to
      assess the clinical effectiveness of this intervention in improving rates of adherence to
      follow-up and treatment appointments and potentially long-term clinical outcomes. The first
      phase of the study involves patient focus groups that will be interviewed about what elements
      of a patient liaison interaction are most important (separate Ethics submission). This
      information will inform the development of the patient liaison role and approaches to patient
      interaction to be utilized in the intervention in the second phase. The second phase will
      entail a randomized controlled trial comparing patient anxiety, satisfaction and adherence to
      follow-up between a control group (current practice) versus the intervention group exposed to
      the patient liaison at the VGH Colposcopy Clinic. For the primary aim, a questionnaire
      containing items pertaining to patient anxiety and satisfaction with their experience of
      receiving their colposcopy results will be administered both to the intervention and control
      groups and the mean scores pertaining to anxiety and satisfaction will be compared using
      two-tailed t-tests. For the secondary aim, a chart review at 6-12 months following the
      initial colposcopy visit will examine the rates of compliance with the recommended follow-up
      or treatment visits and histologic diagnoses, and comparisons will be sought between the
      intervention and control groups using z-score test.
    
  