
    
      In patients with severely progressive SARS-Cov-2 Coronavirus infection, the elderly and
      immunocompromised are at greater risk of progressing to a serious image of ARDS (Acute
      Respiratory Distress syndrome). A recent study has shown that patients, sometimes young,
      requiring hospitalization in intensive care have deregulation of cytokines with very high
      levels of IL-6, IL-2, IL-7, IL-10 and TNF-α. The cytokines involved in the pathogenesis and
      clinical manifestations of CRS are mainly IL-6, gamma interferon (IFN-g), tumor necrosis
      factor alpha (TNF-a) and IL-10.

      Although immunoinflammatory therapy is not systematically recommended in pneumonia linked to
      SARS-CoV-2, given the CRS and the pathophysiological results of pulmonary edema and the
      formation of the hyaline membrane, a targeted therapeutic approach and temporally accompanied
      by adequate ventilatory support could be beneficial in patients with severe pneumonia who
      develop ARDS. Tocilizumab (Roactemra®) is a drug that blocks the IL-6 receptor commonly
      prescribed for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The intravenous formulation has been
      approved for the treatment of CRS which occurs during treatment with Car-T; given the
      clinical picture and cytokine levels in patients with severe SARS-Cov-2 pneumonia,
      Tocilizumab or another anti-IL6R antagonist may reasonably be expected to contribute to the
      control of virus-induced Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome (SIRS) in patients with
      elevated levels of IL-6.

      The objectivation of high interleukin 6 levels in these patients should be an important
      scientific argument to justify the administration of therapy based on antagonization of IL6.
      Measurement of other pro inflammatory cytokines will shed light on the mechanism of the
      inflammatory syndrome induced by the SARS-CoV-2 virus.

      One of the pathophysiological mechanisms of pulmonary pathology could be the induction of the
      production of complement factors by interleukin 6 as well as the activation of the complement
      cascade by the virus via the lectin pathway. It is known that one of the effects of
      Tocilizumab is to reduce the concentration of the various complement factors, the synthesis
      of which is under the control of interleukin 6. This is why this study proposes to measure
      certain parameters of the complement (CH50, C3, C4, C3d, C5a, SC5b-9, C4a, MASP-2) in order
      to objectify and quantify this activation.

      If the activation of the complement proves significant it could be an argument for a
      treatment targeting more specifically the cascade of the complement.
    
  