
    
      This application proposes a clinical study of electrical stimulation of the sphenopalatine
      ganglia (SPG) as a treatment for up to three individuals with episodic migraine headache. The
      present study is aimed at obtaining pilot data to guide a future controlled trial of this
      treatment modality. The study population will include individuals suffering from episodic
      migraine headaches with chronic severe disability, as demonstrated by the Migraine Disability
      Assessment Questionnaire (Lipton, 2000) and Headache Impact Test short form (HIT-6™)
      (Kosinski, 2003).

      The treatment involves implantation of an electrode into the SPG. The electrode is connected
      subcutaneously to an infraclavicular stimulator (PrimeAdvanced™ 37702 Multi-program
      Neurostimulator System, Medtronic Inc., Minneapolis MN). Proper electrode placement will be
      verified using anatomic and physiologic techniques. Participants will receive the Medtronic
      Model 3389 or 3387 lead, or Medtronic subcompact lead Model 3776-45, 3776-60, or 3776-75.
      Stimulation will be delivered in a range of frequencies from 20 to 130 Hz, and pulse width
      from 60 to 450 μsec, and a titrated voltage. The voltages used for chronic stimulation may
      range up to the pulse generator maximum of 10.5 volts but are anticipated to generally be
      below 3 volts, keeping below the 30 µcoulomb/cm² charge density safety limit, and below the
      threshold for adverse stimulation-related effects. The minimum number of contacts on the
      quadripolar leads will be activated as necessary to produce a response.

      The Prime Advanced neurostimulator to be used in this study allows the clinician to set all
      stimulation parameters including the maximum allowable amplitude. It is our responsibility to
      assure that appropriate stimulation parameters are used to result in appropriate electrical
      exposure charge density) below a 30 µC/cm2/phase limit. As is done with commercially
      available neurostimulators, during this study, we will utilize the charts presented in
      Figures 1 and 2 below to assist in selection of programming parameters, and this programming
      will be maintained by software controls within the neurostimulator.

      For this exploratory study of 3 patients, the maximum electrical stimulating parameters,
      resulting electrical exposure (e.g., charge density), will be determined using the methods
      described above. It is our responsibility to assure that safe stimulation parameters are used
      at all times and that the maximum settings do not exceed the safety limits. Our plan is to
      begin with lead 3776 if possible, because it does not require an extra extension, but we
      would use 3387 or 3389 if clinically indicated.

      The proposed study is a physician-sponsored research investigation of three patients, and the
      attention to stimulation parameters will be much greater than can be expected for a
      commercially released product. It is our responsibility within this investigational study to
      insure the selected stimulation parameters do not exceed the safety limit of 30μC/cm2/phase.
      Patients participating in the study will only be able to lower stimulation amplitudes,
      thereby keeping stimulation parameters BELOW any clinician set maximum. The only programs
      available to or accessible by the patients will maintain the previously described parameter
      set limitations. Thus, the programming of the Implantable Programmable Generator (IPG) will
      keep the three patients from stimulating outside or above the set and safe parameters.

      The primary outcome measures for assessing the efficacy of migraine treatment will be a
      subject reported daily diary noting frequency and intensity of headaches. During this
      investigation we will obtain preliminary controlled data on the safety and efficacy of SPG
      stimulation for migraine treatment.
    
  