
    
      Background

      Currently, approximately 387 million people worldwide are affected by Diabetes Mellitus.

      Due to population growth, urbanization, ageing and the rising prevalence of obesity the
      numbers of individuals with diabetes will grow. The American Diabetes Association estimated
      the total cost of diabetes in the US in 2012 at $245 billion. The greatest share of those
      costs results from the treatment of diabetes-associated complications caused by prolonged
      hyperglycemia. There is compelling evidence that tight glycemic control and intensive
      treatment of other cardiovascular risk factors substantially reduce the risk of developing
      being also cost-effective. Our current knowledge, however, is mainly derived from
      intervention trials usually including strictly defined patient groups and are carried out
      according to meticulous study protocols. Observational studies, however, in unselected
      outpatient settings have revealed discrepancies between recommended treatment goals resulting
      from those latter studies and actual standard of care. There is a pressing need, therefore,
      to assess the standard of care and confirm the feasibility and effectiveness of proposed
      management trends in both specialty clinic and community-based cohorts.

      Objective

        1. With the help of an internet-based, electronic database (webspirit®, www.swissdiab.ch):
           to collect representative cross-sectional data from all consenting patients seen and
           treated at the study centers in order to evaluate the current standard of care of
           patients with diabetes mellitus, the distribution of micro- and macrovascular
           complications, the use of medications and devices as well as aspects of costs and
           quality of life (QoL)

        2. To collect prospective data of those patients in relation to achievement of treatment
           goals, changes in management, risk factors for, incidence and progression of micro- and
           macrovascular complications, mortality as well as costs and quality of life using the
           same database

      Methods

      After obtaining informed consent, patients with diabetes mellitus willing to participate will
      be invited to an initial comprehensive assessment (baseline) performed at the three cantonal
      study centers (Inselspital Bern, Kantonsspital St. Gallen, Universitätsspital Zürich). This
      will be followed by face-to-face clinical/laboratory visits between one to four times yearly
      according to patient's individual management plans. Once a year a comprehensive review
      including clinical and laboratory screening for diabetes-specific complications is planned.
    
  