
    
      This is a double blind, randomized controlled, parallel group study. The investigators will
      consider adolescent patients with a primary complaint of low back pain referred to physical
      therapy.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if the addition of lumbar manipulation will improve
      function, decrease pain, and recurrence in adolescents with low back pain. The secondary aim
      of this study is to determine if a modification of a clinical prediction rule by Flynn will
      be effective in identifying adolescent patients with low back pain who would benefit from
      lumbar manipulation.

      Prior to randomization, patients will complete several self-report measures and then receive
      a standardized history and physical examination performed by the treating physical therapist.
      The information collected will include age, sex, duration and nature of symptoms.
      Standardized physical examination measures include lumbar active range of motion assessment
      for quality and mobility, lumbar segmental mobility, hip internal rotation range of motion,
      straight leg raise test, and prone instability test. Treating physical therapists were
      trained in all evaluation measures before data collection began. Patients are assessed on
      each item of a modified clinical prediction rule which consists of 4 items; duration of
      symptoms, symptoms distal to knee, Hip Internal Rotation >35 degrees, and presence of lumbar
      segmental hypomobility. The fear avoidance beliefs questionnaire work sub-scale component was
      removed since the score would likely not be valid in the adolescent population. Meeting 3 of
      the 4 items was considered to be positive on the rule in this population.

      The manipulating therapist who performs the intervention will be aware of treatment
      allocation, whereas the treating physical therapist and patients are blinded to treatment
      group allocation. To assess if the patients are successfully blinded to group allocation, the
      investigator will ask each patient to guess which intervention was performed on them
      following discharge from therapy.

      Randomization is determined by checking a randomly generated computer list that tells the
      manipulating therapist the assigned group. The computer list was generated by an aide not
      involved in the study who blindly drew 52 cards that placed an equal number of patients into
      either the manipulation or sham group.

      To address the issue of safety, patients who experience a clinically significant decrease in
      functional ability or increase in pain will be classified as having an adverse reaction. The
      minimally clinical important difference for the Patient Specific Functional Scale is >= 6.
      While the minimal clinical important difference of the Numeric Pain Rating Scale is 2 points.
      Following the manipulation or sham intervention patients will be asked if they experienced
      pain or discomfort during or following the intervention. An interim analysis is planned at
      the midpoint of the study to assess the safety and efficacy of the intervention. If >1/3 of
      patients in the manipulation group have a worsening of symptoms at any follow up, the study
      will be terminated for safety reasons.
    
  