
    
      Methods

        1. Written informed consent for the endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography is
           obtained from all patients.

        2. Blood culture is performed, and intravenous 3rd generation cephalosporin is administered
           routinely.

        3. Before endoscopic procedure, patients are randomly assigned to left lateral position or
           prone position for the endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography.

        4. Conscious sedation is performed by non-anesthesiologist-assisted method. Intravenous
           midazolam 0.05-0.1 mg/kg and/or intravenous propofol 0.5mg-1mg/kg is administered.
           Analgesics was administered intravenous meperidine 25mg in patients with older than 50
           years and meperidine 50mg in patients with younger than 50 years. To limit duodenal
           peristalsis hyoscine-N-butylbromide is administered intravenously.

        5. All patients are provided oxygen 2liter/minute via nasal prong. Patient's oxygen
           saturation, heart rate, blood pressure and respiration are monitored during procedure.

        6. Selective bile duct cannulation is performed by wire-guided cannulation method. If
           adverse event is occur during endoscopic procedure, it is recorded in the case report
           form as intra-procedural adverse event.

        7. After 4 hours, 24 hours, 2 weeks and 6 weeks of the procedure, white blood cell count,
           hemoglobin, platelet count, total bilirubin, aspartate transaminase, alanine
           transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, gamma glutamyl transaminase, amylase, lipase,
           abdomen X-ray, chest X-ray are performed.

        8. Oral feeding is started with sips of water after 24 hours of endoscopic sphincterotomy
           and/or endoscopic papillary balloon dilation.

        9. Development of adverse event including bleeding, perforation, pancreatitis,
           hyperamylasemia, infection, basket impaction, cardiopulmonary adverse event, mortality
           are recorded according to left lateral position or prone position for the endoscopic
           retrograde cholangiopancreatography.
    
  