
    
      1. Introduction

           Postural deformities are frequent comorbidities that limit the quality of life in
           patients with Parkinson's disease. Subject of the study is the investigation of postural
           deformities as a concomitant disease in connection with therapy with DBS. The aim of
           this prospective study is to examine the effect of deep brain stimulation on postural
           instability and thus the quality of life of patients.

        2. Study outline

           The aim of this prospective study is to investigate the effect of DBS on postural
           instability and thus the quality of life of patients.

           For this purpose, the investigators would like to evaluate 50 participants before and at
           certain time points (three, six, twelve and 24 months) after DBS surgery. X-rays of the
           entire spine are carried out using EOS® technology and biodynamic measurements of the
           spine using the Epionics SPINE ® system. In addition, the Investigators collect the
           39-item PD Questionnaires (PDQ-39), Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS)
           Part III, Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) as clinical
           parameters.

           Our hypotheses (I): DBS improves the sagittal balance of the spine and the pelvic
           rotation as a corresponding compensation mechanism for this incorrect posture (II) The
           participant's mobility improves in course of DBS in terms of scope and speed (III) In
           course after DBS, back pain is significantly reduced and the participant's everyday life
           is easier to cope with.

           The investigators hope to gain new insights into the pathophysiology of the spinal
           deformities associated with Parkinson's disease from the study and to expand the
           indication for DBS to include clinically relevant spinal complaints.

        3. Consent to the study

           The study was positively assessed by the Charité ethics committee and the Federal Office
           for Radiation Protection.

           Consent for study inclusion is sought after explanation and agreement to DBS treatment
           for participants with Parkinson's disease. Thus, participants capable of consenting to
           the DBS treatment get the study details explained themselves and may or may not agree to
           participate. If a participant is incapable for consenting to the proposed treatment, he
           may not be enrolled in the study.

        4. Safety of DBS for Parkinson's disease and further risks for participants

           Deep brain stimulation is a well-established and well-tolerated treatment for
           Parkinson's disease.

           The study-related risks result from the multiple X-ray examinations of the spine
           (effective dose 2.6 µSv per examination). There are no other study-related risks of the
           planned ones.

        5. Insurance Coverage

      An insurance was taken out for all study participants who took part in this study at
      HDI-Gerling Industrie Versichung AG, Riethorst 2, 30659 Hanover, Insurance number:
      5701032603017.

      German laws §§ 40 to 42 Arzneimittelgesetz or §§ 20 to 23 Medizinproduktegesetz are not
      applicable.

      The Investigators are insured against fault-based damage through the existing liability
      insurance of their clinic.
    
  