
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a high prevalence disease and is associated
      with high morbidity and mortality worldwide. In 2017, there were 23.979 COPD related
      admissions in Denmark, approximately 10% died during hospitalization, while 20% of survivors
      were readmitted between day 2-30 after discharge. Patients with COPD often experience long
      disease trajectories characterized by a substantial burden of symptoms, impaired functional
      status, multiple admissions and thereby reduced quality of life. The cardinal symptom dyspnea
      is associated with hypoxemia, anxiety and depression. Evidence shows that depression is a
      significant risk factor for disabling dyspnea, while risk of anxiety increases with the
      severity of Dyspnea.

      The prevalence of anxiety and depression is indicated to lie between 10%-55% and 10%-86% in
      patients hospitalized with COPD in exacerbation . Patients with COPD have an 85% increased
      risk of developing anxiety compared to a matching control group without COPD. The prevalence
      of anxiety is 10 times higher among patients with COPD than in the background population and
      are strongly associated with the risk of hospitalization, long admissions, readmissions and
      death. Anxiety and depression are often treated with benzodiazepines which have a respiratory
      suppressive effect. Consumption of benzodiazepines increases disease progression, and studies
      have shown that 31.7% of patients with COPD have a benzodiazepine consumption and that 9%
      initiate a new benzodiazepine ordination in conjunction with an exacerbation. The evidence
      that oxygen prevents disease progression and mortality is consistent, but there is a lack of
      knowledge about whether oxygen, can reduce the intensity of dyspnea in patients with COPD. In
      the acute phase of an exacerbation the oxygen flow is titrated to achieve a SaO2 between
      88-92%. Keeping patients with COPD within the given SaO2 range is essential because too low
      SaO2 can induce tissue damage, heart overload and difficulty concentrating, while
      hyperoxaemia can inhibit respiration and increase the risk of hypercapnia, acidosis and the
      need for ventilatory support in the form of Non-invasive Ventilation (NIV). In clinical
      practice, oxygen flow is administered and titrated, via aggregates, by nurses based on point
      observations, with the risk of patients being outside optimal SaO2 range, between
      observations. To improve practice, a group of researchers at Hvidovre Hospital has developed
      an oxygen robot, called O2matic, which continuously monitors the patient's SaO2 and
      automatically administrates oxygenflow according to it. O2Matic has been tested in a
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) in 2018. Patients admitted with an exacerbation of COPD and
      hypoxemia (SaO2 ≤ 88%) was included (N = 19). The design was crossover and patients were
      allocated to either 4 hours of manual oxygen administration via nurse followed by 4 hours of
      oxygen administration via O2Matic, or vice versa. The study showed that patients with O2matic
      controlled oxygen administration were within defined SaO2 range in 85.7% of the time versus
      46,6% of the time when the oxygen was controlled and administrated by a nurse . These results
      are in consensus with a former Canadian study testing an alternative oxygen robot (FreeO2).
      The two RCT Studies provide evidence to investigate robot-administered oxygen therapy for
      inpatient patients with exacerbation of COPD in a larger multicenter Randomized Controlled
      Trail.

      Dyspnea is defined as; "A subjective experience of breathing discomfort that consist of
      qualitatively distinct sensations that vary in intensity". The experience of dyspnea is a
      product of a physical perception based on signals from the body to the brain followed by the
      cognitive processing of these into an emotional experience. Dyspnea is thus an emotional and
      sensational experience based on perceptual afferent feedback from various respiratory
      receptors. Up to 16 possible mechanisms are involved in the process . Given the above,
      dyspnea is a complex symptom, mainly induced by the body's attempts to obtain homeostasis,
      when subjected to hypoxemia. Despite this dyspnea is not the same as hypoxemia, as it has not
      been clearly demonstrated that reduced hypoxemia, by oxygen therapy also reduces Dyspnea.
      However, there are indications in the literature that oxygen therapy can reduce the
      experience of dyspnea. A significant barrier to the use of oxygen therapy as an intervention
      on fragmentary dyspnea in patients with COPD is the risk of hypercapnia and acidosis. Oxygen
      therapy administrated according to saturation in a closedloop-feedback-system by a robot,
      could potentially be an intervention to relieve fragmentary dyspnea in patients with COPD.
      International guidelines show that dyspnea is not treated consistently nor effectively in the
      advanced stages of the disease.

      Opioids are one of the most widely used agents in the treatments of dyspnea. Opioids
      suppress' respiration and treatment should be balanced to avoid respiratory depression.
      Guidelines points out the importance of identifying and graduate the intensity of dyspnea in
      clinical practice, without indicating any superior instruments to achieve this. Majority of
      instruments developed, describe dyspnea in relation to activity. As COPD progress, dyspnea
      intensifies and patients will become more inactive and often live a sedentary life. Few
      questionnaires measure the sensory and emotional domains of dyspnea independently of activity
      and diagnose. One is the multidimensional Dyspnoea profile (MDP) that has recently been
      translated into Danish. In order to reduce symptom burden, length of hospital stay, number of
      readmissions and mortality, new knowledge and more effective methods for treating and
      alleviating dyspnea and the associated anxiety and depression are needed in patients with
      COPD. Studies investigating the effect of oxygen therapy, including time with and degree of
      hypoxemia, in hypoxemic patients experiencing dyspnea, anxiety or depression during
      hospitalization with acute exacerbation, could not be identified. Because O2matic provides a
      new and unique opportunity to reduce and illuminate time with hypoxemia during
      hospitalization and patient's subjective experience of the sensory and emotional aspects of
      dyspnea can be reported on a validated questionnaire via MDP, researchers now have an option
      to investigate if a robot intervention, that reduces time with hypoxemia, has an effect on
      dyspnea in patients admitted with a exacerbation of COPD. Furthermore, investigators want to
      examine whether this intervention alters the consumption of opioids and benzodiazepines.

      Primary hypothesis. Reduced time with hypoxia, via active differentiated oxygen supply
      determined by visible monitored saturation, affects the sensory and emotional response to
      dyspnea, anxiety, depression and consumption of medication.

      Primary objective:

      To investigate whether there is an association between time with hypoxemia and dyspnea,
      described by the Sensory Question (SQ) scale and A2 scale of MDP, in patients admitted with
      an exacerbation of COPD and a need for oxygen therapy Secondary hypothesis 1 The intensity of
      dyspnea, anxiety, depression and respiratory symptom burden is dependent on time with and
      degree of hypoxemia

      Secondary objective 1:

      To investigate whether there is an association between time with-and degree of hypoxemia and
      respectively dyspnea, anxiety, depression and symptom burden Secondary hypothesis 2 Reduced
      time with-and degree of hypoxemia reduces consumption of anxiolytics expressed in Mg

      Secondary objective 2:

      To investigate whether there is an association between time with-and degree of hypoxemia and
      anxiolytics represented as Benzodiazepines, morphine and "Oramorph" drops
    
  