
    
      -  Background: Family caregivers of ICU patients experience high level of distress due to
           the severity of illness that their family members demonstrate and the perceived
           limitation in control during their caregiving. This psychological issue in family
           caregivers have been documented to affect not only the caregivers' psychosocial health
           but also the quality of care for patients, which would also be influencing factors for
           treatment outcomes of patients. As such, family-centered care has been emphasized in
           related professions. Intervention efforts for family caregivers are also of interest.
           Given that music has been evidenced to effectively alleviate emotional stress of
           caregivers and that musical activities can be used in an individualized way at different
           levels, the use of music for addressing psychosocial needs of this population is
           potential. Among musical activities, singing is one of the most common activities and
           also available in everyday life regardless of the level of musical background in the
           past, which increases the possibility to utilize it as a personal strategy for
           individuals with a broad range of musical experiences and music use.

        -  Purpose: This study aimed to examine the changes in the level of depression, anxiety,
           and emotional states of family caregivers of ICU patients after participation in
           singing-based music therapy intervention.

        -  Intervention: Singing-based music therapy program consists of the sequences of the
           following: (1) listening to a participant's preferred music and identifying his and her
           emotional states, (2) singing for emotional changes, and (3) discussing what he or she
           experiences during singing and identifying how they apply such experience to their
           personal use of music for emotional changes in his or her everyday life.

        -  Measures: In order to examine the changes in the perceived psychological health after
           participation in singing-based intervention, Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression
           Scale (CES-D), State Anxiety Inventory (STAI), and a 100mm visual analog scale for
           ratings on emotional state are administered. Also, in order to identify and control the
           effect of level of caregiving burden on current emotional states, Subjective Caregiving
           Burden Scale is administered.
    
  