
    
      Busulfan Test Dose:

      Participant will receive a test dose of busulfan by vein over about 60 minutes. Before and
      after participant receives this low-level test dose of busulfan, blood will be drawn several
      times to check how the level of busulfan in participant's blood changes over time. This is
      called pharmacokinetic (PK) testing. This information will be used to decide the next dose
      needed to reach the correct blood level that matches participant's body size. Participant
      will most likely receive this test dose as an outpatient during the week before participant
      is admitted to the hospital. If it cannot be given as an outpatient, participant will be
      admitted to the hospital on Day -11 (11 days before participant's stem cells are returned to
      participant's body) and the test dose will be given on Day -10.

      Blood (about 1 teaspoon each time) will be drawn for PK testing about 11 times before
      participant's test dose of busulfan and 10 times over the 11 hours after the dose. The blood
      samples will be repeated again on the first day of high-dose busulfan treatment (Day -8). A
      temporary heparin lock line will be placed in participant's vein to lower the number of
      needle sticks needed for these draws.

      If it is not possible for the PK tests to be performed for any reason, participant will
      receive the standard fixed dose of busulfan.

      Study Drug Administration:

      On Days -13 through -11 (the 3 days before participant is admitted to the hospital),
      participant will receive palifermin by vein over about 30 seconds each day to help decrease
      the risk of side effects in the mouth and throat.

      On Day -9 through Day -2, participant will take panobinostat by mouth, with food. The study
      staff will tell participant how many tablets to take. Participant will receive dexamethasone
      by vein over about 3-5 minutes 2 times each day.

      On Day -9, if participant has a type of B-cell cancer, participant will receive rituximab (a
      treatment used for certain lymphomas) by vein over about 3-6 hours as part of participant's
      standard care. The study doctor will tell participant if participant will receive rituximab.

      On Day -8, participant will receive gemcitabine by vein over 4½ hours.

      On Days -8, -7, -6, and -5, participant will receive busulfan by vein over about 60 minutes.

      On Day -3, participant will receive gemcitabine by vein over 4½ hours and then melphalan by
      vein over 30 minutes.

      On Day -2, participant will receive melphalan by vein over 30 minutes.

      On Day -1, participant will rest (participant will not receive chemotherapy).

      On Day 0, participant will receive participant's stem cells by vein over about 30-60 minutes.

      Participant will receive 3 more doses of palifermin by vein, over 15-30 seconds each time, on
      Days 0, +1, and +2.

      As part of standard care, participant will receive G-CSF (filgrastim) as an injection just
      under participant's skin 1 time each day starting on Day +5 until participant's blood cell
      levels return to normal. The study doctor will discuss this with participant, including how
      filgrastim is given and its risks.

      Length of Study:

      As part of standard care, participant will remain in the hospital for about 3-4 weeks after
      the transplant. After participant is released from the hospital, participant will continue as
      an outpatient. Participant will need to stay in the Houston area to be checked for infections
      and side effects.

      Participant will be taken off study about 100 days after the transplant. Participant may be
      taken off study earlier if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if
      participant is unable to follow study directions.

      Study Tests:

      About 100 days after the transplant:

        -  Participant will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, participant may have a bone marrow aspiration and
           biopsy to check the status of the disease. To collect a bone marrow aspiration/biopsy,
           an area of the hip is numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow and bone
           is withdrawn through a large needle.

      This is an investigational study. Panobinostat and melphalan are FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM). Busulfan is FDA approved
      and commercially available for the treatment of leukemia. Gemcitabine is FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of lymphoma, breast cancer, and lung cancer.
      Rituximab is FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's
      lymphoma.

      The use of these study drugs in combination is investigational. The study doctor can explain
      how the study drugs are designed to work.

      Up to 75 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  