
    
      The palatine tonsil consists of an epithelial crypt (invaginated pocket) surrounded by dense
      clusters of lymph nodules, each with a germinal center where lymphocytes proliferate. The
      nodules are embedded in a mass of diffuse lymphoid tissue that consists of lymphocytes
      migrating to and from the germinal centers.

      Increasing the surface area of the crypts is one way to facilitate the contact of antigens
      (bacteria) with the immune cells. The epithelium may specialize to form an openmeshwork of
      cells which allows the infiltration of the epithelium by lymphocytes and macrophages.
      Tonsillar lymphoid nodules consist mainly of B-lymphocytes. Other areas are occupied by
      T-lymphocytes, activated B-lymphocytes and other cells of the immune system. Inside the
      crypts, where cells of the immune system often invade the epithelium, it will be difficult to
      find the specific boundary between epithelium and lymphoid tissue. The bacterial material and
      biofilms1 sits in crypts and may start a new infection from time to time. The epithelium
      lining the crypt corresponds with that on the adjacent surface - stratified squamous in the
      tongue and palate or pseudo stratified columnar in the pharynx. In either case, the
      epithelium may be heavily infiltrated with lymphocytes, and the crypt may be filled with
      lymphocytes and other debris.

      The tonsillar crypts have an important role in chronic tonsillitis. They are covered by
      stratified epithelium and may be initiated via the epithelium to mount immune responses to
      various presenting antigens. Go M. et al, investigated the expression and function of tight
      junctions in the epithelium of human palatine tonsils from patients with tonsillar
      hypertrophy or recurrent tonsillitis. These studies suggested unique expression of tight
      junctions in human palatine tonsillar epithelium, and it was suggested that the crypt
      epithelium may possess an epithelial barrier different from that of the surface epithelium2.

      Bacteria within biofilms are resistant to host defenses and antibiotics. The presence of
      bacterial biofilms within the tissue and crypts of inflamed tonsils may explain the chronic
      and recurrent characteristics of some forms of tonsillitis. There is strong anatomical
      evidence for the presence of bacterial biofilms in chronically diseased tonsils1. Using a
      novel visualization approach in single sections of human mucosal tissue, the presence of
      biofilms was demonstrated on tonsils in most (17/24 [70.8%]) patients with tonsillitis3.

      One study investigated the difference in follicle size and numbers in tonsils for patients
      with tonsillar hypertrophy and recurrent tonsillitis using an image analysis method. There
      was no significant difference in the mean follicle numbers per counting field between
      recurrent tonsillitis and tonsillar hypertrophy. However, they demonstrated that tonsillar
      hypertrophy is characterized histologically by an enlargement of follicles compared with
      recurrent tonsillitis, indicating a hyperplastic condition of lymphoid cells in the germinal
      centers. It may also explain the difference in etiology and immune mechanism between
      tonsillar hypertrophy and recurrent tonsillitis4.

      Coblation is a non-heat driven process in which radiofrequency energy is applied to a
      conductive medium (usually saline) causing a highly focused plasma field to form around the
      electrodes. The plasma field is comprised of highly ionized particles. These ionized
      particles have sufficient energy to break organic molecular bonds within tissue. Instead of
      exploding tissue, coblation causes a low-temperature molecular disintegration, resulting in
      minimal tissue damage to surrounding areas.

      A novel treatment for chronic tonsillitis is now suggested by the inventors, this method
      being based on treating the source of recurrent bacterial infections in the tonsillar tissue,
      specifically the tonsillar crypts.

      By treatment of the crypts and tonsillar tissue it may be possible to decrease the possible
      antigen-immune system interaction and inflammation.

      Without being bound to a specific theory, it is suggested that the combination of the radio
      frequency energy and the fluid creates a "plasma" field containing highly ionized particles,
      which have sufficient energy to break organic molecular bonds that can remove tissue
      selectively without excessive heat production and damage the surrounding tissue.

      Material and Methods

      The study protocol was approved by the The Hillel Yaffe Medical Center's Ethics and Helsinki
      Committee.

      60 patients suffering from chronic tonsillitis will be treated by Coblation channeling to the
      tonsils.

      The treatment was conducted using an Arthrocare® Corporation (ArthroCare Corporation, 7500
      Rialto Boulevard Austin, Texas 78735) COBLATION electrode ReFlex Ultra 55* for tonsillar
      tissue ablation at low temperatures with only one treatment. All the patients underwent
      tonsil channeling treatment with coblation, and 4-6 channels were done in each tonsil under
      local anesthesia, in the operating room. The patients were observed overnight.

      A control group included 60 patients with chronic tonsillitis with indication for
      tonsillectomy will underwent tonsillectomy.

      The patients selected are older than 18 years old, and were healthy, without any chronic
      diseases other than chronic tonsillitis. Diagnosis of chronic tonsillitis was based on
      history and medical examination. The criteria were: 1. At least 4 occasions of tonsillitis in
      the last year that were treated (positive throat swab for Streptococci Group A will
      contribute towards the diagnosis). 2. Recurrent or chronic throat pain. 3. Hypertrophic
      tonsils of chronic tonsillitis. Patients that were not included: 1. Disease of the mouth or
      pharyngeal mucosa-like ulcers. 2. Allergy to drugs. 3. Gastrointestinal reflux. 4. Any
      contraindication for tonsillectomy. 5. Peritonsillar abscess in the past.

      Final evaluations were by follow-up of the patients 1,2,4,6 and 12 months after the beginning
      of treatment. At each visit, evaluation of the treatment was done by investigating the degree
      of throat pain or tonsillitis after the treatment, number of tonsillitis per year,
      examination of the tonsils, post treatment pain score by VISUAL-ANALOG-SCALE (VAS) SCORES.
      The following parameters were recorded: the size of tonsils before and after treatment,
      number of occurrences of tonsillitis after one year, and if there was any post-treatment
      bleeding.

      The results will be statistically evaluated .
    
  