
    
      Objectives: Brief advice combined with active referral to smoking cessation (SC) services
      increases quitting. We aim to strengthen the effect of combined intervention by using
      interactive communication technologies and nicotine replacement therapy sampling (NRT-S).

      Design and subjects: Pragmatic, individual randomized controlled trial in 664 daily smokers
      proactively recruited in smoking hotspots in Hong Kong.

      Interventions: Subjects in the Intervention group will receive face-to-face brief advice
      (including SC services referral) using AWARD model and 1-week free NRT sample (NRT-S) at
      baseline; and 12-week personalized behavioral support using interactive communication
      technologies (include regular tailored messages on abstinence, and synchronous IM Apps [e.g.
      WhatsApp] conversation with trained SC advisors and a Chatbot). Subjects in the Control group
      will receive the same AWARD advice without NRT-S at baseline, and regular
      short-message-service messages on general health and reminders to participate in follow-up.

      Main outcome measures: Primary outcomes are carbon monoxide validated smoking abstinence at
      6-month and 12-month. Secondary outcomes include self-reported past 7-day abstinence, smoking
      reduction, quit attempt, SC services use, NRT use, self-efficacy on quitting and quality of
      life.

      Data analysis: Intention-to-treat and cost-effectiveness analyses will be conducted.
      Mediation analyses will explore the underlying mechanisms of Chatbot and IM Apps behavioral
      support to promote quitting. Individual interviews with quitters and non-quitters, and
      content analysis of Chatbot/IM Apps will be conducted to have in-depth understanding on the
      effects of intervention on various outcomes.

      Expected results: The Intervention group will have statistically significant higher validated
      smoking abstinence rates than the Control group at 6-month and 12-month.
    
  