
    
      1. Patient selection 42 type A aortic dissections patients were asked to participate in a
           prospective, randomized trial comparing aPRP technique with regular blood conservation.
           6 patients were excluded The patients were randomized into two groups: regular blood
           conservation group(n=18) and aPRP group(n=18). Patients gave informed consent, and
           ethical permission was approved by the Human Ethics Committee of Beijing Anzhen
           Hospital. The grouping situation is blinded to the surgeon, perfusionist and
           statistician.

        2. Anesthesia and monitoring method All patients were monitored according to the American
           Society of Anesthesia guidelines and received standard general anesthesia. A
           post-operative analgesic pump was used until four days after surgery. The same group of
           surgeons performed all operations. Extracorporeal circulation used DHCA and axillary
           arterial anterograde cerebral perfusion. In addition, the same group of physicians
           managed extracorporeal circulation.

        3. Autologous Platelet-Rich Plasma Harvest Technique In the treatment group, shortly after
           administration of general anesthesia, blood was collected via central venous catheter 60
           ml per minute (that was proven to be safe) and approximately 15-20 mL/kg of whole blood
           was collected. The harvested blood was then centrifuged at 2400 rpm to separate the red
           blood cells (RBC) from the autologous platelet rich plasma (aPRP). The separated blood
           component was processed by acid sodium citrate glucose solution (AcD-A) for
           anti-coagulation. No systemic heparin was administered at this time. The aPRP component
           was then stored at 20℃ - 24℃. When the blood withdrawal was proceeding, lactated
           ringer's solution and succinylated gelatin were used via the peripheral vein to dilate
           circulating capacity and maintain hemodynamic stability. A vasoactive drug was used if
           necessary. The systematic heparinization began after blood collection had completed.
           General blood salvage was performed during surgery and transfused according to the
           patient's actual intraoperative needs.

           The mean quantity of whole blood collected for Autologous Platelet-Rich Plasma Harvest
           was 1037 ± 286 mL. The control group was only subjected to general intraoperative blood
           conservation using red blood cell salvage and allogenic blood transfusion.

        4. Transfusion Practice Autologous red blood cells were infused to maintain the HGB level
           above 100 g/L. While on CPB, the hemoglobin (HGB) level was maintained between 70 g/L to
           90 g/L. Salvaged blood was also used following CPB. FFP, platelets, and aPRP were
           transfused after protamine reversed heparinization, since no active bleeding was
           observed. Therapeutic transfusion triggers were: INR TEG-R>11 min for FFP
           administration; TEG-a <63 degrees for human fibrinogen; and TEG-MA <52 mm for aphaeresis
           platelets
    
  