
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung
           cancer treated with paclitaxel and carboplatin with or without BMS-275291.

        -  Compare the incidence of grade 2 or higher drug related arthritis, arthralgia and/or
           myalgia in patients treated with these regimens. (Phase II only)

        -  Compare the objective tumor response rate, time to response, and response duration in
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the nature, severity, and frequency of toxic effects of these regimens in these
           patients.

        -  Compare the progression free survival of patients treated with these regimens. (Phase
           III only)

        -  Correlate the expression of serum/plasma and tissue matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)
           levels and other markers with outcomes and response in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to center, disease stage (IIIB vs IV), and ECOG performance status
      (0-1 vs 2). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on
           day 1 plus oral BMS-275291 daily on days 1-21.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm I plus oral placebo daily
           on days 1-21.

      Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. BMS-275291 or placebo continues beyond 8 courses in the absence of
      disease progression.

      Quality of life is assessed.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 776 patients will be accrued for this study within 27 months.
    
  