
    
      This study is a single centre, prospective, physiologic study in extubated patients (n = 110)
      to assess the contractility of the diaphragm, intercostal, and sternocleidomastoid muscles.
      The purpose is to determine whether employing ultrasounds early after extubation is a useful
      diagnostic tool to identify patients who may be at risk of extubation failure and/or
      intensive care unit (ICU) re-admission. The study will be performed in the Medical-Surgical
      ICU of St. Michael's Hospital.

      Once the clinical team has decided to extubate the patient, the research team will approach
      the patient for consent (if capable) or the patient's substitute decision maker. Demographic
      information will be extracted from the medical chart and entered into the study case report
      form (CRF). Ultrasounds of the diaphragm, intercostal, and sternocleidomastoid muscles will
      be performed within 2 hours of extubation and repeated within 24 hours of extubation (if
      feasible). The following physiological and biological variables will be collected before and
      after the spontaneous breathing trial (SBT): mode of ventilation and settings, Arterial Blood
      Gas (ABG) results, heart rate, arterial blood pressure, peripheral capillary oxygen
      saturation (SpO2), respiratory rate, Glasgow Coma Score (GCS), temperature, fluid balance in
      the last 24 hours, Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score, and rapid shallow
      breathing index (RSBI). At the time of the ultrasound measurements, the following
      physiological variables will be collected: heart rate, arterial blood pressure, SpO2,
      respiratory rate, Glasgow Coma Score (GCS), cough, Intensive Care Delirium Screening
      Checklist (ICDSC), ambient air, oxygenation, use of non-invasive ventilation (NIV), level of
      dyspnea, level of comfort, nasal flaring, Medical Research Council (MRC) score, and the
      Respiratory Intensive Care Observation Scale (RICOS). Outcome data will be recorded
      including: extubation failure, use of NIV and/or high-flow nasal oxygen cannula post
      extubation, re-intubation, ICU discharge/re-admission status, and tracheostomy. A 7-day
      follow-up after ICU discharge will signify completion of the study.
    
  