
    
      Eligible patients will receive concurrent chemo-radiotherapy to the primary tumor and the
      initially involved mediastinal lymph nodes to an MLD (Mean Lung Dose) of 20 +/- 1Gy,
      irrespective of lung function.

      Other dose constraints: spinal cord max: 54Gy, brachial plexus (Dmax):66Gy.

      In concurrent with chemotherapy, radiotherapy will be delivered as follows:

        1. First three weeks /30 fractions:twice-daily fractions of 1.5Gy, with 8h to 10h as
           interfraction interval, 5 days per week. Total dose: 45Gy/30 fractions.

        2. Thereafter: once-daily fractions of 2.0Gy, 5 days per week until the target dose has
           been reached.

      In sequential or radiotherapy alone schedules, twice-daily 1.8Gy with an interfraction
      interval of at least 8h will be delivered.

      The radiation doses will be specified according to ICRU 50. Lung density corrections will be
      applied, as well as all standard QA procedures. Technical requirements are the same as in
      standard practice at MAASTRO clinic.

      Chemotherapy schedules allowed:

        1. 1-2 cycles induction chemotherapy: any third generation schedule is allowed. The type
           will be registered.

        2. Concurrent part: (day 1=first day of radiotherapy)

             1. cisplatin-vinorelbine

             2. cisplatin-docetaxel

             3. cisplatin-etoposide

             4. cisplatin-pemetrexed in non-squamous histologies

      Q3 week; 3 cycles

      When the calculated creatinin clearance is less than 60 ml/min, cisplatin may be substituted
      for carboplatin.

      In case the TTD(Total Treatment Dose)=69Gy cannot be reached because of a limiting MLD, a
      FDG-PET-CT will be performed at day 12 during radiotherapy. GTV's (Gross Tmor Volume), CTV's
      (Clinical Target Volume) and PTV's (Planning Target Volume) will be delineated and a new plan
      calculated. The endpoint will be the proportion of patients that will receive 69Gy.
    
  