
    
      Dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with aspirin and a P2Y12 receptor antagonist is pivotal for
      the treatment of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) undergoing percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) and in patents following an acute coronary syndrome (ACS). Importantly, it
      is not uncommon that patients requiring DAPT also need to be treated with oral anticoagulant
      therapy, such as those with atrial fibrillation (AF). Warfarin and clopidogrel are still the
      most widely utilized oral anticoagulant and P2Y12 receptor inhibitor, respectively. However,
      this treatment regimen has shown to be associated with an increased risk of bleeding, as well
      as ischemic complications. Over the past years, several non-vitamin K antagonist oral
      anticoagulants (NOACs), including edoxaban, have been studied in the setting of AF showing
      encouraging safety and efficacy profiles as compared with warfarin. In the phase III ENGAGE
      AF-TIMI 48 trial, edoxaban (60mg or 30mg once/daily) was non-inferior to warfarin with
      respect to the prevention of stroke or systemic embolism and was associated with
      significantly lower rates of bleeding and death from cardiovascular causes, in patients with
      AF. However, the effects of edoxaban in combination with DAPT in the setting of patients with
      CAD are unexplored. This may indeed represent a limitation for the uptake of edoxaban in
      modern day clinical practice where ~10% of patients with AF also have CAD requiring PCI and
      thus may require triple antithrombotic therapy. Moreover, the role of edoxaban as part of a
      dual antithrombotic treatment strategy, including clopidogrel and stopping aspirin,
      represents another important area of clinical interest as it has the potential reduce the
      risk of bleeding while preserving protection from ischemic events. This investigation is a
      prospective, randomized, parallel-design, open label, pharmacodynamic study conducted in
      patients with CAD on DAPT with aspirin and clopidogrel testing two different edoxaban dosing
      regimens (60mg or 30mg once/daily) in addition to DAPT with aspirin and clopidogrel, as well
      as in combination with clopidogrel only (after stopping aspirin).
    
  