
    
      Objective To study the effect of two preoperative immune enhancing nutritional supplements
      compared with a control nutritional supplement in 'high risk' risk cardiac surgery patients

      Introduction: Elderly patients and patients with a poor ventricular function undergoing
      cardiac operations with hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), have an increased
      postoperative morbidity and mortality. Host defence may be diminished due to nutritional
      deficiencies, hypoperfusion, anaesthesia and operative trauma. Immune function is
      additionally depressed by the use of CPB and hypothermia. It has been suggested that
      L-arginine can improve postoperative outcome in cardiac surgery patients, glycine may have a
      role in protecting tissues against insults such as ischemia-reperfusion and hypoxia, and
      omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega3-PUFA's) can limit the postoperative generalised
      inflammatory response.

      Experimental studies have shown that the use of nutritional supplements containing
      L-arginine, omega3-PUFA's or nucleotides, boost immune responsiveness after surgery or
      trauma. L-arginine is a semi-essential amino acid and precursor of nitrous oxide (NO), the
      most important endothelial vasodilator. In experimental studies, L-arginine improved wound
      healing, restored postoperative depressed macrophage function and lymphocyte responsiveness
      and augmented resistance to infections. Arginine protected against ischemia-reperfusion
      injury by increasing oxygen delivery upon reflow, thereby improving cardiac function. The
      intake of additional omega3-PUFA's alters cell membrane phospholipid content and
      prostaglandin synthesis. This might be an important factor in limiting the generalised
      inflammatory response and subsequent immunosuppression and capillary leakage following major
      surgery. Purines and pyrimidines are essential nutrients for rapidly dividing cells. The
      administration of nucleotides in the form of yeast-RNA has improved the host immune response
      to an infectious challenge. In experimental studies glycine has been proven cytoprotective in
      stomach, kidney, liver and cardiovascular system. The metabolic response to oral glycine is
      that it facilitates the uptake op glucose from the circulation.

      The immunonutrients, arginine, omega3-PUFA's and yeast-RNA, have been combined into a single
      oral immune enhancing nutritional supplement (OIENS). In cancer surgery, trauma and
      critically ill patients 'post event' nutrition with this immune enhancing formula has
      improved immunocompetence, reduced infections and shortened length of stay in the hospital
      (LOSH). The onset of the effect of postoperative immune enhancing nutrition starts after 3
      days and seems to be dose dependent. For this reason, it can be hypothesised that it may be
      beneficial to commence an oral immune enhancing nutritional supplement (OIENS) before
      surgery. A recent published clinical trail showed that the OIENS with these three
      immunonutrients in high risk cardiac surgery patients improves preoperative clinical relevant
      immunological parameters, reduced postoperative infectious morbidity and attenuated
      postoperative organ dysfunction. Recently, the three immunonutrients have been combined with
      glycine into a new single OIENS. Aim of the present study in 'high risk' cardiac surgery
      patients was to determine whether the intake of the new OIENS for minimally five days
      improves preoperative host defence and subsequently reduces postoperative infections and
      organ dysfunction.

      Study design: A prospective randomized placebo-controlled three armed double blind study

      Setting: Departments of cardiopulmonary surgery, anesthesiology and intensive care of the
      Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands

      Patients: Eligible patients will be included in the study after obtaining written informed
      consent Inclusion criteria: Patients who met one or more of the inclusion criteria: aged 70
      years or more, undergoing cardiac surgery with the use of CPB, or patients with a poor left
      ventricular function (Ejection fraction < 0.40) or patients undergoing a mitral valve
      replacement.

      Exclusion criteria: Age < 21 years, pregnancy, insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, hepatic
      cirrhosis, known malignancy, the use of chemotherapy, NSAIDs (excluding acetyl salic acid) or
      corticosteroids, schizophrenia, severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance < 25 mL/h),
      patients with an organ transplantation in the past

      Randomization: 74 patients will be randomized by closed envelop method

      Intervention: All patients will receive one of the three enteral nutritional supplements. A
      formula enriched with arginine, omega-3 PUFA's and nucleotides or the enriched formula
      further enriched with additional glycine or a control formula. Patients that needs
      postoperative enteral nutritional support will receive the same formula as preoperative.
      Patients that need no postoperative enteral nutrition nasogastric tube feeding will not
      receive the nutritional supplement

      Endpoints: Patient compliance, infections, postperfusion phenomena, post-operative organ
      function (need of postoperative support e.g. inotropic, vasopressor support, fluids,
      myocardial infarction, ventilation parameters, renal function) time of recovery, mortality
    
  