
    
      Pregnancy induces a physiological change of hemostasis to a prothrombotic state : protein S
      decrease and increase of virtually all the clotting factors, in particular fibrinogen, von
      Willebrand factor and factor VIII. However, a state of hyperfibrinolysis may occur in the
      immediate postpartum period (especially after placental delivery), thereby promoting
      postpartum hemorrhage.

      This state of hyperfibrinolysis is associated with the use of transfusions of blood products
      and the realization of hysterectomy.It is currently the most common etiology of maternal
      mortality in childbirth. Although its incidence is low in western countries, it remains very
      high in the world.There is an imperative to develop an efficient and reliable protocol for
      the management of this postpartum complication.

      Tranexamic acid is an anti-fibrinolytic agent (like lysine) which acts by preventing the
      conversion of plasminogen to plasmin, by blocking the binding of plasminogen to the heavy
      chain of fibrin.The use of this agent has spread in recent years in many types of surgery
      (cardiac, orthopedic, etc.), and in patient polytrauma. However, the number of studies
      evaluating its efficacy in the management (treatment and / or prevention) of postpartum
      hemorrhage is limited. In addition, the doses used are extrapolated from studies of a
      different population (multiple trauma, cardiac surgery, etc).

      The tranexamic acid proposed scheme is currently used is not suitable for the population of
      pregnant women at term. It was established arbitrarily on the basis of the adult population
      without considering the physiological and metabolic characteristics of the term pregnancy.
      The optimal dose of tranexamic acid enabling inhibition of fibrinolysis, without increasing
      the complications rate, remains thus to be defined.

      It is in this context that the investigators aim to evaluate, in an in-vitro model, the
      minimum dose of tranexamic acid required to inhibit fibrinolysis after activation of the
      latter by t-PA. The degree of fibrinolysis will be evaluated by thromboelastometry.
    
  