
    
      The purpose of this study is to map inflammatory dysfunction to suicidal behavior and
      establish a reliable immune signature of suicide risk that can 1) guide future research into
      fundamental pathophysiology and 2) identify targets for drug development and guide clinical
      screening and risk management.

      Background: In previous research, the investigators have identified targets of clinical
      utility for both suicide-risk identification and novel therapeutic development. Specifically,
      a state of immune hyper-reactivity that predisposes to suicidal behavior can be corrected by
      use of immunomodulatory agents.

      Blood tests screening for presence of autoantibodies may be implemented as diagnostic tests
      to predict future suicide risk. Monoclonal antibodies have gained recent attention for their
      use in CNS disorders (such as multiple sclerosis and migraine) and have been shown to be
      effective for some patients with depression.

      However, the utility of anti-inflammatory treatments for depression has been limited by a
      lack of biomarkers to guide their use. Thus, presence of autoantibodies may identify a
      sub-group of adolescents and young adults with suicidality who are candidates for treatment
      with monoclonal antibodies.

      The investigators specifically hypothesize that depressed youths with suicide behavior have
      immune hyper-reactivity, as reflected in dysfunctional cells mediating both innate and
      adaptive immune response.

      Study Items: Since this is an observational study, investigators will explore a comprehensive
      panel of carefully selected participant specific parameters: socio-demographic (age,
      ethnicity, economic); symptom severity measures (depressive symptoms, mood, and feelings);
      clinical (medical history, anxious depression, early life trauma), biological (biomarkers in
      blood), behavioral (cognitive, emotional), with the goal to develop the most robust
      predictive models of treatment response and of depression outcomes. There is no medication or
      non-medication treatment or intervention provided by this study.
    
  