
    
      Most Emergency Departments (EDs) perform an initial risk stratification of patients, called
      Triage. Establishing a diagnosis is key for the administration of the appropriate treatment
      and the following disposition decision. The earlier and the more accurate the final diagnosis
      is established, the shorter the time to treatment and time to disposition, and thus, the more
      efficient the patient flow. New ways to improve diagnosis accuracy early on in patients' ED
      visits are needed. Although a great number of well validated and widely used triage systems
      exists, to this date no gold standard in triage risk stratification has been established.
      Most of the existing triage systems rely on the measurement of vital signs and a list of
      chief complaints.

      This study is to develop a tool capable of improved risk prediction regarding the 30-day
      mortality. Based on vital signs, impaired mobility on presentation (IMOP), Clinical Frailty
      Scale (CFS) and patients' symptomatology three risk categories (low, intermediate, high risk)
      will be established.

      According to acuity patients undergo triage or directly proceed to the treatment unit.
      Patients awaiting triage will be approached by a member of the study personnel and will be
      verbally informed about the study. Afterwards, patients will be interviewed asking about
      their symptoms and their reason for presentation. Patients in need of immediate therapy will
      receive therapy before start of the interview. Following the interview, patients undergo
      routine triage.The physician performing initial triage will be asked to rate how ill patients
      appear to be using a numeric scale ranging from 0 (perfect condition) to 10 (extremely ill).
      Treating physician's will be asked to state their suspected diagnosis as well as differential
      diagnoses. Follow-up to assess 30-day and 1-year mortality rate and date of death will start
      one year after the end of the inclusion period.
    
  