
    
      The role of bacteria and microbial agents in the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease has been
      suggested and is supported by animal models of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in which the
      presence of normal gut flora is required for the initiation and full expression of the
      inflammatory reaction. In human Crohn's disease, antibiotics are commonly used even though
      the evidence to support this practice is not strong. Several studies have indicated that
      antibiotics have some biological activity in Crohn's disease and that this activity may be
      most pronounced in the subset of patients with colonic involvement.

      In order to better justify the use of antibiotics in the treatment of Crohn's disease, the
      Antibiotics for Colonic Crohn's Disease trial has been designed to determine if ciprofloxacin
      and metronidazole combination therapy is effective in the treatment of active Crohn's disease
      of the colon. This two arm, multi-centre, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group,
      placebo-controlled study will involve 136 patients with mild to moderate active Crohn's
      disease of the colon (with or without ileal involvement), as defined by a Crohn's Disease
      Activity Index (CDAI) score between 220 and 450.

      Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to receive one of two treatment regimens: (1)
      ciprofloxacin (500 mg po bid; provided as

      1 x 500 mg tablets) and metronidazole (<50 kg, 250 mg po bid; 50-75 kg, 250 mg po tid; >75
      kg, 500 mg po bid; all doses provided as 1 x 250 mg tablets) or (2) placebo. Treatment will
      be continued for a period of 8 weeks.

      Treatment success will be defined as a complete response to therapy at the end of eight
      weeks. Complete response (remission) will be defined as a reduction of the CDAI score to
      below 150 points with a reduction of at least 70 points from baseline. Partial response
      (improvement) will be analyzed as a secondary outcome measure and will be defined as a
      reduction of the CDAI score by 70 points or more but with a final value of 150 points or
      greater. Patients who experience a persistent rise in their CDAI scores of 100 points or more
      on two consecutive visits or a rise in their CDAI score to 400 points or more at any visit
      will be considered to be treatment failures and will be withdrawn from the study.

      The primary analysis will be an intent-to-treat comparison of the proportion of patients
      achieving remission by 8 weeks in the ciprofloxacin/metronidazole and placebo groups.
      Secondary outcome measures will evaluate partial response and adverse event rates.
    
  