
    
      Study Description:

      This is a prospective longitudinal cohort study of individuals who have recently tested
      positive or are highly suspected to be positive for severe acute respiratory
      syndrome-coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV- 2) infection. The aim is to correlate results of reverse
      transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using various sample types, assays, and
      culture. We will enroll individuals with at least one recent positive RT-PCR test result
      (confirmed cases) and individuals whose referring physician highly suspects current or recent
      SARS-CoV-2 infection but the individual has not had access to testing (probable cases). At
      baseline, participants will undergo collection of nasopharyngeal (NP) swabs, saliva samples,
      and midturbinate swabs for SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR and culture, and blood draw for antibody assay.
      Subjects enrolled as probable cases who have a positive baseline RT-PCR result and all
      subjects enrolled as confirmed cases (regardless of baseline result) will be followed with
      serial screenings until they have 2 consecutive negative RT-PCR test results.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      Correlate results of SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR using various sample types, antibody assays and
      culture.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Determine rate of culture positivity in individuals who persistently shed virus.

        2. Correlate symptoms with culture positivity and RT-PCR cycle threshold.

      Endpoints: Primary Endpoint: Results of SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR using NP swab, saliva, and
      midturbinate swab, antibody assay and culture.

      Secondary Endpoint:

        1. SARS-CoV-2 culture and RT-PCR results.

        2. Symptom checklist and RT-PCR cycle threshold value.

      Study Population:

      We will enroll up to 1,000 (accrual ceiling: 1,050) adults who have had one or more positive
      RT-PCR test result(s) within the last two weeks (confirmed cases) and those who have not been
      tested within the last two weeks but meet a high index of clinical suspicion for current or
      recent SARS-CoV-2 infection (probable cases).

      Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      NIH CC.

      Study Duration: 3 years.

      Participant Duration:

      Probable cases who have negative RT-PCR results at baseline will have a single (baseline)
      visit. Probable cases with positive baseline RT-PCR and all confirmed cases will continue in
      the
    
  