
    
      All patients who agree to participate in this study will receive the same surgical and
      anesthetic techniques that are provided to all our patients undergoing this procedure at this
      institution. Post-operative treatment and therapy and follow-up will also be the same as any
      of our patients undergoing this procedure at this institution.

      The only difference would be that patients would be randomized (determined by chance, like a
      flip of a coin) to either receive a single dose of lacosamide (100 mg by mouth) or placebo
      (sugar pill by mouth) before the surgical procedure. This would be the only experimental part
      of this study.

      In addition, specific information will be collected throughout the patients care until
      discharged from the orthopedic clinic (approximately 3 months after the procedure). The
      collected information will include subject's age, race and ethnicity, sex, height, weight,
      American Society of Anesthesiologist physical status, total amount of opioid (pain
      medication) use, pain scores, nausea and vomiting, time spent in the post anesthesia care
      unit (time to discharge readiness), and discharge from the hospital. The patient's pain score
      and opioid use will be assessed during their follow-up at approximately 3 months (Note: all
      of the specific information collected is normally gathered or documented in our surgical
      patients' record). In addition, participants may withdraw from the study at any time.

      The main goal of this study is to determine if lacosamide can reduce the amount of opioids
      required in patient's undergoing a total hip arthroplasty. Lacosamide is a FDA approved
      medication for the treatment of partial-onset seizures and is a man-made amino acid (usually
      are used as the building blocks from which proteins are made in the body) which block special
      proteins inby a change in the electricity that a cell may feel (voltage-gated sodium
      channel). Lacosamide is a new antiepileptic drug apparently lacking any major pharmacokinetic
      interactions (how the body affects a specific drug after administration, as well as the
      chemical changes of the substance in the body, and the effects and routes of excretion of the
      metabolites of the drug).

      Lacosamide, carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine are known to block special proteins in the
      covering of cells which allow sodium into the cells when they are turned on by a change in
      the electricity that a cell may feel (voltage-gated sodium channel, NaV1.7). Lacosamide was
      chosen over carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine because it causes fewer side effects. Currently,
      lacosamide is being tested in patients with painful diabetic nerve pain. Further trials to
      identify lacosamide's potential in pain control and for other indications have been started.
    
  