
    
      Urge Syndrome (US) is the most common non-neurogenic voiding dysfunction in children beyond
      the usual age for toilet training, and is characterized by urinary frequency and urgency,
      holding maneuvers, and diurnal incontinence. Urodynamics testing has determined these
      symptoms result from uninhibited bladder contractions, and so anticholinergic drugs that
      control these contractions are the mainstay of therapy typically given in six monthintervals
      until the condition resolves. Beyond the embarrassment that may accompany urinary
      incontinence, US has been linked to urinary tract infection (UTI) and vesicoureteral reflux.
      Specifically, among females with UTI, at least 40% also have US, and US has been identified
      as a cause for reflux and a factor that delays its otherwise expected spontaneous resolution.
      Consequently, identification and treatment of US are important to the management of children
      with UTI, reflux and/or incontinence.

      Constipation also has been associated with UTI, vesicoureteral reflux, and urinary
      incontinence in children. Although these observations date at least to the 1950s, relatively
      few studies have attempted either to establish the incidence of constipation found with these
      various pediatric urologic conditions, or to document the impact of bowel therapy upon their
      management. Of these, Yazbeck et al studied 47 children with recurrent UTI and noted all were
      constipated and had uninhibited bladder contractions during urodynamics testing. Therapy
      directed toward relief of constipation resolved bladder symptoms in 25%. Loening-Baucke
      reported 46% of 234 children attending a university-based encopresis clinic also experienced
      urinary incontinence, which diminished with laxative therapy. A recent evaluation of 582
      children with US estimated that 16% were also constipated based upon a history of bowel
      activity.

      We have been concerned about the apparent association between US and constipation, especially
      since anticholinergic drugs commonly prescribed for uninhibited bladder contractions could
      exacerbate underlying stool retention and thereby prolong bladder dysfunction. It is also our
      experience that parents are not very familiar with bowel activity of their children after the
      usual age of toilet training, making history potentially unreliable for diagnosing
      constipation. Therefore, we started recommending a brief course of laxatives for all patients
      presenting with US, reserving anticholinergics for those whose bladder symptoms persisted. In
      a retrospective review of 110 children, we found 34% had relief of bladder symptoms with
      laxatives alone, so that anticholinergic medications were not then required, and the history
      of whether the child was constipated or not did not predict response. However, this study has
      been criticized for not being placebo-controlled.

      Given the potential impact of this observation for the management of children with not only
      urinary incontinence but also UTI and reflux who have US, we now propose a prospective,
      randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study of the impact of laxative therapy upon
      children with US.
    
  