
    
      The main objectives of this study are: 1. to describe the neurodevelopmental outcome of
      patients with CHD at 24 months of age; 2. identify the subgroup with poorer outcome; and 3.
      evaluate the utility of fetal and postnatal diagnostic techniques for early detection of
      patients at risk for altered neurological outcomes.

      Seven Spanish referral centers for CHD included in the research network on maternal and child
      health currently participating in this prospective multicentric case-control coordinated
      study. Fetuses with CHD (transposition of great arteries, tetralogy of Fallot, hypoplastic
      left heart syndrome and septal defects) will be studied from 24 weeks of gestation to 2 years
      of age. Diagnostic tests will be repeated throughout the study in all patients, from the
      fetal period to 24 months of age, and will include: fetal cerebral hemodynamic Doppler
      assessment, functional echocardiography, brain MRI, regional cerebral oxymetry,
      electroencephalography and serum neurological and cardiac biomarkers analysis.
      Neurodevelopmental assessment will be made at 12 months of age using the ages and stages
      questionnaire (ASQ) and at 24 months of age with the Bayley-III test. From this data,
      statistical analysis will select the most useful as predictors of damage; to be then combined
      and create algorithms for predicting brain damage and poor neurodevelopment. Once description
      has been made, we will proceed to identify amongst our results, children with the poorest
      neurological outcome and remark possible common prenatal and early life markers in them as
      well as the CHD severity they present.

      While advances in early diagnosis and postnatal management have increased survival in CHD
      children, worrying long-term outcomes, particularly neurodevelopmental disability, have
      emerged as a key prognostic factor in the counseling of these pregnancies. Evidence available
      does not allow clinicians to assess on neurological prognosis although has opened up the
      possibility of finding prenatal markers of brain damage. Even though, no prospective studies
      have been performed until now. We present a multicentric prospective study able to recruit
      enough fetal CHD affected pregnancies to obtain neurological prognostic tools.
    
  