
    
      One in three adults in the United States suffers from obesity. Bariatric surgery is an
      increasingly utilized and effective treatment for obesity and obesity-related comorbidities,
      however, the massive weight loss associated with bariatric surgery adversely affects bone
      metabolism. Significant decreases in bone mineral density lead to an increased risk of
      fracture and subsequent reduction in physical function among bariatric surgery patients.
      Bisphosphonate medications, such as zoledronic acid, have been evaluated for safety and
      efficacy in combating bone loss in patients with osteoporosis, but their use in bariatric
      surgery-induced bone loss has not been explored. The primary goal of this study is to
      investigate whether bisphosphonate therapies are able to combat bone loss associated with
      surgical weight loss procedures. This research proposal is a 1-year, pilot randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) involving 30 adult sleeve gastrectomy patients randomized to receive
      either a one-time zoledronic acid infusion or placebo (n=15 per group). The investigators
      hypothesize that zoledronic acid, a standard treatment for low bone density, will be an
      effective intervention to reduce sleeve gastrectomy-induced bone loss. Bone loss is an
      unintended consequence of an otherwise life-saving procedure, with declining bone health
      potentially contributing to major morbidity in those undergoing a bariatric procedure.
      Identifying effective interventions to minimize bone loss is crucial for comprehensive
      treatment of patients who undergo bariatric surgery. Specific Aim 1: To determine the
      efficacy of zoledronic acid in preventing bone loss associated with sleeve gastrectomy (SG).
      Bone mineral density (BMD) and bone turnover markers will be measured at baseline and 9
      months. The primary outcome is change in BMD as measured by Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry
      (DXA). Secondary outcomes are change in BMD as measured by Quantitative Computed Tomography
      (QCT) and change in the serum bone turnover markers, urinary collagen type 1 cross-linked
      N-telopeptide (CTX; bone formation marker), serum type 1 procollagen N-terminal (P1NP; bone
      resorption marker), sclerostin, and osteocalcin. Specific Aim 2: To evaluate the feasibility
      of this trial in those who have undergone SG surgery. The feasibility will be assessed by
      documenting adverse events and compliance rates of the intervention at each study time point.
    
  