
    
      Methods:

      This is a prospective, observational, single center study, which will be conducted at the
      Rabin Medical Center (Beilinson campus), Petach Tikva, Israel, a tertiary university
      hospital. This study Is a purely observational study, with no implication on the medical
      treatment provided.

      Two hundred women aged 18 and above undergoing cesarean section delivery under spinal
      anesthesia will be enrolled after filling out an informed consent prior to surgery. Women
      will be requested to fill out an informed consent in the women's surgery waiting room on the
      day of surgery, when they aren't under any pain.

      The parturients preoperative anxiety will be assessed in the women's waiting room, on the day
      of the surgery using two previously validated direct psychological measures of anxiety:
      verbal numerical scale (VNS) anxiety score (9, 10), and the Spielberger. State-Trait
      Inventory questionnaire (13).

      Women will also be asked about nausea and vomiting during the surgery and in the post
      anesthesia care unit.

      In according to standard departmental clinical practice, baseline blood pressure will be
      determined in the preoperative holding area by recording 3 times ≥ 3 minutes apart using an
      automated oscillometric blood pressure cuff on the arm with the patient supine with left
      uterine displacement, with the mean of the 3 values taken as a baseline systolic and
      diastolic blood pressure. Women will undergo spinal anesthesia and blood pressure will be
      measured evert minute during labor. Hypotension will be treated by titrating the
      phenylephrine infusion and by phenylephrine boluses, using a standardized algorithm according
      to departmental protocol. At the time of spinal injection, a phenylephrine infusion will be
      started at 50 mcg/min. The automated blood pressure cuff will be programmed to cycle each
      minute. When each new blood pressure result will appear, the phenylephrine infusion will be
      adjusted based on the systolic blood pressure by a standard algorithm.

      Parturient's obstetric history, obstetric data and anesthetic data will be collected from
      each of the participant's medical file, in an anonymized way.
    
  