
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of erlotinib and pralatrexate based on when you join this study.

      Dose Escalation:

      Several dose levels of erlotinib and pralatrexate will be tested. Three (3) to 6 participants
      will start at the lowest planned doses of erlotinib and pralatrexate. Each new group of 3-6
      participants will receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side
      effects were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose of erlotinib in
      combination with pralatrexate is found.

      Dose Expansion:

      Once the highest tolerable dose or most appropriate combination dose level is found, 10 more
      participants will take the study drugs at this dose level.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each study cycle is 28 days.

      Up to 10 days before you start treatment , you will start taking folic acid to help lower the
      risk of side effects. Although the study drug is designed to prevent the body from making
      folic acid that could help cancer grow and spread, some folic acid is needed to prevent side
      effects in non-cancerous tissue. You will take folic acid by mouth 1 time every day during
      treatment and for at least 30 days after you received the last dose of pralatrexate.

      Up to 10 days before you start treatment, you will receive a vitamin B12 injection. You will
      receive an injection of Vitamin B12 about every 3 months after that.

      On Days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle, you will receive pralatrexate by vein over 3-5 minutes.

      You will take erlotinib hydrochloride by mouth 1 time a day every day. You should take
      erlotinib hydrochloride on an empty stomach either 1 hour before eating or 2 hours after
      eating.

      You will take erlotinib at home except on the days when you have a study visit. You should
      take it at about the same time each day with about a cup (8 ounces) of water.

      Study Visits:

      At every study visit, you will be asked about any current health conditions you have, any
      other drugs you are taking, and if you have had any side effects.

      If the screening tests were performed within 7 days before Cycle 1, tests and procedures may
      not have to be repeated.

      At any time during Cycle 1:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight at least 1 time per
           cycle.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to see how well your blood
           clots.

        -  If you are taking part in the expansion phase, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn
           for pharmacodynamic (PD) testing.

      At any time during Cycle 2:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight at least 1 time per
           cycle.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If you are taking part in the expansion phase, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn
           for PD testing.

      About every 8 weeks, you will have an x-ray, CT scan, MRI scan, and/or positron emission
      computed tomography (PET)/CT scan to check the status of the disease. Blood (about 1
      teaspoon) may be drawn for tumor marker testing depending on the type of tumor. If the study
      doctor thinks it is needed, they will be performed more or less often.

      At any time during Cycle 3 and beyond:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight at least 1 time per
           cycle.

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Length of Dosing:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drugs if the disease gets worse, if
      intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-treatment and
      follow-up visits.

      End of Dosing Visit:

      After you are finished taking the study drugs:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

      This is an investigational study. Pralatrexate is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) and peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL).
      Erlotinib is FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of pancreatic cancer
      and non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The study drug combination is investigational.

      Up to 74 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  