
    
      This was a randomized, triple-blinded (patients, evaluator, and statistician), and
      split-mouth design (one hemiarcade was treated by 1 compound) following nonprobability
      sampling. The patients were invited to participate in the study through posters posted around
      the city or recruited from participants in other studies in the same department, who were
      contacted by email or phone.

      A total of 131 patients were examined in a dental chair to check if they met the inclusion
      and exclusion criteria. The patients included in this study were over 18 years old and
      selected with the following inclusion criteria: anterior teeth without restorations, previous
      bleaching procedures, cervical lesions, or dental pain. Patients who were pregnant or
      lactating, had moderate or severe fluorosis, tetracycline stains, orthodontic treatment,
      periodontal disease, orofacial tumors, trauma, or tooth malformation, or were taking
      analgesic, anti-inflammatory, or antibiotic drugs were excluded.

      Two trained operators (restorative dentistry professors) performed the bleaching treatments.
      A third participant that did not have contact with the patients was responsible for
      conducting the randomization. The allocation of the hemiarcade in the groups was performed by
      random drawing using Microsoft Excel 2010 (Microsoft, Redmond, Washington, USA) from coding
      assigned to each participant. There were two experimental groups: Group A acted as a control,
      and hydrogen peroxide whitening compound was applied at a concentration of 35% to the upper
      hemiarcade. Group B was the experimental group, in which the other upper hemiarcade was
      treated with 6% compound catalyzed by titanium oxide nanoparticles and activated by blue
      hybrid light and an infrared laser.

      The distribution of the operators was made by block randomization. To ensure triple blinding,
      the following procedures were adopted: 1) labels, logos, packaging, and any other aspect that
      could identify the products were removed, and procedures and instruments were standardized;
      2) the bleaching protocol was performed in a different room from where the evaluator examined
      the patients; 3) the randomization was alpha-numerically coded to ensure blinding of the
      research team; and 5) a statistician received data tabulated in code that did not allow for
      identification of the treatment applied to each group.

      Sample size calculation The primary outcome of this study was the efficacy determined by
      color alteration (ΔE). Previous studies showed that the use of in-office bleaching agent
      containing 35% hydrogen peroxide (HP35) with or without LED/Laser light leads to a ΔE value
      of 7.0-2.0 after two bleaching sessions. In order to have an 80% chance of detecting
      significance at the level of 5%, and considering an increase in the primary outcome measure
      from 7 in the control group to 5 in the experimental group, a minimum of 16 participants
      would be required in each group. Due to a higher dropout rate in the last two clinical
      studies of our research group, we decided to add 80% more patients, which led to 30 patients
      in each group.

      Bleaching protocol In each session, volunteers received prophylaxis with pumice powder and
      water. Then, gingival tissue was protected using a light-cured resin gum barrier applied
      according to the manufacturer's instructions (Lase Protect - DMC, São Carlos, SP, Brazil).
      Both bleaching agents were prepared by mixing hydrogen peroxide and thickening compounds
      according to the manufacturer's instructions (with 3 peroxide drops for 1 drop of thickener).
      The resultant gels were distributed uniformly on the upper hemiarcade surfaces of the teeth.
      A total of 8 teeth between the first premolars were bleached for each patient. In each
      bleaching session, the bleaching gels were applied twice for 12 minutes each. In each
      application, the surface of the gel was light activated with continuous irradiance for 12
      minutes using LED/laser light with a total power of 1800 mW (Whitening Lase Plus - DMC
      Equipamentos, São Carlos, SP, Brazil). Three bleaching sessions were completed for the
      patients, and the interval between sessions was 7 days.

      Efficacy evaluation (E) Objective evaluation Two calibrated evaluators (Kappa=0.85) were used
      to measure the tooth color for the baseline (T0), immediately after the first (T1), second
      (T2), and third sessions (T3), and one week (T4) and one month after the third session (T5).
      The color evaluation was obtained from an area of 6 mm located in the middle third of the
      labial surface of the left and right central incisors. To standardize this evaluation, an
      impression of the maxillary arch was taken to make a guide using high-putty silicone
      (Zetaplus, Zhermack, Badia Polesine, Rovigo, Italy). A window was created on the labial
      surface in the middle third of the central incisor using a device with well-formed borders
      and a 3-mm radius corresponding to the reflectance of the spectrophotometer (Vita EasyShade
      Compact, VITA Zahnfabrik, Bad Säckingen, Germany). The shade was determined using the
      obtained parameters L*, a*, and b*. The color alteration after each session was given by the
      differences between the values obtained at the session and the baseline (∆E). ∆E was
      calculated using the following formula: ΔE = [(ΔL*)2 + (Δa*)2 + (Δb*)2]1/2 .

      Subjective evaluation For the subjective evaluation, the 16 tabs of the shade guide (Vita
      Classic, Vita Zahnfabrik) were arranged from the highest (B1) to the lowest (C4) value.
      Although this scale is not linear in the truest sense, we treated the changes as continuous
      with a linear ranking, as was done in several clinical trials of dental bleaching. Two
      calibrated evaluators (Kappa=0.85) recorded the shade of the upper central left and right
      incisors at baseline with the same periods as the objective evaluation.

      We checked the color in the middle third area of the labial surface of the anterior central
      incisor according to the American Dental Association guidelines. We calculated the color
      changes from the beginning of the active phase through the individual recall times by the
      change in the number of shade guide units (ΔSGU), which occurred toward the lighter end of
      the value-oriented list of shade tabs. In the event that the operators disagreed on color
      matching, a consensus was reached prior to dismissing the patient.

      Tooth sensitivity evaluation (S) Tooth sensitivity was characterized by the variables
      occurrence, intensity, and type. These data were obtained by self-completed form and clinical
      evaluation during the session and immediately by VAS (Visual Analogue Scale). For the VAS, we
      instructed the participants to place a line perpendicular to a 10-mm-long line with zero at
      one end indicating ''no TS'' and the other end indicating ''unbearable TS.'' The occurrence
      was analyzed according to whether sensitivity was reported. The intensity was measured at
      four levels according to a verbal scale: 1=none, 2=mild, 3=moderate, 4=considerable, and
      5=severe. The volunteers were instructed to fill out a form for each bleaching session and
      for the following days between sessions in case of sensitivity in any of the bleached teeth
      at any time.
    
  