
    
      This is a phase III, multicenter, randomized, open-label study. One center in the United Arab
      Emirates and 1 center in Turkey will participate in this trial and approximately 50 patients
      will be recruited.

      Patients will be adults with hematological malignancies undergoing chemotherapy for leukemia
      or lymphoma. These patients will be treated with AmBisome® until resolution of fever and
      neutropenia or for a maximum of 14 days.

      Patients will be randomized to receive AmBisome 10 mg/kg on treatment day 0 followed by 5
      mg/kg on days 2 and 5 or AmBisome 3 mg/kg/day for 14 days. Study medication will be
      administered during the period of ARNF until resolution of fever and neutropenia and/or a
      minimum of 14 days. At the end of the 14-day trial period, each patient will be classified as
      having responded or not responded to the treatment according to the criteria for response
      given below.

      Patients will be examined daily for evidence of drug toxicity or intolerance and for the
      development of an IFI. Vital signs will be recorded every 6 hours if the patient is stable or
      more frequently if there is evidence of clinical deterioration. In the event of a clinical
      IFI (i.e., development of a halo sign or positive fungal blood cultures), the patient will be
      withdrawn from the study, classified as treatment failure, and receive antifungal treatment
      with either caspofungin or voriconazole. Daily clinical observations will ensure rapid
      detection of such an event in accordance with standard IDSA guidelines4. Patients who show
      clinical deterioration (i.e., increasing dyspnea, hypotension) but exhibit no definite
      evidence of an IFI may also be classified as treatment failures. Patients with evidence of
      biochemical and/or clinical drug toxicity will be withdrawn from the study and appropriate
      management will be given.

      For patients who remain febrile after 14 days but who are otherwise stable and have no
      discernable cause for the fever, continuation of treatment with AmBisome 3 mg/kg/day or
      treatment with another antifungal drug treatment, antibiotic, or discontinuation of
      antimicrobial therapy will be undertaken at the discretion of the investigator. Patients who
      meet these criteria will have a thorough diagnostic evaluation to investigate the cause of
      their fever.
    
  