
    
      One of the oldest mysteries in paediatric orthopaedics is the knowledge about bone growth and
      the ability to correct acquired bone deformities. Guiding the growth of a bone for deformity
      cor-rection by harnessing the ability of a growing bone to undergo plastic deformity is a
      well-known pediatric orthopaedic principle. Nevertheless, there are still many open questions
      concerning growth and guided growth. Several surgical options already exist for correction of
      angular de-formity and leg length discrepancies. The gold standard remains the corrective
      osteo¬tomy before or after growth arrest.

      Correction during growth poses the risk of recurrence of the deformity during growth. By any
      means, growth modulation involves major surgery and requires internal or external fixation.
      Epiphysiodesis or hemiepiphysiodesis, either permanent or temporarily, can be done in an open
      or percutaneous way. Permanent epiphysiodesis is mainly performed using screws, while for a
      temporary epiphysiodesis staples or plate/screw systems are used. The treatment seems to be
      clinically effective, but the precise calculation of the remaining growth and the optimal
      surgical timing are crucial. Furthermore, the underlying biomechanical properties are not yet
      fully known.

      The objective of this study is to investigate the clinical effects of the Eight Plate system
      for growth modulation treatments in pediatric patients undergoing leg length corrections or
      deformity corrections of the knee. The primary aim of the study is to assess outcome of
      growth modulation at removal of the implants with regards to AEs related to the growth plates
      or implants under investigation. The secondary aims are to assess if the planned correction
      was achieved and if the achieved correction was maintained after Eight Plate removal.
      Furthermore, secondary aims include the investigation of the number and type of revision
      surgeries, any functional deficits after implant removal, any additional local AE, the
      assessment of the primary implant positioning, and any additional radiological parameters
      related to the implants and leg alignment.
    
  