
    
      Neuromuscular weakness occurs frequently after stroke and the processes underlying recovery
      are still poorly understood. Accepted practice in UK physiotherapy is to avoid training of
      muscle strength after stroke but there is preliminary evidence that it might be effective.

      An observer-blind randomised clinical trial. Subjects will be within 3 months of first stroke
      with some voluntary movement in the paretic lower limb. A power calculation estimated the
      sample size as 300. Research Physiotherapists, blinded to measurement, will recruit subjects,
      allocate subjects to one of the three intervention groups using sequentially numbered sealed
      envelopes containing previously randomised allocated intervention cards and provide
      interventions. The Research Assessors, blinded to intervention allocation will undertake all
      measurements. Conventional therapy (control) will be provided as normal for the clinical
      setting, the additional conventional therapy (experimental 1) or functional strength training
      (experimental 2) will be provided for one hour, four times a week, for six weeks. Subjects in
      the two experimental groups will also receive the conventional therapy standard in their
      clinical setting. Blinded measurement will be made before randomisation, at the end of
      intervention and 12-weeks thereafter. Primary outcomes are maximum torque around the knee
      joint, and gait velocity. The secondary outcomes include movement analysis, functional
      ability, corticospinal transmission (transcranial magnetic stimulation) and health related
      quality of life (Euroqol). The primary analysis will be analysis of covariance. A multiple
      comparison procedure (Gabriel's test) will be used to compare each pair of treatments.
      Euroqol data will be used to estimate the relative costs of the interventions and to
      calculate the incremental cost per QUALY gained. Every effort will be made to invite patients
      for assessment at outcome and follow-up even if they have withdrawn from therapy to allow the
      intention-to-treat principle to be applied.
    
  