
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most devastating international public health
      epidemics. There are currently no effective disease-modifying or preventative strategies.
      Current pathogenic models emphasize a single pathway of disease pathogenesis, but
      underestimate the contribution of small vessel cerebrovascular disease, which manifests
      primarily as white matter hyperintensities (WMH) on T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI). Understanding of the factors that drive the relationship between vascular disease and
      AD remains elusive; vascular factors may be independent sources of dysfunction that
      contribute additively to clinical expression, they may interact mechanistically with AD
      pathology, and/or they may relate to each other because of a shared association with a third
      set of factors. These issues are particularly relevant among ethnic/racial minorities, who
      are at much greater risk for clinical AD, have more severe cerebrovascular disease, but
      appear to have similar levels of AD pathology compared with Whites.

      The proposed research examines these factors in a large, longitudinal, multi-ethnic
      community-based cohort study of older adults in northern Manhattan, New York. The
      investigators demonstrated that accumulation of WMH, particularly in parietal lobes, predicts
      incident AD, and is associated with the presence of cerebral microbleeds, an indicator of
      cerebral amyloid angiopathy. The investigators extend the research to examine mechanistic
      interactions between cerebrovascular disease and AD. The preliminary data suggest that
      individuals with evidence of fibrillar amyloidosis have increased parietal lobe WMH and that
      hemodynamic markers of autoregulatory dysfunction are associated with both WMH and amyloid
      deposition, which in turn interact to promote the clinical expression of AD. These findings
      are buffered by new data that establish WMH as a core feature in autosomal dominant forms of
      AD. In this pilot study, the investigators propose to obtain cross-sectional and longitudinal
      MRI and amyloid PET data from participants in WHICAP.
    
  