
    
      Aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (aSAH) is associated with high morbidity and mortality
      with an incidence of 5-9 per 100,000 population. The incidence of aSAH peaks amongst those of
      40-60 years1; aSAH carries a high overall mortality rate of up to 67%2 with only around half
      of the survivors able to live independently. Given the age-related incidence 3 and high
      morbidity and mortality, SAH has a high burden on society . Conventionally following SAH,
      treatment is directed to securing the aneurysm to prevent further re-bleed. In addition to
      the primary brain injury due to the rupture of the aneurysm the occurrence of cerebral
      vasospasm (VS) with narrowing of the brain supplying arteries potentially lading to brain
      ischemia is as well - known and serious complication following aSAH. The development of VS is
      thought to be caused by various factors. Interestingly, this is not an instant phenomenon
      occurring right after the hemorrhagic event. VS develops rather in a time dependent fashion
      with a peak incidence around 7-10 days following from acute event.

      From angiographic studies, it is known that up to 70% of all patients with a aSAH will
      developVS and in about 40% of these it will result in clinical deterioration and in 10-15%
      inpermanent delayed ischemic neurologic deficits (DIND) leading to an increased morbidity 4,
      5 and mortality

      . Based on the fact that VS develops with a time delay, this is thought to provide a
      "therapeutic window" allowing to initiate measures for its prevention. However, in spite of
      intensive experimental and clinical research the investigators still do not have any
      effective treatment for the prevention of VS in patients with aSAH. Many concepts have been
      elaborated in the past, mostly based o sound pharmacologic considerations such as calcium
      antagonists (Nimodipin), antioxidants (Tirilazad) and endothelin antagonists (Clazosentan).
      In clinical trials, however, none of these drugs have shown a therapeutic effect on VS and
      most of them have been abandoned since then. The only exception is the use of oral Nimodipin,
      which is still used showing a marginal effect 6-8.

      In contrast to all previous studies, which were based on the use of specific drugs, the
      present hypothesis is different. It is based on the assumption that the brain is a
      "privileged" organ, where the in- and outflow is regulated by discrete barrier mechanisms
      (e.g. blood-brain- barrier). In the event of aSAH - factors that are thought to play an
      important role in the development of VS are released into the CSF. However, it is not clear
      whether these factors will enter the systemic circulation. This is further supported by the
      clinical observation that in many patients with aSAH, acute disturbances of CSF circulation
      can be seen, often resulting in hydrocephalus. This in return can be treated by CSF flow
      diversion with the use of external ventricular drainage, which is a routine procedure in the
      management of aSAH patients.

      Based on the assumption that those factors responsible for the development of VS are
      contained in the CSF, but do not enter the systemic circulation, it then might make sense to
      use the externally drained CSF for intravenous re-administration and thereby activating a
      systemic response mechanism with in turn could prevent the development of VS.

      The potential therapeutic benefits outweigh any potential risks for patients with aSAH.

      The proposed clinical study involves autologous CSF without any changes made to the liquid.
      The CSF will be taken from the EVD under sterile environment and reinfused intravenously.

      An interval of approximately 21 days will permit a timely review and evaluation of interim
      safety (after 5 patients) and tolerability data collected The potential benefit to patients
      is significant with reduced delayed cerebral infarction (DCI), improved cognition and
      cerebral function. As such, studies in patients with aSAH are warranted, with a view to
      establishing the optimal dose, safety and exploratory efficacy profiles.

      This is a pilot trial involving higher grade (see inclusion criteria) aSAH patients.

      The human brain is protected and enjoying privileged immune status. The blood-brain- barrier
      (BBB) leads to consequent isolation of brain tissue from humoral immunity. The brain is
      experiencing several major changes during rupture of a cerebral aneurysm. First, the
      intracranial pressure increases immediately, caused by the actual bleeding. Second, the
      extravasation of blood disrupts the BBB and several immunogenic molecules travel through the
      spontaneous rupture into the CSF. Additionally, microscopic particles of the vessel wall are
      present in the CSF as a consequence of the wall rupture. Usually, these potentially
      spasmogenic fractions are never encountered by the brain and the external surface of its
      vessels. Interestingly, the perioperative collection of blood in subarachnoid spaces does not
      induce vasospasm.

      The investigators hypothesized that the reported steps were crucial for the formation of
      cerebral vasospasm.

      This study will be conducted in compliance with the protocol and according to Good Clinical
      Practice and applicable regulatory standards. No deviation from the protocol will be
      implemented without the prior review and approval by the relevant ethics and regulatory
      authorities, except where it may be necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to a research
      subject. In such case, the deviation will be reported to the relevant ethics and regulatory
      authorities as soon as possible.

      Ten patients with an angiographically confirmed aSAH, who in addition are in need of early
      external ventricular drainage (routine procedure), irrespective of the clinical grade on
      admission and in whom definite treatment (clip ligation or interventional treatment) is
      achievable within 72 hours following aSAH.

      Following aneurysm clip ligation, the predetermined amount of CSF (10ml) will be obtained
      under sterile conditions directly from the external ventricular drain and administered in a
      peripheral vein. To reduce the possibility of contamination, the application of CSF will be
      done immediately. In case of extensive intraventricular hemorrhage, causing the aspiration of
      clotted blood while obtaining CSF, the patient needs to be excluded from the trial.

      A number of patients will have an EVD placed for clinical reasons. These patients would
      regularly have CSF sampling ranging from daily to twice weekly.

      In this study, approximately 2 ml CSF will be taken and stored for translational study
      purposes (starting on day of EVD fitting) until day 21 or until the EVD is removed as per
      standard of care.
    
  