
    
      Background Prevalence of overweight and obesity is increasing both in Denmark and in most
      other countries, and as conventional treatment of obesity with lifestyle changes (hypocaloric
      diet, physical activity and behavior modification) rarely leads to large and sustained weight
      loss, it is not surprising that bariatric surgery has taken over more and more of the
      treatment of the most severe cases of obesity. Weight losses are greater than with other
      treatments, and importantly the relatively large weight loss is permanent. The currently most
      commonly used surgical method is the gastric bypass (RYGB), which has proven to be a highly
      effective method of achieving a great and permanent weight loss with an approximately 30-40%
      reduction in the weight, which is equivalent to 40-60% reduction of the overweight. Moreover
      RYGB has shown to provide complete remission of prior type 2 diabetes in up to 80% of cases
      at short observation time (up to 2 years after surgery) and about 50% remission at longer
      time follow-up (> 5 years).

      Moreover data suggest that after GRYGB there is a reduced consumption of antihypertensive
      drugs in 51 % an of lipid-lowering drugs in 59 %.

      International studies have shown that mortality of bariatric surgery ranges between 0.24 and
      2.77% depending on the operator and the hospital, and perioperative morbidity ranges between
      6.92 and 8.85% also depending on the operator and the hospital.

      There are conflicting results in the literature when examining the consumption of
      antidepressants. Some studies find a reduced consumption of antidepressants after bariatric
      surgery within the first two years, others show that consumption is almost unchanged overall
      and cohort follow-up studies show an increased quality of life.

      Nevertheless, there is an increased incidence of suicide after bariatric surgery, which
      argues against an unambiguous improvement in psychological well-being.

      Bariatric surgery including RYGB is also connected with some medical and nutritional effects
      or complications. This is not surprising since RYGB "bypasses" virtually the entire ventricle
      and 100-150 cm of the upper part of the small intestine, so problems with the inclusion of,
      for example B12, iron, folate, thiamin, fat-soluble vitamins (Vitamin A, D, E and K) copper,
      zinc and selenium are expected. Therefore, it is recommended that all RYGB operated patients
      substitute vitamin B12, iron and vitamin D. Despite this many develop various nutritional
      problems after RYGB, which is sparsely registered in Denmark.

      The complications are often developed long time after the operation, at a time when the
      patients are no longer followed in specialized departments which report all complications to
      the Danish Obesity Register, in the same way as surgical complications are reported. There is
      no international consensus on postoperative vitamin substitution, which may be due to the
      previous lack of evidence of nutritional complications. This can in the long term result in
      irreversible neurological damage, osteoporosis and anemia.

      Other classic side effects are early and late dumping, manifested by weakness after a meal or
      symptoms of moderate degrees of low blood sugar (hypoglycemia). Frequent bowel movements are
      an expected result of a RYGB, but for some patients as much that they are hampered in their
      daily activities. Moreover complications such as abdominal pain of varying degree and the
      development of gallstones are frequently seen.

      It is still unresolved how extensive a problem these nutritional complications after
      bariatric surgery in Denmark are, we want to clarify the occurrence of these complications in
      Denmark. This will provide an overview of the positive as well as the negative impact of
      bariatric surgery and thus will be decisive to assess and determine the indications for
      bariatric surgery as well as to optimize the prevention of complications.

      The investigators will in this project make a clinical trial by a randomly selected group of
      approximately 350 persons in the period 2006-2011, have had RYGB in the Central Region of
      Denmark. From a medical interview, blood tests, etc. the investigators will be able to give a
      good estimate of the incidence of medical complications. The investigators will explore
      complications such as: anemia, hypoglycemia, peripheral nerve problems (especially
      neuropathies), vitamin D / osteoporosis and other mineral / vitamin deficiencies that may be
      identified through blood tests.

      Thus, the investigators wish to achieve a better documentation of both the positive effects
      after GYP (weight loss, remission of diabetes, quality of life, etc.) and the negative health
      effects (mortality, surgical and nutritional) in order to provide a better founded approach
      to this form of treatment.

      Method Of the patients who responded to the questionnaire in the second part of the project
      450 will be selected randomly to participate in the clinical trial, which will consist of a
      thorough medical interview and physical examination including neurological examination
      performed by a physician. On suspicion of neurological complications a neurological
      examination will performed of a neurological specialist. This part will be conducted in
      cooperation with the Neurology Department, Aarhus University Hospital.

      There will be taken blood samples of the participants including potassium, sodium,
      creatinine, fasting glucose, hemoglobin A1c, albumin, calcium, 25-OH vitamin D, PTH,
      β-carotene, vitamin A (retinol), vitamin K (phytomenadione), pp, copper, zinc and selenium,
      iron, hemoglobin, ferritin, leukocytes, liver count, and blood and urine investigation of
      bone turnover. In addition, patients will be DXA scanned for assessment of bone mineral
      content and composition.

      To get an appropriate control group, an age / gender / BMI matched control group will also be
      established of people who have not been RYGB operated, and this control group of 30-40 people
      will undergo exactly the same examinations as the RYGB group.

      Statistical considerations and power calculation In the clinical trial we will enroll
      approximately 350 patients. Due to practical and financial constraints, this will be the
      maximum number of participants it is possible to examine since all will undergo a thorough
      individual examination.

      Description of participants In our study the investigators will invite 350 patients who have
      undergone gastric bypass gastric bypass surgery patients in the Central Denmark Region to
      participate.

      In addition a healthy control group consisting of 30 to 40 age-, gender-and BMI-matched
      individuals who have not undergone RYGB will be examined clinically.

      This part of the project will be carried out in cooperation with the Endocrinology and
      Metabolism Department, Viborg Regional Hospital.

      Risks, side effects and disadvantages The investigators will make a physical examination,
      blood tests and Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry which only in rare cases will create a risk
      or cause side effects on the subjects. This little risk will largely be offset by the
      valuable knowledge that will be achieved.

      Respect for the subjects' physical and mental integrity The project is reported to the
      region's joint notification to The Danish Data Protection Agency. We hereby declare that the
      project is carried out in accordance with the protocol and applicable regulatory /
      legislative. The study has been approved of The Regional Committee on Biomedical Research
      Ethics in the Central Denmark Region.

      The Act on Processing of Personal Data will be respected. The study will also be reported to
      The Clinical Trials and conducted in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration II.

      Publication of results Both positive, negative and inconclusive results will be published and
      sought to be published in English-language, peer-reviewed journals as original publications
      and with the PhD student as first author.

      Perspectives The investigators expect to identify positive and negative consequences for RYGB
      and thus optimize the basis on which patients and physicians in the future will be able to
      decide on surgery. This will also better prevention of complications and thus save patients
      and communities of loss, economic as well as social and personal. The project will hopefully
      form the basis for the continuation of longer follow-up studies. Moreover, the results set
      the stage for the development of new more "gentle" obesity surgery.
    
  