
    
      Objective: The purpose is to study in a group of adults with metabolic syndrome and obesity,
      the effects of different modalities of exercise training on cardiorespiratory and metabolic
      fitness. The main objective is to weight the effects of exercise training separately and in
      conjunction with the subject's habitual pharmacological treatment to identify the best
      combination of drug and exercise.

      Methods and design: Randomized, pretest-posttest control group experimental design. Project
      developed in a single center with the collaboration of the regional public health system.

      Subjects: Will be referred by their primary care physicians to our study unit. Up to 160
      subjects all of them with metabolic syndrome will be recruited (20% women).

      Measurements:

        1. Specifically, the investigators, will study cardiovascular adaptations that increase, i)
           maximal aerobic capacity measured by VO2max, ii) anaerobic and respiratory compensation
           point ventilatory thresholds, iii) cardiac function measured by assessing cardiac output
           and stroke volume using the re-breathing technique, iv) arterial stiffness, measured by
           pulse wave velocity and augmentation index using applanation tonometry (SphygmoCor
           System), v) central and peripheral blood pressure, and vi) biological markers of
           endothelial dysfunction using reactive hyperemia with a laser Doppler fluxmeter in
           central and peripheral blood vessels.

        2. The metabolic adaptations under study will include, i) insulin resistance measured by
           IVGTT, ii) fat oxidation by indirect calorimetry, iii) intramuscular proteins involved
           in energetics by percutaneous muscle biopsy and western blots, iv) mitochondria
           biogenesis by activity of citrate synthase and v) stable-isotopic study of glucose and
           free fatty acids kinetics in blood (using gas-chromatography mass-spectrometry
           analysis).
    
  