
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of intratumoral administration of an
      Edmonston strain measles virus genetically engineered to express NAP (oncolytic measles virus
      encoding helicobacter pylori neutrophil-activating protein (modified virus strain neutrophil
      activating protein [MV-s- NAP) in patients with metastatic breast cancer.

      II. To determine the safety and toxicity of one-time intratumoral administration of MV-s-NAP
      in patients with metastatic breast cancer.

      III. To determine the safety and toxicity of serial intratumoral administration of MV-s-NAP
      in patients with metastatic breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess in a preliminary fashion antitumor efficacy of this approach by following
      radiographic response and time to progression.

      Ia. Response at and away from the site of MV-s-NAP administration will be evaluated.

      CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess viremia, viral replication, and measles virus shedding/persistence following
      intratumoral administration.

      II. To determine the time course of viral infection and viral gene expression in
      treated/untreated lesions.

      III. To determine immune response development against MV, the therapeutic s-NAP transgene,
      and the tumor.

      IV. To obtain preliminary assessments of PD-L1 expression in tumor cells and tumor
      infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive MV-s-NAP intratumorally (IT) on day 1 in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. After 1 cycle of treatment, patients who experience disease
      progression proceed to follow-up. Patients who achieve complete response (CR), partial
      response (PR), or stable disease (SD) receive MV-s-NAP IT every 21 days for up to 3
      additional cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months during year 1,
      and then every 6 months during year 2.
    
  