
    
      Postoperative Ileus refers to the transient interruption of propulsive motor activity of the
      gastrointestinal (GI) tract that prevents effective movement of its contents and tolerance of
      oral intake. Although POI is generally considered to significantly increase hospital stays
      and inpatient costs after spinal surgery, the incidence, associated risk factors, and
      effective preventative strategies remain poorly characterized. The proposed etiologies
      underlying POI are broad and remain incompletely characterized. They include post surgical
      sympathetic nervous system activation, inflammatory factors, and the effects of analgesics on
      GI tract motility. Treatment often consists of aggressive bowel regimens, nasogastric tube
      insertion for decompression, and the application of various laxatives, suppositories, and
      enemas. The widespread use of these measures is unfortunately not supported by high level
      evidence. The incidence of POI after spinal fusion is reported to range between 0.6 to 16.7%.
      This estimated range likely represents a gross underestimate of POI given the retrospective
      nature of studies undertaken to date. Fineberg and colleagues reported that the risk
      increases nearly 3-fold following anterior lumbar spinal fusions as compared to posterior
      surgeries. Furthermore, the only risk factors they identified to be correlated with POI is
      male gender, = 3 fusion levels, alcohol abuse, anemia, electrolyte abnormalities, and weight
      loss. Kiely and colleagues found that ileus was associated with the administration of certain
      intravenous solutions such as lactated ringers and sodium chloride. Interestingly, they found
      that albumin administration was associated with a reduced incidence of ileus postoperatively.
      Lee and colleagues evaluated POI following orthopedic surgery and reported an incidence of
      2.1%. They found that patients who developed POI were more likely to be older, had higher
      blood loss during surgery, and also had higher rates of preoperative constipation. This
      study, however, included all types of orthopedic surgeries (not limited to spinal fusion).
      Early clinical studies evaluated the effectiveness of MNTX in treating opioid-induced
      constipation (OIC). Several clinical trials confirmed that MNTX was well tolerated and
      counteracted the GI effects of opioids, thereby enhancing gut motility without inhibiting
      their analgesic properties. Only two studies to date have evaluated the potential
      effectiveness of MNTX in reducing the incidence of POI following GI surgery. Both studies
      were unfortunately hampered by serious design flaws. Most importantly, neither study included
      pre-operative administration of MNTX. As such, MNTX remains at this time approved only for
      chronic OIC based on two double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trials conducted in
      patients with advanced illness wherein MNTX rapidly induced laxation as compared to placebo.
    
  