
    
      Jaundice is the yellow discoloration of skin, sclerae, and other tissues caused by the
      deposition of bilirubin.

      Approximately 60% of term and 80% of preterm babies develop jaundice in the first week of
      life, and about 10% of breastfed babies are still jaundiced at 1 month. Jaundice is a common
      cause of readmission to hospital after early discharge of newborn infants.

      The most common form of hyperbilirubinaemia observed in neonates is due to unconjugated or
      unbound bilirubin. High levels of unconjugated bilirubin are managed by treatment of the
      underlying cause (e.g. dehydration and sepsis), provision of phototherapy, administration of
      immunoglobulin (in certain cases of haemolytic anaemia) and, in very severe cases, exchange
      transfusion. If left untreated, extreme elevation of unconjugated bilirubin can lead to
      permanent brain damage (kernicterus) and/or death.

      However, exchange transfusion is associated with a significant morbidity, and even mortality
      while phototherapy has several disadvantages which include increasing the duration of
      hospitalization, costs and mother-child separation . It also has some reported side effects
      as rash, loose green stools, dehydration, ocular hazards, oxidative injury, hyperthermia and
      water loss and may be associated with some long-term side effects such as melanocytic nevi,
      skin cancer, allergic disease, patent ductus arterious and retinal damage .

      Some studies are available concerning the prevalence of hypocalcemia in neonates after
      phototherapy, but the results varied based on where the studies were conducted. So, more
      studies were required to reach a definite conclusion. Through this study our aim was to
      evaluate whether significant change in serum calcium level occurs in term newborns who are
      undergoing phototherapy and to find out the association between effect of phototherapy on
      serum calcium level and birth weight, postnatal age and type of feeding.
    
  