
    
      This research was individual investigator initiated meritorious project to identify potential
      roles for the safe and effective use of Complementary and Alternative Medicine CAM in the
      treatment of HIV infection.

      This modest Phase-I and phase II clinical trials were intervention Studies. In the case of
      HIV infections, these studies were formulated each 20 random numbered batch. The Principal
      Investigator (PI) selects the informed consented patients and the recruited study was adhered
      by Helsinki Declaration.

      Selection of subjects: HIV patients with CD3, CD4, and CD8 + T cell counts >450 cu/mm^3 were
      enrolled in Wing No: 1 group. HIV patients with CD+ T cell counts >450 cu/mm^3 were recruited
      for basic Arm study. The selected Arm - 1 of this research, the specific and potential
      milestone on baseline CD+T cell counts >450 cu/mm^3 was determined from the outcomes of
      previously conducted Observational Phase-1 study data.

      The statistical evaluation laboratory on parameters in exists group was measured through
      Immune Cells Count Assay. The prolonged viral suppression and reversal of HIV seropositivity
      were the ultimate research outcomes and this study was evaluated the safety and efficacy of
      this drug. Absolute assays of Viral Load, Lymphocyte Enumeration, Western Blot blood test and
      convinced mean values and reference range methods were adopted for laboratory study.

      The drug was administered as optimal doses 200 mg and 500 mg to study subjects, respectively,
      between 8 and 17 years old children and 18 and 65 years old Men and Women as anticipated 500
      Female and 500 Male participants. The ELISA/P-24 test was used to confirm HIV-seropositivity.

      The patients safe and effective optimum dose was the primary out come measure and the Viral
      Load assay and Immune Cells Count assay were the secondary outcome measure.

      The randomized numbers were arranged with single patient's clinical records. Patient's body
      weight, CD4 T cells count, skin thickness, body measurements, blood pressure, temperature,
      pulse rates, anti body count, and other hematological examinations were investigated before
      and after the treatment period.

      The well-designed research team minds the symptoms such as nausea, fatigue,weight loss,
      sweating, shortness of breath, joint pain etc and the Side effects of this treatment, if any,
      could be carefully noted. On entry and at the end of this study, the biochemical
      investigations such as urine examination, serum lipoprotein and cholesterol were individually
      noted.

      Patient's temperature, digestion complaints, or chill, etc could treated by medicine and
      restricted diets without using mutton soup, milk, and cow ghee. The study was reduced
      patient's stress as well as depression and also managed the productivity, emotional well
      being, immunity and quality of life by the practice of this treatment.

      The study was handled a transparent privacy environment to recruit HIV-infected people in
      India.

      Dosage:

      HIV patients were administered with once daily dose of sample size product, 500 mg for adults
      and 200 mg for children (up to 8 years old), as one course.

      Controlled Nourished diet:

      All patients were adhered with nourished diet protocol. The controlled diets were milk (only
      1/2 cup), rice and wheat food products, cow ghee, green gram, mutton soup, and prepared black
      pepper added vegetable foods.

      Restriction:

      HIV-Patients were not used salts, other oils, mustard, and tamarind fish items within 10 days
      of this medication use.

      Drug Administration:

      HIV- patients were used one drug "Kallunk oxide (Immunotherapy)" as calcined/or oxidized
      molecules. The powder form sample size medicine was put into 1/2 cup hotter water (an
      adjuvant).

      Precaution:

      No precautions be needed. Patients were not used sediments at the bottom of the cup.
    
  