
    
      After Ethics Committee approval and written informed consent, thirty-participants (30 per
      group) aged 18-65 years, ASA physical status I-III, of either sex, and undergoing unilateral
      open thoracic surgery or unilateral video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) will be included
      in this single centre (Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi-110060, India) prospective,
      single-blinded, two-arm, randomised controlled study.

      The patients who qualify inclusion criteria and consent for recruitment will be randomly
      divided into one of the two groups:

      Group-1 [CLADS Group, n=15, Study group]: Anaesthesia will be induced and maintained with
      propofol administered using the automated CLADS.

      Group-2 [Manual Group, n=15, Control group]: Anaesthesia will be induced and maintained with
      propofol administered using manually controlled infusion pumps titrated to BIS scores.

      Sample-size Estimation In a previous multi-centre study, the percentage of time the BIS was
      within 10 percentage of the target BIS was 81.4 percent in the CLADS group versus 55.34
      percent in the manual group. Based on the above, to detect 20 percent difference in the two
      groups, a sample size of 12 patients per group to provide 90 percent power with a bilateral
      alpha risk value of 0.05 will be required. We plan to recruit a total of 30 patients to cover
      up for unanticipated losses after the recruitment.

      Randomisation, Allocation Concealment The patients will be randomly allocated to one of the
      two groups based on a computer-generated random number table. Randomisation sequence
      concealment will include opaque-sealed envelopes with alphabetic codes whose distribution
      will be in control of an independent analyst. The envelopes will be opened; patient's
      data-slip will be pasted on them, and will be sent back to the control analyst.

      Blinding Strategy Inside the OR, the attending anaesthesiologist will not be blinded to the
      technique utilised to administer GA and the recovery parameters immediately after extubation.
      However, the postoperative patient recovery profile will be evaluated by an independent
      assessor blinded to the GA technique and periextubation profile.

      Management of Anesthesia Two peripheral venous lines (18G/20G catheter) will be secured.
      Invasive vascular access (arterial line for direct continuous blood pressure assessment,
      central venous catheter) will be secured as per the requirement of surgery. Standard
      monitoring (EKG, NIBP, pulse oximeter, EtCO2) will be applied. A BIS sensor (Covidien IIc,
      Mansfield, USA) will be applied over the patient's forehead according to manufacturer's
      instructions (Model DSC-XP, Aspect medical system, USA) prior to induction of anaesthesia for
      continuous monitoring of depth-of-anaesthesia.

      Anaesthesia Technique

      All the patients will receive pre-induction fentanyl-citrate 2 mcg/kg and anesthesia will be
      induced with propofol. In the CLADS group, propofol administration rate will be controlled by
      a feedback loop facilitated by BIS monitoring. A BIS value of 50 will be used as the target
      point for induction and maintenance of anesthesia. The Manual group would comprise manual
      propofol administration by an intravenous infusion pump to maintain a target BIS of 50 during
      induction and maintenance of anesthesia.

      After induction of anesthesia, atracurium besylate 0.05mg/kg will be given to facilitate
      tracheal intubation. In order to facilitate one lung ventilation (OLV) patients trachea will
      be intubated using appropriate-sized double-lumen tube in all the patients. Oxygen-air
      mixture (FiO2 0.50) will be used for intraoperative ventilation in both the groups. In
      addition, starting the period after tracheal intubation, all the patients will receive 1
      mcg/kg/hr fentanyl infusion for intraoperative analgesia. Intraoperative muscle relaxation
      will be maintained using atracurium infusion controlled by train-of-four response on
      peripheral neuromuscular monitor (Infinity TridentNMT Smartpod, Draeger Medical Systems, Inc
      Telford, USA).

      In all patients undergoing open thoracic surgery, a thoracic epidural catheter will be placed
      in the indicated intervertebral space for facilitating postoperative analgesia.

      Thirty minutes before the end of surgery, non-opioid analgesics, such as paracetamol 1-gm,
      tramadol 100 mg and/or diclofenac 75 mg will be administered to all the patients. Propofol
      delivery will be stopped at the point of completion of skin closure. Residual neuromuscular
      blockade (assessed with train-of-four response) will be reversed with neostigmine (50 µg/kg)
      and glycopyrrolate (20 µg/kg). Tracheal extubation will be undertaken if planned
      post-extubation ventilation is not instituted and the patients are wide awake and obeying
      commands.

      Assessment Parameters Intraoperative

        1. Adequacy of anaesthesia depth will be determined by the percentage of the valid CLADS
           time during which the BIS remained within 10% of the target BIS (50), median absolute
           performance error (MDAPE), wobble and global score (Varvel criteria)

        2. Haemodynamic parameters such a heart rate, non-invasive blood pressure will be recorded

        3. Early recovery from anaesthesia profile which includes time to eye opening and time to
           extubation after discontinuation of anesthesia will be noted

      Postoperative

        1. Sedation will be assessed using Modified Observer's assessment of alertness/sedation
           scale.

        2. Incidence of awareness will be determined using Modified Brice Questionnaire.

      After discontinuation of anaesthesia delivery (0-time point) the time to eye opening and time
      to extubation will be determined. After tracheal extubation, the patients will be shifted to
      postoperative recovery room adjoining OT suites and will be closely observed for oxygenation
      and ventilation status, pain (numeric rating score) and sedation. Patients with epidural
      catheter in-situ will be started with PCEA pump for pain relief. Patients will be analysed
      for intra-operative awareness using Modified Brice Questionnaire (24 hours, 48 hours
      postoperatively).
    
  