
    
      Background:

      In 2005, over 17,000 patients were treated for stroke within the VA with a cost of almost
      $315 million. Prevention of stroke through reduction of established risk factors is an
      essential part of the VA Stroke QUERI strategic plan for the VA. In spite of this, in the
      Veterans Affairs, only 13% of patients with known CVD achieve target BP and cholesterol
      control. Combining risk factors into a composite measure of risk offers a better global
      assessment of individual risk and is recommended by the American Heart Association and
      American Stroke Association for prioritizing interventions. This practice is rarely done in
      routine clinical practice and its use as a tool to motivate patient behavior has not been
      tested. Current evidence from VA patients suggests that patients with hypertension do not
      adequately translate their risk factors into an accurate estimation of stroke risk. Improving
      the accuracy of stroke risk perceptions may be particularly important in motivating risk
      reduction in patients.

      Objectives:

      The objectives of this study are to: 1.) Assess the impact of personalized stroke risk
      communication to patients at risk for stroke on patient knowledge, beliefs, and preferences
      for risk reduction behaviors. 2.) Evaluate the impact of personalized risk communication on
      medication adherence and blood pressure. 3.) Explore the feasibility and obtain sample size
      estimates for a larger, investigator initiative research (IIR) application testing this tool.

      Methods:

      A two-group randomized controlled trial testing a personalized risk communication
      intervention compared to an education-only control group was conducted. Eighty-nine patients
      were randomized and followed for 3months. Both groups received written and verbal patient
      education on stroke risk factors and prevention. Patients in the intervention arm also
      received personalized risk communication based on the Framingham stroke and coronary heart
      disease risk scores. A verbal and graphic presentation of their personal risk, risk relative
      to an age matched cohort, and their optimal or target risk based on optimal risk factor
      modification was presented. Outcomes measured immediately following the intervention and at
      3months included: risk perception and worry; risk factor knowledge; decision preference and
      conflict; medication adherence; health behaviors; and blood pressure.

      Status:

      The study finished enrollment and all follow-up visits have been completed. The data from
      this project is being analyzed.
    
  