
    
      Background. Mental health in Chilean children and families is an urgent public health
      problem. Several epidemiological studies have shown that a significant percentage of the
      adult population has psychiatric disorders. For example, one recent study showed that 31.5%
      of the population aged 15 and over has some type of psychiatric pathology in their lives, and
      that 22.2% suffered from a mental disorder during the last year (Vicente et al., 2006). Today
      we know that many of the disorders present in the adult population begin in childhood and
      adolescence and that preventing their onset can have a significant impact on the future
      functioning of the individual. The few epidemiological studies on the Chilean child and
      adolescent populations show that the prevalence of psychiatric disorders among children
      between 4 and 11 years old is 27.8%, a higher percentage than was found in adolescents
      between 12 and 18 years old, which is 16.5% (Vicente et al., 2012). The most frequent
      disorders in the population between 4 and 11 years old were disruptive disorders (20.6%),
      followed by anxiety disorders (9.2%) (Vicente et al., 2012). Mental health problems generate
      a high burden of disease on society in general (Patel, et al., 2016); and there is an
      important gap in the treatment of these, especially in populations that are more economically
      vulnerable (Patel, et al., 2016). Prevention strategies appear to be the more recommendable
      options, mainly if these interventions can be implemented early and at low cost. Few
      preventive interventions, or interventions that increase resilience in the face of adversity,
      have been rigorously evaluated in Chile. There is substantial evidence that shows that
      strengthening social and emotional learning skills can reduce the incidence of mental
      pathology and improve various academic indicators (Domitrovich et al., 2017). These
      social-emotional skills include the ability to identify and express emotions, to be able to
      adapt to social context, to regulate emotions, the ability to inhibit behaviour, and
      problem-solving skills (Denham, 2006; Domitrovich et al., 2017). Deficits in these skills
      have been associated with the appearance of both internalization problems (emotional problems
      such as depression and anxiety) and externalization problems (such as disruptive behavioural
      problems), as well as peer rejection (Garner & Waajid, 2012).

      The curriculum of the Interpersonal Cognitive Problem Solving Program, also known as I Can
      Problem Solve (ICPS) (Shure, 1992), is focused on the development of the cognitive process
      and children's social problem-solving skills. That is, it is a program that explicitly
      promotes cognitive regulation (skills for listening and paying attention, sequencing and
      planning tasks) and solving social problems (thinking up alternative solutions, causal
      thinking, means-to-an-end thinking, and sequential planning). But it also includes the
      promotion and learning of emotional processes (particularly emotional expression/knowledge,
      perspective, and empathy) (Jones et al., 2017). Several studies conducted among disadvantaged
      population have shown that students who received ICPS had better results regarding increasing
      pro-social behaviours and reducing aggressive behaviour compared with students in the control
      group (Shure & Spivack, 1982; Boyle & Hassett-Walker, 2008). ICPS is a universal intervention
      designed to promote interpersonal cognitive processes and problem-solving skills in children
      from preschool through 6th grade. This project will adapt the preschool program, which has a
      total of 59 sessions. Each session lasts around 20 minutes, and the trained facilitator
      follows a simple manual that guides their work with the students on ICPS vocabulary and
      concepts and the development of problem-solving skills such as practising alternative
      solutions, consequences and the sequential thought (solutions-consequences). An interactive
      technique and guided discussion strategies are used to solve problems. Interactive methods
      include games, role-playing, and the use of stories, illustrations and puppets. These
      contents may also be used in other curricular activities for children, whether they are
      working on Math, Reading or Science. Children learn how to think and not what to think.

      Aims. The general objective of this study is the evaluation of the acceptability and
      feasibility of an adapted version of ICPS in the national context at educational institutions
      with high socio-economic vulnerability, with the ultimate goal is of increasing
      social-emotional competence and reducing emotional and behavioural problems in preschoolers.

      Methods. A pilot study consisting of two phases. Firstly, a formative stage when all
      intervention evaluation materials will be prepared, including the validation of instruments
      assessing socio-emotional skills; and curriculum of ICPS Preschool Program will be
      translated, edited and adapted, working closely with the author of the program Dr Myrna
      Shure. Secondly, the program will be implemented using a three-arm randomised controlled
      trial design. The acceptability and feasibility of its implementation in the national context
      will be evaluated, and changes in the development of social-emotional skills, behavioural
      problems and mental health, before and after the intervention. There will be two Intervention
      groups: 1) Schools implementing the ICPS program delivered by the school early teacher,
      trained by the research team; and 2) Schools implementing the ICPS program delivered by an
      early teacher hired and trained by the research team, who will work collaboratively with the
      school early teacher. A control group will consist of school implementing their usual
      teaching activities.
    
  