
    
      We will take pictures of subjects' brains using PET imaging, in healthy older adults (ages 55
      to 80 years) who have both a family history of AD, and who have concerns about changes in
      their memory (but no clinical symptoms of AD), to see how much of a protein - that is related
      to AD -is in their brains. When all subjects come to the hospital for PET imaging, we will
      review the entire study plan with them, the risks and benefits of participation, and we will
      obtain written informed consent at that time. Our goal is to compare performance on our new
      stress test to these PET imaging results. Once the PET imaging is done, we will have each
      subject come to our clinical research unit for a day-long baseline visit. In the morning we
      will give the tests of memory and thinking, and then we will administer the injection of
      scopolamine at a very low dose. We will then continue to examine the subjects, and to give
      the memory and thinking tests at 1, 3, 5, 7, and 8 hours post-dosing. Once they have
      fully-recovered from all effects of the medication, they will be allowed to go home that day.
      We will then see all subjects again, for much shorter visits to complete the cognitive tests,
      at both 9 and 18 months after their initial study visit. We will follow all subjects for 18
      months to see which of them show very mild but measurable changes on the memory and thinking
      tests, as we predict that these will be the same persons who also had stronger results on our
      stress test at the first study visit.

      At all three study visits to our clinical research unit, we will obtain measurements using an
      imaging device that uses infrared and blue light to take picture of the eye and retina. Our
      secondary goal in this study to search for evidence of the same protein, in the retina, that
      builds up and is seen with PET imaging of the brain in persons who are at high risk for AD.
      Finally, we are also collecting a small sample of saliva, at the first visit to our unit, in
      order to see which subjects have a genetic risk for the disease, as this genetic risk may
      affect how we interpret the results of our new "cognitive stress test".

      In this study, a small dose of an already approved medication (used to treat seasickness)
      will be used to temporarily, and safely, mimic signs of very early disease during just the
      first day of testing. This is a methodological study to determine if tests that measure how
      you think can predict the risk of dementia as we age.
    
  