
    
      An accurate assessment of prognosis (life expectancy) is important for cancer patients, their
      carers, and their health care professionals. In the case of patients / their carers, it
      allows them to plan for the future, and to make more informed decisions about further
      anti-cancer treatments, and about referral to supportive and palliative care services.
      However, previous research suggests that health care professionals are not particularly good
      at estimating prognosis, and frequently over-estimate prognosis.

      The aim of this project is to assess the usefulness of measuring physical activity, and
      differences between daytime and nighttime physical activity, in determining prognosis in
      patients with cancer. Studies suggest that these measures may be useful in determining
      prognosis in certain groups of patients with cancer (e.g. patients receiving chemotherapy for
      colon / rectum cancer). However, these studies need to be repeated in patients with different
      types of cancer, and also patients receiving other types of treatment (including supportive
      and palliative care). The aim of this small scale ("feasibility") study is to determine
      whether or not a large scale ("definitive") study can be done.

      The feasibility study will include 50 patients with cancer, who will be asked to rate their
      performance status (physical activity) on a well-used scale, and then to wear a watch-like
      device for one week that measures physical activity and sleep patterns. The researcher will
      collect a blood sample: some of which will be used for analysis of parameters, which have
      previously been identified as prognostic indicators and will collect and store some blood for
      future transcriptome analysis. Participants will also be asked to complete a sleep diary
      during the week, and a questionnaire about their symptoms at the beginning and end of the
      week. The study will last one week in total and is collaboration between the Royal Surrey
      County Hospital, and the University of Surrey (Surrey Sleep Research Centre).
    
  