
    
      Rationale: The long-term pulmonary effects of COVID-19 infection have not been characterized.
      Many of the patients that have recovered from the initial infection still experience
      respiratory symptoms, require oxygen supplementation and/or have persistent opacities in
      chest imaging. The implications of these findings are not well described at this time, and it
      is unclear if these patients will eventually develop pulmonary fibrosis or fully recover. No
      standard therapy has been studied for this specific population and the use of steroids have
      only been tested in the acute setting. Outpatient providers are currently not sure whether to
      prescribe steroids or to carefully watch over time. This is a real-world question about which
      option is better and whether the risks of steroids outweigh the potential benefit when
      compared to watchful waiting. The investigator propose that watchful waiting is not inferior
      to the use of steroids in improving the pulmonary function tests of these patients at 12
      weeks.

      Methodology: The investigators will include patients with history of COVID-19 infection who
      have persistent opacities on chest imaging, and who are hypoxemic - either at rest or with
      ambulation, at least 10 weeks post-COVID19 PCR positivity. The study team will randomize
      patients in a 1:1 fashion to receive either watchful waiting vs. steroids. The study team
      will follow the patients over time with sequential pulmonary function tests and clinic visits
      at baseline, 12 weeks, 6 months and 12 months, 24 and 36 months. The first 12 weeks will
      include weekly brief phone calls to check on the patients and to ask them to rate their
      dyspnea on the modified Borg Dyspnea Scale. Thereafter, phone follow up will occur monthly.

      Outcomes:

      Outcomes will be measured at baseline, 12 weeks, 6-months, 12-months, 24-months, and
      36-months. For the first 12 weeks weekly mBorg Dyspnea Scale will also be obtained.

      The primary outcome will be worsening in pulmonary function tests (baseline to over 12
      weeks), defined as absolute value of FVC worsened by >10% OR absolute value of DLCO worsened
      by >15%. As a real-world study, if patients are unable to receive PFTs before their physician
      decides to escalate therapy, a 2-point worsening (increase) in mBorg will be considered as
      patient having achieved the primary outcome.

      The secondary outcomes will include collection of the following: (1) Hypoxemia (increased
      oxygen supplementation by 1L/min or >3% decrease in pulse Ox at ambulation to HR number); (2)
      6MWT (where possible); (3) SR-36 questionnaire; (4) PROMIS short forms; (5) mBorg Dyspnea
      Scale; (6) CT scan findings (where obtained as part of standard of care); and (7) PFT changes
      over time. All outcomes will be analyzed as binary variables (20% worsening Y/N or clinically
      meaningful worsening) from baseline, and as continuous variables to each time-point to
      follow-up.

      The tertiary outcomes will include changes in COVID19 bundle labs ( inflammatory markers,
      D-dimer, metabolic panel, CBC, COVID IgG); radiographic improvement (where obtained as part
      of standard of care by the treating provider), HgA1c, pro-calcitonin, and documented
      infections. These values will be obtained from the medical record if already ordered by other
      providers, or will be ordered by the research team at the specified follow-up timepoints. Of
      note, radiology testing will not be ordered by the research team but will be at the
      discretion of the clinical providers who will be advised about clinic-set standards for
      frequency and timing of follow up.

      Weekly phone call check-in will be made for the first 12-weeks asking mBorg, and monthly
      thereafter, and check-in clinic appointments will occur at 12 weeks and as needed.
    
  