
    
      All women attending mammography screening at Karolinska University Hospital will have their
      mammograms analyzed by AI (Figure 1). The specific AI-implementation (AI tool) in this study
      is a result of AI predictions from three equally weighted component AI models analyzing
      mammograms: (i) masking predictor, (ii) risk predictor and (iii) cancer signs predictor (by
      one commercial CAD model and one in-house academic CAD model); the age of the woman is also
      taken into account by multiplying the score with (110-age)/70. The purpose of the age factor
      is to attain a relatively similar proportion of MRI exams in the lower and higher age groups.
      The aim of the AI tool is to identify women with the highest probability of having a delay in
      cancer detection, i.e., having had a false negative screening mammogram.

      The specific AI tool and its settings will remain the same during the study. For each
      examination, the AI tool will produce an AI Joint Score and an AI Masking Score. Women having
      an AI Masking Score above the threshold and an AI Joint Score above the threshold will be
      invited to the study unless they met exclusion criteria. Women who decide to participate,
      will be randomized to MRI or no-MRI (standard-of-care).

      A Signa Premier 3T MRI scanner from GE Healthcare will be used. The MRI protocol will contain
      a T2-weighted Dixon sequence and a T1-weighted dynamic contrast enhanced series, and will
      remain the same through the course of the study. All MRI exams will be assessed by two
      radiologists, where the second reader will have access to the assessment of the first reader.
      In case of disagreement, a consensus discussion between two radiologists will be held. The
      MRI exams will be assessed according to BI-RADS, and follow-up will depend on the BI-RADS
      category (Figure 2). Women with BI-RADS 1-2 will have no further diagnostics and will be sent
      a 'healthy letter'. Women with BI-RADS 3 to 5 will be recalled for 2nd look ultrasound. Women
      with BI-RADS 4-5 will be included in the regular process for established cancer suspicion and
      be discussed in a multidisciplinary team conference. For women with BI-RADS 3, the follow-up
      will be handled within the breast radiology unit.
    
  