
    
      An increasing number of children with complex chronic conditions (CCCs) who have intractable
      illnesses or multi-organ dysfunction are exposed to daily polypharmacy. Parents of children
      with polypharmacy often administer 5 or more medications each day, sometimes for months,
      including high-risk medications prescribed by many different specialists in multiple settings
      of care. While medications can be life-saving, polypharmacy increases the risk of additive
      adverse effects, drug-drug interactions, and can lead to serious adverse drug events (ADEs).
      Pediatric ADEs result in over 4.3 million estimated ambulatory visits annually, including
      >150,000 pediatric emergency room visits. Despite the risks associated with polypharmacy,
      little is known about how polypharmacy escalates and how polypharmacy should be managed. To
      enable children to thrive at home using medications while minimizing unwanted symptoms, this
      proposal aims to implement a prospective, parent-reported symptom assessment system to guide
      and monitor pharmaceutical care for high-risk children. Strategies to improve recognition of
      problematic symptoms will have a substantial impact on the health of children. Thus, the
      investigator will carry out the following research studies, specifically focusing on the
      high-risk population of children with neurological impairment (NI) and polypharmacy:

      Part 1: Conduct cross-sectional parent-reported symptom assessments (PRSA). In a clinic
      population of 300 children, the investigator will administer an electronic validated symptom
      inventory to parents to advance the understanding of signal-to-noise and signal detection
      challenges in this population.

      Part 2: Conduct a prospective cohort study to quantify the detection of known ADEs using
      PRSA. The investigator will follow 50 children expected to have medication changes (empaneled
      in Aim 1) and assess whether using PRSA prior to and after specific medication changes
      detects known and expected side effects.
    
  