
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. The objective response rate, defined as the proportion of patients who have had a partial
      response (PR) or complete response (CR) within the first 6 months after initiation of therapy
      with cabozantinib (cabozantinib-s-malate).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess duration of objective response, progression-free survival and overall survival.

      II. To assess tolerability and adverse events of cabozantinib as a 2nd line therapy in
      patients with differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess effect of cabozantinib on serum tumor marker thyroglobulin and its correlation
      with overall response rate.

      II. To assess response of cabozantinib in bone metastasis (bone metastasis-specific
      progression free survival) as evaluated by pre- and on-study functional imaging such as bone
      scan, fludeoxyglucose F 18 (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) scan and/or 18F
      sodium fluoride (NaF) PET scan.

      III. To assess effect of cabozantinib on serum and urinary markers of bone turnover and its
      correlation with response to bone metastasis.

      IV. To assess predictors of response by performing tumor genotype studies (e.g. v-raf murine
      sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B [BRAF], rat sarcoma [RAS],
      phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit alpha [PIK3CA],
      mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 [MAP2K1], v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1
      [AKT1], mesenchymal-epithelial transition [MET], rearranged in transformation [RET]/papillary
      thyroid carcinoma [PTC] rearrangement) in archived tumor tissue.

      V. To assess predictors of response by assessing baseline expression levels of vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF), phosphorylated vascular endothelial growth factor receptor
      (pVEGFR), phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (pERK), phosphorylated AKT1
      (pAKT) and/or total met proto-oncogene (MET) by immunohistochemistry in archived tumor
      tissue.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive cabozantinib-s-malate orally (PO) daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every
      28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks and then every 3
      months for 1 year.
    
  