
    
      The current proposal is focused on examining whether a novel resistance exercise program for
      the pelvic floor will strengthen pelvic floor muscles and improve symptoms in women with anal
      incontinence. Anal incontinence is a significant public health issue that is estimated to
      impact 7-15% of women. Traditional rehabilitation strategies such as Kegel exercises and
      biofeedback are a noninvasive strategy designed to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles,
      however, these exercises are performed with no resistance. There is a large body of evidence
      indicating that for muscle strengthening and hypertrophy to occur, exercises must be
      performed against resistance. Therefore, we have designed a novel exercise program for the
      pelvic floor that incorporates principals of resistance training known to be effective in
      other muscles in the body. The long-term goal of this research is to determine the most
      appropriate noninvasive strategies and interventions to improve pelvic floor function and
      symptoms of anal incontinence. This project is the first step in achieving this goal. The
      overall purpose of the current proposal is to determine whether novel physical therapy
      interventions are more effective than traditional biofeedback strategies in the treatment of
      anal incontinence. The specific aims of the proposal are: (1) To describe the use of the
      Functional Lumen Imaging Probe (FLIP) for pelvic floor exercise; (2) To determine whether
      eccentric, concentric, or isometric exercise training of the pelvic floor has a positive
      impact on the pelvic floor muscles and on symptoms of anal incontinence compared to
      traditional biofeedback training; (3) To determine whether using the FLIP in the vagina is as
      effective as its use in the anal canal for treatment of anal incontinence. To test these
      aims, the approach includes a randomized controlled exercise trial with use of validated
      measures of muscle function, muscle hypertrophy and validated symptom measures. This proposal
      describes an innovative approach to rehabilitation of the pelvic floor muscles that will
      provide information about pelvic floor function and that has the potential to shift the
      treatment paradigm for women with pelvic floor disorders.
    
  