
    
      Patients suffering from pathology of posterior eye chamber such as diabetic retinopathy,
      retinal detachment, traumatic eye injury, retained lens fragments, macular hole, pucker,
      dislocated intraocular lens after cataract surgery or vitreomacular traction are often
      subjected to pars plana vitrectomy (PPV).

      PPV is minimally invasive micro-endoscopic surgery of posterior eye chamber. Patients usually
      receive analgo-sedation combined with topical anesthesia, which, depending on the type of
      surgery, precedes a regional, retrobulbar or sub-Tenon block. Although lower doses of
      intravenous anesthetics are carefully titrated in continuous infusion and standard, low -
      flow nasal oxygenation (LFNO) is applied, patients are prone to respiratory insufficiency.
      Obese patients are especially susceptible to bradypnoea, transitory apnoea, hypoxia and
      hypercapnia. Respiratory instability is then often followed by circulatory one presented by
      heart rate and blood pressure deflections from baseline values. It is known that higher
      anesthesia risk obese patients may suffer from serious complications due to respiratory
      issues during analgo-sedation, even fatal outcome may occur.

      LFNO is applied at rate of 5 L/min O2 per nasal catheter, reaching inspiratory fraction of
      oxygen (FiO2) of 40%. High-flow nasal oxygenation (HFNO) is an innovative method of patient
      oxygenation that delivers warmed and moistened oxygen and air mixture with a flow rate of up
      to 70 L/min and up to 100% FiO2 via specially designed soft nasal cannula. It is known that
      40 L/min of oxygen/air mixture delivered by HFNO provides 40% FiO2 applying continuous
      positive inspiratory pressure of 3-7 cmH2O which ensures continuous non-invasive support of
      patients' spontaneous ventilation and thus better oxygenation stability of the patient.

      OBJECTIVE: The study aims to determine the effect of HFNO versus LFNO on the stability of
      spontaneous ventilation during standardized intravenous analgo-sedation for PPV in normal
      weight and obese patients.

      HYPOTHESIS: Investigators hypothesize that administration of HFNO in comparison with LFNO in
      patients with preserved spontaneous breathing during the standard analgo-sedation procedure
      will contribute to better oxygenation maintenance and, consequently, greater peri-procedural
      safety of patients, especially in obese patients.

      Investigators expect that HFNO will provide reduced bradypnoea intervals (bradypnoea <12
      breaths/min, FoB 1/min), longer maintenance of adequate oxygenation, shorter intervals of
      desaturation (peripheral blood oxygen saturation - SpO2≤92%), reducing hypercapnia
      (expiratory carbon-dioxide - expCO2≥45 mmHg) and less airway opening maneuvers performed by
      attending anesthesiologist (AOM). These will prevent partial respiratory insufficiency
      detected by low SpO2 accompanied by low or normal expiratory carbon-dioxide level (expCO2),
      and global respiratory insufficiency detected by decreased SpO2≤92% and increased expCO2≥45
      mmHg.

      Investigators plan to conduct prospective, parallel group, randomized controlled clinical
      trial. Trial will be managed according to principles of Declaration of Helsinki for
      scientific clinical research and will be planned and guided according to CONSORT guidelines
      (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials). The trial has been approved by Hospital's Ethic
      Committee.

      The source of information are going to be 126 adult patients scheduled for PPV under
      analgo-sedation. Eligible participants will be interviewed and examined ambulatory by
      anesthesiologist, their ASA status, difficulty of airway management and body mass index (BMI)
      evaluated. After initial examination inclusive and exclusive criteria will be distinguished.
      Eligible participants who give voluntarily their written consent of participation will be
      included in this study. After that, participants will be assigned to equal normal weight
      (18<BMI<30 kg/m2), class I obesity (30≤BMI<35 kg/m2) and class ≥II obesity (BMI≥35 kg/m2)
      groups. Each group will be randomized to intervention (HFNO) and control (LFNO) subgroup by
      computer random numbers generator. Randomization will be used until adequate number of
      participants in every subgroup is reached.

      Interventions: intervention subgroups participants will be oxygenated via nasal cannula using
      high flow (40 L/min) of humidified and heated oxygen in air mixture (FiO2 40%). HFNO will be
      applied by oxygenator (AirVO™2, Fisher and Paykell, New Zealand, Technomedika, Croatia
      d.o.o.) during procedural analgo-sedation for PPV maintaining spontaneous breathing. In
      control subgroups, LFNO will be applied via nasal catheter (Bauerfeind d.o.o. Zagreb,
      Croatia) using standard low-flow oxygen (5 L/min, FiO2 40%). In both groups concentration of
      oxygen delivered depends on oxygen flow which is regulated by standard flow-regulator
      (flowmeter). Oxygen is delivered through pipelines from central hospital gas supply or from
      portable cylinder gas supply.

      Anesthesia procedure will be uniformed for all participants. Integrated noninvasive
      monitoring of circulatory function (heart rate - EKG, intermittent mean arterial pressure -
      sphygmomanometer) will be set (Compact 7; Medical Econet GmbH, Germany). Respiratory vital
      functions: oxygenation (pulse oximeter), heart rate and expCO2 by using capnometer
      (Capnostream™35 Portable Respiratory Monitor, Medtronic, Belgium).

      Every participant will have established intravenous infusion of 250 ml NaCl 0.9% via
      intravenous cannula regulated by continuous flow (Extension set/CONTROL-A-FLO Regulator 19
      "Male Luer Lock Adapter", Baxter/Agmar d.o.o. United States of America/ Croatia).

      Oxygenation (HFNO or LFNO) will be continuously administered before institution of
      analgo-sedation until patients' awakening. It will be started 3 minutes before
      analgo-sedation (preoxygenation), continued during analgo-sedation and procedure of PPV
      (perioperative oxygenation) and up to 5 minutes after PPV and until patient is awake
      (postprocedural oxygenation).

      Induction of analgo-sedation will be instituted by droperidol 1.25 -2.5 mg bolus accompanied
      by continuous infusion of target remifentanyl concentration up to 0.05 mcg/kg/min. Intensity
      of sedation will be measured by Ramsay's sedation scale (RSS). Moderate sedation (RSS 4) is
      characterized by: purposeful response to verbal or tactile stimulation, no intervention
      required for airway patency maintenance, adequate spontaneous ventilation and sufficient
      cardiovascular function. Surgeon will apply topical local anesthetic on conjunctiva which is
      followed by regional anesthesia (sub-Tenon or retrobulbar block). Intravenous analgo-sedation
      will be administered via perfusor (B.Braun, Melsungen, Germany). Analgo-sedation will be
      discontinued immediately after end of PPV.

      Control of nasopharyngeal airway is achieved by using oropharyngeal airway, if necessary.
      Oropharyngeal airway (Airway; Vigon-Medicpro d.o.o.) will be inserted after achieving
      moderate analgo-sedation and only if base of tongue is closing airway by dropping on
      posterior pharyngeal wall. Every manipulation of patients airway by anesthesiologist will be
      documented (insertion of airway, jaw thrust maneuver).

      Measuring:

      SpO2, expCO2, heart rate (fC) and respiratory rate (fD) will be measured continuously, and
      simultaneously continuously noted in 5 minutes intervals - T0=before oxygenation, T1=15
      minutes after instituting LFNO or HFNO after beginning of analgo-sedation, T2=when patient is
      awake after oxygenation ends.

      Noninvasive measurement SpO2 will be performed by indirect method using a pulse oximeter on
      the index finger of the left hand (Compact 7, Medical ECONET GmbH, Germany).

      Blood pressure measuring and mean arterial pressure calculation will be repeated
      intermittently in 5 minutes intervals prior to-, during analgo-sedation and after patient is
      awaken. All measured parameters will be noted in identical intervals.

      The data will be collected uniformly by three researchers: an anesthesiologist who interviews
      and examines patients ambulatory, an anesthesiologist designated for procedural
      analgo-sedation and an anesthesiologist who will collect the data after the completion of the
      analgo-sedation procedure.

      The investigator in charge of the data collection will collect it from the pre-operative
      ambulatory list and the anesthesiologist list. The anesthesiology sheet will include all data
      from the trend table of the monitored vital parameters and from the simultaneously noted
      respiratory rate (fD) per minute and the expCO2.

      The data will be collected through non-invasive measurements: peripheral blood oxygen
      saturation (SpO2), heart rate (fC), respiratory rate (fD), blood pressure (mean arterial
      pressure - MAP), carbon dioxide exhaled values before, in the stabilization and at the end of
      the analgo-sedation, i.e. 5 minutes after awakening of the patient.

      A fourth researcher will be in charge of entering the collected data into the database. The
      statistician will analyze the data.

      Basic data analyses will be performed by statistician. Sample size is determined by statistic
      computing web program: http://www.stat.ubc.ca/~rollin/stats/ssize used statistic test
      Inference for Proportions:Comparing Two Independent Samples. Assessment of sample size is
      computed for two independent samples with assumption of clinically significant difference in
      patients' oxygenation: ≤88 and ≥99%. Statistical significance of difference will be inferred
      with 5% α-error, 50% β-error and study power 0.80.calculated size of sample is: 21
      participant pro subgroup (total of 126 participants).

      Possible biases and confounding variables could be caused by hypothermia of the participant
      and by sphygmomanometer pressure on the same arm where peripheral oxygenation level is
      measured. These difficulties can be bypassed by: adjustment of room temperature where
      analgo-sedation for PPV is performed and blood pressure measuring cuff placed on right arm
      (pulse oximeter placed on left index-finger).

      Any possible event that may occur during analgo-sedation that causes deviation from the study
      protocol will be the reason for exclusion of the subjects from the study and the PPV will be
      continued under anesthesia according to the rules of good clinical practice.
    
  