
    
      Antipsychotic agents have, for a long time, been used to alleviate the severe behavioral
      problems associated with manic episodes. Risperidone, widely used in the treatment of
      schizophrenia, has been shown to be effective in the treatment of manic and mixed episodes
      associated with bipolar disorders. This is a randomized, double-blind study to evaluate the
      effectiveness and safety of risperidone compared with placebo after 3 weeks of treatment in
      patients with bipolar disorder who are experiencing manic episodes. A secondary objective is
      to estimate the difference between the anti-manic efficacy of risperidone and haloperidol
      (active comparator) after 12 weeks of treatment. Haloperidol also serves as an internal
      control for the 3-week treatment period. The study has two 2 phases: an acute period
      consisting of 3 weeks of double-blind treatment (risperidone, haloperidol, or placebo)
      followed by a maintenance period consisting of 9 weeks of double-blind treatment (risperidone
      or haloperidol) or 9 weeks of open-label treatment (risperidone). Patients receive study
      medication to be taken orally once a day at gradually increasing doses during the first week
      (risperidone, a range of 1 - 6 mg/day or haloperidol, a range of 2 - 12 mg/day) to achieve
      optimal effectiveness, while minimizing any intolerance to the drug. Daily treatment
      continues at the optimal dose through Week 3 of the first phase. After completing the 3-week
      double-blind period, patients can continue double-blind treatment for an additional 9 weeks
      at the optimal dose (with placebo patients crossed over to risperidone), or enter the 9-week
      open-label period of risperidone treatment. Adjustment to achieve an optimal dosage is made
      for those patients whose medication is changed upon entering the second phase.

      The primary measure of effectiveness (acute efficacy) is the change in Young Mania Rating
      Scale (YMRS) total score from baseline to the endpoint at 3 weeks of the acute treatment
      period. Additional efficacy measures for the study assess maintenance efficacy. These
      measures include the Clinical Global Impression-Severity of Illness (CGI-S) scale; Global
      Assessment Scale (GAS), which assesses the patient's level of functioning; Brief Psychiatric
      Rating Scale (BPRS), a scale for measuring psychotic symptoms; and the Montgomery Asberg
      Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), which evaluates symptoms of depression. Safety assessments
      include the incidence of adverse events and measurement of vital signs (temperature, pulse,
      blood pressure) throughout the study; evaluation of the presence and severity of
      extrapyramidal symptoms by the Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale (ESRS) at specified
      intervals; and clinical laboratory tests (hematology, biochemistry, urinalysis) at the start
      and end of both phases of the study. The study hypothesis is that 3 weeks of daily treatment
      with risperidone is more effective than placebo, as measured by Young Mania Rating Scale
      scores, in the treatment of the manic phase of Bipolar I Disorder. Acute phase: Risperidone
      orally, once-daily: 2 mg on Day 1, 1 - 3 mg on Days 2 to 4, and 1 - 6 mg on Days 5 to 21; or
      haloperidol orally, once-daily: 4 mg on Days 1 to 4 and 2 - 12 mg on Days 5 to 21; or placebo
      orally, once-daily Days 1 to 21. Maintenance phase: optimal dose of risperidone or
      haloperidol for 9 weeks (placebo patients cross over to risperidone) or Open-label phase:
      risperidone for 9 weeks.
    
  