
    
      The number adults with congenital heart disease is increasing. Thanks to advances in the
      medical and surgical fields the number of adults with complex congenital heart disease is now
      higher than the children with corresponding heart disease. Though the long term prognosis is
      still unknown and continuously changing as new therapeutic options are introduced.

      Persons with congenital heart disease have different degrees of impaired exercise capacity
      compared to healthy controls. Some studies indicate that this population is not sufficiently
      active to achieve the recommendations for physical activity in preventing acquired heart
      disease. Physical inactivity is an important risk factor for developing acquired heart
      disease and other life style diseases as obesity and diabetes. In a population where one or
      more previous cardiac surgeries are common, the prevention of life style diseases is
      especially important. Exercise training in heart failure and coronary artery disease is well
      studied and there are clinical guidelines. Regarding exercise training in adults with
      congenital heart disease, however,the information is sparse and further studies are needed.

      Based on defined inclusion and exclusion criteria adults with complex congenital heart
      disease will be recruited in the Northern Health Care Region in Sweden and in Gothenburg.
      Before and after the twelve week intervention period the investigators will collect
      information about cardiopulmonary exercise capacity, health related quality of life, exercise
      self-efficacy, anxiety and depression. The patients will be randomized to twelve weeks of
      home based interval training or to a control group. The randomization ratio will be 2:1
      (intervention:control). The control group will be instructed to continue with their habitual
      physical activities. The home based interval training program will be individualized based on
      the results of the exercise tests.

      The aim of this study is to examine the effect of home based interval training on maximal and
      submaximal exercise capacity, quality of life, exercise self-efficacy, anxiety and
      depression.
    
  