
    
      Background and study aims:

      Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or minor neurocognitive disorder is a syndrome defined as an
      intermediate stage between cognitively intact and clinically diagnosed dementia. The
      age-adjusted prevalence of MCI in Taiwan is approximately 18%, while women have higher
      prevalence for MCI than men. The progression rate from MCI to dementia ranges from 10 to 15%
      each year, and over 50% of the MCI population will develop into severe cognitive impairment
      or dementia in 5 years. Therefore, early detection of the individuals who manifest MCI and
      provide appropriate interventions may help reduce the burden of their caregivers and the
      medical expenses of the health-care system. Previous studies found that cognitive training or
      exercise has emerged as an important therapeutic approach for individuals with MCI. However,
      the intervention effects of combining exercise and cognitive training remain to be
      determined. Furthermore, whether exercise and cognitive training should be administered in
      sequential order or simultaneously is an important question to pursue. The overall goal of
      this study is to determine and compare the intervention effects cognitive training, exercise,
      and combining cognitive and exercise training in individuals with MCI.

      Who can participate? Individuals with MCI.

      What does the study involve? The participants will receive a total of 36 training sessions,
      and each session will contain 90 minutes of training. Training frequency will be 2-3 times
      per week for 12-18 weeks. All participants will received pretreatment test, post treatment
      test, and a 6-month follow-up test.

      What are the possible benefits and risks of participating? The possible benefits include
      improvement in cognitive, physical, and daily functions. There are no risks for
      participating.

      Where to conduct the study? The investigators anticipate recruiting a total of 80
      participants from geriatric day care centers and nursing homes from multiple cities in
      Taiwan.
    
  