
    
      In this prospective cohort study, the investigators will assess the feasibility of esophageal
      pressure measurements during general anesthesia with one-lung ventilation in patients
      undergoing non-cardiac intrathoracic surgery, which is typically conducted in the lateral
      position. The investigators will measure esophageal pressure with an esophageal balloon
      catheter. The investigators will compare esophageal pressure measurements to lung collapse
      estimated by Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT).

      Patients will be equipped with the EIT belt before induction of anesthesia, and a one-minute
      EIT recording during spontaneous breathing will be conducted. Anesthesia will be induced as
      to institutional standards and upon the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist. After
      placement of a double-lumen endotracheal tube, the esophageal balloon catheter will be
      placed.

        -  After placement of the esophageal catheter, esophageal pressure, transpulmonary
           pressure, airway pressure and flow and EIT signal will be recorded ("baseline").

        -  When the patient has been positioned for surgery (typically in the lateral position), a
           second recording of the above parameters is conducted ("lateral"). One-lung ventilation
           will then be initiated and a third measurement ("OLV") is made.

        -  During the third measurement, a decremental positive end-expiratory pressure trial will
           be conducted to correlate the measured esophageal pressure to the positive
           end-expiratory pressure where lung collapse is detected from EIT.

        -  Before surgery, the EIT belt is opened and removed from the surgical field to avoid
           interference.

        -  If feasible, when surgery is finished, before reversal of neuromuscular blockade and
           extubation, a final recording of EIT, esophageal pressure, transpulmonary pressure,
           airway pressure and flow will be conducted.
    
  