
    
      A cohort study was performed for patients who underwent a laparoscopic cholecystectomy under
      an institutional review approved protocol. Between 2009 and 2011, 45 unselected patients
      underwent SILC performed by the same two surgeons.

      The study inclusion criteria were the following: patients over 18 years with cholelithiasis,
      and candidates for elective surgery with no significant cardiopulmonary, hepatic or renal
      impairment (ASA score less than 4).

      The exclusion criteria included the following: acute cholecystitis, associated CBD stones or
      pancreatitis, an emergency operation for complicated disease, mental illness, or patient
      refusal and/or absence of informed consent. All included patients signed a standard consent
      form after being informed about the characteristics of the SILC procedure.

      The outcomes of these patients were compared with those of a control cohort series of 140
      patients who underwent standard LC (with the same inclusion and exclusion criteria) during
      the same period.

      The primary endpoint of the study was to determine the incisional hernia rate at the
      umbilical wound after 5 years of follow-up. Hernias were defined as evidence of a hernia at
      the clinical examination or those confirmed by ultrasound examination in case of clinical
      doubt.

      The study secondary endpoints included the following: duration of surgery (from the start of
      the incision to skin closure), intraoperative and postoperative complications (30 days),
      hospital stay, and cosmetic satisfaction results (measured using a visual analogue scale
      score ranging from 0 to 10).

      The following variables were also collected: age, gender, body mass index (BMI) and
      comorbidities. The anesthetic risk was measured according to the ASA classification system.
      Prolonged hospital stay (more than 24 h) and readmission (patients who returned for medical
      consultation before scheduled follow-up) were also recorded. All data were collected
      prospectively.
    
  