
    
      The shoulder is the most frequently dislocated joint in the body. Multiple causes and
      pathologies account for the various types of shoulder instability. Multi-directional
      instability (MDI) and multi-directional laxity with anteroinferior instability (MDL-AII) are
      similar in pathology, less common and more difficult to treat. These types of shoulder
      instability are caused by ligamentous capsular redundancy. When non-operative management
      fails for these patients, their quality of life is significantly impaired and surgical
      treatment is required to tighten the loose ligaments and joint capsule. A new way to treat
      these patients involves arthroscopic thermal shrinkage of the tissue to tighten the joint.
      However, there is a lack of scientific evidence to support the use of this technique called,
      electrothermal arthroscopic capsulorrhaphy (ETAC). The current reference (gold) standard
      treatment for these patients is an open inferior capsular shift (ICS) procedure. Therefore,
      this trial will compare the effectiveness of these surgical techniques (ETAC vs. ICS) in
      patients with MDI and MDL-AII by determining patient related quality of life.

      This study is designed as a multicentre, randomized controlled trial. Patients diagnosed with
      either MDI or MDL-AII who failed standardized non-operative management will undergo a
      diagnostic shoulder arthroscopy, and if appropriate, will be subsequently randomized in the
      operating room to either an ETAC or ICS surgical procedure. Computer-generated, stratified
      block randomization is used. Stratification is based on two variables:

        1. surgeon - to account for any differences between surgeons, and

        2. diagnosis (MDI or MDL-AII) - to account for any differences in the severity of
           pathology.

      The disease-specific quality of life is assessed using a validated questionnaire, the Western
      Ontario Shoulder Instability Index, measured at baseline, and 3, 6, 12 and 24 months. The
      WOSI index has 21 questions, divided into four categories to assess physical symptoms,
      sport/recreation/work, lifestyle and emotions. Each question is scored out of 100 using a
      visual analog scale response format. A lower score reflects a better quality of life.
    
  