
    
      Childhood obesity is global health problem, due to the constant increase in its incidence and
      prevalence. Having this disease helps increase the costs of care for Chronic Noncommunicable
      Diseases. The increase in its prevalence since 1975 from 1% to 6% (girls) and 8% (boys) in
      2016 between the ranges of 5 to 19 years.

      Mexico, occupies the first place worldwide in childhood obesity, only by data from National
      Health and Nutrition Survey 2016 , it is considered that approximately 3 out of 10 children,
      4 out of 10 adolescents present this health problem; the population with the highest health
      risk being ages between 10 and 17 years. In 2016, the prevalence of obesity in the population
      between 5 and 11 years old was 15.3% and in adolescents between 12 and 19 years old it was
      13.9% .

      Although, the scientific evidence has focused on studying different strategies for the
      prevention, control and treatment of childhood obesity complications; The prevalence of this
      has not yet been reduced or controlled favorably. It has been demonstrated through
      meta-analysis and randomized clinical trials that the use of flavonoids from cocoa, such as
      epicatechin at a concentration of 50 mg to 100 mg / day for 6 to 18 weeks, may decrease the
      risk of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, Because it reduces: insulin resistance,
      diastolic blood pressure, triglycerides, LDL-c and increased HDL-c. These biological effects
      are related to the antioxidant capacity (inhibition of Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide
      phosphate oxidase (NAHPH) and increase of endothelial Nitric Oxide Synthase (eNOS), protein
      interaction and cell signaling that these compounds have (inhibition of Tumoral Necrosis
      Factor alpha (TNF-α) and Necrosis Factor beta (NF-β); MAPK pathway regulation ) and finally
      by the regulation of the inflammatory process through the modulation of the pro-inflammatory
      elements (Decrease of Il-6, TNF-α and PCR-HS), so it is attractive to establish it as an
      alternative treatment to reduce the risk of generate comorbidities This research aims to
      solve the following question: What is the effect of oral supplementation of flavonoids from
      cocoa on body composition, metabolic, inflammatory and oxidative profile in obese patients
      10-16 years old?

      This work aims to demonstrate the effect of oral supplementation of flavonoids from cocoa on
      body composition, anthropometric parameters, biochemical, inflammatory and oxidative markers
      in obese patients in order to reduce the risk of suffering from other comorbidities, such as
      metabolic syndrome. , diabetes, high blood pressure and cardiovascular diseases.

      From this study the investigators can know the effectiveness of the use of flavonoids from
      cocoa as epicatechin in a child population and demonstrate the regulatory effect of
      epicatechin on lipids, inflammation and oxidation. The results obtained from this research
      will provide us with the necessary evidence to propose whether the use of these flavonoids to
      prevent the occurrence of other comorbidities of childhood obesity.

      Material and methods:

      Type of study and universe: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial
      will be conducted, which will be conducted at the Federico Gómez Children's Hospital in
      Mexico, during the period from October 2019 to October 2020; with patients with exogenous
      obesity from 10 to 16 years.

      Sample size:

      It was calculated by the G * Power software version 3.1, considering an alpha error of 0.05,
      a power of 95% and a minimum expected difference between groups: control and intervention
      based on the variables of interest according to the reports of Other studies. Assuming that
      the sample size with the largest number of subjects (n = 40 subjects) is sufficient to find
      significant differences in all the variables of interest. Once the minimum necessary sample
      size (40 subjects per group) for the research protocol has been calculated, the sample
      adjustment for losses of 30% will be made, with a total of 116 research subjects (58 for each
      group).

      Description of the intervention:

      Phase 1. Generation of healthy habits: In order to standardize patients to establish greater
      control in the recommendations of diet and physical activity, the implementation of
      educational workshops 4 weeks before the start of the intervention was considered. The
      content of the recommendations workshops for a healthy diet and physical activity is based on
      the recommendations issued by World Health Organization (WHO), Official Mexican Standard of
      the Ministry of Health (NOM-043-SSA2-2012) and the Guidelines for diabetes prevention
      programs.

      Phase 2. Evaluation of the intervention: Once the phase of standardization of healthy habits
      is finished, the evaluation of the intervention will begin after the randomization of the
      study population, in 2 groups: Control Group (Placebo) that will receive the usual therapy of
      the endocrinology service, dietary recommendations, physical activity recommendations and the
      administration of one oral capsule of the placebo every 12 hours for 12 weeks and the
      Experimental group (Supplement of flavonoids from cocoa the participants will receive the
      usual therapy of the endocrinology service, dietary recommendations, physical activity
      recommendations and the administration of one capsule every 12 hours for 12 weeks.

      Randomization of the sample:

      For the selection of intervention and control groups, select a randomized selection of
      research subjects through the online Research Randomizer (www.randomizer.org) taking into
      account 2 unique sets, with 60 numbers per-set, a range between 1 and 120.

      Blinding of the intervention:

      For this study, a double blinding was established and masking techniques will be established
      to avoid the identification of the intervention. Blinding will only be opened when required
      by the research ethics committee or secretary of health, or when the patient presents a
      serious adverse event; same that will be informed before the competent authorities.

      This work will be guided by the ethical principles for research in humans of the Helsinki
      Declaration 2013 and the recommendations postulated in the guide of good clinical practices
      issued by the WHO. In accordance with the provisions of the Regulations of the General Law on
      Research Health in Article 17, it is classified as a risk greater than the minimum.
      Currently, it has the approval of the Biosafety Committees, the Research and Research Ethics
      Committees of the Federico Gómez Children's Hospital of Mexico (HIM-2018-100).

      Statistical analysis plan:

      The data obtained from the results of this research will be subjected to an analysis by
      protocol and by intention to be treated. For the statistical analysis of the results, the
      Statistical Package for the Social Sciences Softaware by International Business Machines (IBM
      SPSS) version 24 program will be used. Reporting the mean and standard deviation for the
      quantitative variables; median and range for qualitative variables. The distribution of the
      sample studied will be carried out the normality test of Kolmogórov-Smirnov. For the
      evaluation of the changes of the variables of interest, in case of presenting a normal
      distribution, repeated measures ANOVA and T Student will be used for related samples. In case
      of presenting a free distribution will be used will be the Kruskal - Wallis and Wilcoxon
      tests. Finally, to evaluate the presence of changes between the groups through the covariance
      analysis of the deltas of change of the variables studied.
    
  