
    
      Arrhythmias caused by congenital or acquired abnormalities of cardiac K+ or Na+ channels are
      increasingly recognized as a cause of syncope and sudden death. Cardiac arrest in the absence
      of overt structural heart disease was previously considered idiopathic ventricular
      fibrillation (IVF). The list of causes of "unexplained" cardiac arrest (UCA) now encompasses
      K+ related abnormalities (Long and Short QT, Andersen's), Na+ related (Long QT3, Brugada),
      Ca++ related (Catecholaminergic Polymorphic Ventricular Tachycardia-CPVT), and latent
      cardiomyopathy. These underlying causes of cardiac arrest are overtly familial in 30-60% of
      cases. Clinical detection of the underlying phenotype is crucial to direct appropriate
      treatment, genetic testing and screening of family members.

      Phenotype recognition of the range of these rare genetic conditions includes non-invasive and
      invasive testing to demonstrate the hallmarks of each individual condition, and exclude
      common causes such as ischemic or idiopathic forms of cardiomyopathy. The outcomes from this
      type of testing have not been assessed in a systematic fashion in patients with UCA or their
      family members. Phenotype-genotype correlation is necessary to develop optimal diagnostic
      testing in probands and screening techniques in their family members, which will result in
      disease-specific therapy. Genetic testing of patients with an overt phenotype demonstrates a
      potentially causative mutation in 50-75% of LQTS patients, and 20% of Brugada's Syndrome
      patients. Despite recognized mutations with phenotypic expression models, 30-80% of patients
      will have negative gene screening despite overt or latent clinical disease.

      The proposed project is evaluating a systematic approach to clinical assessment and genetic
      screening of patients and families with UCA and suspected inherited arrhythmias involving:

        1. A multicenter registry of UCA patients, their family members and referred patients with
           familial sudden death undergoing standardized testing for evidence of primary electrical
           disease (PED). The single center pilot experience at the applicant's institution has
           proven feasibility, and has been accepted for publication in Circulation, indicating
           novelty. Ten centers across Canada have agreed to participate. The target is to enroll
           1500 UCA probands, 1st degree family members. 1st degree relatives of autopsy negative
           unexplained sudden death victims.

        2. Long term cardiac monitoring for (3 years) in select high-risk patients with an
           injectable cardiac monitor to detect potential substrate and/ore triggers for sudden
           death.

        3. DNA/plasma collection and biobanking for stratified whole exome sequencing.
    
  