
    
      This study is design to compare two different strategies aiming to lessen the degree of the
      ongoing process of allograft injury either by removing tacrolimus from the maintenance
      immunosuppressive protocol or by reducing tacrolimus dose.

      The primary goal is to assess the change in renal function at 6 and 12 months after
      conversion using creatinine levels and calculated creatinine clearance.

      The study will include two groups: The study group of 30 patients and a matched control group
      with creatinine levels at similar range.

      Patients will undergo the following baseline studies:

        1. Doppler ultrasound to exclude any mechanical or a vascular problem.

        2. A kidney biopsy to define the histological changes (degree of interstitial fibrosis,
           tubular and glomerular changes). The biopsies will be stained also for C4D and for
           fibrinogenic markers (TGF-beta, and collagen).

        3. A 24-hour urine protein excretion and creatinine clearance

        4. Echocardiography study

        5. Carotid Ultrasound

      The following parameters will be monitored every clinic visit throughout the study period:

        1. SMA-12 including creatinine levels.

        2. A complete blood count.

        3. Cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol and triglyceride levels.

        4. Blood pressure measurements (X2)

        5. The number of blood pressure medications.

        6. Cholesterol lowering medication requirement

        7. Urine protein excretion (quantitative spot-test )

        8. Protein amount in the urine

      Study end points:

      The data will be evaluated based on an intention to treat analysis and the following
      parameters will be compared between the two groups:

        1. Creatinine levels and calculated creatinine clearance

        2. Spot urine for Cr./protein ratio

        3. 24-hr. protein excretion

        4. Change in peak diastolic and mean arterial blood pressure

        5. The number and dosage of blood pressure medications

        6. Cholesterol, HDL and triglyceride levels

        7. Proportion of patients on cholesterol lowering agents

        8. Number and severity of biopsy proven acute rejection episodes

        9. Incidence of biopsy proven chronic rejection. (depends on per protocol biopsy at end of
           study)

       10. Patient and graft survival
    
  