
    
      Project Summary The U.S. National HIV/AIDS Strategy 2020 calls for increasing access to care
      and improving outcomes of people living with HIV and targeting biomedical prevention efforts
      (including access to pre-exposure prophylaxis [PrEP]) where HIV is most heavily concentrated.
      Baltimore, MD; Washington, DC; Philadelphia, PA (BWP); and Tampa and St. Petersburg, FL. are
      disproportionately burdened by high rates of new cases of HIV infection, with
      disproportionate rates in young Black and/or Latinx men who have sex with men (YBLMSM) and
      transgender women (YBLTW) aged 15-24. High incidence underscores the need for increased
      identification, linkage and initiation in HIV and preventive care for YBLMSM. Grants focused
      on high rates directly address NIH research priorities to reduce health disparities in the
      incidence of HIV, in antiretroviral therapy (ART) outcomes or in high HIV prevalent or
      high-risk areas.

      This innovative proposal seeks to test, treat and retain YBLMSM/TW living in BWP along the
      prevention and treatment continuum using the following aims:

      Aim 1. Identify and recruit young (ages 15-24) Black and/or Latinx men who have sex with men
      (YBLMSM) in 3 urban cities who are (1) HIV-infected, not virally suppressed; and (2)
      high-risk HIV-uninfected YBLMSM, including gender variant and questioning men, using
      respondent driven sampling (RDS) with targeted seed identification. Assigned female sex at
      birth participants may be eligible to screen and participate in this aim to assist in
      recruiting YBLMSM/TW; Aim 2. Compare the efficacy of two study arms (mobile-enhanced
      engagement intervention (MEI) vs. standard of care (SOC)) to achieve sustained retention
      (measured by ≥ 4 follow up visits per 18-months) and engagement in HIV care (measured by
      durable viral suppression (HIV VL < 20 copies/ml) and substance treatment among 240
      HIV-infected YBLMSM who are not virally suppressed and recruited from RDS; and Aim 3. Modify
      and implement mobile-enhanced intervention for 225 high-risk HIV-uninfected YBLMSM, recruited
      from RDS to promote linkage, retention and engagement of pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and
      substance treatment uptake over 18-months, comparing younger (15-19) and older (20-24)
      participants.
    
  