
    
      Background

      Ventriculoperitoneal shunting (VPS) as diversionary procedure in patients with hydrocephalus
      was first described in 1908. After the introduction of silastic catheters during the 1970s
      this method has become the treatment of choice for children and adults with communicating
      hydrocephalus. However, the average patient having had VPS will undergo 2.1 shunt revisions
      every 3 years of life, with a wide range from no revisions during the first decade to up to
      21 revisions within the first year. For this reason technical improvements impacting
      positively on the revision rate and on the surgical burden are strongly needed.

      In the standard VPS procedure the proximal part of the shunt is first placed in one of the
      lateral ventricles. The distal part of the shunt is then tunneled subcutaneously from the
      head to the abdomen, where 20-25 cm of the distal catheter and the tip are introduced in the
      peritoneal cavity through a paraumbilical mini-laparotomy. The intraperitoneal placement of
      the distal catheter is performed blindly, whereby the tip of the catheter is directed
      caudally in direction of the pelvis in order to avoid kinking and potential strangulation of
      the catheter. In this setting the functionality of the system can be estimated by feeling the
      resistance to out- and inflow while manually pumping the reservoir near the valve at the
      cranial level.

      Distal shunt failure has been reported to occur in 10-30% of cases. Secondary dislocation of
      the peritoneal catheter in the subcutaneous tissue or its improper placement in the
      peritoneal cavity during the procedure both contribute to this high shunt failure rate.
      Furthermore, blind catheter placement in obese patients and in patients with adhesions from
      previous abdominal surgery can be a challenge and may lead to injuries of the intra-abdominal
      organs.

      In 1993, Bassauri et al reported on the laparoscopic placement of the peritoneal catheter in
      VPS. Since then several, small retrospective series have shown good results in laparoscopic
      VPS, both in terms of efficacy and safety, in adults and in children. Two larger series were
      published recently. Schubert et al. reported a prospective study on 50 adult patients using
      the laparoscopically assisted peritoneal shunt insertion. A retrospective cohort of 50
      matched patients served as a control. They reported no intraoperative complications, a longer
      operation time in the laparoscopic group (59 versus 49 minutes), 2 malfunctions (4%) and 1
      infection in the laparoscopic group (2%) and 6 malfunctions (12%) and 6 infections (12%) in
      the historic cohort, the difference being statistically significant in favour of the
      laparoscopic group. In the most recent and largest series published to date, Bani et al.
      report on their experience with 151 patients, where the peritoneal catheter was implanted
      using a laparoscopic technique. They also used a retrospective cohort of 50 non-laparoscopy
      patients as a control. The operation time was slightly longer using the laparoscopic
      technique (35-130 versus 30-120 minutes), the infection rate was 2% in both groups. They
      describe no dislocation of the distal catheter in the abdominal wall and no malpositioning of
      the distal catheter in the laparoscopic group and 4 such cases in the non-laparoscopy group
      (8%).

      In summary, these non-randomized trials suggest the safety of the procedure. The laparoscopic
      technique offers at least theoretically some significant advantages over the standard
      technique. The laparoscopic introduction of the peritoneal catheter allows for
      intra-abdominal inspection, lyses of adhesions whenever necessary, confirmation of the
      catheter position, and the visual assessment of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow through the
      catheter tip during the procedure. Due to the minimal trauma to the abdominal wall the
      laparoscopic access also has the potential of reducing postoperative adhesions, wound
      complications and the overall postoperative morbidity. Despite these theoretical advantages,
      however, comparative, randomized data are lacking and ventriculoperitoneal shunting is still
      performed through a minilaparotomy in the vast majority of neurosurgical centres. The absence
      of scientific evidence favouring the laparoscopic technique, the lack of training of
      neurosurgeons in laparoscopic techniques and the potential prolongation of the operating time
      (and potentially a higher risk of infection) are probably the main reasons to explain why the
      shift to the laparoscopic technique has not yet taken place. Also, theoretically, the
      inflation of the peritoneal cavity for laparoscopy could potentially generate an acute
      hydrocephalus (e.g. during a distal revision) due to the elimination of the pressure gradient
      necessary to obtain flow of CSF into the peritoneal cavity.

      These potential limitations warrant, in our view, a prospective, randomized, controlled trial
      comparing the standard (minilaparotomy) technique. The demonstration of the superiority of
      the laparoscopic technique in a prospective, randomized study has the potential of changing
      the standard of care for patients with hydrocephalus needing shunting.

      Methods

      120 patients scheduled for VPS surgery were randomised for laparoscopic or open insertion of
      the peritoneal catheter. The primary endpoint was the rate of overall shunt
      complication/failure after 12 months. Secondary endpoints were distal shunt failure rate at 6
      weeks, 6 months and 12 months, overall complication/failure at 6 weeks and 6 months, duration
      of surgery and hospitalisation, and morbidity.
    
  