
    
      The study will be done on 10 adult patients belonging to asa physical status 1 or 2
      undergoing dental procedures with indications for greater palatine or inferior nerve blocks.
      The study will be conducted in the dental clinic, university hospital, london health sciences
      centre. All subjects will receive the letter of information at least 4-6 hours before the
      study procedure. One of the investigators will obtain an informed consent prior to the
      procedure. All subjects will be clinically examined to rule out any contraindications to the
      block such as infection, allergy to local anesthetic and any known coagulopathic disorder. No
      sedation will be used. The study subjects will be positioned on the dental chair and
      requested to open the mouth as wide as possible. In patients undergoing dental procedure to
      the upper teeth posterior to canine, a linear hockey stick probe will be positioned long axis
      to the palate just medial to the alveolar ridge. A color doppler will be used to identify the
      greater palatine artery (gpa) and this artery will be traced to the greater palatine (gpn)
      foramen by moving the probe gradually posteriorly until the greater palatine foramen is
      visualized and the gpn and the gpa are seen to exit from the foramen. Using an oblique
      off-plane approach a 25g needle attached to a dental carpule of 2% lidocaine will be inserted
      to contact the nerve and a total of 1ml of local anesthetic is deposited around the nerve and
      the needle removed. In patients undergoing a dental procedure in mandible, the ian block will
      be done with the same probe. The ultrasound probe will be positioned so that it is facing
      laterally on the buccal mucosa close the retromolar area. A color doppler will be used to
      identify the inferior alveolar artery and a 25g needle coming in-plane to the probe from the
      anterior side of the probe will deposit the local anesthetic agent perineurally. Images will
      be stored pre-injection, during injection and post injection. One of the investigators will
      test for the sensory block in the distribution of gpn and ian. The sensory anesthesia is
      graded as no anesthesia, partial anesthesia and complete anesthesia for each of the nerve
      blocks. The time to perform the blocks and time to block onset will also be noted. The total
      procedure duration is counted form the time of starting the scan to the time of completion of
      injection. The block performance duration is documented from the time of starting the needle
      insertion to the end of injection. Time from the end of injection to onset of sensory
      analgesia will be considered as the onset time. The blocks will be tested at 2 minutes, 5
      minutes and 10 minutes after the injection. For the gpn, the sensory block will be documented
      on the hard palate from the last molar to the canine on the blocked side specifically at the
      1st premolar mesially. The areas that will be tested with the dental probe for ian are the
      buccal mucosa at the base of the first molar tooth (ian), the lower lip of the blocked side,
      the tip of the tongue (lingual nerve) as well as the lingual mucosa (lingual nerve ) and the
      buccal mucosa lateral to the molars on the block side (ian). Occurrence of any local hematoma
      or paresthesia during the procedure will be documented. The subjects will be contacted over
      the telephone at 24 hours for any residual paresthesia or numbness.
    
  