
    
      Study staff physical therapists will identify potential subjects upon completion of a
      standard physical therapy evaluation on patients referred for low back pain. Spaulding
      Outpatient sites in Malden, Quincy YMCA and Charlestown will participate.

        -  Inclusion criteria: 1) pain lasting > 3 months and 2) > 18 years of age

        -  Exclusion criteria: 1) inability to understand and communicate in English 2) inability
           to provide informed consent Individuals who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria will
           receive an information study sheet, the full consent form for reference, and hear a
           brief explanation of the study from the treating study staff physical therapist. It will
           be emphasized that study participation is completely voluntary and refusal to
           participate will in no way impact their care at that clinic site or other MGB facilities
           either now or in the future.

      SUBJECT ENROLLMENT

      Once an eligible subject is identified, the evaluating study staff physical therapist will
      briefly introduce the study and provide the study information sheet and full consent form for
      review. Interested individuals will be contacted by phone by study staff. Study staff
      obtaining consent will discuss the details of the study with the individual using the full
      consent form and study information sheet as a guide and will cover all of the required
      elements of informed consent, including the purpose of the research, the study procedures,
      risks and benefits associated with participation, and answer study-related questions.
      Subjects will be advised that their clinical care will not be affected in any way if they
      decide to participate or decline participation, and that participation can be discontinued at
      any time. The principal investigator's and consenting study staff's contact information will
      be provided on the information sheet and consent form, and other study staff will provide
      their contact information as appropriate. The study will be explained in detail and the
      individual will be given the chance to ask any questions. Informed consent will be obtained
      verbally over the phone due to the minimal study risk, low study burden, and the necessity of
      limiting in-person contact. Study staff will document verbal consent by electronically
      signing a copy of the IRB approved telephone information consent document which will be
      electronically stored in a protected Dropbox file that only study staff will have access to.
      Paper consent forms will not be stored. A copy will be securely emailed via Outlook to the
      treating study staff physical therapist. This copy will be printed and provided to the
      subject in-person by the treating study staff physical therapist at the subject's next
      scheduled physical therapy visit.

      Due to the minimal risk involved, informed consent may be given with less than 12 hours of
      notice, or they may be given additional time to consider.

      STUDY PROCEDURES

      Study staff physical therapists will be informed of enrollment. Once enrolled, subjects will
      complete the Keele STarT back questionnaire and a pain knowledge check. The pain education
      content will be delivered via the Oculus Go virtual reality (VR) headset at the beginning or
      end of the subjects scheduled PT appointments. There will be no added costs for content
      delivery and no additional study visits will be required outside of the regularly scheduled
      PT visits. Upon completing the pain education series, subjects will complete a feedback
      survey and a post-pain knowledge check. Study staff physical therapists will complete a
      survey for each enrolled subject.

      Additionally, demographic information will be collected from the Epic electronic health
      record (EHR) such as: age, gender, educational level, relevant past medical history, results
      of relevant images, and pertinent physical therapy evaluation and treatment information that
      is standard of care for this patient population. This information will be used to
      characterize the study sample and begin to identify important attributes that may have more
      relevance regarding the response to the content.
    
  