
    
      Management of patients with hepatic failure and liver-based metabolic disorders is complex
      and expensive. Hepatic failure results in impaired coagulation, altered consciousness and
      cerebral function, a heightened risk of multiple organ system failure, and sepsis. Liver
      transplantation is often the only available treatment option for severe, even if transient,
      hepatic failure. Patients with life-threatening liver-based metabolic disorders similarly
      require organ transplantation even though their metabolic diseases are typically the result
      of a single enzyme deficiency, and the liver otherwise functions normally. More than 17,000
      patients currently await liver transplantation in the United States, a number that seriously
      underestimates the number of patients that need treatment, as it has been estimated that more
      than a million patients in the United States could benefit from transplantation.
      Unfortunately, use of whole liver transplantation to treat these disorders is limited by a
      severe shortage of donors and by the risks associated with major surgery. Hepatocyte
      transplantation holds great promise as an alternative to organ transplantation for the
      treatment of liver diseases, and numerous studies in rodents indicate that transplants
      consisting of isolated liver cells can correct various metabolic deficiencies of the liver
      and can reverse hepatic failure. The transplant procedure, which involves injection of
      isolated hepatocytes into the liver through the portal vein, is far less intrusive than
      transplantation of the whole liver and could be performed on severely ill patients with
      relatively low risk. In the presence of normal host liver architecture, the transplanted
      cells integrate into the host liver, providing considerable restorative potential. Because
      the native liver is not removed, the transplanted hepatocytes need only improve some of the
      functions of the failing liver and need not replace all hepatic functions. Although clinical
      trials of hepatocyte transplantation have demonstrated the long-term safety of the procedure,
      only partial correction of metabolic disorders has been achieved, and the degree to which
      donor hepatocytes have restored failing livers has not been adequate to circumvent the need
      for organ replacement.
    
  