
    
      This randomized controlled trial will be a multicenter trial involving hospitals and
      physiotherapy clinics across Denmark. Part 1: For the initial 12-week exercise intervention,
      participants will be randomized into two groups: PRT or NEMEX. Part 2: After the initial
      intervention, participants in each group will be randomized to booster sessions (PRT+B and
      NEMEX+B) or to receive no further treatment (PRT-B and NEMEX-B). Booster sessions will be
      provided at 4, 6, 8 and 10 months after baseline. Outcomes will be measured at baseline,
      after 12 weeks of intervention, and at 6- and 12-months follow-up.

      The exercise interventions will be performed at the collaborating hospitals and physiotherapy
      clinics across Denmark. All sessions will be conducted in group sessions with one
      physiotherapist supervising the exercises. The duration and frequency of the interventions
      will be 12 weeks with 2 supervised sessions each week. If participants experience pain during
      exercise exceeding 5 out of 10 on a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), the physiotherapist will
      modify the exercise, decreasing the exercise intensity (load) or modifying the range of
      motion. All unilateral exercises will be performed for both sides.

      The NEMEX intervention will follow the NEMEX program as described by Ageberg et al. The
      sessions consist of a 10-minute submaximal warm up on an exercise bike followed by 50 minutes
      of NEMEX training with exercises focused on stability, postural function, postural
      orientation, lower extremity muscle strength, and functional exercises.

      The PRT intervention will follow the same protocol for training frequency and duration as the
      NEMEX intervention. The sessions consist of a 10-minute submaximal warm up on an exercise
      bike followed by 50 minutes of PRT with exercises targeting the muscles of the hip and knee
      joints; leg press, hip extension, hip abduction, hip flexion and knee extension.
    
  