
    
      Study Design: Non-randomized, prospective, single arm clinical trial

      Patient Population and Sample Size: Patients (n=25) from up to 2 clinical site, who have been
      medically evaluated, found appropriate for, and have agreed to treatment by lumbar
      decompressive laminectomy and facet fixation, including unilateral and/or bilateral
      posterolateral fusion according to accepted medical standards.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to:

        1. Evaluate the fusion status of facet joints following laminectomy and facet fixation
           using the VerteLoc system in combination with unilateral and/or bilateral posterolateral
           fusion.

        2. Subject success / Clinical outcome: Evaluate the reduction in baseline VAS back pain
           score at 2-3 weeks, 3 months, and 12 months.

      The secondary objectives of this study are to:

        1. Explore the effect of preoperative bone density on facet fusion status;

        2. Assess the ease of use of the VerteLoc system;

        3. Record operative time using the VerteLoc system;

        4. Monitor the occurrence of adverse events related or possibly related to the use of the
           VerteLoc system;

        5. Monitor the occurrence of subsequent surgical intervention at the target level(s).

        6. Subject success/Clinical outcome (Assess additional improvement criteria)

        7. Evaluate Fusion rate in relations to DEXA value

      Inclusion Criteria: Candidates must meet ALL of the following:

        1. Have provided consent for research by signing the Institutional Review Board approved
           Informed Consent;

        2. Have given appropriate operative consent for a decompressive lumbar (L1-S1) laminectomy
           procedure as standard of care;

        3. Are skeletally mature, and are at least 18 years of age;

        4. If female, are not pregnant;

        5. Agree to adhere to post-surgical medically prescribed activity limitations and/or
           physical rehabilitation.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Previous surgery at the target or adjacent vertebral levels;

        2. More than two intervertebral levels to be treated by the laminectomy procedure;

        3. Found to be inappropriate candidates for facet fixation using the VerteLoc system;

        4. Require additional and/or other surgical technique and/or approach to the laminectomy at
           the index level(s), which may in the opinion of the Primary Investigator confound
           measurement of outcome variables;

        5. Has a medical disorder or is receiving medications that would be expected to interfere
           with osteogeneses,

        6. Active malignancy or patient with a history of any malignancy (except non-melanoma skin
           cancer) with recurrence within 5 years of surgery;

        7. Active local or systemic infection or history of local or systemic infection,
           immune-deficiency, uncontrolled medical conditions, which in the opinion of the
           Investigator may increase patient risk or confound fusion results;

        8. BMI >40% ;

        9. History of tobacco smoking within the past 6 months;

       10. Has a history of alcoholism, medication or drug abuse, psychosis, is a prisoner, and/or
           has a personality disorder, poor motivation, emotional or intellectual issues that would
           likely make the patient unreliable for participation in the study;

       11. Are participating in any other clinical trial. Study Duration : 12 months

      Study Outcomes:

      The primary study outcomes of this study are:

        1. Fusion grade at 12 month follow-up using CT scans with a grading system based on:

             1. Complete fusion;

             2. Partial fusion;

             3. No fusion;

        2. Subject success / Clinical outcome:

      Evaluate the reduction in baseline VAS back pain score at:

        1. 2-3 weeks

        2. 3 months

        3. 12 months.

      The secondary outcomes of this study are:

        1. Statistical correlation of DEXA scan bone mass density score to CT and radiographic
           fusion status;

        2. Surgeon opinion of "ease of use" utilizing the VerteLoc system (0-10);

        3. Operative time (minutes) from surgical access to completion of device placement

        4. Occurrence and prevalence of adverse events related or possibly related to the use of
           the VerteLoc System;

        5. Occurrence of subsequent surgical intervention at the target level(s).

      Study Assessments

        -  Intraoperative: Post-placement radiograph;

        -  12 months: A/P and lateral flexion and extension lumbar radiograph and lumbar CT scan.

      Statistical Analysis

      • Student t-tests
    
  