
    
      There has been growing recognition of the high frequency with which Americans utilize
      complementary and alternative health care providers and that annually about 10% of the
      population is treated by a chiropractor. While chiropractors employ several types of
      treatment, spinal manipulation is the most important and unique of these therapies. Over 90%
      of the spinal manipulations performed in the U.S. are done by chiropractors with most of the
      remainder performed by osteopathic physicians. The annual number of chiropractic visits in
      the U.S. has been estimated at approximately 100 per 100 person-years.

      Spinal manipulation and chiropractic have been controversial at least partially due to a
      paucity of clinical scientific evidence of benefit. For example, reviews of the literature on
      randomized clinical trials (RCT's) of manipulative treatment for back pain have variably
      found evidence of benefit or insufficient evidence of benefit. A review of the existing
      clinical trials of spinal manipulation for neck pain concluded that most of the five existing
      RCT's were of relatively poor quality and that, despite some evidence for very short-term
      benefit, studies of higher quality will be needed in order to determine whether there is
      clinical benefit for this condition. This issue is important since neck pain is the second
      most common reason for presentation to chiropractors.

      There are several difficulties in researching the effects of spinal manipulation. Most of the
      conditions that are treated (i.e., back and neck pain) do not have a well-defined
      pathophysiology. Therefore, it is not possible to study treatment by evaluating the effects
      of treatment on physiological variables. The lack of a proven pathophysiology also leads to
      heterogeneous study populations with large variability in response to treatment. This makes
      it necessary to use large experimental populations in order to detect any effects of
      treatment. There is heavy reliance on subjective outcome measures in neck and back pain
      research, making these clinical trials particularly sensitive to placebo or "nonspecific"
      effects. The use of blinded subjects is the accepted method of dealing with these issues, but
      blinding is particularly difficult to achieve when investigating physical interventions,
      particularly those where the therapist can't be blinded as to whether s/he is delivering an
      actual or sham treatment.

      The present proposal is in response to a request for applications for pilot studies to
      establish the methodological feasibility and strengthen the scientific rationale for
      proceeding to full-scale RCTs on the use of chiropractic or osteopathy to manage or treat
      musculoskeletal injuries and disorders. One of the stated goals of this request for
      applications is to refine the control strategy for studies of manipulative therapy. The
      proposed study will examine whether an amnestic agent, midazolam, can be used to blind
      subjects to their experimental group in a double-blind, pilot RCT. This proposal is similar
      to a study by Sloop et al who used diazepam to produce amnesia in a study of spinal
      manipulation for chronic neck pain. The present study will utilize an agent with more
      specific amnestic effects and will also address several methodological problems with their
      study. If successful, the methods employed in this pilot study may permit a high degree of
      blinding in full scale RCT's of spinal manipulation.
    
  