
    
      This project tests the benefits of a home-based intervention of foot reflexology for
      improving health-related quality of life (HRQOL) including symptom responses, functioning,
      and health perceptions in women treated with chemotherapy for advanced breast cancer.
      Reflexology applies a firm walking-motion during sessions and is based on the premise that
      the foot has reflexes mirroring organs of the body. Symptom burden is the strongest predictor
      of HRQOL for cancer patients. This project brings together expertise from nursing,
      reflexology, communication, statistics, and health economics. The primary specific aims, in a
      sample of women with advanced breast cancer receiving chemotherapy, are to determine the
      effects of a 4-week, home-based reflexology intervention delivered by a friend/family
      provider compared to attention control for improvement of:

        1. HRQOL including symptoms, functioning, and health perception at study weeks 5 and 11.

           The investigators hypothesize that the reflexology group will have better HRQOL
           (symptoms, functioning, and health perception) than the attention control group at study
           weeks 5 and 11.

        2. Multiple symptom responses and times-to-response as determined by weekly symptom
           assessments during the 4-week intervention time.

           The investigators hypothesize that the reflexology group will have a higher proportion
           of symptoms that respond to the intervention and shorter time-to-symptom-responses than
           the attention control group.

        3. Symptom-related use of unscheduled health services during the 11-week study. The
           investigators hypothesize that fewer unscheduled services will be used for symptom
           management over the 11-week study period by women receiving reflexology compared to
           women in the attention control.

      The exploratory aims are to: 1) Explore differences between trial arms in perceptions of
      social support due to the family- or friend-delivered reflexology sessions at study weeks 5
      and 11; 2) Determine if effects of the reflexology intervention on HRQOL are mediated by
      social support; and 3) Use the newly developed NIH PROMIS standardized symptom and
      functioning instruments to assess the effects of the reflexology intervention and to compare
      the responsiveness of PROMIS instruments and existing instruments designed to measure similar
      constructs.

      This project has immense potential to make an effective symptom management intervention
      accessible to patients in their homes via a friend or family home provider. The investigators
      will not only intervene to enhance HRQOL but also to evaluate social support and costs
      associated with unscheduled health services. Effective symptom management provides time and
      cost savings to clinicians, advances the current state-of-the-science, and promotes adherence
      to medical treatment that may ultimately enhance survival.
    
  