
    
      Patients with adrenal adenomas may have autonomous cortisol secretion (ACS) that has been
      linked to hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia and cardiovascular disease. Patients with ACS
      also have been found to have increased mortality. In two studies the excess mortality was
      caused by cardiovascular disease and in one study by cancer.

      ACS is diagnosed by increased cortisol (≥50 nmol/l) following 1-mg dexamethasone suppression
      (DST) often in combination with another confirmatory test such as low ACTH, increased urinary
      cortisol, increased midnight salivary cortisol or a dexamethasone suppression test with a
      higher dexamethasone dose. Cortisol secretion from an AI has been considered exclusively
      autonomous but the investigators have recently shown that a large group of patients with
      normal results on DST have low ACTH indicating that another factor than ACS may suppress the
      HPA-axis. The hypothesis is that these patients have an increased sensitivity to ACTH, which
      results in lower ACTH levels. It has however not been studied whether the increased
      sensitivity to ACTH is linked to increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

      Patient data is collected from the patient cards and radiology images. Patients are included
      according to the eligibility criteria. The patients will be separated in the following
      groups:

        1. No ACS, inhalation steroids or adrenalectomy.

        2. ACS/possible-ACS but not treatment with inhalation steroids or adrenalectomy

        3. Treatment inhalation steroids but not operated.

        4. Unilateral AI and treated with adrenalectomy but no inhalation steroids. The group is
           separated in patients without ACS and patients with possible ACS/ACS.

      Three age and gender matched subjects from the general population for every patient will
      serve as a controls.

      Outcome data on patients and controls is received from The National Board of Health and
      Welfare. The control group is achieved from SCB, Sweden (Statistics Sweden). The following
      outcome data will be collected: Data on mortality, cause of mortality and inpatient and
      outpatient cardiovascular diagnoses. The study design reduces the risk for bias between the
      clinical endpoints and the patient's cortisol and ACTH levels. The patient cohorts will be
      finally defined before the investigators receive the clinical endpoints from The National
      Board of Health and Welfare.

      Statistical analysis: The prevalence of the outcome data in the groups of patients will be
      compared. The investigators will adjusted for differences between the groups in sex, age,
      smoking, impaired renal function, and existing cardiovascular disease.

      The following variables will be examined in relation to the outcome data: Cortisol following
      dexamethasone (≥50 nmol/l, ≥83 nmol/l and ≥138 nmol/l), low basal ACTH (<2.0 pmol/l), DHEAS,
      the size of the AI and bilateral versus unilateral AI.

      Study Status: We anticipate to receive the outcome data from The National Board of Health and
      Welfare in October 2019. The study has thus been slightly delayed. Data on morbidity will
      only be available until December 31, 2017 due to a delay in reporting to The National Board
      of Health and Welfare. The secondary outcome measure has been changed to a composite of
      cardiovascular endpoints.
    
  