
    
      Introduction.

      After an episode of acute respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation, weaning the
      patient from the ventilator may be difficult. Discontinuation of ventilation is estimated to
      take up to 40% of the total duration of ventilatory support. Approximately two- thirds of
      patients can be disconnected from the ventilator after a spontaneous breathing trial.
      Prolongation of mechanical ventilation may increase the risk of adverse events such as
      infections and can increase morbidity and mortality.

      Identifying weaning readiness early and reliably is therefore crucial. Weaning protocols
      developed to assist in identifying weaning readiness have been shown to shorten duration of
      mechanical ventilation, most notably the weaning period.

      Closed loop knowledge-based systems serve as a continuously applied weaning process that
      automatically reduce ventilatory assistance according to patient ability and indicate when
      the patient is ready for disconnection. No data on the use of such a computer driven system
      (CDS) in elderly patients requiring prolonged ventilation in weaning centers (non ICU) have
      been reported.

      Objective:

      To evaluate the ability of a computer driven system to predict weaning readiness and to
      compare this to a physician-directed protocol. The CDS continuously adapts pressure support,
      gradually decreasing ventilator assistance according to patient ability, and thus indicates
      weaning readiness. Patients who maintain spontaneous breathing for 7 days following weaning
      will be considered to be successfully weaned from mechanical ventilation.

      Design and setting:

      A single center, randomized, controlled clinical study at the Beit Rivka regional weaning
      center (RWC).

      Patients.

      This study will be conducted at the Beit Rivka geriatric rehabilitation hospital, Petah
      Tikva. Written informed consent will be obtained from the patient or legal representative.
      The study will include 60 consecutive patients who meet all inclusion criteria after
      stabilization of the acute health problems that prompted admission to the referral hospital.
      Inclusion criteria are as follows: pressure support ventilation (PSV) for at least 48 h,
      plateau pressure less than 30 cmH2O, PEEP < 6 cmH2O, PaO2/FIO2 ratio > 150 or SaO2 > 94% with
      FIO2 < than 0.5, pCO2 <55 mm Hg for normal patients and < 65 m Hg for patients with COPD, no
      requirement for inotropic support, body temperature > 36.50C and < 38.50 C, stable
      neurological status with Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) > 6, HgB > 8 mg %, systolic blood pressure
      >90 mg Hg, mean arterial pressure >65 mg Hg, absence of sedative medications and availability
      of CDS at the time of patient admission or switching to pressure support ventilation (PSV).
      Patients younger than 60 or older than 85 years of age, patients on chronic ventilatory
      assistance at home, and patients with decision to limit life-sustaining treatments will be
      excluded.

      Treatment group assignment will be by a sealed envelope upon admission to the hospital.
      Attending doctors will not be blinded as to the treatment groups.

      Description of the computer driven system.

      The CDS is a knowledge- based system embedded in a ventilator (EVITA XL) (15, 16, 17). It
      achieves three main goals. First, the CDS continuously adjusts the PSV level based on
      respiratory rate (RR), tidal volume (Vt) and end-tidal partial pressure of CO2 (PETCO2)
      acquired from the ventilator in real time and averaged over 2 min. Adjustment is such that
      the patient is kept within a "comfort zone" defined as a RR between 15-30 range (up to 34
      within patients with neurological disorders), Vt greater than 300 ml (< 250 ml if body weight
      < 55 kg), and PETCO-2 less than 55 mm Hg (< 65 mmHg in patients with COPD). Second, the CDS
      gradually decreases ventilatory assistance by reducing PSV level after at least 30 min of
      stable ventilation within the comfort zone; the reduction is by 2 or 4 cm H20 depending on
      whether the initial level is below or above 20 cm H2O, respectively. Third, the CDS evaluates
      weaning readiness: when the PSV level reaches the preset minimal value (9 cm H2O in
      tracheotomized patients), the CDS starts an observational period, which serves as automatic
      spontaneous breathing trial. After uninterrupted ventilation at the minimal PSV level for 1
      or 2 h (depending on whether the initial PSV level was above or below 15 cm H2O), the CDS
      displays a message that the patient is ready to be disconnected from the ventilator. The
      investigator will have perfect knowledge of the system.

      Prediction of weaning. Weaning readiness as evaluated by the CDS and by the internist will be
      recorded daily, i.e., every morning between 10 and 11 a.m. The decision will be considered to
      be taken by the CDS before the physician when it was taken 1 day in advance, i.e., the
      preceding morning. Physicians will be aware of the PSV level delivered by the CDS and could
      take this level into account in their evaluation. Weaning protocols used routinely in the
      center recommend a daily assessment for weaning similar to that used by the CDS. Patients are
      declared weaned as soon as the physician or CDS predicts weaning readiness. The control group
      reflects the standard of care before CDS implementation. PS of 10 cm H2O or higher is set
      manually. After 20 min, in the absence of signs of poor tolerance, the PSV is reduced by 4 or
      2 cm H20 (depending on initial PSV level > or < 20). If poor tolerance to weaning is evident,
      the progression of the weaning is stopped, and the patient is reassessed 20 min later for
      further reduction in PSV. The PSV level is decreased to 9 cm H2O. In the case of apnea, SIMV
      is reinstituted. If the evaluation is satisfactory, the patient is disconnected from the
      ventilator. The patient is closely monitored for signs of respiratory failure requiring
      reinstitution of mechanical ventilation, as well as for occurrence of any other
      complications. RWC length of stay on MV will be recorded.

      Clinical characteristics including age, sex, anthropometrical data, APACHE II score,
      Functional Independence Measure (FIM), Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), Geriatric
      Depression Scale (GDS), Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA), temperature, ny concomitant
      medications, hand grip strength will be recorded.

      Expired tidal volume, respiratory rate, Peak airway pressure, mean airway pressure,
      Compliance, Resistance, respiratory frequency to tidal volume ratio (f/Vt ), Negative
      Inspiratory Pressure (NIP), Maximal Inspiratory Pressure (MIP), Minute Ventilation
      (MV),inspiratory time will be recorded .

      Other elements relevant to mechanical ventilation management include arterial blood gas
      estimation, the number of changes in the settings of the ventilator performed by the health
      care workers, the number of transitions from controlled to assisted ventilation, and the
      number of apnea and high pressure alarms.

      The primary outcome variables will be the duration of mechanical ventilation .

      Discontinuation from MV will be attempted when the primary physician judges that the patient
      is ready to be weaned, according to the standard criteria. Mechanical ventilation will be
      reinstituted in the following circumstances: respiratory rate above 35 breaths /min, P02
      below 65 mm Hg with FIO2less than 0.6, ph 7.34 or less, heart rate equal to or above 1 10
      beats min or Increased by 20 % or more, or if arrhythmias appear, systolic blood pressure
      without inotropes <90 mmHg or above 20% of usual blood pressure, uncoordinated
      thoraco-abdominal movements, activation of accessory muscles, agitation or depressed mental
      status, or excessive sweating.

      A weaning trial will be considered a failure when the patient will be not tolerate the
      weaning trial, patients still in the use CDW at day 60 and patients requires reconnection to
      MV. Weaning trial will be considered successful if spontaneous breathing is sustained for
      more than 168 h (7 days) after disconnection from MV .
    
  