
    
      This study advances research in three areas. First, prostate cancer is the second most common
      cancer among gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men with documented disparities,
      yet it is severely under-researched. Because gay sex differs from vaginal sex,
      physiologically; the results from 614 studies focused on heterosexual men likely do not
      generalize to gay and bisexual men(GBM) with prostate cancer. There have been no
      rehabilitation studies specific to GBM survivors of prostate cancer, so clinicians have no
      relevant studies to inform best practice with their GBM patients. Second, most prostate
      cancer studies have tested one or rehabilitation components. The investigators will conduct
      the first treatment study of a state of clinical practice comprehensive rehabilitation
      program on GBM's quality of life, including on both urinary and sexual function and bother
      measures. Third, almost all prostate cancer studies have focused on men recently treated for
      prostate cancer.

      The long-term objective of this research is to improve the health of gay and bisexual
      survivors of Prostate cancer and to provide an evidence base for rehabilitation. The
      Investigators will develop an online rehabilitation program tailored for GBM that addresses
      both the sexual and urinary effects of prostate cancer treatment. In addition, The
      Investigators will conduct a comparative recruitment study to identify best methods to
      recruit 450 GBM with Prostate cancer. Finally, the Investigators will evaluate the effects of
      the tailored rehabilitation program on sexual and urinary outcomes. The Investigators will
      conduct a 24 month, randomized controlled trial of structured rehabilitation versus routine
      care. The Investigators will study both GBM recently treated (last 2 years) and GBM
      post-treatment (2+ years), using a stratified design. This randomized control trial will
      identify whether a structured rehabilitation program is effective in addressing the major
      sexual and urinary problems caused by Prostate cancer treatment. As the first treatment study
      to focus on GBM with Prostate cancer (and also on oral and anal sex), it addresses a
      long-standing health disparity. The study has high potential to transform rehabilitation for
      GBM with Prostate cancer, provide a critical evidence base for clinicians, and inform
      rehabilitation outcomes for all Prostate cancer survivors.
    
  