
    
      Fluid overload increases morbidity and mortality of pediatrics patients in intensive care
      unit (ICU). The pediatric intensivist has a priority to decrease unnecessary fluid load and
      to make the fluid balance negative in case of fluid overload. Diuretics help to make the
      fluid balance negative but can lead to a reduction of volemia that can lead to hypovolemia.
      Hypovolemia can induce a reduction of stroke volume and cardiac index that can alter tissue
      perfusion and increase organ dysfunction.

      It could be interesting to predict the decrease in stroke volume when diuretics are
      prescribed. Nevertheless, no test predict a decrease of stroke volume in a context of a
      diuretics induced depletion.

      The concept of preload dependency described by frank-starling is interesting in that context.

      Preload dependency is a state of the working heart characterized by a modification of stroke
      volume when a modification of preload is done. Conversely, no preload dependency is a state
      of the working heart characterized by no modification of stroke volume when a modification of
      preload is done.

      If the heart is in a state of preload dependency, a reduction of preload induced by diuretics
      depletion might induce a reduction of stroke volume. Conversely, if the heart is in a state
      of no preload dependency a reduction of preload induced by a diuretics depletion might not
      induce a reduction of stroke volume Abdominal compression coupled with echocardiographic
      measurement of the stroke volume can predict fluid responsiveness and is a good tool to
      assess preload dependency.

      Another point is that during depletion refilling can occur. Studies performed during
      hemodialysis have shown that refilling maintains a stable hematocrit during depletion. the
      absence of refilling is characterized by an hemoconcentration

      We aim to assess the diagnostic accuracy of abdominal compression to predict a decrease of
      the stroke volume of 15 % during diuretic induced depletion of 10ml/kg of diuresis. Secondary
      outcome will assess the hemoconcentration during depletion to diagnose a decrease of stroke
      volume during diuretic induced depletion
    
  