
    
      Pre-hospital emergency intubations are especially hazardous. The incidence of unanticipated
      difficult airways is higher (9,3 % of prehospital intubations are more difficult than
      anticipated). The first attempt intubation success rates are lower and the rate of
      complications compared to in-hospital emergency intubations is higher.

      There is conflicting evidence if first attempt intubation success rate in prehospital
      intubations differs between intubations performed by videolaryngoscopy and direct
      laryngoscopy. On the other hand in pre-hospital airway management, the use of a C-MAC
      videolaryngoscope improved the visualization of glottic structures significantly.

      The C-MAC has recently launched a new version, which allows videotaping of intubations. Rega
      decided to videotape all intubation attempts for legal purposes and quality control. These
      videos are stored at a Rega-based secure central database.

      The Investigators knowledge there is only one video-enhanced retrospective analyses of a
      limited number of videolaryngoscopic pre-hospital intubations.

      So far, there is no video-enhanced prospective analysis of first attempt intubation success
      rates or of the time necessary for successful intubation with videolaryngoscopes in the
      pre-hospital setting available. Therefore, the investigators intend to determine the exact
      first attempt intubation success rate and the time necessary to successfully intubate,
      alongside with parameters such as the Cormack/Lehane grade, blade position (Macintosh vs
      Miller) and others (e.g. difficulties during intubation) in the pre-hospital
      physician-staffed HEMS-setting. The investigators' goal is to learn more about what is
      actually happening during prehospital intubations and what type of difficulties may occur.

      The investigators therefore prospectively analysed all routinely recorded intubation videos
      (using the built-in camera of the C-MAC videolaryngoscope) during one year performed by the
      Rega crews. These videos show real life intubations through the video function included in
      the device, only the image from the tip of the laryngoscopy blade inside the patient's mouth
      is recorded. The operating physicians additionally provided anonymous information about
      intubation management for each video after returning to the helicopter base
    
  