
    
      Although there has been a large amount of research published on contributing factors to
      pressure ulcers, there has been little research related to the role that bed linens play in
      affecting moisture, friction, and shear that may lead to development of unit-acquired
      pressure ulcers (UAPU) for patients in acute care settings. This study will use a traditional
      parallel randomized design with patients in five medical intensive care units at the
      Cleveland Clinic to evaluate the efficacy of silk-like bed sheets and underpads for
      prevention of Unit-Acquired Pressure Ulcers (UAPU). Patients were randomly assigned by
      personnel who were blinded to the intervention based on bed availability. Nurses will assess
      all patients on standard bed linens and silk-like linens for development of UAPU. Adult
      hospitalized patients in beds with standard bed linens versus those with silk-like linens
      will be compared for 1) rate of development of UAPU, 2) time to develop the first UAPU, and
      the maximum severity of any UAPU that develop. Upon entry into the study, all patients will
      be assessed for baseline skin integrity by the admitting nurse. Demographic data (MRN; unit
      name; type of linen on bed; admitting diagnosis; dates of admission/discharge; age; gender;
      race; weight; Braden score; date, location, and stages of UAPU development; lab values
      (albumin, total protein); and categories of the Charlson Comorbidity Index will be recorded
      on data collection form by research nurse. Bed linens will be changed per unit protocol. A
      sample size of 3456 patients is estimated. Patient characteristics will be summarized using
      frequencies and percentages for categorical factors and means, standard deviations,
      percentiles and median and range for continuous measures. Comparisons of these patient
      characteristics, including Braden score, Charlson comorbidity index, unit length of stay and
      hospital length of stay, will be compared between linen types using generalized linear mixed
      effect models. For the primary outcome of unit-acquired pressure ulcer rate, generalized
      linear mixed models, assuming a Poisson distribution for the outcome, and unit length of stay
      as an offset will be used. In these models, linen type and study period will be used as fixed
      effects and each unit will be included as a random effect. For the time to event analysis,
      frailty models will be used to assess whether time to first pressure ulcer differs between
      treatment types. Generalized linear mixed models will be used for other secondary endpoints,
      including maximum severity of observed pressure ulcers.
    
  