
    
      Background: Suicide is a major public health concern in the U.S., and even more so in the
      Veteran population. Furthermore, the period following psychiatric hospitalization is one of
      the highest risk periods for suicide. Based on current evidence, some of the most important
      contributing factors to post-hospitalization suicide risk include problems with engagement in
      care, fragmented care, and lack of social connectedness. Other studies in civilian
      populations have also raised similar concerns, highlighting the need to identify novel and
      effective interventions or approaches to post-discharge mental health care.

      Objectives: This project aims to 1) Identify the effect of PEACE on suicidal ideation after
      psychiatric hospitalization, compared to standard care alone; 2) Identify the effect of PEACE
      on social connectedness and engagement in care after psychiatric hospitalization, compared to
      standard care alone; and 3) Compare the effect of PEACE on suicide attempts and suicide
      deaths after psychiatric hospitalization, compared to standard care alone.

      Methods: This is a single-site, assessor-blinded, randomized control trial of PEACE plus
      standard psychiatric hospital discharge care compared to standard psychiatric hospital
      discharge care alone. The trial will enroll up to 160 participants aged 18 years and older
      who are being discharged from the White River Junction VA Medical Center inpatient mental
      health unit. Participants will be randomized to either the PEACE intervention plus standard
      psychiatric discharge care or standard psychiatric discharge care alone. Suicidal ideation,
      hopelessness, social connectedness, engagement in care, suicide attempts, and app engagement
      (only those randomized to PEACE) will be measured at baseline and one, three, and six months
      post-discharge. Participants randomized to PEACE will also receive eight additional
      intervention contacts as part of the VA-BIC protocol.

      Hypothesis: Veterans receiving the PEACE intervention will report greater improvements in
      suicidal thoughts and behaviors, hopelessness, social connectedness, and engagement in care
      at follow-up contact visits compared to Veterans receiving standard care alone.
    
  