
    
      The first day of treatment will constitute Cycle 1 Day 1. Patients will be treated with a
      minimum of 3 cycles to upto a maximum six cycles to optimize response prior to ASCT per
      investigator discretion.

      All patients will be evaluated for safety and efficacy according to the schedules of
      assessments.

      All patients will be assessed for response to treatment by the investigator with the use of
      standard criteria according to the Modified Lugano Response Criteria (Cheson et al. 2014; see
      Appendix 3) at screening and at the following timepoints:

        -  At the time of screening

        -  At the time of primary response assessment, 3 weeks after completion of study treatment
           (i.e., 3 weeks after Day 1 of Cycle 3 or after last dose of study medication)) Imaging
           at these timepoints must include FDG-PET (18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission
           tomography) and a diagnostic-quality CT scan with both oral and IV contrast. A combined
           PET/CT scan is encouraged if feasible. CT scans with oral and IV contrast should include
           neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvic scans. In patients for whom contrast is
           contraindicated, (e.g., patients with contrast allergy or impaired renal clearance or
           patient denial), PET-CT scans without contrast are permitted so long as they permit
           consistent and precise measurement of target lesions during the study treatment period.

      Patients will also be evaluated every 3 months for 2 years, or until disease progression,
      death, withdrawal of consent, or initiation of another anti-cancer therapy. Tumor assessments
      should also be performed to confirm clinical suspicion of relapse or disease progression for
      documentation. The study will end when all patients enrolled have been followed until death,
      have withdrawn consent, have been lost to follow-up, until 2-year follow up, or the Sponsor
      decides to end the trial, whichever occurs first.

      Once the last patient enrolls and undergoes EOT PET-CT assessment, primary endpoint data and
      interim survival analysis will be evaluated and published/presented at meetings. Subsequent
      survival analysis will be published post 2-yr follow-up
    
  