
    
      1. Synopsis

             -  Title: Randomized controlled Study to evaluate the Effect of Thrombin-containing
                Collagen-based Hemostatic Matrix on Prevention of Pancreatic fistula after
                Pancreatectomy

             -  Study center: Single center from Korea

             -  Study type: Single center prospective randomized controlled study

             -  Planned study dates: February 2018 to September 2020

        2. Objectives

           ■ The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of flowable thrombin
           containing collagen hemostat matrix (T-C matrix) over the thrombin coated L-dopa
           contained collagen patch (T-CD patch) on clinical outcomes including PPH and POPF as a
           randomized controlled clinical trial.

        3. Background

             -  Hemostasis is the most basic and important procedure as a treatment for bleeding
                that inevitably follows most surgical procedures. Recently, with the development of
                pancreatic surgery and postoperative management, the mortality rate associated with
                surgery has decreased significantly, but the rate of complications due to massive
                bleeding or leakage of pancreatic fluid during surgery has not changed
                significantly. In hepatobiliary and pancreas (HBP) surgery, post-pancreatectomy
                hemorrhage (PPH) and postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) are both the main
                source of major morbidity and mortality.

             -  Collagen is a natural substrate for various kinds of animal cells, and contains a
                relatively large amount compared to other proteins in animal tissues, and can be
                easily extracted and purified from animal tissues. Collagen not only has low
                antigenicity, but also has excellent hemostatic effect and cell attachment ability,
                so it is often used as a major component of hemostatic agents and artificial tissue
                substitutes. In addition, collagen provides an environment in which fibroblasts can
                be produced and induces wound healing by inactivating elastase and matrix
                metalloproteases (MMPs).

             -  The investigators developed a novel flowable thrombin containing collagen hemostat
                matrix (T-C matrix) having flowable paste-like form. The T-C matrix consists of two
                connectable syringes, one of which contains collagen granules and thrombin, and the
                other contains calcium chloride (CaCl2) solution. Due to the flowable
                characteristic of the resultant matrix, T-C matrix can be easily applicable to
                irregular surface such as surgical site where anastomotic leakage is a concern.
                Currently, thrombin /coated L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa DOPA) contained
                collagen patch (T-CD patch) are using on prevention of leakage and bleeding in
                pancreatic surgery. Although L-DOPA is known to contribute to adhesiveness which
                facilitates application of T-CD patch on wound sites, there are some controversial
                studies that L-DOPA have cytotoxicity and may induce inflammatory reaction with a
                high dose.

        4. Methodology

             -  The clinical study was designed to evaluate the effect of T-C matrix on the
                prevention of leakage in a pancreatectomy. The expected number of participants is
                60.

             -  This clinical study is a randomized prospective comparative study of the outcome
                according to the hemostat materials as a non-inferiority test, and the research
                hypothesis is as follows.

                √ Null Hypothesis: There is no difference in the incidence of POPF between patients
                who were applied TC matrix (CollaStat®, Dalim Tissen. Co., Ltd., Korea) and T-CD
                patch (CollaSeal®, Dalim Tissen Co. Ltd., Korea) after pancreatectomy.

             -  In the case of evaluating the incidence of POPF after pancreatectomy, the results
                of previous studies of the 'leakage' ratio showed a leak prevention effect (θA) =
                88% of the existing treatment method of CollaSeal® analog (Montorsi M et al. 2012).
                The new treatment effect (θT) is intended to demonstrate non-inferiority that does
                not exceed the non-inferiority limit (δ) compared to the existing treatment effect
                (θA). The non-inferiority limit (δ) was calculated by more than 75% of the existing
                treatment effect. The non-inferiority limit was calculated to be 0.22 based on the
                case where more than 75% of the 88% of the existing treatment method is confirmed,
                that is, the treatment success rate is more than 66%. It was decided that
                CollaStat® was non-inferior to CollaSeal® when the lower limit of the 95% CI for
                the difference between the two groups was greater than -0.22. If the allocation
                ratio between the two groups is 1: 1 and the first-class error α = 5% and the
                second-class error β = 20%, considering the dropout rate of 10%, 30 study groups
                and control groups each need 30 subjects.

             -  The random assignment of this study is assigned according to the order of
                assignment in the planning stage of the study as a block randomization scheme with
                appropriate block size set.
    
  