
    
      During the screening period, patients will be pre-selected from medical records of patients
      that met the inclusion criteria. Patients who fulfilled the eligibility criteria will be
      invited to participate in the study by signing the consent form. After consenting, a
      screening blood sample test will be taken to determine TC, HDL-C, TG, LDL-C, non-HDL-C (the
      difference between TC and HDL-C), ALT, AST, CK, hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), uric acid and TSH in
      the local laboratory. Patients who have HDL-C, LDL-C and/or non-HDL-C within inclusion
      criteria and had none of the biochemical exclusion criteria will be randomized one week after
      the screening blood test. Further blood samples will be obtained at baseline, 4 weeks (± 2
      days), 12 weeks (± 2 days), 16 weeks (± 2 days) and 24 weeks (± 2 days). The blood samples
      will be centrifuged a 2000 rpm and a tube with blood serum will be sent to the local
      laboratory for measuring plasma levels of TC, HDL-C, TG, LDL-C, ALT, AST, CK, fasting
      glucose, HbA1c, creatinine, uric acid, ApoB, ApoA, Lp(a), high sensibility-C Reactive Protein
      (hs-CRP) and HDL-C sub-fractions (baseline, weeks 12 and 24). ALT, AST, CK, fasting glucose,
      creatinine and uric acid will be measured at weeks 4 and 16. A second tube will be frozen in
      -70ºC refrigerator an will be sent to the Department of Clinical Biochemistry of the Faculty
      of Pharmacy and Biochemistry from the University of Buenos Aires (Argentina) to determine:
      paraoxonase 1/arylesterase activity (PON1), soluble cell adhesion molecule level (ICAM-1),
      tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2) and
      cholesterol ester transfer protein (CETP) activity. A third tube will be frozen in -70ºC
      refrigerator an will be sent to the Cardiovascular Research Center of the Faculty of Medical
      Sciences from the University of La Plata (Argentina) to determine ex vivo cellular
      cholesterol efflux capacity.

      A unique patient number will be provided by the randomization coordinating centre from the
      Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires.

      Randomized patient will received a bottle of 35 pills with 1g ERN/20mg LRPT or placebo. At
      week 4 (± 2 days), after randomization the patient will be assessed in the outpatient clinic.
      Patients with good tolerance to the study medication will receive four bottles of 35 pills
      with 1g ERN/20mg LRPT or placebo. At week 12 (± 2 days), patients will be assessed in the
      outpatient clinic patients and will be crossed over to placebo or active medication. Patients
      will receive a bottle of 35 pills with 1g ERN/20mg LRPT or placebo. At week 16 (± 2 days),
      patients with good tolerance to the study medication will receive four bottles of 35 pills
      with 1g ERN/20mg LRPT or placebo.
    
  