
    
      Diffuse lung disease (DLD) remains a challenging area for diagnosis and treatment. Features
      suggestive of the various histological subtypes of DLD can be obtained from the clinical
      history and examination, and can also seen on cross-sectional imaging (high resolution
      computed tomography (HRCT) scanning), however final diagnosis very often relies on the
      results of more invasive testing. The gold-standard diagnostic tool is the surgical lung
      biopsy, but this requires a general anaesthetic and either thoracoscopy or thoracotomy. The
      morbidity and even mortality attached to this approach in these patients, many of whom have
      significant respiratory compromise, has resulted in less invasive techniques being employed
      in many instances. At present, this involves the use of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and
      transbronchial biopsies via the fibreoptic bronchoscope. BAL can be distressing for patients
      if there is spill-over of lavage fluid into the larger airways, and transbronchial biopsies
      lead to significant bleeding or pneumothorax in around 5% of patients. Even with biopsies and
      BAL, some patients still progress to surgical lung biopsy.

      There have recently been developed 2 systems for use via the working channel of the endoscope
      which provide imaging of the distal airways and alveoli in vivo and in real time. These are
      described below. In principal, these could provide diagnostic information in the setting of
      DLD without the need for biopsies or BAL, reducing morbidity and cost associated with sample
      processing, and shortening the time to diagnosis. The ideal situation would be that
      sufficient morphological and histological information could be obtained using these systems,
      thus obviating altogether the need for surgical biopsy in this patient group, providing
      further benefits for the patient and potentially huge cost savings for institutions.

      Cellvizio® Lung (Mauna Technology) Confocal microscopy is the standard tool for ultrahigh
      resolution imaging in biomedical research. Mauna Technology has developed a 1.4mm diameter
      Alveoflex Confocal Miniprobe™ which can be deployed down the working channel of a standard
      bronchoscope. Elastin is the main in vivo fluorophore, and images are acquired by gentle
      contact, providing microstructural detail of the alveolus on multiple tissue layers. Because
      the system takes advantage of the natural fluorescence of the lung tissues, no patient
      preparation is required.

      Endocytoscope system (ECS) The endocytoscope is a newly developed system that can be passed
      through the working channel of a standard bronchoscope, and provides high magnification views
      (x450) of cell surfaces. About 5mls of 0.5% methylene blue solution is used to stain the area
      of interest, and images are obtained by contact with the cell surface. Use of the ECS has
      already been shown to allow discrimination between normal and abnormal tissue in situ in the
      setting of bronchial dysplasia and malignancy.

      Aim of research The purpose of this research project is to build up a database of information
      gathered using both systems so that features correlating with the different diffuse lung
      diseases (e.g. sarcoidosis, interstitial pneumonias, drug induced lung diseases, emphysema)
      can be recorded. Patients with normal lung parenchyma and focal disease such as lung cancer
      will also be evaluated in order to develop a better understanding of pulmonary morphology
      using these techniques. By using two potentially complimentary systems that look at different
      structural aspects of the target tissues, a greater understanding of in vivo tissue
      characteristics can be gained. It is hoped that diagnostic criteria can then be drawn up for
      individual diseases that can then be assessed prospectively in trials.
    
  