
    
      The RESOLVE + 10 protocol was design to provide a 10-year effect of a lifestyle intervention
      program (exercise, sedentary lifestyle and dietary diet) on abdominal visceral adipose
      tissue.

      In the present protocol, parameters are measured just once, during 3 hours, to compared the
      results with those of the protocol RESOLVE (5 measurement times over a year 10 years ago:
      before the thermal modification program of the lifestyle ( exercise, sedentary lifestyle and
      diet) of 3 weeks (D0), after the thermal program (D21), at the 3rd month (M3), 6th month (M6)
      and 12th month of follow-up (M12), to which was matched a healthy control group).

      Statistical analysis will be performed using Stata software (version 13; Stata-Corp, College
      Station, Tex., USA). All statistical tests will be two-sided and p inferior to 0.05 will be
      considered significant. Qualitative variables will be described in terms of numbers and
      proportions. Quantitative variables will be described in terms of numbers, mean standard
      deviation or median according to statistical distribution (normality studied using
      Shapiro-Wilk test). Graphic representations will be complete presentations of results.
      Comparisons between patients and controls, concerning loss of abdominal visceral adipose
      tissue at 10 years, will be performed using Student t-test or Mann-Whitney test if the
      assumptions of anova are not met (normality and homoscedasticity analyzed using
      Fisher-Snedecor test). The results will be expressed as effect-size and 95 percent confidence
      intervals. The primary analysis should be completed by multivariable analysis (linear
      regression with logarithmic transformation of dependent outcome if necessary) considering an
      adjustment on covariates fixed according to univariate results and clinical relevance. The
      results will be expressed as regression coefficients and 95percent confidence intervals.
      Furthermore, the abdominal visceral adipose tissue loss kinetics in the first year of
      follow-up will be considered an independent variable and treated as a functional variable.
      The intra-group comparisons (for patients and for controls) will be performed using paired
      statistical tests: paired t-test or Wilcoxon test. The results will be expressed as
      effect-size and 95 percent confidence intervals. Comparisons between independent groups will
      be done similarly as presented previously for other quantitative outcomes (body composition,
      quality of life, skin conductance, etc.). Multivariable analyses will be applied similarly as
      described previously. The comparisons concerning categorical variables will be realized using
      Chi-squared or when appropriate Fischer-exact test. The relations between quantitative
      outcomes will be analyzed using correlation coefficients (Pearson or Spearman according to
      statistical distribution). Considering the several multiple comparisons, a correction of the
      type I error will be applied (Sidak's correction).
    
  