
    
      Spastic hypertonia is common after stroke. Whole-body vibration (WBV) is known to have
      modulatory effects of muscle reflex activity and blood flow in other populations and thus
      have potential applications in management of spastic hypertonia post-stroke. However, the
      potential effects of WBV on leg muscle stiffness in stroke rehabilitation remains unknown.
      Scientific evidence is warranted to fill the knowledge gap.

      Purpose This study aims to investigate the acute effect of WBV on leg muscle H-reflex,
      stiffness and blood perfusion in people with chronic stroke.

      Methods Individuals with chronic stroke will be recruited from community self-help groups and
      existing patient database. Relevant information (e.g. demographic information, medical
      history) will be obtained from medical records and subject interviews. Each subject will have
      to fulfill the following inclusion criteria: (1) diagnosis of chronic stroke, (2)
      community-dwelling, (3) able to follow simple verbal instructions. Exclusion criteria are:
      (1) other diagnoses of neurological conditions, (2) significant musculoskeletal conditions
      (e.g. amputations), (3) metal implants in the lower extremity or spine, (4) recent fracture
      in the lower extremity, (5) diagnosis of osteoporosis, (6) vestibular disorders, (7)
      peripheral vascular disease, and (11) other serious illnesses or contraindications to
      exercise.

      This is a single-blinded randomized within-patient cross-over study. Each participant was
      evaluated for the soleus H-reflex, stiffness and blood perfusion of the medial gastrocnemius
      (MG) using ultrasound on both sides before and after either a 5-minute WBV intervention (30
      Hertz, 1.5mm, knee flexed 60 degrees) or a no-WBV condition (5 minutes). The measurements
      were performed at baseline and every 1-min post-intervention up to 5 minutes. The outcomes
      generated included the soleus H/M ratio, shear modulus and vascular index (VI) of the MG
      muscle.
    
  