
    
      Considering the high diagnostic accuracy and less vulnerable staging and therapy procedures,
      SLNB has rapidly become the state of the art diagnostic for axillary staging in early breast
      cancer.

      Prior surgery, the so called sentinel lymph nodes are detected, harvested and
      histopathologically examined. The histopathologic status of the sentinel node thereby
      accurately reflects the status of the remaining axillary nodes. The sentinel lymph node
      biopsy allows minimizing risks and burdens for patients who very likely have no metastasis in
      the axillary lymph nodes sparing the ALND and reducing the risk of surgery and postoperative
      lymph oedema for instance. Contrarily to former procedure where an axillary lymph node
      dissection (ALND) was done each time, an ALND now only follows if the detected sentinel lymph
      node is metastatic.

      Routinely sentinel lymph nodes are mapped using radiocolloid tracers such as technetium,
      sometimes combined with a blue dye.

      However the infrastructure for a radioactive tracing is complex and not available easily:
      special techniques and equipment for the manufacturing of the radiocolloid as well as
      training in the use with radioisotopes are needed. For example, the application of
      radioactive markers needs a ready access to a nuclear medicine department, a pre-operative
      visit and an effective coordination between the involved disciplinesis. As these
      radioisotopes are formed by specialised, rare industry facilities availability is heavenly
      dependend and lack of radioisotopes with shortages in diagnostic procedures has already been
      reported. Furthermore radiocolloid mapping is associated with radioactive exposure of the
      concerned patients and health workers and imposes problems with surgical waste disposal.

      Novel methods for detecting sentinel lymph nodes which waive the pre-operative injection of
      the radioactive marker are currently investigated. One of these new methods is the
      application of a fluorescence marker for SLN detection.

      In this clinical trial a novel method for detecting the sentinel lymph node using indocyanine
      green, a fluorescent molecule shall by investigated.
    
  