
    
      The proposed work takes a precision medicine approach to obesity treatment and focuses
      specifically on weight loss maintenance. We propose to optimize a stratification strategy,
      using neural, metabolic and behavioral measures to identify individuals who will maintain
      clinically significant weight loss by daily supplementation with the fatty acid amide,
      oleoylthanolamide (OEA) following a gold-standard behavioral weight loss program. We will
      also test a model underlying the efficacy of our intervention to provide insight for the
      further development of therapeutic avenues. Our first aim is to conduct a randomized
      double-blind placebo-controlled trial to determine if fat intake moderates the ability of OEA
      to improve weight loss maintenance after the (LEARN®) weight loss program. We predict fat
      intake will strongly moderate the ability of OEA to produce clinically significant weight
      loss and weight loss maintenance 4- and 12-months) after LEARN and that this should not be
      influenced by sex.

      Our second aim is to test if the Dietary Fat and Sugar intake questionnaire (DFS) is
      associated with measures of saturated fat intake and to optimize a clinically useful
      stratification strategy. Towards this end we will: (1) perform a neuroimaging study to assess
      brain response to a high fat milkshake (2) assess blood-based biomarkers of fat intake and
      synthesis; and (3) collect dietary intake records and food frequency questionnaires (FFQs).
      We predict that (1) the DFS predicts measures of saturated fat intake (2) that baseline
      dorsal striatal (DS) response to milkshake predicts weight loss in the OEA but not the
      placebo group and that connectome based predictive modeling (CPM) reveals a "neural
      fingerprint" that predicts weight loss on OEA; and (3) LASSO regression will identify
      baseline measures that best predict outcome to inform selection of a practical clinical
      stratification recommendation.

      Our third aim is to test a model of OEA effectiveness. We predict that weight loss outcome is
      associated with shifts in fat preference and intake and these effects are mediated by
      increases in DS response to milkshake in the OEA but not placebo group. We will also test
      whether HFD is associated with performance on reinforcement and cognitive measures or changes
      in energy expenditure or substrate utilization. If so, we will test whether these
      associations and their reversal by OEA contribute to outcome mediation.
    
  