
    
      Background: Over the last decade, novel targeted agents have revolutionized the delivery of
      cancer care and improved survival rates, especially in those with metastatic disease. While
      oral chemotherapies possess significant advantages with respect to ease of administration,
      patients and caregivers receive less support for adherence and monitoring of side effects.
      Therefore, novel interventions are essential to help patients communicate in a more open and
      timely manner with their oncology clinicians to support adherence. As part of Phase 1 for
      this Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) grant, we conducted qualitative
      interviews with patients, clinicians and relevant stakeholders to inform the development of
      the proposed mobile app intervention. For the randomized-controlled trial, the investigators
      will recruit and randomly assign 180 adult patients prescribed oral chemotherapy to receive
      either the intervention (completed smartphone mobile app) or standard care.

      Objective/Hypothesis: The goals of this study are to assess the feasibility and efficacy of a
      mobile application to help improve adherence to oral chemotherapy and symptom to patients
      with cancer. We will administer the intervention at three cancer centers, hypothesizing that
      patients with who use the mobile app will report better adherence to their oral chemotherapy
      and better management of symptoms than those patients who were not assigned to the
      intervention.

      Specific Aims: The primary aims of this study are 1) to implement a patient-centered mobile
      application to assess symptoms, side effects, and adherence to oral chemotherapy that is
      feasible for use in oncology patients, and 2) to evaluate the efficacy of the mobile
      application in improving patient-reported clinical outcomes.

      Study Design: We will recruit and randomly assign 180 patients from the three cancer care
      sites who have recently been prescribed oral chemotherapy to receive either the mobile app
      intervention or standard care. Participants will be stratified by study site (i.e.
      Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH), North Shore, MGH West, and Emerson Cancer Centers),
      cancer type, and line of chemotherapy. This will ensure relatively equal percentages of
      patients from each study site, diagnosis, and line of chemotherapy will be represented in the
      treatment and control groups. The mobile app intervention which will consist of completing an
      initial chemotherapy treatment plan with their oncology clinicians, responding to weekly
      assessments regarding symptoms, side effects, and medication adherence, as well as receiving
      personalized feedback about responses each week for 12 weeks. Medication adherence, symptom
      severity, and quality of life will serve as primary outcomes, and we will collect measures of
      quality cancer care as secondary targets. We will also explore whether particular patient
      characteristics (i.e. cancer type, demographics) affect patient response to the mobile app
      intervention.
    
  