
    
      Alzheimer's disease (AD) and type 2 diabetes (T2DM) pose linked, major threats to aging
      societies worldwide, but the relationship between these two diseases remains poorly
      understood. Hence, insulin resistance may account for the close epidemiological association
      between AD and T2DM. A major gap in the understanding of this association, however, is how
      brain insulin resistance develops in the context of AD. Studies show that circadian
      disruption impairs metabolic control and increases the risk for diabetes and obesity. Vice
      versa, disrupted sleep and depression are closely linked to impaired metabolic control and
      increased diabetes risk in the general population. Notably, AD is associated with circadian
      disruption, which may be amplified by exposure to irregular light-dark patterns or constant
      dim light. To what extent circadian disruption contributes to increased diabetes risk in AD
      remains unclear. Here, the investigator aims to test whether a novel tailored lighting
      intervention (TLI) designed to promote circadian entrainment in AD patients can improve
      metabolic control. Preliminary data from ongoing studies demonstrates a beneficial effect of
      light treatment on sleep and depression. Given the close association of sleep on metabolic
      control, these data support the hypothesis that light therapy that promotes entrainment can
      restore metabolic control in AD patients. Specifically, the investigator will test the
      efficacy of a practical, scientifically sophisticated 24-hour lighting system for increasing
      circadian entrainment in older adults with AD and related dementias (ADRD). The major goal is
      to demonstrate that a practical, effective, tailored, nonpharmacological intervention that
      promotes circadian entrainment can be used to improve sleep, reduce inflammation, and
      ameliorate glucose intolerance and insulin resistance in AD/ADRD patients.

      Aim 1: Test if a TLI that promotes entrainment can improve sleep, depression, inflammation,
      and glucose tolerance in patients with moderate to late stages ADRD. In a randomized,
      placebo-controlled, crossover study involving 60 ADRD patients who live in controlled
      environments, the investigators will investigate whether an 8-week exposure to a TLI designed
      to increase circadian entrainment (urinary melatonin and activity-rest patterns) will improve
      inflammation and glucose tolerance (oral glucose tolerance test), and reduce sleep
      disturbances (actigraphy, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, PSQI) and depressive symptoms
      (Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia, CSDD) compared to a control, circadian-inactive
      light.
    
  