
    
      Study Design. We retrospectively investigated the outcomes of 42 boys aged 0-19 years
      presenting with testicular masses. Excluding patients with incomplete records, they were
      treated at a tertiary referral center between May 2006 and November 2019, which were reviewed
      and retrospectively analyzed based on their age at the time of admission, presenting
      complaints, clinical and radiological findings, tumor markers, management, and follow-up.
      Pathology was centrally reviewed (C.H.) in patients with a tissue biopsy, but confirmation by
      a central review was not required before enrollment. This retrospective study was unanimously
      approved by the institutional review board of Chang Gung Memorial Hospital. Their parents or
      legal guardians provided written informed consent through an opt-out method on our hospital
      website following the ethical principles for medical research involving human subjects in
      Taiwan.

      Data Collection. The evaluation included age at presentation, medical history, clinical
      characteristics, diagnostic procedures, treatment methods, histopathologic findings, and
      outcomes for every patient. All patients received the examinations of color Doppler
      ultrasonography of the testis and the abdomen, plain x-ray of the thorax, and serum
      α-fetoprotein (AFP) levels before operations. The AFP measurement is usually very high in
      newborns and does not decrease to normal adult levels until 8 months. Thus, the AFP levels of
      infants were evaluated according to reference ranges [4,5].

      Surgical Technique All 42 tumors were treated surgically. We explored the groin through an
      inguinal incision. The testicle is gently grasped and exteriorized, and the spermatic cord
      and vessels within the tunica vaginalis are clamped. The resected tumor mass was sent for
      frozen section examination (FSE). Testis-sparing surgery was considered in patients with
      non-germ cell tumors. If the tumor had replaced the entire testis, a radical orchiectomy was
      taken. All tumors received histologic analysis. The optimal follow-up protocol included
      regular control visits with the physical examination, AFP measurements, and testicular
      sonography. Adjuvant chemotherapy was administered, depending on histopathology and TNM
      criteria for tumor classification. If non-germ cell tumors were assessed accurately on FSE,
      testis-sparing surgery could be considered an alternative treatment modality.
    
  