
    
      1. RATIONALE AND BACKGROUND Diaphragmatic paralysis is an uncommon, yet underdiagnosed cause
      of dyspnea. Although the diaphragm performs most of the work, normal ventilation also
      requires the simultaneous contraction of other respiratory muscles (ie, scalene, parasternal
      portion of the internal and external intercostal muscles, sternocleidomastoid, trapezius). An
      increased effort in the struggle to breathe may fatigue the accessory muscles and lead to
      ventilatory failure. It is thus far not clear whether specific training of the respiratory
      muscle can improve or restore diaphragm function or accessory respiratory muscle function in
      these patients.

      Depending on the etiology of the diaphragmatic paralysis, the prognosis of unilateral disease
      usually is good. Patients with phrenic injuries may recover fully or partially. At times,
      patients may also spontaneously recover from idiopathic disease. Patients who do not recover
      from unilateral diaphragmatic dysfunction generally lead relatively normal lives. Many
      patients however keep reporting symptoms of dyspnea that interfere with performance of daily
      activities. In this group, dyspnea typically develops with exertion, leading to increased
      ventilatory demands. Dyspnea can also be elicited by changes in posture (e.g. lying supine,
      bending forward). Depending on the activity profile of the subjects this might have an impact
      on quality of life. The investigators will therefore evaluate symptoms and recruitment of
      respiratory muscles of these patients during exertion (i.e. while performing an exercise test
      on a cycle ergometer).

      The morbidity of the unilateral paralysis is mainly based on the underlying pulmonary
      functional status and the etiology of the paralysis. Most of the patients that are referred
      to the University Hospital Leuven report symptoms of dyspnea during exertion or with changes
      in posture. Diaphragmatic paralysis is more likely to affect the left hemidiaphragm.
      Unilateral diaphragmatic paralysis is characterized by abnormalities of pulmonary and
      respiratory muscle function. Patients develop restrictive ventilatory impairment, and the
      vital capacity and total lung capacity frequently are below 70% of the predicted normal
      values. Lung capacity is reduced further when the patient assumes the supine position.

      In contrast to bilateral disease, physicians can usually diagnose unilateral paralysis with
      only radiographic studies. Because accessory muscle contraction may create the appearance of
      diaphragmatic movement, fluoroscopy studies may be misleading the physician when diagnosing
      bilateral diaphragmatic paralysis. In fluoroscopic sniff testing, paradoxical elevation of
      the paralyzed diaphragm is observed with inspiration and confirms diaphragmatic paralysis.
      However, the sniff test is not very specific; 6% of normal persons exhibit paradoxical motion
      on fluoroscopy. Computerized tomography may be indicated in certain patients to evaluate for
      potential causes of diaphragmatic paralysis that are due to mediastinal pathology and
      malignancy. MRI may be indicated in certain patients to determine the presence of pathologic
      conditions involving the spinal column or nerve roots that are causing diaphragmatic
      paralysis.

      M-mode ultrasonography is a relatively simple and accurate test for diagnosing paralysis of
      the diaphragm in the adult population and it can be performed at the bedside. The paralyzed
      side shows no active caudal movement of the diaphragm with inspiration and abnormal
      paradoxical movement (ie, cranial movement on inspiration), particularly with the sniff test.
      B-mode ultrasonography of diaphragm thickness in the zone of apposition of the diaphragm to
      the rib cage can also provide a sensitive and specific noninvasive assessment of
      diaphragmatic paralysis. Less than 20% thickening of the diaphragm muscle during inspiration
      is diagnostic of diaphragmatic paralysis. Ultrasonography can also be used to serially
      monitor patients with diaphragmatic paralysis for recovery.

      Phrenic nerve conduction studies can be carried out with placement of an oesophageal
      electrode to record diaphragmatic contractions and stimulation of the nerve in the neck
      either with surface stimulation or with a monopolar needle electrode at the level of the
      cricoid cartilage. Alternatively diaphragmatic electromyography may be carried out. The two
      tests are complementary. Electromyography may reveal a neuropathic versus myopathic pattern,
      depending on the etiology. This can be accomplished by stimulation of the phrenic nerve at
      the neck. Phrenic nerve stimulation can be done with electrical (surface or needle
      electrodes) and magnetic stimulation. Operator expertise is an important factor in testing.
      Technical issues with electromyography include proper electrode placement to avoid
      "cross-talk" from adjacent muscles and variable results due to variable subcutaneous fat
      among individuals. Using intraesophageal EMG electrodes is an alternative technique to avoid
      these issues. A method of unilateral magnetic stimulation of the phrenic nerve with
      concurrent assessment of diaphragm EMG and transdiaphragmatic pressures has also been
      described.

      Measuring the vital capacity in the upright and supine positions is the most important part
      of the pulmonary function test. Diaphragmatic paralysis reduces the measured compliance of
      the lungs and a restrictive pattern can develop. Normally, vital capacity in recumbency
      decreases by 10%. In contrast, patients with unilateral diaphragmatic paralysis show a 15-30%
      decrease in vital capacity in supine position. This decrease is from cephalad displacement of
      abdominal contents.Pulmonary function test results, however, are not always consistent and do
      not always correlate with the severity of dyspnea from diaphragmatic paralysis.

      Patients with diaphragmatic dysfunction and paralysis have a decrease in maximal inspiratory
      pressures (Pi,max). These patients cannot generate high negative inspiratory pressures.
      Therefore, the Pi,max in these patients is often reduced relative to normal values (Pi,max
      <70% predicted). Important to note is that decreased maximal pressures are the hallmark of
      diaphragmatic paralysis.

      The transdiaphragmatic pressure is the criterion standard for diagnosis. Normal
      transdiaphragmatic pressure is approximately 148 cm water in men and 122 cm water in women.
      Unilateral diaphragmatic paralysis is associated with a maximal transdiaphragmatic pressure
      of greater than 70 cm water, and thus does not significantly effect transdiaphragmatic
      pressure generation during normal ventilatory behaviors, but can compromise higher-force,
      nonventilatory, behaviors like coughing or sneezing and also exercise breathing. Twitch
      transdiaphragmatic pressures after bilateral magnetic phrenic nerve stimulation are
      frequently used as a non-volitional assessment to confirm the presence of diaphragm weakness.

      The functional limitations in individuals with respiratory disorders are not exclusively
      related to dyspnea. For example, balance impairments and resulting risk of falling are
      increasingly recognized issues in patients with COPD. Regarding the fact that postural
      balance is especially impaired in COPD patients with inspiratory muscle weakness, it can be
      hypothesized that diaphragm dysfunction plays an important role in the observed balance
      impairments. This is supported by the fact that the diaphragm is not only the principal
      inspiratory muscle, but also plays an important role in stabilizing the trunk during balance
      tasks. However, it remains unknown whether patients with diaphragm paresis show balance
      impairments, and whether these can be attributed to a dysfunction of the diaphragm.
      Furthermore, Kaufman et al. who followed up 180 patients with diaphragmatic paralysis,
      suggested that also low back pain might be associated with this disorder due to the fact that
      the postural function of the diaphragm is often disturbed in patients with low back pain.
      Also, individuals with low back pain show an increased diaphragm fatigability. However,
      neither the relation between diaphragmatic paralysis and postural control, neither between
      diaphragmatic paralysis and low back pain has been investigated yet.

      Treatment options for UDP are limited. Diaphragmatic plication via mini thoracotomy is
      sometimes considered in the University Hospital Leuven if severe symptoms persist for longer
      than 12 months after initial diagnosis. Preliminary data indicate that daily inspiratory
      muscle strength and endurance training can lead to increased nondiaphragmatic inspiratory
      muscle recruitment and help those with symptoms from diaphragmatic paralysis. Randomized
      controlled trials comparing intervention groups with improvements achieved by natural
      recovery in the first months after diagnosis are however so far lacking. In addition there is
      a lack of comparable data between healthy subjects and patients.

      The objective of the current study is therefore to investigate the effects of daily
      inspiratory muscle training in the first 6 months following diagnosis of unilateral
      diaphragmatic paralysis. A second objective is to compare (changes in) respiratory muscle
      function and activation patterns between healthy control subjects and patients. The
      investigators hypothesize that respiratory muscle training in symptomatic patients with UDP
      (in comparison with a control group) will reduce symptoms of exertional dyspnea (primary
      outcome) and will improve respiratory muscle function (at rest and during exercise) and
      pulmonary function (sitting and supine). Secondly, we hypothesize that the (changes in)
      recruiting patterns of diaphragmatic and non-diaphragmatic muscles will differ between
      healthy control subjects and patients both at baseline and in response to the intervention.

      2. SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

        1. Investigate effects of IMT on intensity and quality of dyspnea perception in symptomatic
           patients with unilateral diaphragm paralysis during exercise

        2. To identify and distinguish mechanisms responsible for dyspnea reduction after the
           intervention by exploring inter-relationships between the post-intervention change in
           dyspnea and changes in relevant measures of respiratory muscle function at rest and
           during exercise.

        3. To compare changes in respiratory muscle recruitment patterns and respiratory neural
           drive to the diaphragm, as well as scalene, sternocleidomastoid and parasternal
           intercostal muscles in response to 6 months of inspiratory muscle strength- or endurance
           training during exercise.

        4. To compare differences in (changes in) respiratory muscle recruitment patterns and
           respiratory neural drive to the diaphragm, as well as scalene, sternocleidomastoid and
           parasternal intercostal muscles, and postural control between healthy controls and
           patients.
    
  