
    
      -  The researcher will interview you for about 3 hours in a private office.

        -  Study location: All these procedures will be done at Dr. Dunn's research offices at
           UCSF. If you prefer, we can conduct the interview at your home in or near the San
           Francisco bay area.

        -  You will be asked questions about your general background, and about how providing care
           for the person with Alzheimer's Disease has affected you. You will also be asked some
           basic questions about the person with Alzheimer's Disease (such as how well they are
           functioning; personal information will not be collected, however).

        -  Then, you will be given a consent form for an imaginary study related to Alzheimer
           Disease. An imaginary study means that it is not a real study, but it is a made-up one.
           You or your relative will not really participate in the study that is described in the
           consent form, because it is only imaginary and created just for this research.

        -  Then, you will be asked questions to measure how well you understood the information
           presented to you. For example, you will be asked about the procedures, risks and
           benefits.

        -  You will also be interviewed regarding your opinions and attitudes about research
           participation. If you give your permission, we will audiotape this interview to help us
           more accurately record this information. You may refuse to answer any of the questions
           that make you uncomfortable. You do not have to agree to be audio-taped to participate
           in this study.

        -  You will be given some tests designed to measure memory, attention and other thinking
           abilities. These tests are for research purposes only, and are not being used for any
           type of diagnostic purposes. The research purpose is to help us understand proxies'
           abilities to make decisions as caregivers for seriously ill patients.

        -  You will be asked questions about your mood and about caring for someone with dementia.
           You may refuse to answer and questions that make you uncomfortable.
    
  