
    
      Prevention of Mother to Child HIV Transmission (PMTCT) services aim to identify HIV-infected
      pregnant and breastfeeding mothers and initiate them on antiretroviral treatment (ART) for
      improving the health of the mother as well as reducing HIV transmission to their infants. In
      2011, Malawi was the first country to adopt lifelong ART for HIV- pregnant and breastfeeding
      women, known as 'Option B+'. Despite leading the way on operationalization of this approach,
      Malawi has faced challenges retaining HIV-infected pregnant and breastfeeding women on
      lifelong ART as well as with improving uptake of early infant HIV testing for HIV-exposed
      infants. Innovative approaches are needed which engage health service users (i.e. patients)
      as part of quality improvement solutions within clinical settings to improve retention
      throughout the PMTCT cascade and ultimately improve PMTCT outcomes for mothers and infants.

      One approach to broadly engage health service users in quality improvement activities is the
      Community Score Card (CSC). The CSC engages both service providers and users within a
      clinical setting in dialogues to identify solutions to the perceived barriers with health
      service delivery and utilization.

      CARE developed the CSC intervention in Malawi in 2002 as part of a project aimed at
      developing innovative and sustainable models to improve general maternal and child health
      services. The main goal of the CSC intervention is to positively influence the quality,
      efficiency, and accountability with which health services are provided at different levels.
      The original CSC consists of five core phases, repeated on a regular basis (called "rounds"),
      for the life of the project.

      This project adapted the CSC to the PMTCT setting across 11 sites in two priority PEPFAR
      scale-up districts in Malawi. The adaptation of the CSC was evaluated through a pre-post
      design to measure change in maternal retention on ART, change in maternal retention across
      the PMTCT service cascade, and uptake of Early Infant Diagnosis (EID) services following CSC
      implementation. Additionally, the project estimated the cost of the adapted CSC
      implementation.
    
  