
    
      ATTACH™ is well established and positioned for transition to an online format as the clinic
      visit program has: 1) been tested and found to be effective in seven rapid-cycling RCT's; 2)
      been named a Frontiers of Innovation Project of the Harvard Center of the Developing Child;
      3) attained a CIHR Innovative Clinical Trial (ICT) grant to scale and spread the program
      across Canada; 4) three agencies already independently delivering the clinic program
      (Discovery House, CUPS and Alcove Addictions Recovery); and 5) agency health-service
      providers and families have requested an online ATTACH™ program. As building on this sound
      foundation requires less validation than a newly formed program, ATTACH™ online is poised for
      rapid uptake by the community partners, and tremendous impact.

      Methods: Using participatory design and iKT approaches, the multidisciplinary team (Nursing
      and Software Engineering) will work collaboratively with mothers enrolled in the ongoing
      ATTACH™ pilot studies along with health-service providers and professional facilitators, to
      co-design the user interfaces for virtual delivery of ATTACH™. The goal is to develop and
      test a functioning minimum viable product (MVP) that is robust and reliable. We propose to
      undertake a four-phase study as follows:

      Phases 1 and 2: Exploratory - user engagement to identify content and explore design
      challenges and user preferences, followed by prototyping of interface designs; Phase 3:
      Software Development - iterative design sessions with users to develop MVPs; and Phase 4:
      Pilot Test - beta test MVPs and refine user interface designs.

      System Design (Phases 1-4) In Phase 1, content and delivery protocols for ATTACH™ will be
      determined with each program's Health-Service Provider Advisory Committee (H-SPAC), comprised
      of service providers who deliver the program. Further, 6 parents recruited from the ongoing
      or past intervention program studies and 6 H-SPAC members will take part in separate recorded
      Zoom focus group sessions and a REDcap survey (open and close-ended questions) to explore
      their experiences with online delivery of the parenting intervention and user-interface
      design preferences. Data will be transcribed verbatim and reviewed by design team for key
      design elements to be incorporated into interface prototypes (e.g., mobile app, web-based
      application) for co-design sessions. In Phase 2, a series of weekly design sessions (3-4)
      will be conducted with 6 Phase 1 parents and 6 H-SPAC members who will co-design prototypes
      of user interfaces for virtual intervention programs. Design sessions will be conducted via
      Zoom, using a whiteboard application to facilitate the co-design process, and recorded for
      later analysis by the design team. In Phase 3, an agile iterative software design approach
      will be used to integrate user feedback into design prototypes for 3-4 weekly design
      sessions, resulting in MVPs for ATTACH™. In Phase 4, two unique MVPs will be pilot (beta)
      tested with parents and a brief REDcap survey will assess user satisfaction. Refinements will
      be made to the final MVPs based on user feedback, resulting in the final web-interface.

      Pilot Testing to Examine Child Mental, Emotional and Behavioural (MEB) Health and Development
      Outcomes (Phase 4). Parents will be recruited from Discovery House and CUPS for ATTACH™
      (n=20; fewer as more sessions). Quasi-experimental design methods (pre/post-test) will
      evaluate the impact of the MVPs, for both programs, on the primary outcome of children's MEB
      health and development (Ages and Stages-3rd Ed. and Socio-emotional 2nd d.). Secondary
      outcomes include parent-infant interaction quality (via the Parent-Child Interaction Teaching
      Scale) and RF (in ATTACH™). As this new research program is built upon existing CIHR grant
      designed to test the clinic visit programs, we will determine both within group changes from
      the virtual program versions and compare virtual to clinic visit versions, once studies
      resume. Outcomes will be assessed with parametric (e.g. paired and independent t-tests),
      non-parametric equivalent tests, and effect size statistics as appropriate.
    
  