
    
      VISIT 1: Screening. Participants who meet initial inclusion criteria via phone screen will be
      invited to the laboratory for an in-person screening visit that includes additional screening
      (e.g. Medical history, TMS eligibility, hearing test for SW disruption procedure), and a
      structured clinical interview to determine final study eligibility. All subjects will receive
      verbal and written explanation of the general goals and risks of the study and will sign an
      informed consent. At this session, participants will also have the opportunity to become
      acquainted with the TMS and SW disruption procedures. In the case that remote visits are
      being utilized, such as during the COVID-19 pandemic, this will be separated into a virtual
      visit (consent, clinical interview, etc. - anything that can be conducted remotely will be)
      and an in-person visit (hearing test, TMS demonstration). Participants will also choose two
      dates, at least two nights apart and at most separated by two weeks, for the in-lab visits.

      At-home Sleep Recording. For 7 days prior to the in-lab study visits, participants will be
      asked to keep a consistent at-home sleep schedule, based on habitual rise time (e.g., 10:30
      PM - 6 AM). Participants will also consent to refraining from napping, using alcohol and
      drugs, and limiting caffeine use to one caffeinated beverage before noon throughout the
      study. These procedures will be confirmed using actigraphy, and sleep diary. Actigraphy
      provides a validated measure of sleep-wake patterns based on light and activity levels
      utilizing a wrist-watch like device (Actiwatch 2 and Actiwatch Spectrum Pro, Philips
      Respironics, Inc.). Sleep diaries will be used to document bedtime and rise time, and several
      other sleep parameters. Participants will also be asked to note if actigraphs were removed,
      for how long and for what purpose. Sleep diaries will be completed via the REDCap web-based
      application if participants have consistent Internet access. Paper and pencil versions of
      sleep diaries will also be available. Study staff will compare across these methods to verify
      adherence to study guidelines prior to the in-lab study.

      VISIT 2: Baseline Night. Visit 2 and Visit 3 occur on two separate days, in a counterbalanced
      design to ensure no order or learning effects. The following procedure description will occur
      in half of participants where Visit 2 precedes Visit 3; however identical procedures will be
      used for the remaining half of participants where Visit 3 will precede Visit 2. Participants
      will arrive at the Clinical Research Center for Sleep (CRCS) at 8pm on Visit 2. Following
      their arrival and orientation, EEG electrodes will be applied. Participants sleep will then
      be monitored overnight. In the morning, participants will have their blood drawn, and after a
      light breakfast, the HAM-D will be administered, and then participants will be asked to fill
      out mood questionnaires (BDI, VAS, PANAS, KSS), and complete a battery of tasks including
      memory tasks, and resting EEG. They will then be accompanied to the Richards Building to
      complete the TMS protocol, before returning to the CRCS.

      VISIT 3: Slow-wave Disruption. Procedures for Visit 3 are identical for those for Visit 2,
      with the exception of the following: Utilizing real-time EEG monitoring during sleep, left
      (C3) and right central (C4) channels will be continuously inspected. Whenever two delta waves
      (14 Hz; 75 V) appear within 15 seconds, an acoustic stimulus (i.e. tone; frequency = 1000 Hz;
      intensity = 20100 dB) will be administered through a speaker mounted above the bed, beginning
      with the lowest intensity (20 dB) and increased by 5 dB intervals if no response occurs
      (sleep stage shift, K complex, EEG desynchronization, mixed and fast frequency, alpha burst,
      muscle tone increase, slow eye movements). Utilizing this methodology, the type and incidence
      of tones played will be tailored to each participant to suppress slow waves without arousing
      the subject. Disruption of SWA will take place without waking the subject or decreasing total
      sleep time. The selective SW disruption procedure has been described in detail elsewhere.

      TMS The TMS system is housed in the Richards Biomedical Building. Only individuals trained by
      the IDE sponsor (Desmond Oathes, Ph.D.) and Center Director (Yvette Sheline, M.D.) will
      dispense TMS. Since all TMS procedures are being conducted in Dr. Sheline's lab, all plans
      for receipt, storage, labelling, dispensing, returning of failed devices, and destruction
      will fall under the center's SOPs.
    
  