
    
      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the acceptability and effectiveness of a
      treatment program for hazardous drinking, delivered within HIV-clinic outpatient settings,
      that involves oral naltrexone. The central hypothesis is that women randomized to the
      treatment program will have decreased rates of hazardous drinking and improved clinical and
      behavioral health outcomes that are associated with hazardous drinking. The investigators
      have formulated this hypotheses based on the existing literature, the preliminary data and
      the clinical experience. The investigators hypothesize that women randomized to receive an
      alcohol treatment intervention will be less likely to have hazardous drinking behavior
      6-months after enrollment, compared to women who received similar assessments but no formal
      treatment intervention. The investigators hypothesize that 4-months after enrollment, women
      randomized to receive an alcohol treatment intervention will have improved adherence to HIV
      antiretroviral therapy, improved CD4 cell counts, reduced HIV viral load, and reduced risky
      sexual behavior, compared to women who receive similar assessments but no formal
      intervention.

      The investigators will recruit 90 women from 3 different sites in Florida, Washington DC and
      Chicago. Of those 90 women 60 will receive naltrexone and 30 will receive placebo. Study
      participants will take the medication for 4 months but the investigators will follow them for
      7 months. At baseline, 2 months, 4 months and 7 months, the investigators will administer
      study questionnaires and assess their liver enzymes, CD4 count and viral load. The
      investigators will also follow them up at month 1 and 3 to reinforce the medication intake
      and to assess for any possible side effects.

      New treatment options are available, but their impact on hazardous drinking has not yet been
      evaluated among HIV-infected women, many of whom are poor, minorities, or who have associated
      mental health or substance abuse problems. Delivery of therapeutic interventions must be
      improved in order to reduce hazardous drinking in women with HIV/AIDS. The proposed research
      is significant because the therapy will be offered within HIV clinic settings and will
      potentially improve the health of a population that is significantly undertreated. In
      addition to determining the effectiveness of an alcohol treatment intervention, the
      investigators will also identify key barriers and facilitators associated with adherence to
      pharmacologic treatment for alcohol in women with hazardous drinking. The findings will
      directly impact the type and quality of care for hazardous drinking in this subset of
      HIV-infected individuals and will inform both primary and secondary prevention efforts
    
  