
    
      Eating disorders (EDs) affect 15 million women in the United States and have one of the
      highest mortality rates of any mental illness. Despite this, the underlying neurobiology
      remains poorly understood. EDs predominantly occur in women, and the frequency of certain
      symptoms change in a predictable pattern over the menstrual cycle; specifically, symptom
      changes appear to be triggered by normal fluctuations in the ovarian hormones estradiol (E2)
      and progesterone (P4).

      The objective of this study is to examine the impact of ovarian hormone stabilization,
      through the continuous administration of oral contraceptives (OCs) for 3-months, on brain
      activation in response to reward and eating behaviors in women who binge eat (n=15) using
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and behavioral testing. OCs work by suppressing
      ovulation, thereby reducing E2 and P4 changes that occur pre- and post- ovulation. Because
      the traditional 21/7 regimen of OC administration (21 active pills followed by 7 days of
      inactive pills) allows follicles to begin to develop, this leads to the secretion of
      endogenous E2, and then E2 withdrawal once active pills begin again. This does not result in
      consistent stabilization. Thus, this study will use OCs in a continuous manner, with no
      inactive pills.

      Participants will complete fMRI imaging and self-report questionnaires prior to OC
      administration and at the end of OC administration. The investigators will examine
      within-subject changes that occur in these measures with OC administration. The primary
      hypothesis is that continuous OC treatment will have a beneficial/stabilizing effect on
      outcomes of interest. Specifically, symptomatology may decrease from OC use. Results will
      ultimately provide the pilot data necessary for larger mechanistic trials.

      The specific aims are to:

      Aim 1: Quantify the effect of ovarian hormone stabilization on eating behaviors in women with
      binge eating.

      Aim 2: Examine the effect of ovarian hormone stabilization on response to reward using fMRI
      and self-report questionnaires in women with binge eating.
    
  