
    
      This is a cohort study consisting of 2 patient cohorts. The first cohort will be studied
      retrospectively, using existing blood samples from different biobanks. Biomarkers will be
      measured and matched with the etiology of previously diagnosed heart failure by a biomarker
      panel of heart failure experts. This cohort consists of 100 patients each with (1) ischemic
      cardiomyopathy, (2) dilated cardiomyopathy and (3) diastolic heart failure. Blood samples
      will be analyzed for novel biomarkers. Investigators will be seeking biomarker candidate(s)
      alone or in combination which can predict each category of heart failure etiology with over
      85% accuracy and the lowest levels of reclassification. A panel of heart failure experts will
      be assembled, and the appropriate cut-off values determined. Once this goal has been
      achieved, the prospective study will go ahead.

      In the second cohort, biomarkers will be measured and used to diagnose the etiology of heart
      failure for each subject. This diagnosis will then be compared to the diagnosis from results
      of the usual diagnostic tests. Investigators will recruit 450 patients admitted to hospital
      or outpatient clinics with recently diagnosed heart failure (<2 years) and test for different
      biomarkers. Using the biomarker values, investigators will predict their heart failure
      etiology in an objective manner. The patients will then undergo definitive etiological workup
      as usual to establish the actual etiology of the heart failure. The duration of a typical
      etiological workup is about 3 days for hospitalized patients and up to 8 weeks for patients
      admitted to outpatient clinics. The predictive accuracy of the new heart failure panel will
      be compared to clinical assessment.

      Investigators will perform cost-modeling in terms of the potential savings in avoiding
      unnecessary coronary angiographies or perfusion scans in a typical mixed cohort of heart
      failure patients based on the marker determined etiology.

      A group of healthy volunteers will be added. This group will serve as age matched controls to
      the prospective cohort of heart failure patients.
    
  