
    
      Patients with diagnosis of schizophrenia according to DSM-5 admitted to a hospital
      participating in the consortium will undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as soon as
      possible after admission. Ideally, this procedure is performed before initiation of
      antipsychotic treatment (benzodiazepines are allowed). If not possible for clinical reasons,
      antipsychotic treatment will be started and the MRI will be acquired within three days of
      initiation of drug treatment. The choice of the antipsychotic will be made by the treating
      physician. All approved antipsychotics are permitted, including first-generation
      antipsychotics such as haloperidol or flupenthixol. This is based on the recommendation of
      the British NICE guidelines: "In nine randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with a total of
      1,801 participants with first-episode or early schizophrenia (including people with a recent
      onset of schizophrenia and people who have never been treated with antipsychotic medication),
      the evidence suggested there were no clinically significant differences in efficacy between
      the antipsychotic drugs examined." (NICE 2009, p. 105). However, since second-generation
      antipsychotics (SGA) are now considered first-line treatment for schizophrenia according to
      the German S3 guideline, it can be assumed that more than 80% of all patients will be treated
      with an SGA.

      As soon as positive symptoms are sufficiently controlled, medication will be completely
      tapered off within four weeks. Sufficient control of positive symptoms will defined as
      follows: "delusions" (Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) item 1), "hallucinatory
      behaviour" (PANSS item 3), and "suspiciousness/persecution" (PANSS item 6) have to be
      "absent" or "mild" (scores 1 or 2). The PANSS Positive score (7 items) must not be above 18.
      Patients in the experimental group who will not reach remission according to this definition
      will be switched to another antipsychotic according to clinical standards. Tapering of
      medication might be considered at a later time-point. Patients who cannot be tapered off
      medication will be treated with the lowest possible dose.

      Treatment of subsequent exacerbations / psychotic relapses will follow the same rules.
    
  