
    
      General study design We will study 200 patients (18-90 years) undergoing elective orthopedic
      surgery at the trauma surgery unit. The patients must have normal weight (20-30 BMI), the
      duration of surgery should last between 3 - 4 hours. There will be no other exclusion
      criteria (except severe peripheral arterial disease in the warmed extremity), as forced air
      patient warming is routinely used for all patients during this procedure.

      The patients will be randomly assigned via a computer generated randomization list to
      treatment with either polymer or forced air warming. Anaesthesia and fluid management will be
      administered as desired by the anaesthesiologist.

      Before warming four skin temperature probes will be attached to the upper arm, chest, abdomen
      and back of the patients to calculate mean body temperature. A probe (Mallinckrodt
      Anesthesiology Products, Inc., St. Louis, MO) will be introduced in the ear to measure core
      temperature. Afterwards, treatment with BairHugger or HotDog will be started.

      The measurements will be recorded every five minutes until the end of surgery when
      intraoperative warming is stopped.

      Differences between core temperatures will be analyzed both by using the summary measure of
      AUC (area under the curve) and by comparing the core-temperature at the end of surgery in the
      polymer and the forced air group with two-tailed, unpaired t tests if normally distributed
      and with a Wilcoxon test, if not normally distributed (distribution tested by K-S-test).

      Results are expressed as means ± standard deviations if normally distributed, as median
      (IQ-Range) when not normally distributed.

      Differences will be considered statistically significant when P < 0.05. We consider a
      difference in core temperature at the end of surgery of 0.5°C as clinically important.
      Considering this difference as well as a known standard deviation of approximately 1.5°C we
      will have to study 40 patients in each arm of the study to achieve statistical significance
      using a power of 90% and a p-value of 0.05.
    
  