
    
      Patients with end-stage knee osteoarthritis (OA) have decreased knee-extension strength and
      suffer from knee pain. Strengthening of the knee-extensor muscle is a key element in
      conservative treatment for patients with knee OA. However, the most effective exercise dosage
      for knee-extension strength exercise is unknown.

      In this trial the investigators investigate the efficacy of three different dosages of
      knee-extension strength exercise. Patients eligible for total knee replacement are offered
      home-based pre-operative knee-extension exercise and are randomly allocated to one of three
      exercise dosage groups. There is no control group. The knee-extension exercise is performed
      with an elastic exercise band mounted with sensor (BandCizer) which registers when the
      patients exercise, how much they exercise and how they exercise.

      The intervention time is 12 weeks and the primary time point of interest is after
      exercise/just before surgery. Secondary time points of interest are shortly after surgery and
      three months after surgery.

      The patients are given detailed exercise instruction at trial entry and hereafter they
      exercise unsupervised at home for 12 weeks. At week 4 and 8 they receive follow-up
      instruction.

      Both the patients who choose not to have TKA and those who do after the exercise period will
      be followed with annual outcome assessments as part of a follow-up cohort.

      Embedded in the trial is a qualitative study. Focus group interviews will be performed with
      the participating patients about their experienced enablers and barriers related to adherence
      to the home-based intervention, once the post-operative outcome assessment has been
      completed. Likewise, the orthopedic surgeons and physiotherapists allocated to the trial will
      undergo focus group interviews, once the trial is completed, to explore their experienced
      enablers and barriers related to administering the home-based intervention.

      Protocol amendments 8/2-2017: Additional protocol approved by The Danish National Committee
      on Biomedical Research Ethics (protocol no. 55528 and 55529). Approved protocol amendments
      are the following inclusion and exclusion criteria: inclusion criteria age ≥45, and exclusion
      criteria ASA-score ≥4.

      Protocol amendments 30/3-2017: Additional protocol approved by The Danish National Committee
      on Biomedical Research Ethics (protocol no. 57312). Approved protocol amendments are the
      following inclusion criteria: knee pain during the last week (NRS) ≥3, and the OKS
      questionnaire score has been omitted as an inclusion criteria.

      Protocol amendments 6/9-2017: At the third outcome assessment (at hospital discharge, 3-8
      days after surgery) only the outcomes isometric knee-extensor strength, 6MWT, SCT and current
      knee pain are assessed. The KOOS and OKS questionnaires as well as knee pain during the last
      week are omitted at this end-point as they are not validated to assess acute post-operative
      conditions, and use a too long recall period.
    
  