
    
      Urinary stress incontinence affects 4-35% of women. Due to the large economic impact and
      prevalence of the disease, urinary incontinence is a significant public health issue. With
      rising healthcare costs it has become increasingly important to manage patient care in the
      most cost-efficient manner. Considering the increasing number of women undergoing
      mid-urethral sling procedures, it is imperative that perioperative care is streamlined in
      order to minimize cost. The Cedars-Sinai Center for Continence and Women's Pelvic Health
      instituted a new practice pattern that enables patients to complete a voiding trial sooner
      after surgery compared to previous practice patterns thus allowing patients to be discharged
      earlier and ultimately decreasing cost. The purpose of this study is to compare the previous
      voiding trial practice (emptying the bladder at the end of surgery) versus the newly
      instituted practice (filling with bladder with 250cc) and perform a cost benefit analysis to
      determine if there is a significant decrease in recovery and discharge time. Both of these
      practices fall under the standard-of-care. However, of the several standard-of-care
      procedures, none have been tested for superiority. To date there are no randomized control
      trials that address this issue in female mid-urethral sling surgery.

      Boccola et al showed in a study of 60 men who had undergone transurethral resection of the
      prostate (TURP) that by instilling the bladder with 300-500cc of warm saline the time to void
      was significantly decreased compared to standard indwelling catheter removal. It was also
      shown that the bladder instillation group had a significantly shorter time to discharge. The
      study suggested that given the significant decrease in time in recovery, this would be an
      ideal practice for many other outpatient procedures. Willson, et al, in another randomized
      trial of 75 men who underwent TURP, found that bladder infusion allowed early decision-making
      for discharge on the second postoperative day. Finally, McAchran and Goldman found that when
      patients were managed using a fast-track regimen in the outpatient setting after mid-urethral
      sling procedures the median time from the recovery area to discharge was less than 3 hours.

      For our study, if a significant decrease in the time to discharge with the newly instituted
      practice pattern is demonstrated, then this practice can be adopted by other institutions and
      become the new standard of care to help decrease both cost and patient time in the hospital.
    
  