
    
      In Amhara, the median duration of exclusive breastfeeding (4.6 months) is the highest among
      all the other regions in the country, but complementary feeding indicators lag behind (2%
      minimum dietary diversity and 34% minimum meal frequency). As a result, A&T's program
      emphasis will be placed on increasing mothers' knowledge and skills to improve complementary
      feeding practices without compromising exclusive breastfeeding. Given the short duration of
      implementation, the goal is to show that it is possible to achieve behavior change related to
      IYCF through a multi-sector approach. The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether the
      Alive & Thrive intervention package, consisting of interpersonal communication, community
      mobilization activities, and radio campaign, can increase select complementary feeding
      practices (minimum dietary diversity and minimum meal frequency increased by 10 percentage
      points) while sustaining exclusive breastfeeding rate among children less than two years of
      age.

      A cluster randomized design with repeated cross-sectional surveys at baseline (2015) and
      endline (2017) is used to assess impact of the A&T interventions in three western zones of
      Amhara, Ethiopia. In the three zones, 20 woredas (districts) were randomly assigned as 10
      intervention and 10 comparison/control areas. A&T intervention areas are expected to receive
      intensive IYCF social and behavior change communication activities as well as exposure to a
      region-wide radio campaign. In accordance with program objectives, sample sizes for the
      household survey were estimated to detect changes in the three main impact indicators -
      sustained exclusive breastfeeding, improved minimum dietary diversity, and improved minimum
      meal frequency. The estimated household sample sizes are 400 children 0-5.9 months old for
      exclusive breastfeeding in the A&T intervention areas only and 1350 children 6-23.9 months
      old per study arm for complementary feeding practices, for a total sample size of 3100
      children 0-23.9 months of age. Infant feeding practices will be assessed using before- and
      after- intervention-comparison area group differences between the baseline survey
      (March-April 2015) and endline survey (March-April 2017). In addition, surveys of frontline
      workers will help document their awareness and knowledge about IYCF, training, supervision,
      and delivery of interventions to beneficiary households.
    
  