
    
      Background:

        -  PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10) is a tumor suppressor
           gene whose function is frequently lost through genetic and epigenetic mechanisms in
           cancer. Loss of PTEN increases activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase
           (PI3K)/Akt/mTOR pathway, which increases cellular proliferation and survival.

        -  Germline mutations in PTEN are associated with a number of hamartomatous syndromes, of
           which Cowden Syndrome (CS) is the prototype. The set of syndromes that are defined by
           germline PTEN mutations has been labeled PTEN Hamartomatous Tumor Syndromes or PHTS.

        -  Patients with PHTS suffer increased morbidity and mortality. Benign tumors such as
           hamartomas occur in virtually every organ, most commonly in the skin and the
           gastrointestinal tract, which prompts frequent monitoring and resection and causes
           psychological and physical stressors on patients with this condition.

        -  Cowden syndrome (CS) patients develop thyroid, breast, and endometrial cancers at an
           earlier age than the general population, and have an overall increased incidence of
           these cancers compared to the general population. These patients have increased
           morbidity from heightened surveillance and diagnostic procedures.

        -  No medical therapies exist for PHTS patients.

        -  Because tumors from PHTS patients show increased activation of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR
           pathway, inhibitors of this pathway might have activity in patients with PHTS.

        -  Sirolimus (rapamycin) is a specific inhibitor of mTOR that is Food and Drug
           Administration (FDA)-approved and is preferentially effective in cells with mutant PTEN.

        -  We hypothesize that sirolimus will have activity in patients with PHTS, as measured by
           biochemical techniques that will assess mTOR inhibition and clinical tests that will
           assess the growth and metabolism of benign and malignant tumors.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary endpoint will be inhibition of the mTOR pathway in tissues obtained before
           and after therapy, as assessed using immunohistochemistry in benign as well as malignant
           tumors.

        -  Secondary endpoints will include inhibition of the mTOR pathway in peripheral blood
           mononuclear cells (PBMCs) as assessed by immunoblotting, changes and duration of change
           in benign or malignant tumor size as assessed by computed tomography (CT), serial
           digital photography, digital dermoscopy, changes in tumor metabolism as assessed by
           positron emission tomography (PET), changes in lymphocyte counts, as well as changes in
           neuropsychological testing.

      Eligibility:

      -Adult subjects with documented germline PTEN mutations who meet diagnostic criteria for
      Cowden Syndrome by international criteria.

      Design:

        -  Subjects will undergo biopsy, imaging, photography, dermoscopy, and neuropsychological
           testing prior to and after a course of therapy with sirolimus to assess the efficacy of
           treatment.

        -  This pilot protocol will test sirolimus at an FDA-approved dose (6 mg by mouth (PO)
           loading dose/ 2mg PO daily) in a group of twenty patients.

        -  Treatment will last for 56 days (plus 2 - 3 days to allow flexibility for scheduling of
           follow-up procedures) for PHTS subjects with benign hamartomatous tumors.

        -  For PHTS subjects with established malignancy, measurement of disease will be performed
           every other cycle and treatment will continue until disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.
    
  