
    
      Severe asthma is defined by poorly controlled disease despite treatment with high doses of
      inhaled corticosteroids, in combination with at least a long acting beta agonist, after
      optimal management for at least 6 months by an asthma specialist. The diagnosis of severe
      asthma can only be made after a rigorous evaluation of 6 to 12 months, including the review
      of diagnosis and treatment, by a pulmonologist, to distinguish difficult asthma from severe
      asthma.

      Severe asthma accounts for 3.5% to 5% of all asthma patients, a population estimated at 150
      000 patients in France. This disease is responsible for significant health costs related to
      asthma treatments, comorbidities, hospitalizations and sick days. The management of severe
      asthma is complex, multidisciplinary and includes drug treatment, but also the management of
      side effects of treatment, including oral corticosteroid therapy, and comorbidities of
      asthma.

      Until 2018, omalizumab,systemic continuous oral corticosteroid therapy or inclusion in a
      therapeutic trial were the ony possibilities offered to severe asthmatic patients beyond the
      usually recommended and optimized management. In 2018, mepolizumab and reslizumab have been
      marketed in France, then benralizumab in 2019. They will probably be followed by dupilumab
      and bronchial thermoplasty. New initiatives to change the history of the disease are also
      proposed such as specific immunotherapy or long-term use of macrolides. Respiratory
      rehabilitation is also part of the treatments to be evaluated in some groups of patients.

      The description of the use of these treatments, as well as the evaluation of their
      effectiveness and tolerance in real life conditions is essential. Indeed, their use outside
      clinical trials raises a number of issues such as the optimal duration of treatment, the
      maintenance of efficacy over extended periods, the risk and the time to relapse when the
      treatment is stopped, the possibility to switch from one biotherapy to another in case of
      insufficient clinical response or to associate them which may prove to be an effective
      strategy in patients eligible for two biotherapies (allergic and eosinophilic patients).

      The cost of these treatments is high. The pharmaco-economic evaluation of severe asthma and
      its management is another important element. For example, no economic evaluation of the use
      of omalizumab is currently available in France.

      Lastly, the organization of a care network dedicated to severe asthma is being launched in
      France (severe asthma centers ), on the model of European countries, in order to improve the
      diagnosis and management of these patients and to reduce the burden of comorbidities of
      asthma and steroids side effects.It is therefore essential to set up a clinical research
      structure that will make it possible to obtain clinical data on this population of severe
      asthma patients and to evaluate all medical practices in real life conditions.
    
  