
    
      Prostate cancer is the most common solid tumor in American males and the most common
      malignancy among men in Western industrialized countries. Widespread testing for early
      detection of prostate cancer utilizing digital rectal examination and prostate specific
      antigen (PSA) has led to a significant clinical conundrum. Differentiating organ confined
      indolent disease from aggressive cancer has been imperfect. Nonetheless, increased detection
      has led to increased radical prostatectomies. A prevailing goal of the contemporary, ardent
      research seeks to discover a molecular biomarker for prognostication.

      Given the limitations of the current knowledge of the molecular pathology of prostate cancer,
      there are several viewpoints regarding the process of tumorigenesis. However, a generally
      accepted hypothetical model describes normal prostatic epithelium progressing to a
      pre-malignant or low-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN). Then, after further
      genetic alterations, a succession of histologically apparent adenocarcinoma--first confined,
      then metastatic, and finally refractory to hormone treatment ensues. Current molecular
      research has shown already complex genetics alterations at the high-grade prostatic
      intraepithelial neoplasia stage. Thus, invasive disease represents amplification or further
      aberration of precursor events. The seminal event or events have not been recognized and the
      undiscovered tumor suppressor gene or proto-oncogene may be a principal tumor marker.

      The purpose of this study is to identify specific, shared, consistent, chromosomal
      rearrangements found in metaphase preparations for short-term cultures of pathologically
      identified and scored primary prostate tumors. These, tumor specimens will be obtained from
      patients enrolled in protocol (97-C-0147) by the NCI. Fresh tumor, taken from bi-valved
      specimens with one half undergoing tissue pathology, will be immediately placed in growth
      media and transferred as a coded specimen as a sample from patients selected and enrolled in
      protocol (97-C-0147). Informed consent will be obtained by participating investigators in the
      NCI protocol. The outcome measurement will be the characterization, or failure of
      characterization, of specific, shared consistent, chromosomal rearrangements. Current
      molecular cytogenetics technologies, primarily utilizing chromosomal microdissection, will be
      employed toward this goal. Ultimately, this research may help to focus further molecular
      studies towards the ultimate goal of finding a unique, cancer specific alteration.
    
  