
    
      Triple-negative breast cancer refers to breast cancer with negative human epidermal growth
      factor receptor 2, estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor. Triple-negative breast cancer
      has poor differentiation, high invasiveness and high recurrence rate, accounting for
      15.0%-23.8% of breast cancer. Due to the phenotypic specificity of triple-negative breast
      cancer, both targeted therapy and endocrine therapy are insensitive, making chemotherapy an
      important part in the treatment of triple-negative breast cancer.

      In 1982, Frei proposed the concept of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, which is to apply
      chemotherapy before surgery for malignant tumors. Chemotherapy can reduce the size of tumors
      to some extent, even eliminate micrometastases, detect the sensitivity of chemotherapy drugs,
      and create opportunities for patients to have breast-conserving or surgical treatment. For
      triple-negative breast cancer, neoadjuvant chemotherapy with synchronous combination of
      anthracyclines and taxanes or intensive sequential combination of anthracyclines and taxanes
      is the first choice. Simultaneously, chemotherapeutic drugs such as platinum, albumin, and
      paclitaxel as well as poly-ADP-ribose polymerase inhibitors can be added according to the
      patient's condition. However, during neoadjuvant therapy, a CT or MRI test is needed to
      monitor the patient's condition, so if there is any deterioration, to consider changing the
      treatment plan or immediately performing surgery is necessary. However, because of the need
      for multiple imaging examinations during neoadjuvant therapy, which increases the medical
      costs, to explore a low cost inspection method is necessary.

      Circulating tumor cells are a new type of tumor molecular marker. Circulating tumor cells in
      peripheral blood originate from breast cancer (primary and metastatic lesions) shedding.
      Detection of these circulating tumor cells may monitor the therapeutic effect on breast
      cancer. The cost of detecting circulating tumor cells is much lower than that of conventional
      PET-CT, which can noticeably reduce medical expenses of patients. However, there is no
      clinical study on the changes of circulating tumor cells and the efficacy of neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy for triple-negative breast cancer in and outside China. This study aims to
      explore the correlation between the changes of circulating tumor cells and the efficacy of
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy for triple-negative breast cancer, and to compare the time intervals
      between the changes of circulating tumor cells and the changes of efficacy in patients with
      different sensitivities of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, so as to provide experimental evidence
      for predicting the efficacy of neoadjuvant chemotherapy by observing the changes of
      circulating tumor cells in clinic.
    
  