
    
      Patients will be infused with T cells engineered to express TCRs targeting one to five
      tumor-specific antigens expressed by their autologous tumor. The number of T cells infused
      will range from 1e9 to 1e11. Monoclonal antibodies targeting PD-1 (pembrolizumab) and CD40
      (CDX-1140, Celldex Therapeutics)43 will be administered, in that order, starting within 24
      hours of cell infusion and re-administered at approximately 3 week intervals. Clinic visits
      will include longitudinal evaluation of toxicities and monitoring of immunological
      parameters. The presence or absence of replication competent retrovirus (RCR) will be
      evaluated for the first year following adoptive cell transfer, or longer, if there is
      evidence of RCR.

      Tumor Response assessment by RECIST 1.1 is performed every 9-12 weeks. Study treatment
      continues until progression. Option repeat TCR-T infusion is allowed and in addition may
      incorporate preconditioning chemotherapy using a de-intensified non-myeloablative (NMA)
      regimen consisting of a single dose of gemcitabine and a single dose of either
      cyclophosphamide or epirubicin, designed to elicit immunogenic cell death and transient
      lymphopenia.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the safety of the adoptive transfer of
      TCR-gene engineered T cells targeting TSA in combination with CD40 and PD-1 immunotherapy.
      The secondary objective is to determine whether this therapy can mediate objective clinical
      responses as determined by objective criteria (e.g. RECIST 1.1). The study will also
      characterize the differentiation and functional state of the TCR-gene modified T cells before
      and after cell therapy and monitor their persistence in the patient after treatment. Up to 24
      patients will be enrolled in this study. Based on published trials treating patients with
      TCR-transduced T cells, adverse events such as fever, chills, dyspnea, hypotension, fatigue,
      edema, rash, and rarely acute cytokine release syndrome, may occur.

      Clinical and immunological data will be analyzed which will determine whether this therapy is
      safe and effective, and whether there are biomarkers or immunological signatures that
      correlate to efficacy and/or lack of efficacy. This data will determine whether additional
      studies are warranted.
    
  