
    
      Patients with BED form a subgroup of obese patients with a disinhibited eating pattern that
      is associated with major impairments in cognitive control. The dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      (dlPFC) has been identified as a brain region closely tied to cognitive control processes and
      crucially involved in the control of eating behaviour. This suggests the dlPFC as a target
      for the modulation of cognitive control processes over eating in BED. This modulation can be
      achieved by both, a cognitive training task and by noninvasive brain stimulation using tDCS.
      In studies with healthy normal-weight participants, (1) different cognitive training task
      enhance control over eating behaviour, (2) tDCS is an effective tool to ameliorate cognitive
      control processes, and (3) has beneficial effects on motivational aspects of eating
      behaviour, i.e. food craving. Based on this evidence, we will use a combination of a
      cognitive control task and tDCS to enhance cognitive control over eating in patients with
      BED. This is to the best of our knowledge one of the first studies to use tDCS as an
      intervention to enhance cognitive control over eating in patients with BED.

      o Sample size: We will allocate 40 patients in the trial, i.e. 20 patients in each study arm.

      o Recruitment: Patients are recruited by announcements, mails to the distributor list of the
      university hospital, existing databases of patients, and current patients of the university
      hospital. Patients are screened by a standardized checklist. In- and exclusion criteria are
      checked during the screening procedure and during the baseline diagnostic before
      randomisation.

      o Standard Operating Procedures: For the recruitment, diagnostic and experimental sessions,
      Standard Operating Procedures are documented for the experimenter. This includes the order of
      clinical interviews, questionnaires and operating with the technical measurement instruments.
      The experimenters are regularly supervised. All adverse events will be listed and severe
      adverse events will be reported immediately to the PIs.

      o Quality assurance plan: Randomized allocation to the stimulation condition (verum vs. sahm)
      and statistical analyses is done externally by the Institute of Clinical Epidemiology and
      Applied Biometry, University Tübingen, Germany (ICEAB). Objective technical measurement
      instruments are mostly used to record data.

      o Data checks: Data is recorded mostly by objective technical measurement instruments, so no
      external monitoring is needed. We will spot check entered questionnaire data, in particular
      binge eating frequency in the past four weeks will be double checked as this is the primary
      outcome (PO).

      o Source data verification: Data are spot checked by comparing the entries in the source data
      with the entries in the database. Each PO entry will be double checked. There are pre-defined
      criteria for entering data into the database.

        -  Data dictionary:

      A data dictionary that contains detailed descriptions of each variable and how to be entered
      is available.

      o Plan for missing data: Missing data and invalid data as well as the reasons will be
      recorded.

      o Statistical analysis plan: A mixed model approach will be used to analyze the PO and
      secondary outcomes (SOs).
    
  