
    
      The most common treatment for problem behavior is functional communication training (FCT).
      FCT involves teaching children to request what they want, rather than engaging in problem
      behavior when they don't get their way, and then teach them that they cannot always ask for
      their way and instead must wait or work appropriately first. While FCT is effective, problem
      behavior sometimes comes back after treatment when children encounter treatment challenges,
      like long periods of not getting their way, when caregivers deliver treatment differently
      than what they are used to (e.g., caregivers delivering FCT incorrectly), or experiencing
      treatment in a new place (e.g., the home, the classroom). The purpose of this research study
      is to determine whether the experimenters can reduce the chances of children returning to
      problem behavior during these challenges by teaching them to pay attention to treatment
      signals (e.g., a red card that indicates treatment is in place) and gradually changing the
      treatment setting to appear more like the home or classroom. First, the experimenters will
      provide each child with their way in a home-like environment containing a couch, rug, etc.
      Next, within a barren therapy room, the experimenters will conduct two of the following three
      types of treatments: (1) a treatment with no signals that indicate when their child can and
      cannot have their way, (2) a treatment with signals, and (3) a treatment with signals plus
      introduction of items from the natural environment such as rugs and couches. Then, the
      experimenters will introduce three common treatment challenges in a row to determine whether
      treatment signals reduce relapse of problem behavior. First, the experimenters will introduce
      the treatments in the home-like environment to see if the child continues to respond
      appropriately in a setting different than the therapy room. Second, the experimenters will
      simulate a transition to the school by having the child experience treatment in a
      classroom-like environment (e.g., with desks and chalkboards) while the teacher makes the
      child wait a long period of time to get their way. This would be similar to when a teacher
      cannot give the child attention or a preferred item because they are busy with other
      students. Third, the experimenters will simulate the teacher implementing treatment
      differently than the child is used to in the classroom by the teacher delivering preferred
      activities according to a timed schedule rather than when the child asks. This simulates the
      common event of a teacher delivering preferred activities like breaks or recess regardless of
      the child's behavior. The goal is to determine how well the treatments perform across each of
      these common challenges.
    
  