
    
      Participants The initial sample comprised 35 students from 2nd grade of high school (19 boys
      and 16 girls), aged between 16 and 18 years (M =16.49, SD = .79). The students belonged to a
      public school of a large city in Spain.

      Ethical approval and informed consent The experiment was approved by the Ethics Committee of
      the authors' university and approved by the corresponding academic authority of the high
      school. All participants signed an informed consent by themselves and their parents.

      Measures Measure of Interference Index (Stroop Test). The interference index was calculated
      from the scores obtained by the participants in the Spanish adaptation of the Stroop test 25
      using a pencil-and-paper version.

      The test consists of three pages of words and drawings printed in colors that combine in
      different ways. The first set or page, called Word (W), is made up of the words blue, green,
      and red, written in black ink on a white background. The second page, called Color (C),
      presents groups of four Xs (XXXX), printed in one of the above-mentioned colors (blue, red or
      green). The participants are requested to name the color of the four Xs presented. The last
      page, called Word-Color (WC) is made up of the names of the colors that appear on page 1, but
      in ink colors that are incongruent with the printed word. Participants are requested to name
      the color while inhibiting the reading of the word.

      All the pages have 100 items, and each test lasts 45 seconds. The number of hits is added.
      For this study, we calculated the interference index with the formula, Interference Index =
      WC - ((WxC)/(W+C)). As indicated by Martín et al. (2012), this index represents the
      difference between the real performance on page 3 and the expected performance as a function
      of the hits on pages 1 and 2. Higher values indicate better control of interference.

      Measure of psychological well-being Subjective vitality. To measure the students' perception
      of vitality before and after the three sessions, we used the Subjective Vitality
      Questionnaire 26, adapted to Spanish by Molina-García, Castillo, and Pablos 27. This
      questionnaire can be considered as a eudaimonic measure of psychological well-being 17. The
      questionnaire is made up of 7 items that indicate how the person feels at that moment (e.g.,
      "I am full of energy"). The responses are rated on an 8-point Likert-type scale ranging from
      0 (not at all) to 7 (very true). Cronbach's alpha in the different experimental situations
      ranged from .74 to .82.

      Affect. The Spanish version 19 of the short form of the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule
      28 was used to measure positive and negative feelings before and after the sessions of
      physical education. This questionnaire is considered a hedonic measure of well-being. The
      scale is made up of 9 adjectives, which are grouped into two factors in response to the item
      "Indicate how you feel right now…". Four of the items represent feelings associated with
      Positive Affect (glad, happy, content, amused), and five of them represent Negative Affect
      (depressed, worried, frustrated, angry, unhappy). The responses are rated on an 8-point
      Likert-type scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 7 (extremely). Cronbach´s alpha ranged
      between .76 and. 90 for the two factors in the present study.

      Procedure Only the participants who handed in an informed consent signed by themselves, their
      parents, and the school could participate. They were informed of the confidentiality and
      anonymity of the results obtained. Although all the adolescents of the three classes that
      participated in the study underwent all the experimental sessions (as a part of their
      physical education curriculum), the investigators only measured the students who had handed
      in the signed informed consent. The final sample (N = 35) was made up of those who
      participated in all the pre and post-experimental sessions. The investigators counterbalanced
      the three experimental sessions in the three classes. The participants carried out four
      sessions (one pre-experimental session and three experimental sessions).

      Pre-experimental session. In the first session, the participants completed the
      socio-demographic data and then carried out a Stroop test training session, before receiving
      a theoretical physical education class, in order to prevent a possible "learning effect" in
      test performance. The participants performed a minimum of 2 attempts of each page. When the
      participants made two attempts with a variability of intra-page hits below 5% with regard to
      the previous attempt, the training session ended. Thus, the researchers respected individual
      variability in learning the test. Prior studies have also used this percentage of
      intra-variability as an indication of stable performance in cognitive inhibition tests 24.
      Nevertheless, recent studies have shown that the intra-class correlation coefficient of the
      test in the paper-and-pencil version in Spanish is high when comparing different temporal
      measures in the same population.

      Experimental sessions. The other three sessions consisted of: (a) a 20-min theoretical
      physical education session, without a physical component, in which the students answered
      questions about theoretical concepts of training; (b) a session of physical activity of light
      and moderate intensity, structured as follows: a 5-min warm-up, 20 min of predominantly light
      and moderate physical activity, and a 5-min cool-off; and (c) a session of physical activity
      of predominantly moderate and vigorous intensity, with the same structure as before. There
      was a one-week interval between the sessions. The physical activity sessions were based on
      aerobics class directed by an instructor.

      The duration of the main part of the sessions was established from previous recommendations,
      which indicate that, for acute sessions of physical activity, the greatest cognitive benefits
      are obtained with durations of about 20 minutes.

      Before and after each session, the adolescents completed the instruments that measured
      psychological well-being and cognitive interference. The data were collected 15 minutes after
      the end of each session.

      Control of the intensity of the exercise. To control the intensity of the sessions, in
      addition to measures with accelerometry in each session, the investigators performed a pilot
      study with 5 adolescents in which they adjusted the intensity of the exercises and the
      recovery times to ensure that they fulfilled the goals of the session. For this purpose, the
      investigators used simple aerobic exercises that do not pose any coordination difficulties,
      and the students followed a monitor's instructions. After adapting the sessions, they were
      performed in the experimental situation.

      The investigators calculated the intensity of the sessions with accelerometry. The
      investigators used tri-axial GT3X accelerometers that each of the participants wore while
      performing sessions "b" and "c". The students were shown how to put on and use the
      accelerometer before beginning the sessions 30. The frequency of time storage was a 1-second
      "epoch". The investigators ignored periods of use fewer than 15 epochs, and periods of no
      activity of longer than 1 minute were eliminated from the analysis. The software used for
      data treatment was ActiLife 6 (Actigraph, Actilife version 6.11.5) and to define the type of
      activity (light/moderate and moderate/vigorous), the investigators used the cutpoints defined
      by 31. The investigators chose this author because he clearly and concisely defines the
      cutpoints as a function of concrete ages. The specific criteria for each age are found in the
      SAS code available at http://epi.grants.cancer.gov/nhanes_pam/ (National Cancer Institute).
    
  