
    
      Primary objectives:

      To compare the pCR rates of neoadjuvant treatment of epirubicin / cyclophosphamide followed
      by docetaxel (EC-T) with or without bevacizumab (EC-T vs. ECB-TB) in patients with Her-2
      negative primary breast cancer (Setting I).

      To compare the pCR rates of neoadjuvant treatment with weekly paclitaxel with or without
      Everolimus (RAD001) (Pw vs. PwR) in patients with Her-2 negative primary breast cancer
      showing no sonographic response to 4 cycles of EC +/-B (Setting II).

      To compare the pCR rates of neoadjuvant treatment with epirubicin / cyclophosphamide followed
      by docetaxel with either trastuzumab or lapatinib (ECH-TH vs. ECL-TL) in patients with Her-2
      positive primary breast cancer (Setting III).

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To assess the toxicity of and compliance to all six treatments.

        2. To determine the response rates of the breast tumor and axillary nodes by physical
           examination and imaging tests (sonography, mammography, or MRI) after treatment in all
           arms.

        3. To determine the breast conservation rate after each treatment.

        4. To determine the (loco-regional and distant) disease-free and overall survival after
           each treatment. In Her-2 positive disease, the cerebral disease-free survival will be
           determined separately.

        5. To assess treatment efficacies in subgroups defined according to tumor stage (T2-3 vs.
           T4), receptor status (ER and / or PgR positive vs. ER and PgR negative) and response by
           best appropriate imaging method to the first four cycles of treatment (complete vs.
           partial vs. no change).

        6. To examine and compare pre-specified molecular markers such as Ki-67, phospho-mTOR,
           YB-1, COX-2, HuR, phospho-p70 S6K, p65 NF kappa B, PTEN, PI3-K, Akt, and a marker for
           stem cell like breast cancers (SOX-10) on core biopsy before and after end of
           chemotherapy.

      Objectives of Substudies:

        1. To assess and correlate circulating tumor cells and proteins with the effect of
           treatment(CTC Substudy).

        2. To compare the pathologic complete response (pCR), breast conservation, clinical and
           imaging response rate (after four cycles and before surgery) in patients where the tumor
           shows a favorable profile of a predetermined combined biomarker set to those where the
           tumor does not show it (PREDICT Substudy).

        3. To determine the percentage of patients in which conventional axillary clearance can be
           substituted by sentinel node biopsy when a predetermined clinical algorithm is used
           (SENTINA Substudy).

        4. To assess the surgical outcome according to patient's and surgeon's perspectives in
           correlation with clinical and pathological response to systemic treatment (SOS -
           Surgical Outcome Substudy).

        5. To correlate Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) of genes which are either involved
           in the metabolism or in the effectiveness of the distinct therapies with the associated
           toxicity and histologically assessed treatment effect (Pharmacogenomic Substudy).
    
  