
    
      The intake of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSB, e.g., soda/pop, sweet tea, sports and energy
      drinks, fruit drinks) is disproportionately high in Appalachia, including among adolescents
      whose intake is more than double the national average and more than four times the
      recommended daily amount. There are strong and consistent scientific data and systematic
      reviews documenting relationships among high SSB consumption and numerous chronic health
      conditions such obesity, some types of obesity-related cancers, diabetes, cardiovascular
      disease, and dental erosion and decay. Reaching adolescents with behaviorally-focused health
      programs where they spend the majority of their time, at school, shows promise. However,
      engaging caregivers who serve as their child's most influential role model as well as the
      gatekeeper for the home environment may be equally as important in changing adolescents' SSB
      behaviors. Finally, there is a great need to understand how to support schools and teachers
      to deliver and maintain evidence-based health education programs, especially among rural
      schools. Thus, the overarching goal of this proposal is to work in partnership with
      Appalachian middle schools to implement and evaluate Kids SIPsmartER. Kids SIPsmartER is a
      6-month, school-based, behavior and health literacy curriculum aimed at improving SSB
      behaviors among middle school students. The program also integrates a two-way short service
      message (SMS) strategy to engage caregivers in SSB role modeling and supporting home SSB
      environment changes. Kids SIPsmartER is grounded by the Theory of Planned Behavior as well as
      health literacy, media literacy, numeracy, and public health literacy concepts. In the
      proposed cluster-randomized controlled trial, the investigators target 12 middle schools in
      medically underserved Appalachian counties in southwest Virginia. This study is guided by the
      RE-AIM (reach, adoption, effectiveness, implementation, and maintenance) framework and is a
      type 1 hybrid design. The primary aim is to assess changes in SSB behaviors at 7-months among
      7th grade students at schools receiving Kids SIPsmartER, as compared to control schools. The
      investigators will also evaluate changes in secondary student outcomes (e.g., BMI, quality of
      life, theory-related variables), changes in caregiver outcomes (e.g., SSB behaviors, home SSB
      environment), and 19-month maintenance of outcomes. The reach and representativeness of Kids
      SIPsmartER will be assessed. Furthermore, the investigators will use a mixed-methods approach
      with interviews, surveys, observation, and process evaluation strategies to determine the
      degree to which teachers implement Kids SIPsmartER as intended and the potential for
      institutionalization within the schools. The long-term goal of this health promotion and
      prevention line of research is to establish an effective, scalable, and sustainable
      multi-level strategy to improve SSB behaviors and reduce SSB-related health inequities and
      chronic conditions (e.g. obesity, cancer, type II diabetes, heart disease, dental caries) in
      rural Appalachia.
    
  