
    
      Note: Recruitment is temporarily suspended because of VA-ORD moratorium due to Covid-19
      pandemic. 04/01/2020

      Treadmill exercise capacity and other physiologic responses to leg exercise are powerful
      predictors of mortality and provide important clinical and diagnostic information. However,
      many Veterans cannot perform treadmill exercise because of lower extremity or other
      disabilities. For many years, pharmacologic myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) has been the
      standard of care for their evaluation but fails to provide powerful prognostic and clinically
      relevant information of exercise testing, requires exposure to ionizing radiation, and is
      several times more expensive than exercise electrocardiography (ECG). With a recently
      completed Merit Review award, we obtained substantial retrospective observational evidence
      that arm exercise ECG stress testing scores are at least equivalent to pharmacologic MPI for
      robust prediction of mortality and other measures of clinical outcome in Veterans who cannot
      perform leg exercise. Major hypotheses for the current proposal are: 1) arm exercise ECG
      stress testing scores or best fit models without or with coronary artery calcium scoring (-/+
      CACS) are non-inferior to the Duke Treadmill Score -/+ CACS, best fit model treadmill ECG and
      regadenoson (r) MPI stress testing, all performed in the same Veterans in randomized order,
      as an initial evaluation for obstructive coronary artery disease (oCAD), and 2) arm exercise
      ECG stress testing scores or best fit models -/+ CACS are non-inferior to the Duke Treadmill
      Score -/+ CACS, best fit model treadmill ECG and rMPI stress testing in the same Veterans for
      predicting the primary clinical endpoint (composite of cardiovascular (CV) mortality,
      myocardial infarction, or 90-day post-stress test coronary revascularization) and secondary
      clinical endpoints of all-cause mortality and CV mortality. Our specific aim for all Veterans
      referred to the St. Louis Veterans Administration (VA) stress testing laboratory and are
      without exclusions for exercise or regadenoson stress testing or cardiac computed tomographic
      angiography (CTA), is to perform a single site prospective clinical trial comparing arm
      exercise ECG stress test scores and best models -/+ CACS with the Duke Treadmill Score -/+
      CACS if able to perform treadmill exercise, and best fit treadmill ECG and rMPI models, all
      performed in the same Veterans, for identification of the diagnostic endpoint of oCAD,
      defined as a severely ( 70%) occluded epicardial, graft, or 50% left main coronary artery
      lumen, determined by cardiac CTA or invasive coronary arteriography, and prediction of the
      primary and secondary clinical endpoints described above. The arm exercise scoring system to
      be evaluated incorporates the variables arm exercise capacity in resting metabolic
      equivalents, 1-minute heart rate recovery and arm exercise-induced ST depression of 1 mm or
      greater. Regadenoson MPI variables to be evaluated include an abnormal MPI study and best fit
      models of summed stress and difference scores, transient ischemic dilatation, gated left
      ventricular ejection fraction, and the heart rate response. We plan to enroll 75 Veterans per
      year for 4 years and follow the entire cohort for an additional year. Statistical analyses
      will be performed with SAS using univariate and multivariate logistic and Cox regression
      models. We will evaluate non-inferiority of arm exercise scores -/+ CACS for their
      association with oCAD and prediction of clinical endpoints with a non-inferiority margin of
      0.05. A long term goal is to develop a multi-site prospective randomized VA Cooperative Study
      to assess generalizability of arm exercise ECG stress testing -/+ CACS for diagnostic and
      prognostic evaluation in the VA and United States healthcare systems.
    
  