
    
      Suicide attempts involving drug abuse are a major public health problem. Development of
      interventions that focus on reducing the suicide attempt rate among drug abusers is a
      necessity. There is a strong connection between drug abuse and both suicide attempts and
      completed suicide. As much as 45% of drug abusers have attempted suicide at least once. The
      rate of completed suicide among drug abusers has been reported to be as much as 30 times the
      rate for the general population. Unfortunately, there is a lack of empirically supported
      treatments for reducing suicidal behavior in drug abusers. This study will develop and
      evaluate the effectiveness of a cognitive therapy intervention for people with a drug
      dependence disorder who recently attempted suicide.

      Participants in this single-blind study will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment
      groups: cognitive therapy combined with enriched usual care; or enriched usual care alone. An
      initial baseline assessment will occur within 7 days following the participant's suicide
      attempt and subsequent medical evaluation at a hospital emergency department. Suicide
      behavior and ideation, depression, hopelessness, and addiction severity will be assessed.
      Following the baseline assessment, treatment will begin. The cognitive therapy treatment will
      be specifically developed to prevent suicide attempts. It will involve the identification of
      proximal thoughts, images, and core beliefs that were activated prior to the suicide attempt.
      Cognitive and behavioral strategies will be applied to address the identified thoughts and
      beliefs. Patients will also learn adaptive ways of coping with stressors. The enriched usual
      care will entail standard treatments for suicide prevention. Study visits will occur 1, 3, 6,
      12, 18, and 24 months following enrollment. Baseline measurements will be repeated at each
      study visit to evaluate participants' improvement. Participants receiving cognitive therapy
      will attend approximately 10 weekly or bi-weekly outpatient study visits. Participation will
      last for 2 years.

      For information on a related study, please follow this link:

      http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00149773
    
  