
    
      This study is a prospective, randomized controlled trial examining the impact of marking the
      patient abdomen at the time of the preoperative visit on patient's satisfaction with scar
      appearance and symptoms, and pain at the incision site after undergoing minimally invasive
      gynecologic surgery for benign conditions.

      We hypothesize that preoperative marking and instruction about incision expectations will
      improve patient's postoperative satisfaction with scar appearance and symptoms as well as
      decrease incision site pain compared to traditional preoperative counseling.

      Patients that will undergo laparoscopic surgical intervention will be identified. The patient
      will be randomized into two groups: preoperative marking the abdomen versus conventional
      preoperative counseling.

      If the patient is randomized to the marking the abdomen group (study group) she will then
      have the anticipated incision needed to place the trocars during her surgery marked on her
      abdomen by the surgeon attending physician involved in the patient care during the
      preoperative counseling visit. If she is randomized to the control group, then she will
      undergo traditional preoperative counseling by the same team without marking the abdomen.

      After completed the surgery, information regarding type of surgery, reason for the procedure,
      estimated blood loss, surgical length, complications, location and size of abdominal
      incisions made on the patient's abdomen will be collected. Then at the 6 weeks post op visit,
      patient's satisfaction with the incision scar will be evaluated with a validated patient scar
      assessment questionnaire form and by one 5 point Likert scale question used in previous
      studies. The pain at rest at the incision site will be evaluated by a Visual Analog Pain
      Scale (VAS). Patients will also be asked to evaluate their generalized pain using a modified
      McGill Present Pain Intensity Scale.
    
  