
    
      Obesity is a major public health problem. Observational data suggest that drinking water is
      associated with a healthier weight. Indeed advice to drink extra water to help with weight
      control is widespread (eight 8oz glasses or 2L of water a day is a common recommendation).
      The public spends billions of dollars on bottled water in the belief that it works and people
      are increasingly carrying water with them throughout the day. However, a systematic review of
      randomized controlled trials looking at the effectiveness of drinking extra water to help
      reduce weight or weight gain or produce changes in surrogate markers such as appetite or
      caloric intake undertaken by our group showed that currently there is an absence of reliable
      evidence to support the recommendation to drink water.

      It is important to establish whether drinking extra water is indeed helpful for weight
      control and, if so, what is the optimal quantity to recommend, as this could have an
      important impact of public health and public health policies if it is indeed effective. Tap
      water is so readily available in this country that even if the improvement in weight
      maintenance or reduction is small, this will be a cost-effective intervention. If it is not
      effective, then it is important that people know this so that they can make an informed
      choice about buying bottles of water for their health.

      The primary clinical question the study will address is does drinking extra water prevent or
      reduce weight gain?

      The secondary clinical questions it will ask are:

        1. Does drinking water reduce hunger or increase satiety

        2. Does drinking water increase participants' sense of well-being

        3. What is the effect of the different volumes of water on nocturnal urination patterns?

      Once participants decide to take part in this trial, they will be asked to drink a specific
      amount of water at particular times of the day for 6 months. A computer will decide by chance
      the amount of water they will be asked to drink each day of the trial and the times at which
      to drink this.

      There are different amounts and different times that people will be asked to drink water,
      this is so that investigators can find out if there is an optimal volume of water to drink,
      and a best time to drink water to reduce headaches or hunger. The least amount of water the
      computer could ask participants to drink is half a glass (that is 4oz or 120ml). The largest
      volume of water the computer could ask a participant to drink would be eight glasses of water
      a day (a total of 64oz or 2L) spread across the day (that is not all at once). Once the
      computer has assigned participants to a particular volume and times to drink water, these
      will remain the same for every day throughout the study.

      Participant will be asked to provide some brief information about themselves at the beginning
      of the study (for example, age, sex, height and whether they exercise, smoke or not). During
      the study they will be asked to weigh themselves and record this, their dietary habits and
      the amount they drink will be stored on a private and confidential page on the study website.
      They will be asked to fill in [2] confidential short surveys about how they feel and their
      views, one at the start and one at the end of the study
    
  