
    
      Combat related Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is the most common chronic psychiatric
      disorder in the veteran population. PTSD is often disabling and is characterized by intrusive
      re-experiencing of traumatic memories, avoidance/numbing, and increased arousal. An estimated
      830,000 veterans currently have chronic PTSD symptoms. The VA has set up 145 specialized PTSD
      programs. Unfortunately, outcome studies of VA PTSD programs have failed to show efficacy. VA
      PTSD patients have been significantly less responsive to conventional therapies than other
      PTSD populations including traditional Imaginal Exposure Therapy. Virtual Reality based
      exposure therapy (VRE) allows patients to feel immersed in highly interactive
      computer-generated environments. Within these environments patients can be exposed to
      anxiety-provoking stimuli in a gradual and controlled manner so that they can become
      desensitized to these stimuli and, in the case of PTSD, the traumatic memories evoked by
      these stimuli. VRE therapy produced significant and lasting reductions in PTSD symptoms with
      Vietnam veterans (N=14) in two open trials at the Atlanta VA. Two case studies of successful
      PTSD treatment (one at the Boston VA and the other of a 9/11 survivor) provide additional
      support for VRE. The advantages of VRE include less reliance on the patient's ability to
      visualize traumatic memories and making it more difficult for patients to avoid memories
      during exposure therapy. It is also safer and more convenient than in vivo exposure. The
      proposed study would randomly assign twenty Vietnam veterans to either VRE or to a Treatment
      as Usual (TAU) control condition. Treatment would consist of ten ninety-minute individual
      psychotherapy sessions for both groups. Assessments would occur at pre-treatment, immediate
      post-treatment and at six months post-treatment. VRE would use Virtual Vietnam computer
      generated environments to desensitize patients to one or two of their most traumatic combat
      related memories. VRE patients would wear a Head Mounted Display (HMD) that fits over their
      eyes and ears. While in the HMD patients look into a stereoscopic computer display and
      receive audio input through a set of headphones. Patients have reported a strong sense of
      being present in a Vietnam-like place when in these environments. The therapist is in
      constant contact with the patient through a microphone connected to the HMD. Patients recount
      their traumatic experiences while the therapist augments these descriptions with visual and
      auditory combat-related stimuli at the appropriate moments in time. The therapist can
      control, on a moment-by-moment basis, the type and intensity of the VR exposure. The goal is
      to provide the necessary level of stimuli to help the patient become engaged enough, long
      enough, to desensitize to a traumatic memory without becoming overwhelmed by either the
      external stimuli provided by the VR or the internal stimulus of the traumatic memory. In the
      TAU condition therapy will focus on "here-and-now" issues with a problem solving focus of the
      type that VA PTSD patients usually receive. The primary outcome measure will be the Clinician
      Administered PTSD Scale. An Independent Assessor who will be blind to patients' treatment
      conditions will conduct assessments. To insure patient safety, the Scale of Suicide Ideation
      will be administered in both conditions once a week. Patients will be paid $75 for each of
      the two post-treatment assessments. The hypotheses are: (1) VRE will produce significant
      reductions in PTSD symptoms; (2) VRE will be significantly more effective than TAU; (3) VRE
      symptom reduction will be maintained on six-month follow-up assessment. VRE may be a powerful
      new tool in the treatment of PTSD. Controlled studies, like the one proposed, are needed to
      explore its utility.
    
  