
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the safety and tolerated dose (i.e., duration, techniques, and degree of
           pressure) of professional massage therapy vs professional simple presence (no touch)
           massage therapy vs usual care followed by caregiver massage therapy vs usual care in
           patients with locally advanced or metastatic cancer.

        -  Correlate these therapies with pain, anxiety, depression, nausea, and shortness of
           breath in these patients.

        -  Correlate these therapies with patient quality of life and caregiver anxiety and
           depression.

        -  Determine the feasibility of teaching family caregivers how to provide massage therapy
           and the subsequent use of massage by the caregivers.

        -  Determine the effects of caregiver massage therapy on patients and caregivers.

        -  Determine the feasibility and acceptability among patients and massage therapists of a
           simple presence (no touch) massage therapy control group.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled, pilot study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 3
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (professional massage therapy): Hospitalized patients are offered massage therapy
           by a licensed massage therapist for 15-45 minutes once daily for the duration of their
           hospital stay. Outpatient oncology clinic patients are offered home-based massage
           therapy by a licensed massage therapist for 15-45 minutes once daily for 3 days.

        -  Arm II (usual care): Patients receive usual care for symptom management.

        -  Arm III (professional simple presence [no touch] massage therapy): Hospitalized patients
           are offered simple presence (no touch) massage therapy comprising a room visit by a
           licensed massage therapist who places his/her hands 12 inches over the patient without
           direct touch for 15-45 minutes. Treatment is offered once daily for the duration of the
           hospital stay. Outpatient oncology clinic patients are offered home-based simple
           presence (no touch) massage therapy by a licensed massage therapist for 15-45 minutes
           once daily for 3 days.

      All patients are then randomized (a second time) to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (caregiver massage therapy): Previously hospitalized patients are offered
           home-based caregiver massage therapy for 1 month. Outpatient oncology clinic patients
           are offered home-based caregiver massage therapy for 3 weeks.

        -  Arm II (usual care): Patients receive usual care for symptom management. Hospitalized
           patients complete a questionnaire addressing symptoms, quality of life, satisfaction
           with symptom control, and time spent up or out of bed once daily on days 1-5, every 3
           days while in the hospital, and then at 1 week, 2 weeks, and 1 month after discharge
           from the hospital. Outpatient oncology clinic patients complete a similar telephone
           questionnaire at baseline, 1 week, and then at 1 month.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 100 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  