
    
      Surgery is currently the only effective treatment for morbid obesity and can be divided into
      restrictive surgeries (Sleeve gastrectomy), or malabsorptive surgery (Bypass surgery). The
      good medical practice guidelines recommend bariatric surgery for patients with body mass
      index (BMI) greater than 40 kg/m² without co-morbidities or between 35 and 40 kg/m² with
      co-morbidities (cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, sleep apnea, etc). Bariatric surgery is
      currently not an option for obese patients with a BMI between 30 and 35 kg/m² with or without
      comorbidities (Class I) or with a BMI between 35 and 40 kg/m² without comorbidity (Class II
      without comorbidity). Patients with obesity of class I, or class II without co-morbidity,
      currently have no possibility of interventional treatment other than nutritional therapy.

      Vertical gastric plication ( without cutting gastric wall) is a novel surgical approach for
      reducing the stomach capacity. A transoral or endoluminal approach (i.e. a procedure that
      requires no incision, because access is granted through the mouth) offers some potential
      additional benefit to the patient, because the procedures continue to become more and more
      minimally invasive. Advances in endoluminal devices are now allowing clinicians the ability
      to begin exploring bariatric procedures performed via flexible endoscopy. Although these
      procedures may not be as effective as their surgical counterparts, these less-invasive
      options may relieve patients of the significant risks associated with surgery and might
      become part of the armamentarium of obesity management (5). Endomina (Endo Tools
      Therapeutics, Gosselies, Belgium) is a CE marked device that offers the possibilities of
      making transoral full thickness tissue apposition and may allow performing, via a transoral
      route, large plications with tight serosa to serosa apposition.

      The investigators wish to carry out a bi-centric pilot study (Marseille, Nice) which will
      validate the effectiveness (in terms of excess weight loss and total body weight loss) of
      this new endoscopic technique for patients previously excluded from any surgical management
      of their obesity (class I, or class II without comorbidity). The primary objective is to
      measure the impact of this treatment for patients with obesity of class I, or class II
      without co-morbidity, assessed by excess weight loss (EWL)>25%. The secondary objectives are
      to measure total body weight loss >5%, BMI reduction, tolerance, complications related to
      this technique in this indication. This study is a prospective, pilot, bi-center safety and
      efficacy study. 30 patients will be enrolled between APHM, Marseille et CHU L'Archet Nice
    
  