
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Statistical evidence had been found for a dominant major gene segregating in large pedigrees
      for high urinary kallikrein levels protecting against hypertension which explained 51 percent
      of the variance of total urinary kallikrein (TUK). In normotensive adult and pediatric
      pedigree members, low urinary kallikrein activity was associated with a positive family
      history of hypertension, stroke, and/or coronary disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The presence of a previously reported dominant major gene inferred from segregation analysis
      of total urinary kallikrein activity (TUK) in selected pedigrees was verified on already
      collected frozen urine specimens. Subjects were rescreened to obtain measured nine year
      follow-up blood pressure data. Individuals were classified by assigned baseline TUK genotype
      and tested to determine whether low TUK was prospectively associated with new hypertension
      onset or elevated blood pressures. Because a major gene effect was implicated, available
      probes for the structural kallikrein gene or other related products regulating kallikrein
      were tested for genetic linkage to TUK levels. Correlations with over 600 variables measured
      at baseline in pedigrees and twins were tested to analyze the strong familiality of
      environment, refine the genetic analyses to better assign genotypes, and detect
      gene-environment interactions. All baseline variables except kallikrein, aldosterone, and
      prostaglandin measurements on frozen urine and follow-up blood pressure had already been
      collected.

      TUK may be a marker for a renal, cellular or other physiological abnormality influencing both
      TUK expression and susceptibility to hypertension. Therefore, the relationship of TUK to
      urinary aldosterone, prostaglandin E excretion and already measured urinary electrolytes,
      plasma renin activity, and baseline and reactive blood pressures was determined. Genetic
      segregation analyses were performed of the urinary variables and other variables closely
      associated with TUK.
    
  