
    
      The purpose of this study is to look at the impact of including a physical activity program
      and/or a nutritional supplement along with your regular care. The nutritional supplement used
      in this study consists of branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs). BCAAs are found in certain
      foods and are readily available as dietary supplements.

      The investigators in this study will look at how the physical activity and nutritional
      supplement program might affect patients' health outcomes, and if this program can maintain
      or even increase muscle mass in patients with cirrhosis.

      Participants will be randomized in three groups:

        1. Standard Care: If the participant is randomized to this group, they will receive the
           same medical care for their cirrhosis as they would if they were not participating in
           the study. The doctor will provide them with some general information about healthy diet
           and exercise. They will also be asked to keep an exercise log of the type of physical
           activity they do on your own.

        2. Nutritional Supplement: BCAAs: If the participant is randomized to this group, they will
           be provided with BCAA powder to take during the 12 weeks of the study. They will be
           asked to take 7 teaspoons per day. They will take 2-3 teaspoons after each meal. The
           doctor will also provide them with some general information about healthy diet and
           exercise, and they will also be asked to keep an exercise log of any physical activity
           they do on your own.

        3. Nutritional Supplement and Supervised Physical Activity: If the participant is
           randomized to this group, they will be provided with BCAA powder and be asked to
           participate in one hour per week of supervised fitness instruction at the Loyola Center
           for Fitness. The fitness instruction will consist of low-impact aerobic exercise such as
           walking or riding an exercise bicycle. They will also be given a list of exercises to
           perform at home at least two times during the week and be asked to keep an exercise log
           of their physical activity. The doctor will provide them with some general information
           about healthy diet and exercise.
    
  