
    
      Background:

      Fever is one of the most prevalent signs in hospitalized patients, signaling the activation
      of the immune system.

      There is little empiric evidence related to symptoms or signs that accompany changes in body
      temperature.

      Understanding the nature, timing and relationship of patient signs and symptoms of fever will
      provide insight into the febrile process and guide more informed treatment.

      Objectives:

      The protocol is divided into two phases:

      Phase I

      -To develop and implement a simple clinical tool for assessing and documenting
      patient-reported signs and symptoms of fever.

      Phase II

      -To describe the prevalence and relationship of signs and symptoms that accompanies a febrile
      state and related patterns of change over time.

      Eligibility:

      Phase I

        -  Adult and pediatric medical-surgical patients hospitalized at the Clinical Center
           admitted to 3NE (oncology/ transplant), 3NW (surgical oncology) and 1NW (pediatric).

        -  Age greater than or equal to 8 years old

        -  Understand and speak English

      Phase II

        -  Inpatients admitted to the Clinical Research Center

        -  Age greater than or equal to 8 years old.

      Design:

      Phase I

      -Descriptive study involving qualitative interviews and chart reviews from medical surgical
      inpatients. Two types of interviews with two different sets of patients will be conducted.
      The maximum number of research participants for this phase will be 65. The final sample size
      will be determined based on the point of saturation, defined as four consecutive interviews
      during which no new signs or symptoms associated with fever are identified. The second set of
      interviews will involve 20 to 30 new research participants, including at least 5 patients
      less than 18 years of age who will review a list of signs and symptoms of fever for
      comprehension and clarity to inform the final list and determine the terminology to be used
      in the FAST.

      Study of the Febrile Assessment Tool (FAST)

      -Test of the FAST in 120 patients. Before placing the FAST in the electronic record (Clinical
      Research Information System-CRIS) this new assessment tool will be used in approximately 120
      patients during routine vital sign measurements. Patients admitted to the surgical oncology
      unit (3NW) will be consented and followed with collection of the FAST assessments

      Education Implementation

        -  Inform nursing staff of the background, content and procedures for using the Febrile
           Assessment Tool (FAST)

        -  Educational interim will last 4 weeks

      Phase II

        -  Approximately 2 months or at the discretion of the PI after FAST education

        -  Descriptive study involving chart review from unidentified inpatients. The sample size
           will be a maximum of 500.
    
  