
    
      Stroke is a major public health and social care concern worldwide, being the leading cause of
      long-term disability in adults. The upper limb motor impairment commonly persists after
      stroke affecting patients' everyday life functional independence. Despite the intensive
      rehabilitation, the variability in the nature and the extent of upper limb recovery remains a
      crucial factor effecting rehabilitation outcomes. Electroencephalography (EEG) -based Brain
      Computer Interface (BCI) technology is a potential tool to promote functional motor recovery
      of upper limbs after stroke as shown in several randomized controlled trials. The
      investigators' multidisciplinary team was successful in designing, implementing and
      clinically validating a sensorimotor rhythm-based BCI combined with realistic visual feedback
      of upper limb to support hand motor imagery (MI) practice in stroke participants. However,
      important questions remain to be addressed to translate BCI in clinical practice such as
      defining whether the expected BCI-induced early improvements in functional motor outcomes can
      be sustained in a long-term after stroke. This requires advancements in the knowledge on
      brain functional re-organization after stroke and how this re-organization would correlate
      with the functional motor outcome (evidence-base medicine). Last but not least, the
      definition of the determinants of the patient response to-treatment is paramount to optimize
      the process of personalized medicine in rehabilitation. The fundamental of this project stems
      from the investigators' previous findings on the efficacy of BCI-assisted MI training in
      subacute stroke participants. These promising findings corroborated the idea that a
      relatively low-cost technique (i.e. EEG-based BCI) can be exploited to deliver a
      rehabilitative intervention (in this case MI) and prompted the research team to undertake a
      further translational effort by implementing an all-in-one BCI-supported MI training station-
      the Promotoer. In this project, the investigators will provide evidence for a persistency (up
      to 6 months) of the significant early improvement of hand motor function induced by the
      BCI-assisted MI training operated via the Promotoer. Task-specific training was recently
      reported to induce long-term improvements (6 months follow-up) in arm motor function after
      stroke. Thus, the hypothesis is that the BCI-based rewarding of hand MI tasks would promote
      long-lasting retention of early induced positive effect on motor performance with respect to
      MI task practiced in an open loop condition (i.e., without BCI). Further hypothesis is that
      such clinical improvement would be sustained by a long-lasting neuroplasticity changes that
      would be harnessed by the BCI -based intervention. This hypothesis rises from current
      evidence for an early enhancement of post-stroke plastic changes enabled by BCI- based
      trainings. To test this hypothesis, a longitudinal assessment of the brain network
      organization derived from advanced EEG signal processing will be performed. The heterogeneity
      of stroke makes prediction of treatment responder a great challenge. The investigators
      hypothesize that the longitudinal functional and neurophysiology assessment over 6 months
      from the intervention will allow for insights in biomarkers and potential predictors of
      stroke participants' response to the Promotoer training. Some of the well-recognized factors
      contributing to functional motor recovery after stroke such as the relation between lesion
      characteristics and patterns of post-stroke motor cortical re-organization (e.g.,
      ipsilesional/contralesional primary and non-primary motor areas; cortico-spinal tract
      integrity, severity of motor deficits at baseline) will be taken into account.
    
  