
    
      Emerging evidence indicates the presence of low-grade mucosal inflammation and its
      pathogenetic role in IBS. The aim of this pilot study is to provide that mesalazine treatment
      of IBS patients reduces low grade colonic inflammation.

      This is a pilot double blind placebo controlled study.

      A total of twenty patients (both males and females) will be recruited; ten will be randomly
      assigned to the placebo controlled arm and ten to the study medication arm.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  IBS patients (both males and females) with positive diagnosis based on Rome II criteria
           [20]

        -  age ≥ 18 years

        -  Patients capable of conforming to the study protocol;

        -  Patients who have given their free and informed consent

      Exclusion criteria:

      - Patients with ascertained Inflammatory Bowel Diseases (Crohn disease, Diverticular disease,
      Ulcerative colitis, Infectious colitis, Ischemic colitis, microscopic colitis); food
      intolerance/allergy; active malignancy of any type, or history of a malignancy; presence of
      major abdominal surgeries; ascertained hypersensitivity to the salicylates; positive faecal
      culture for bacterial, mycotic or parasitic pathogens; patients with history of clinically
      significant renal (creatinine ≥ 2.0 mg/dL or ≥177 μmol/L), hepatic (AST or ALT greater than
      three times the upper limit of normal range), cardiac, metabolic or haematological disease;
      esophageal, gastric or duodenal ulcer within 30 days prior to randomization; patients with
      intended or ascertained pregnancy; lactation; patients who become unable to conform to
      protocol; patients who are continuously taking laxatives; patients in antibiotic therapy
      during the last month; patients in current therapy with corticosteroids; treatment with any
      investigational drug within the previous 30 days; treatment with lactulose or with any
      compound that lowering the colonic pH can prevent the release of the active moiety; recent
      history or suspicion of alcohol abuse or drug addiction; any severe pathology that can
      interfere with the treatment or the clinical tests of the trial; previous participation in
      this study.

      Treatments:

      Mesalazine cpr 800 mg t.i.d. for 8 weeks Placebo cpr t.i.d. for 8 weeks

      Primary End Points:

      The primary end point of the study will be to assess the effect of mesalazine treatment on:

      • Total number of inflammatory mucosal cells

      Secondary End Points:

        -  Individual inflammatory cell subsets and enterochromaffin (EC) cells in the colonic
           mucosa (mast cells, macrophages, B and T lymphocytes subsets)

        -  Inflammatory release by mucosal biopsies

        -  Indicative measures of symptoms relief

      The local tolerability of treatment, through the daily monitoring of intolerance
      manifestations at the gastrointestinal level, will be carried out by each patient and
      reported to the investigator on each control visit.

      Adverse event(s) and concurrent illness(es) which occur during the study will be monitored.

      The following laboratory test results will be recorded at Basal Visit (T0) and at the end of
      the study (T8):

      • Hemochrome, AST , ALT, creatinine, γ-GT, alkaline phosphatase (AP), total bilirubin,
      glucose, N, Na+, K+, Ca 2+ Urine pregnancy test: if the patient is a female of childbearing
      potential, a urine pregnancy test will be performed and must be confirmed as negative before
      the first dose of study medication is administered.

      On the BASAL VISIT (T0) the following will be performed:

        1. Diagnosis of IBS disease based on Rome II criteria

        2. Check inclusion and exclusion criteria

        3. Written Consent

        4. Record medical history and concomitant medication

        5. Physical examination

        6. Urine pregnancy test

        7. Vital Signs (BP, HR, LR)

        8. Fecal Culture

        9. Sigmoid biopsy

       10. Delivery of the patient's diary

       11. Laboratory Assessments

       12. Symptom questionnaire

      On the VISITS T2, T4 and T6 ( after 2, 4 and 6 weeks) the following will be performed:

        1. Symptom questionnaire

        2. Vital Signs (BP, HR, LR)

        3. Collection/Delivery of the patient's diary

        4. Record Adverse Events

        5. Record Concomitant Medication

      On the VISIT T8 or FINAL VISIT (After eight weeks) the following will be performed:

        1. Sigmoid biopsy

        2. Symptom questionnaire

        3. Collection/Delivery of the patient's diary

        4. Physical examination

        5. Laboratory Assessments

        6. Vital Signs (BP, HR, LR)

        7. Record Adverse Events

        8. Record Concomitant Medication Data recorded during the study will be summarised by
           treatment group and compared using descriptive statistics.
    
  