
    
      Gingival recession is defined as the apical migration of the marginal gingiva and it leads to
      root surface exposure. It may be localized to a few sites or generalized to several teeth,
      and the severity may vary within the same person and between different people.

      A variety of surgical techniques have been recommended to attain root coverage, including
      connective tissue graft, free gingival graft (FGG), pedicle flaps, double papilla grafts,
      coronally positioned flaps, coronal positioning of previously placed FGG, guided tissue
      regeneration (GTR), and the use of acellular dermal matrix (ADM), or enamel matrix
      derivatives. A recently developed technique used to attain root coverage is the Pinhole
      Surgical Technique (PST) described by Chao. This novel approach involves the separation of
      the gingiva and periosteum from the underlying bone with instruments inserted through a
      pinhole created in the vestibular area of the involved tooth while filling underneath the
      undermined interproximal papilla with strips of a bioresorbable membrane, rather than
      transferring gingival tissue from the palate to the area of recession. The advantage of this
      technique is the preservation of the gingival tissues and its blood supply, while freeing the
      flap from its apical attachment for ease of coronal displacement and adequate root coverage.
      In addition, the lack of a secondary surgical site may eliminate the accompanying pain and
      discomfort often reported in root coverage procedures.

      The connective tissue graft technique was described by Langer and Langer in 1985, in which
      the patient's own connective tissue is taken mostly from the palate and used to cover the
      area of recession. The retro-molar pad area (tuberosity) has also been used because of the
      thickening of the sub-mucosa in that area. This graft material is carefully sutured into
      place and a coronally advanced flap placed and sutured over it, while part of the graft can
      be left exposed. Currently the connective tissue graft (CTG) is the most common and
      predictable treatment for gingival recession, and is considered the gold standard. Key
      advantages of the connective tissue graft procedure are the availability of two sources of
      blood supply to the graft: one from the recipient bed, and the other from the overlying flap,
      the perfect chromatic integration, an optimal esthetic outcome, and excellent color match. In
      addition, an increase in the thickness of the gingival tissues and the width of keratinized
      gingiva has been documented with the ability for creeping attachment which is not possible
      with the use of bioresorbable collagen membranes.
    
  