
    
      1. INTRODUCTION FESS (functional endoscopic sinus surgery) is a popular minimally invasive
           surgical technique for management of patient with sinus pathological conditions. The aim
           of this sinus endoscopic surgery is to restore a normal mucociliary clearing function
           and drainage of sinuses. Although, it is a minimally invasive surgery but it can lead to
           a serious complications such as optic nerve injury, orbital cellulitis, meningitis, and
           rhino-oral fistulas. Bleeding is one of the obstacles that is associated with this
           technique that can decrease the surgical field visualization and increase the
           probability of complications.

           One of the most important maneuvers used to minimize this bleeding is hypotensive
           anesthesia. The ideal hypotensive agent for anesthetist must be a familiar drug, easy to
           use, rapid onset and offset and with minimal side effects. Nitroglycerin infusion is a
           frequently used drug to produce controlled hypotension, as it is cheap and easy to use
           drug rapid onset and offset time. But a common side effect is reflex tachycardia and
           venous congestion which may also obscures the surgical filed and decreases surgeon
           satisfaction.

           Total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) using propofol and remifentanil is a common
           procedure used in western countries. In Egypt remifentanil is not freely available. So
           this study will be designed to use inhalational anesthesia and use propofol infusion as
           a hypotensive agent and to determine whether controlled hypotension, surgeon's
           satisfaction and better operative filed can be achieved when compared to nitroglycerine
           infusion.

        2. AIM OF THE WORK The aim of the study is to identify the efficacy of propofol infusion as
           a hypotensive agent in comparison with nitroglycerin infusion during FESS.

      Study Design

      A total of 40 adult patients undergoing FESS procedure for sinusitis. Written informed
      consent will be obtained from all patients before randomization. Patients will be divided
      equally into two groups the first 20 patients will be assigned to propofol group (Prop group)
      and the other group to nitroglycerin group (NTG group). Group assignment, preparation and
      administration of drugs will be performed by a junior anesthetist who is neither involved nor
      interested by any means in the study. The patients, the ENT surgeon, and the anesthetist
      collecting data all were blind to the groups. The anesthetist performing the general
      anesthesia was not blinded to the drug given but he was not one of the study participants.
    
  