
    
      Introduction Toluidine blue staining is the most common technique used for the early
      detection of dysplastic changes in patients with premalignant lesions. One meta-analysis of
      Rosenberg et al. previously published reported sensitivity ranged from 93.5% to 97.8% and the
      specificity ranged from 73.3% to 92.9%. Zang et al reported that TB not only detects
      high-grade dysplasia but detects OPLs with minimal or no dysplasia with high-risk clinical
      and molecular attributes.4 But, studies have shown as high as 30% risk of false-positive
      staining.

      Rose Bengal (RB) has been widely used to diagnose various ocular surface disorders including
      delineation of the extent of corneal and conjunctival neoplasms. It has been believed to
      stain desquamated ocular epithelial cells, dead or degenerated cells, or wherever there is
      poor protection of the surface epithelium by the preocular tear ﬁlm rather than lack of cell
      vitality. These characteristic features of RB lead the researchers to apply it in oral
      premalignant lesions.5 In none of the studies, reliability of RB stains was not compared with
      existing or previously practiced methods in oral premalignant lesions. Hence this study was
      undertaken with the aim of comparing the RB and TB stain and for early detection of dysplasia
      in oral premalignant lesions.

      Materials and Methods:

      Study group consists of 41 oral premalignant lesions in patients visiting the Department of
      Oral Medicine and Radiology of The oxford dental college and hospital, Bangalore. Patients
      with OSMF, patients with bleeding disorders, patient with other systemic diseases were
      excluded from the study.To perform the present study, ethical clearance was obtained from the
      Institutional Ethical Board. Study procedure was explained and informed consent was taken
      from the selected patients with premalignant lesions. The patients with lesions were
      subjected to detailed case history, intra oral examination and photographs of the lesions
      were recorded. Patients with habits were counselled to quit the habit and recalled after 2
      weeks for staining. Since one patient had not quit the habit in the two weeks from first
      visit, in another patient the lesion disappeared in two weeks 2 patients (3 lesions) were not
      included in the study. (Graph1)

      Initially patients were asked to rinse their mouth with distilled water for 1 minute. 1% RB
      solution was applied with a cotton tip for 2 minutes. Again patients were asked to rinse
      their mouth for 1 minute with distilled water to remove excess RB solution and the area which
      had taken up the stain was photographed. Following this, patients were asked to rinse their
      mouth with 1% acetic acid for 1 min to remove the remaining RB stain from the lesion and were
      prepared for TB staining. 1%Toluidineblue is applied over the lesion and after 30 seconds
      patients were made to swish with 1% acetic acid and the area stained was recorded
      photographically.

      These two photographs were assessed and if the stained area was similar in both the
      procedures single biopsy was taken. If the stained areas were different two different
      biopsies were taken.
    
  