
    
      Rationale: Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is considered a standard of care for patients with
      symptomatic lung disease. It has achieved strong evidence for reducing symptoms and improving
      exercise tolerance. Walking is the most common form of physical activity and most individuals
      need to walk in the course of their daily activities. Chosen walking speed is a good
      indicator of the debilitating effects of disease and improvement in usual walk speed has been
      associated with a substantial reduction in mortality in elderly subjects. Therefore, it is
      important for clinicians to understand how patients choose to walk in relation to their
      capabilities as well as to know how this relationship changes with PR.

      The main purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between walking speed and
      walking endurance before and after PR.

      Primary aim: to estimate the maximum walking speed that can be sustained for > 24 min (i.e.
      maximum sustainable walking speed; MSWS) from the relationship between walking speed and
      walking time in patients with symptomatic lung disease.

      Secondary aims: (i) to determine if chosen speed during the endurance walk test is different
      from the MSWS, (ii) to determine if MSWS and speed chosen for the endurance walk test changes
      in response to PR and, (iii) to measure the repeatability of endurance walk time (EWT),
      defined as the duration a patient can walk at a self-selected pace before that first need to
      stop and rest.

      Significance: Walking is the most common form of physical activity. Chosen walking speed and
      the capacity to endure walking at different speeds can help quantify disability. Also,
      studies that examine the effect of PR on survival are not available. However, indirect
      evidence suggests that PR improves many of the risk factors associated with mortality in
      patients with COPD. This study will examine the effect of PR on the usual walking speed
      selected by individuals with symptomatic lung disease, which has been demonstrated to be a
      predictor of mortality in elderly individuals. Therefore, our study may contribute to the
      indirect evidence for the effects of PR on survival.
    
  