
    
      Patient participation in decision making processes about their care promotes patient
      satisfaction and confidence. As part of this, allowing patients to see letters written about
      them enables trust, encourages patients to be involved in decision making process and allow
      patient understanding. Given this, the 2000 NHS plan made it a requirement that all medical
      correspondence between health professionals is shared with patients.

      It is estimated that 40-80% of information discussed during a consultation is forgotten
      immediately. Written summaries have shown to be an effective method of improving patient
      recall of information by 20.8%.

      The literature on the benefits/disadvantages of consultation summaries is largely focused on
      adult patients with little research done to explore the views of adolescent population. Where
      the patient is a child, the literature is only focussed on parents of children and not the
      children themselves. Limited research has shown that parents/care givers report clinic
      letters being useful in assisting with better understanding and management of their child's
      condition.

      Little is known about how young people value these letters in the same way. Only one brief
      questionnaire study focused on adolescent views and found that young people wished to receive
      consultation summaries.

      Adolescence is an important time of an individual's life. This is the time when many
      independent health behaviours are established. During adolescence, young people start showing
      more interest in their own health and often wish to participate in decision making processes
      regarding their care. The role of health workers at this stage is to appreciate young people
      as individuals . Clinic summaries addressed directly to young people might play an important
      role in assisting with establishment of health behaviours and promoting good health in young
      people.

      The aim of this research is to understand the views of adolescent patients on consultation
      summaries and identify factors can improve these summaries and subsequently their health and
      well-being.
    
  