
    
      This is a prospective randomized, controlled pilot study evaluating relationships towards
      food in overweight and obese Noom Healthy Weight participants.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two conditions (intervention, waitlist
      control). In the intervention condition, participants will have immediate access to the full
      Noom program after consenting to Noom's Research Policy, which states the collection of in
      app user data for research purposes. In the waitlist control condition, participants will be
      informed that they are on a waiting list and will be provided access to the full Noom program
      after 4 months after consenting to Noom's Research Policy.

      Noom will have access to participants' username and email address. Before the start of the
      program, participants in both conditions will be emailed a survey containing the validated
      questionnaires mentioned below. The survey will also ask for demographic information such as
      race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status. Survey responses will be linked to weight data by
      email address, but all data will be de-identified prior to analysis. The same survey, without
      demographic questions, will be sent to participants again at program end (4 months).

      The intervention consists of a curriculum, provided through daily articles that users are
      encouraged to read; logging features for weight, meals, and physical activity; in-app groups;
      and a virtual coach, who will communicate with participants via in-app messaging. During the
      first week of the study, participants will be introduced to the program, the Noom app, and
      their coach.

      Coaches will use a secure dashboard to monitor patient progress, which is used to increase
      engagement and motivation. Participants are encouraged to log their weight and physical
      activity on a weekly basis, and meals daily.

      The primary outcome of this study is to assess self-reported eating behaviors via the Three
      Factor Eating Questionnaire following a 4 month weight loss intervention (Noom Healthy Weight
      program).

      Secondary outcomes assessing disordered eating habits and mindfulness will be measured via
      the Disordered Eating Attitude Questionnaire and the Mindful Eating Scale. Mean weight loss
      differences between groups will also be measured.
    
  