
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the response rate of patients with advanced, persistent, or recurrent
      endometrial cancer when treated with each of the arms of the trial; the proposed arms are:
      Arm #1 temsirolimus intravenously (IV) weekly, Arm #2 megestrol (megestrol acetate)/tamoxifen
      (tamoxifen citrate) plus temsirolimus IV weekly.

      II. Time to progression and number of patients remaining on study therapy at 24 weeks.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To describe the toxicities of each of the arms of the trial when used for patients with
      advanced/metastatic endometrial cancer.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Explore whether immunohistochemical expression of hormone receptors (estrogen
      receptor-alpha, estrogen receptor-beta, progesterone receptors-A, progesterone receptor-B and
      the alternative estrogen receptor, G protein-coupled estrogen receptor [GPR]-30) or
      components of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway (normal and mutant
      phosphatase and tensin homolog [PTEN], total and phosphorylated v-akt murine thymoma viral
      oncogene homolog 1 [Akt] as well as total and phosphorylated p70S6 kinase) are associated
      with treatment, outcome or clinical characteristics.

      II. Explore whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the FK506-binding protein
      12-rapamycin-associated protein 1 (FRAP1) and regulatory associated protein of mTOR (RAPTOR)
      genes, mutations in phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase catalytic subunit alpha
      (PIK3CA), PTEN and paxillin or copy number abnormalities in PTEN and paxillin are associated
      with treatment, outcome or clinical characteristics.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. (Closed to accrual as of
      11/22/2010)

      ARM I: Patients receive temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes once weekly for 6 weeks. Courses
      repeat every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (Closed to accrual as of 12/21/2009): Patients receive temsirolimus as in Arm I and
      megestrol acetate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 3 weeks alternating with tamoxifen
      citrate PO BID for 3 weeks. Courses repeat every 6 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.
    
  