
    
      Currently there is no study investigating optimal skin preparations patterns prior to
      cesarean deliveries. As a result, there are many practitioners that perform skin preparation,
      cleaning of the surgical site, using random unstudied patterns. Patterns vary from Hospital
      to Hospital and even within the same institution. The most widely used topical skin
      preparation is ChloraPrep and the manufacturer has not recommended a specific pattern to be
      used in order to abdominally prep prior to C-sections. They have published data instructing
      one on the surface area for which a ChloraPrep stick is verified to be used for as well as
      timing from initial preparation until the cleaner has reached its maximum antiseptic benefit.

      Our current cesarean infection rate is 1.6% over the last 12 months (September 2107-2018).
      This is significantly lower than the average cesarean section infection rate in the United
      States which is estimated to be around 7.4%.[i] Cesarean deliveries are one of the most
      common major surgeries performed in the united states, 31.9% of all births are by cesarean
      section.[ii] The risk of infection following a cesarean delivery is nearly 5 times that of a
      vaginal delivery[iii]. However, there is still no study that examines the pattern which
      ChloraPrep, the most widely used skin cleaner, is applied to the abdomen prior to a cesarean
      delivery.

      There is currently no study that looks at pattern of skin preparation prior to cesarean
      section. The manufacture simply recommends gentle scrubbing. The pattern of skin preparation
      appears to be related to your training.

      This study aims to look at topical skin preparation patterns prior to cesarean section. As a
      proxy for likelihood of infection the investigators will collect data on surface bacterial
      burden prior to incision but after abdominal prep is complete as well as post surgically. The
      assumption is that if there is a significant skin burden postoperatively that one method of
      skin preparation is superior to the other.
    
  