
    
      This is a retrospective/prospective, cohort, non-interventional observational study. An
      informed consensus for the participation is available. In this section we provide
      informations on sample size and statistical analysis.

      In Italy, the projected estimate of complete HM prevalence at Jan 1, 2020 has been
      established as 48,254 cases for Hodgkin lymphoma, 110.715 cases for non Hodgkin Lymphomas,
      67,301 for leukemias, and 25,066 for multiple myeloma (Guzzinati et al, BMC Cancer 2018). The
      Italian Dipartimento della Protezione Civile website reported (March 23, 2020) that 63,927
      cases are currently infected with SARS-CoV-2. No formal sample size calculation was made for
      this project but, on the basis of data available to date, considering the prevalence of
      hematological patients in Italy (0.4%) and assuming that these patients have the same risk of
      contracting COVID-19 as the general population, we supposed to enroll at least 250 patients
      (at March 24, 2020).

      Statistical analyses All data collected will be summarized using appropriate descriptive
      statistics: absolute and relative frequencies for discrete variables; mean, standard
      deviation, median and interquartile range for continuous ones. To identify factors
      significantly associated with composite endpoint, log-binomial regression will be used for
      modelling risk ratio together with 95% confidence interval estimated.

      The least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) method will be applied for
      selecting the factors able to independently predict primary end-point. LASSO selects
      variables correlates to the measured outcome by shrinking coefficients weights, down to zero
      for the ones not correlated to outcome. In addition, machine learning techniques will be used
      for validating results from LASSO. A weight will be assigned to each coefficient of the
      selected predictors and weights will be summed to produce a total aggregate score. Predictive
      performance will be assessed through discrimination and calibration. Discrimination indicates
      how well the model can distinguish individuals with the outcome from those without the
      outcome. Two, the net reclassification improvement (NRI) will be calculated for assessing the
      'net' number of individuals correctly reclassified using "the new model" over a comparator
      index [i.e., CCI (Charlson Comorbidity Score) or MCS (Multisource Comorbidity Score), or
      HM-disease specific]. Calibration ascertains the concordance between the model's predictions
      and observed outcomes, which we evaluated using a calibration plot. Cartographic and
      geostatistical methods will be used to exploring the spatial patterns of disease. An
      Exploratory Spatial Data Analysis (ESDA) and the Kriging method will be also applied to
      describe and model spatial (geographical) pattern.
    
  