
    
      The clinical situation of AML (acute myeloid leukemia) relapse after intensive chemotherapy
      or even after allogeneic SCT represents a huge challenge in hematology. So far, no FLT3-TKI
      (Tyrosine kinase Inhibitor) has been approved for the treatment of relapsed or refractory AML
      with activating FLT3 mutations in the European Union.

      For elderly and unfit patients at primary diagnosis and for patients with AML relapse after
      induction and consolidation chemotherapy (including those with allogeneic SCT) who are not
      eligible for any further intensive treatment approach, AML therapy with HMA (hypomethylating
      agents) represents the standard of care and is associated with an even worse prognosis in
      those patients who relapse with AML after transplantation.

      The FLT3-TKI midostaurin has been approved for newly diagnosed AML patients with activating
      FLT3 mutations who receive intensive induction and subsequent consolidation chemotherapy
      including midostaurin maintenance restricted to patients who do not undergo allogeneic SCT.
      So far, there is no approval of FLT3-TKI treatment for patients with FLT3-mutated AML after
      allogeneic SCT. Recently, preliminary data of the RADIUS trial investigating midostaurin
      maintenance after allogeneic SCT could demonstrate the feasibility of midostaurin treatment
      in the setting of post-transplant AML patients. Importantly, only half of patients were able
      to complete 12 cycles of maintenance and in most cases midostaurin was prematurely ceased due
      to a higher rate of adverse events than expected. As a consequence of this clinical trial,
      there is a good rationale to investigate midostaurin maintenance after allogeneic SCT
      focusing on those AML patients with a high risk of hematologic relapse after transplantation.

      In detail, MRD assessment provides a reliable method in the majority of patients with
      FLT3-mutated AML (e.g. by qPCR) to identify AML patients with the highest risk of relapse
      following allogeneic SCT. There are consistent data demonstrating that MRD positivity by
      means of NPM1 (Nuclophosphmin-1)mutation (i.e. 100 to 1000 copies of mutated NPM1 per 10,000
      ABL (Abelson Murine Leukemia Viral Oncogene Homolog) transcripts or 1% to 10% NPM1/ABL,
      respectively, is associated with a 60-90% risk of hematologic relapse.

      Thus, this clinically relevant subgroup of AML patients with activating FLT3 mutations who
      develop a molecular relapse or who are characterized by a persistent MRD positivity after
      intensive AML treatment represents the target population of this clinical trial. The
      rationale of this study is to treat AML patients with MRD positivity using single midostaurin
      treatment and to improve the clinical outcome of these patients by preventing hematologic
      relapse after allogeneic SCT by "targeted therapy" against activating FLT3 mutations.
    
  