
    
      -  Study place: Ain Shams University Hospitals.

        -  Written informed consent will be taken from all patients.

        -  Inclusion criteria: 60 patients with an American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA)
           physical status I-III and those aged between 35 and 65 years scheduled for colorectal
           surgeries.

        -  Exclusion criteria: patients with serious cardio-cerebral vascular diseases,
           neurological disorders, bleeding disorders as QL block is a deep block, allergies to
           local anesthetics (LAs), infection at the puncture site, body mass index (BMI)> 35kg/m2,
           history of mental illness, and patients who will not consent to the procedure.

      The selected patients will be randomized and allocated using a computer assessed automated
      method (www.randomizer.org) dividing them into two study groups. The control group (EP) will
      receive epidural anesthesia while the other group of patients (QL) will receive a QL block.

      Patient preparation: patients will be asked to fast for 8 hours with full clinical and
      laboratory results will be checked for any exclusion criteria with special concerns regarding
      the laboratory kidney function. Renal doppler will also be done for all patients within 12
      hours pre-operatively measuring renal flow peak systolic velocity (PSV) and renal resistive
      index (RI).

      Inside the operating room (OR), the patient will lie in a supine position with the
      application of the standard monitoring including electrocardiogram (ECG), oxygen saturation
      (SpO2), non-invasive blood pressure, and end-tidal carbon dioxide (ET Co2) using capnogram. A
      peripheral wide bore cannula will be inserted followed by ringer lactate solution infusion at
      a rate of 8 ml/kg. Premedication will be given in the form of 0.05 mg/kg Midazolam. Induction
      of anesthesia will be performed by 2 μg/kg Fentanyl, 2 mg/kg Propofol, and 0.5 mg/kg
      atracurium. This will be followed by the application of the endotracheal tube to start
      mechanical ventilation which will be adjusted to obtain end-tidal CO2 in the range of 35-45
      mmHg. The anesthesia maintenance will be done by using 1.5% isoflurane and oxygen and top up
      atracurium 0.5 mg/kg every 20 min. Radial artery invasive blood pressure monitoring will be
      initiated and the internal jugular central venous line will be inserted for central venous
      pressure monitoring. A urinary catheter will be inserted for urinary output volume
      assessment.

      Intraoperative analgesia will be given if the patients show an increase in the blood pressure
      or heart rate more than 20% of the basal values in the form of IV fentanyl 1 μg/kg.
      Continuous ECG, blood pressure and pulse saturation will be monitored. Fluid input, fluid
      output (urine and third space loss), blood loss, and central venous pressure will be recorded
      to ensure adequate fluid balance.

      At the end of the surgery, isoflurane will be discontinued and the residual neuromuscular
      block will be reversed by atropine 0.02 mg/kg and neostigmine 0.05 mg/kg. After the regaining
      of spontaneous breathing, extubation will be done when the patient is fully awake.

      Epidural analgesia: will be performed after the induction of general anesthesia by a
      well-experienced anesthesiologist. The patients will be turned in the left lateral decubitus
      position and after complete skin asepsis and draping, an 18 G Tuohy epidural needle will be
      inserted in the intervertebral space T10-T11 with Vaccum catheter aspiration technique
      followed by insertion of an epidural catheter. The epidural will be activated at the end of
      the surgery seeking to compare it versus QL as postoperative analgesia. A continuous epidural
      will be achieved by using 0.125% bupivacaine at a rate of 6 ml/hour.

      QL block application: Bilateral US-guided QL block using the anterior approach will be
      applied at the end of surgery by a well-experienced anesthesiologist. The patient will be
      adjusted in a lateral position. Sterilization will be done then a curve-linear probe (3.5
      MHZ) will be applied below the level of the 12th rib at the level of the posterior axillary
      line and adjusted till visualization of the QL muscle, Psoas major muscle (PM), and erector
      spine muscle (ES). A 22 gauge needle will be inserted under visualization of the US anterior
      to QL muscle till the space between QL muscle and PM muscle. Aspiration will be done to
      confirm the absence of blood. Confirmation of the correct site will be done by injection of
      saline (hydro dissection). We will inject 25 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine on each side

      Postoperative study parameters: The patients will be transferred to the intensive care unit
      (ICU) for continuous close 24 hours observation. 10-points Visual analog scale (VAS) will be
      used for pain assessment with 0 equal no pain while 10 represents the worst pain. The
      following parameters will be assessed:

        -  Time for the first morphine dose requirement and the 24 hours cumulative morphine
           consumption will be recorded as the primary outcome. Morphine will be given in a dose of
           0.05 mg/kg when the VAS score is more than 4.

        -  Postoperative kidney function will be assessed using laboratory and US doppler indices
           to be compared with the preoperative values as a secondary outcome. The laboratory tests
           will include serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and compared with
           pre-operative values.

      Renal doppler: An experienced blinded radiologist will perform the renal doppler using a 3.5
      MHz probe. The renal Doppler study will be done for both groups preoperatively and
      postoperatively. The patients will lie supine or in lateral positions. The US probe will be
      applied to the anterior or midaxillary line with the probe in transverse direction till
      adequate visualization of the kidney. Color and pulse wave doppler will be applied to assess
      the intra-renal and main renal arteries. The intra-renal arteries assessment will be repeated
      at upper, mid, and lower pole levels of each kidney. The peak systolic velocity (PSV), and
      resistive index (RI) of the main renal artery bilaterally will be measured. Also, the mean RI
      of the three measurements of the intra-renal artery RI will be calculated. The normal RI is
      considered when a value < 0.7.

      Sample size calculation:

      Using the PASS 11 program for sample size calculation and according to Aditianingsih et
      al.,2019. The expected cumulative dose of morphine consumption over 24 hours postoperatively
      in study groups = 3 ± 0.32 mg and 4 ± 0.2 mg, the sample size of 30 patients/group can detect
      this difference with power 100% and alpha error 0.05.
    
  