
    
      Histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACI) can inhibit many kinds of hematological tumors by
      inhibiting HDAC activity and other ways, showing good anti-tumor activity. Chidamide is a new
      chemical structure benzamide HDAC inhibitor developed independently in China. It has the
      selectivity of HDAC subtypes and unique efficacy. In a phase II clinical study of Chidamide
      in the treatment of peripheral T-cell lymphoma in China in 2009, 79 patients with recurrent
      or refractory lymphoma had ORR of 27.9%. The 2016 edition of the Chinese Expert Consensus on
      Chidamide in the Treatment of PTCL discussed in detail the treatment of Chidamide alone or in
      combination with other drugs.

      The representative drug of immunological checkpoint inhibitors is programmed death 1
      (PD-1/PD-L1). PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy activates the body's own immune system to attack
      cancer cells by blocking the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway with drugs. Immunotherapy show its long-term
      control of cancer and its effectiveness in a variety of cancers.

      In a multicenter phase II clinical trial, 80 patients with bone and soft tissue sarcoma were
      treated with single drug of PD-1 antibody Pembrolizumab. The results showed that all the
      patients with soft tissue sarcoma achieved therapeutic effect were undifferentiated
      pleomorphic sarcoma and liposarcoma. The overall objective remission rate was 18% (7/40),
      suggesting that Pembrolizumab alone does not fully activate suppressed T cells, and may need
      to be combined to improve the efficacy.

      Recent studies have shown that combination of epigenetic regulators, such as histone
      deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi), can overcome some major drug resistance constraints and
      ensure patient safety. Pre-clinical data based on mouse models strongly support the
      feasibility and effectiveness of combination therapy. In vitro and in vivo studies, combined
      use of pan- or class I selective HDACi can benefit further. Chidamide is mainly targeted at
      subtypes 1, 2, 3 and 10 of HDAC class I and class II B. It has a regulatory effect on the
      abnormal epigenetic function of tumors. By inhibiting the related HDAC subtypes to increase
      the acetylation level of chromatin histone, chromatin remodeling is initiated, which changes
      the gene expression of multiple signal transduction pathways (i.e. epigenetic changes),
      thereby inhibiting the cell cycle of tumors, inducing apoptosis of tumors, and having overall
      regulatory activity on cellular immunity. Induction and enhancement of natural killer cells
      (NK) and antigen-specific cytotoxic T cells (CTL) mediated tumor killing. Chidamide can also
      enhance the mechanism of dendritic cells presenting and maturing tumor antigens, inhibiting
      regulatory T cells (Treg) and MDSC cells, and promote the anti-tumor immune function through
      regulating the micro-environment of tumor immunosuppression.

      Because of the poor prognosis of advanced soft tissue sarcoma, there is no standard treatment
      for second-line treatment. Therefore, we think it is necessary to explore the feasibility of
      combination of chidamide and Toripalimab in advanced, refractory and progressive soft tissue
      sarcoma after failure of standard treatment, and look forward to further improving the
      efficacy of soft tissue sarcoma.
    
  