
    
      Background: Two opposing approaches can be distinguished in establishing the diagnosis of
      Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS): IBS as a "diagnosis of exclusion" versus IBS as a syndromic
      condition on its own. In Denmark we have no consensus on how to establish the diagnosis, but
      must often GPs approach IBS as a diagnosis of exclusion. Guidelines from the United Kingdom
      and the United States recommend the second approach, where the diagnosis is given as a
      positive diagnosis based on symptom-based IBS criteria. We lack research on this area carried
      out under controlled circumstances and in primary care in Denmark.

      Aim: To evaluate two investigation programmes for diagnosing IBS in primary care patients in
      Denmark. We want to compare the two programmes in relation to the effect on the patients´
      symptoms, quality of life and satisfaction, and also the cost and safety when using the
      different programmes. Also we want to see how the GP´s understanding of IBS correlate with
      the IBS criteria (ROM I, II and III)

      Methods: A randomised, non-blinded, controlled intervention study of two parallel groups.

      The target group comprises people aged 18-50 years, who consult their GP with
      gastrointestinal complaints, where the GP suspects IBS and refers the patient to the study.

      To be included in the study the patients have to fulfil the ROM III criteria and they may not
      have any alarm signals. Included patients are randomised to one of two different
      investigation programmes, where the diagnosis is given as:

        1. A positive diagnosis, the diagnosis is based on the ROM III criteria and a few blood
           tests (FBC, CRP)

        2. A diagnosis of exclusion, the diagnosis is given after normal investigation (extended
           blood tests, screening for celiac sprue and lactose intolerance, endoscopy)

      The patients are followed by means of monthly letters, with questions about current GI
      symptoms, sick-leave days, visits at GPs, use of medication etc., and validated
      questionnaires at baseline, after 4 weeks, 6 months and 12 months.
    
  