
    
      The gluteus maximus is the largest and strongest muscle in the human body. Its function is
      primarily to extend the hip joint. The back fibers of the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus
      muscles provide the additional help. These muscles also perform the functions of abductors
      and external rotators of the hip joint.

      The incorrect strength and activation time of the muscles stabilizing the hip joint result in
      the disturbed load distribution of the lower limbs. This may cause the overloading of the
      bone and muscle structures. Disorders of the functions of the external hip rotators and
      abductors may lead to such health problems as: patellofemoral conflict, ilio-tibial band
      syndrome or non-specific pains of the hip, knee, sacroiliac and lumbar spine. Neurological
      diseases, such as stroke, causing paresis of the limbs, accompanied by a decrease or increase
      in muscle tone and disturbed load distribution, are also an obstacle to gait re-education and
      limit the efficiency of everyday activities.

      Dynamic tapes were created by Kenso Kase MD in Japan. Their characteristic feature is
      extensibility reaching 130-140 percent. The tape is based on sensory effects on fascia
      mechanoreceptors. Depending on the slicing technique used, the following effects can be
      achieved: the activation or reduction of muscle tone, the reduction of pain and an increased
      flow of tissue fluids.

      The concept of using a rigid tape was created and developed by Jenny McConnell. A
      characteristic feature of a rigid tape is the lack of stretchability, thanks to which
      mechanical stabilization of a specific section of the body can be achieved. The effects of
      using a rigid tape include: the reduction of pain, the activation or reduction of muscle
      tone, and the correction of joint components.

      For many years, research has been conducted into the effects of using a dynamic tape and a
      rigid tape on the muscle functions. In many cases, reports from various authors are
      contradictory. There is also a lack of publications assessing the effect of a tape on the
      buttock muscle activation and the associated lower limb load distribution. There is therefore
      a need for further research.

      The aim of the project is to assess the impact of gluteal muscle taping with a dynamic tape
      and a rigid tape on the distribution of lower limb load in healthy people. The confirmation
      of research hypotheses will allow for the introduction of a new therapy tool in neurological
      patients (e.g. after stroke), but also healthy people, to prevent a lower limb and spine
      structures overloading.
    
  