
    
      The Fostering African-American Improvement in Total Health (FAITH!) Program at Mayo Clinic, a
      community-based cardiovascular (CV) health promotion initiative for African-Americans (AAs)
      will collaborate with the Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) Cardiovascular Health Unit and
      two federally qualified health centers (FQHCs) (NorthPoint Health & Wellness Center,
      Minneapolis, MN; Open Cities Health Center, St. Paul, MN) to integrate an innovative mobile
      health (mHealth) intervention (FAITH! HTN App) into clinical and community settings with the
      aim of improving blood pressure (BP) control.

      The project objective is to test the feasibility of delivering health education and
      self-management support to African-American patients with uncontrolled hypertension (HTN)
      through a culturally-tailored smartphone application (app)-enhanced intervention within
      federally qualified health centers. This initiative is a component of a Centers for Disease
      Control and Prevention (CDC) effort to support state/local public health strategies to
      prevent and manage cardiovascular disease (CVD) in under-resourced populations
      disproportionately affected by CVD risk factors, such as HTN. Insights from the FAITH!
      Community Steering Committee (CSC) will also provide guidance to ensure project
      patient-centeredness. The investigators will incorporate strategies grounded in theoretical
      frameworks to ensure soundness of our intervention while tailoring it to meet the preferences
      and needs of an under-resourced population with multi-level barriers to HTN management.

      Specific Aim 1:To assess app feasibility through participant intervention engagement (app
      education module completion, self-monitoring) and intervention satisfaction.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess preliminary efficacy of the app by evaluating improvement in
      patient BP control (immediate, 3 months and 6 months post-intervention), CV health knowledge
      (via app self-assessments), and BP self-management (medication adherence).

      Hypothesis:

      The study hypothesis is that an app-based intervention will be feasible and demonstrate
      preliminary efficacy in improving uncontrolled HTN and health education among AA patients
      from baseline to post-intervention (immediate, 3 months and 6 months post-intervention).
    
  