
    
      This is a single blind randomized clinical trial that will be conducted in Quirónsalud
      Barcelona, Spain. The study will enroll 60 patients suffering of myofascial pain of the upper
      trapezius muscle over a 5-months period. The overall duration of the trial will be
      approximately 8 months. The trial will end when the last subject has the last visit, at 12
      weeks (3 months).

      This protocol calls for 7 visits to be performed over a 12-weeks period for each patient.

      This study will enroll 60 patients suffering of myofascial pain of the upper trapezius
      muscle.

      Treatment Assignment Procedures i. Randomization Procedures: The investigators will use block
      randomization, which is commonly used in the two treatment situations where the samples of
      the two treatments must be equal or equally equal. The process will involve recruiting
      participants in short blocks and ensuring that half of the participants within each block are
      assigned to "A" and the other half to "B". Within each block, however, the order of patients
      will be random. The patients will be considered blocks of four dimensions: 1. AABB, 2. ABAB,
      3. ABBA, 4. BAAB, 5. BABA, 6. BBAA. The investigators will randomly select between these six
      different blocks for each group of four recruited participants. The random selection will be
      done using a list of random numbers generated using statistical software (Excel).

      ii. Masking Procedures: The participants will be blinded to the type of ESWT treatment and
      the assessor, data managers, statistician and study monitors will be blinded to the
      allocation. All participants who receive ESWT treatment will be treated using the same device
      (Duolith® SD-1 STORZ Medical, Switzerland) regardless of what group patients are included in.
      The participants will not be able to predict the allocated group based on the appearance of
      the ESWT treatment. The blinding will be maintained until the data are locked. For blinding
      evaluation, allocation guessing will be assessed immediately after the final treatment.
      Practitioners and assessors will be instructed to treat the participants according to
      predefined standard operating procedures during the trial to maintain blinding.

      Patients suffering of myofascial pain of the upper trapezius muscle, will be selected for
      this study, sign up for an informed consent form, informed about the details of the procedure
      and the potential risks before treatment and randomized into 2 treatment groups:

        -  Group A (F-ESWT group): 3 sessions, one per week, of focused extracorporeal shockwave
           treatment (2000 impulses at 0.10 mJ/mm2 per session).

        -  Group B (placebo group): 3 sessions, one per week, of sham focused extracorporeal
           shockwave treatment (2000 impulses at 0.01 mJ/mm2 per session).

      All treatments will be performed by the senior authors. In all cases, a focused
      electromagnetic shockwave device will be used (Duolith® SD-1, STORZ Medical, Switzerland).

      The procedure will be performed with the patient in sitting position, while the patient is
      lying in a pillow. The treatment area will be prepared with a coupling ultrasound gel to
      minimize the loss of shockwave energy at the interface between the tip of the applicator and
      the skin. No local anesthesia will be applied.

      Post-treatment protocol All patients will receive a specific exercise protocol that includes
      home exercises and ergonomic indications to prevent an exacerbation of upper trapezius
      myofascial pain.

      STUDY EVALUATIONS

      Algometric Evaluation (PA): Pressure algometry [PA] is employed for quantification of
      tenderness in diagnosis of tender spots, trigger points, fibromyalgia and muscle spasm. The
      pressure pain threshold [PPT], i.e., the minimum pressure that induces pain or discomfort
      expresses the degree of sensitization affecting the nerve fibers by sensitizing substances.
      It offers the possibility to make a quantification of tenderness in myofascial and other
      musculoskeletal pain.

      Visual Analogue Scale (VAS): The visual analogue scale (VAS) is considered to be one of the
      best methods available for the estimation of the intensity of pain. The VAS provides a
      continuous scale for magnitude estimation and consists of a straight line, the ends of which
      are defined in terms of the extreme limits of pain experience. Respondents mark the location
      on the 10-centimeter line corresponding to the amount of pain experienced. This gives the
      greatest freedom to choose pain's exact intensity. It also gives the maximum opportunity for
      each respondent to express a personal response style. VAS data of this type is recorded as
      the number of millimeters from the left of the line with the range 0-100.

      Roles and Maudsley (RM): The RM scale is a subjective 4-point patient assessment of pain and
      limitations of activity.30 The RM score has been used extensively at centers throughout the
      world to assess outcome after SWT. On the scale, 1 point indicates an excellent result with
      the patient having no symptoms. Two points indicate a good result with the patient
      significantly improved from the pretreatment condition and satisfied with the result. Three
      points indicate a fair result with the patient somewhat improved from the pretreatment
      condition and partially satisfied with the treatment outcome. Four points indicate a poor
      outcome with symptoms identical or worse than the pretreatment condition and dissatisfaction
      with the treatment result.

      EuroQol five dimensions questionnaire (EQ-5D-3L): The EQ-5D is a standardized measure of
      health status developed by the EuroQol Group to provide a simple, generic measure of health
      for clinical and economic appraisal. It is a simple questionnaire designed for completion by
      the person being treated.

      EuroQol five dimensions VAS (EQ-5D-3L VAS): The EQ-5D VAS is a standardized measure of global
      health status, defined trough a scale from 0 (worst health status) from 100 (best health
      status).

      Likert scale (1-6): Degree of recovery compared with baseline, measured on a 6-point Likert
      scale (completely recovered to much worse). Success rates will be calculated by dichotomizing
      responses. Subjects who will report themselves completely recovered or much improved will be
      counted as successes, and subjects who will report themselves somewhat improved, same, worse,
      or much worse will be counted as failures.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      Efficacy variables Efficacy analyses will be performed on the sample group. Techniques of
      missing data handling, if applicable, will be described in the Statistical Analysis Plan.

      Primary efficacy variable

        1. Pain

        2. Health status

      Evaluation tools:

      - Algometric evaluation (by pressure algometer)

      Evaluation scales:

        1. VAS

        2. Roles and Maudsley

        3. EQ-5D-5L INDEX VALUE

        4. EQ VAS

      Secondary efficacy variables

      1. Agreement to the treatment

      Evaluation scale: Likert scale

      ETHICS/PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS

        1. Ethical Standard: This clinical study was designed and shall be conducted and reported
           in accordance with the International Conference for Harmonization (ICH) Harmonized
           Tripartite Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice, with applicable local regulations
           (including European Directive 2001/20/EC), and with the ethical principles laid down in
           the Declaration of Helsinki.

        2. Independent Ethics Committee: The protocol, informed consent form, recruitment
           materials, and all subject materials will be submitted to an Independent Ethics
           Committee (IEC) in each center for review and approval. Approval of both the protocol
           and the consent form must be obtained before any subject is enrolled. The implementation
           of any change in the protocol will not be permitted until the principal investigator and
           the IEC have provided written approval of the change.

        3. Informed Consent Process: Informed consent is a process that is initiated prior to the
           individual agreeing to participate in the study and continues throughout study
           participation. An extensive discussion of the risks and possible benefits of study
           participation will be held with the subjects. A consent form describing in detail the
           study procedures and risks will be given to the subject. Consent forms will be
           IEC-approved, and the subject is required to read and review the document or have the
           document read to him or her. The investigator or designee will explain the research
           study to the subject and answer any questions that may arise. The subject will sign the
           informed consent document prior to any study-related assessments or procedures. Subjects
           will be given the opportunity to discuss the study with their families and take all the
           time patients need prior to agreeing to participate. The patients may withdraw consent
           at any time throughout the course of the study. A copy of the signed informed consent
           document will be given to the subjects for their records. The rights and welfare of the
           subjects will be protected by emphasizing to them that the quality of their clinical
           care will not be adversely affected if the subjects decline to participate in this
           study. The consent process will be documented in the clinical records.

        4. Subject Confidentiality: Subject confidentiality shall be guaranteed at all times by the
           investigators, study staff, and the sponsor and their delegates. The study protocol,
           documentation, data, and all other information generated will be strictly confidential.
           No information concerning the study or the data will be released to any unauthorized
           third party without prior written approval of the sponsor.

      The study monitor or other authorized representatives of the sponsor may inspect all study
      documents and records required to be maintained by the investigator, including but not
      limited to the medical records of the study subjects. The clinical study site will permit
      access to such records.

      DATA HANDLING AND RECORD KEEPING All study data are to be recorded on a database. All patient
      data shall be reported on the database in an anonymous fashion, the patient only being
      identified by the patient number.

      The investigator will be responsible for the completeness, accuracy and timeliness of the
      data reported. All source documents should be completed in a neat, legible manner to ensure
      the accurate interpretation of data. The Investigator is required to verify the data
      transcribed onto the database.

      The study monitors then have to check the database against the source documents for accuracy
      and validity as per the monitoring schedule, as applicable.

      a. Data Management Responsibilities Data collection and accurate documentation are the
      responsibility of the study staff under the supervision of the investigator. All source
      documents and laboratory reports must be reviewed by Site staff and data entry staff, who
      will ensure that they are accurate and complete. Unanticipated problems and adverse events
      must be reviewed by the investigator or designee.
    
  