
    
      This is a single-center, open label, phase II study aimed at testing the activity of multiple
      cycles of ITF2357 followed by Mechlorethamine administered to patients with
      relapsed/refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      Patients will receive a maximum of twelve 3-week cycles of ITF2357 followed by
      Mechlorethamine according to the following schema:

        -  ITF2357, 50 mg every 6 hours, per os, days 1 - 3

        -  Mechlorethamine, 6 mg/sqm, intravenously , day 4 Study therapy will be administered
           every 21 days as long as there is no evidence of progressive disease or unacceptable
           adverse events or patient's request to discontinue treatment occurs, but in any case for
           a maximum of 12 cycles.

      Decision regarding the continuation of ITF2357/Mechlorethamine therapy will be made on (i)the
      basis of tumor reassessment following cycles 2, 6, 9, and 12 and (ii) the occurrence of
      toxicity. Tumor response will be evaluated according to the International Working Group
      response criteria HL.

      Treatment will be administrated on an outpatient basis and patients will be followed
      regularly with physical and laboratory tests, as specified in the protocol; in case of
      hospitalisation, the treatment will be continued or interrupted according to the
      Investigators' decision.

      The study will accrue 23 patients evaluable for efficacy and the anticipated duration of the
      study is about 24 months.

      Histone deacetylases (HDACs) are enzymes involved in the remodeling of chromatin, and have a
      key role in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression. In addition, the activity of
      non-histone proteins can be regulated through HDAC-mediated hypoacetylation. In recent years,
      inhibition of HDACs has emerged as a potential strategy to reverse aberrant epigenetic
      changes associated with cancer, and several classes of HDAC inhibitors have been found to
      have potent and specific anticancer activities in preclinical studies.

      Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) is a relatively uncommon lymphoma histotype, with an incidence in
      Italy of approximately 1700 new cases per year (approximately 12% of all lymphomas).
      Combination chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy cures approximately 70 percent of
      advanced-stage HL. Fifty percent of the failing patients can be salvaged by second line
      chemotherapy (mainly high-dose regimens), while the remaining patients eventually die by
      disease progression. The development of an effective salvage regimen for this
      refractory/resistant population represents a true unmet medical need.

      The use in the latter patient subset of HDAC inhibitors, like ITF2357, is supported by
      several considerations. Namely: (1) a related hydroxamate, SAHA, has shown activity in this
      clinical condition; (2) the drug markedly inhibits the production of several cytokines, and
      cytokine production in HL granuloma has a defined role in the pathogenesis of HL; (3) an
      effective treatment for refractory/relapsed HL is presently lacking; (4) ITF2357, up to 200
      mg daily per os, has shown a favorable toxicity profile. All the above mentioned arguments
      represent a strong rationale prompting the use of ITF2357 in this patient population.
    
  