
    
      Process:

      For the selection of patients, a research team consisting of a Physician and a Pharmaceutical
      Chemist review the inclusion and exclusion criteria within the first hour after the patient
      enters the care box. Patients who meet the selection criteria are invited to participate in
      the study and sign the informed consent form. To standardize the sampling and avoid
      differences by daily or seasonal variation are included in the study of 6 patients per day.

      For each of the included patients, information will be collected that allows the
      characterization: sociodemographic, which includes: sex, age, foresight, schooling, marital
      status; Morbid antecedents before, during the care and after the high diagnostic illness,
      reason of admission and previous hospitalizations; Pharmacotherapeutic which includes
      medicines used, dosage, self-medication, adherence (Morisky & Green Scale), performed before,
      during the stay in the emergency department and high and post discharge. In addition, the
      Triage category and the duration of the stay are recorded.

      In both groups, a physician and a pharmacist, blind to the allocation of treatment, collect
      the demographic, morbid and pharmacotherapeutic antecedents, by means of a file specially
      designed for the study. The post-discharge evaluation is done through the telephone interview
      30 days after the discharge from the US.

      All information collected on the follow-up sheets of each study patient will be added to an
      Excel® database. A project investigator will be responsible for ensuring the monitoring of
      the study, ensuring that Good Clinical Practices are complied with, as well as the quality
      and reliability of the information recorded on both the records and the database. Both the
      database and each of the study collection records will include only a patient identification
      code, in order to maintain their confidentiality. The list that relates the code to the
      patient's name will be kept protected with access only to the principal investigator.

      In the case of the patients who are part of the intervention group, in addition to the care
      received by the control group, I received a pharmaceutical care program aimed at improving
      drug use and patient safety. It includes a finished analysis of the therapy indicated by the
      physician, evaluating the safer alternatives for the type of patient and the special
      conditions of his pathology, emphasizing evaluations of the effectiveness, safety and
      tolerability of the medication, drug interactions, possible events Adverse effects, dose
      adjustments by sea, patient conditions; Verification of what the sea of optimal management,
      including the choice of the best route for the shelf and the time in which the medicines are
      infused to the patient.

      The intervention is performed at moments one during the stay in the service where they
      communicate and educate the patient about all the medications indicated and the relationship,
      which have their health status, as well as the benefits and expected results with their
      administration. A second moment just after high medicine, where the same review of
      medications is done and recommendations are given to the patient on how to administer them,
      promoting adherence to treatment. In addition to all the knowledge he has about his pathology
      and treatment.

      To see that the patient started therapy, the last 7 days after discharge / transfer of the
      Emergency Service, a member of the team communicated by telephone with the patient. In case
      you have not started looking for the factors that affected your behavior.

      At 30 days after discharge / transfer, an independent external evaluator, blinded to
      pharmaceutical care, who will not know the group to which the patient belongs, will be
      contacted by telephone and evaluated again, in addition to consulting medical prescriptions
      Received and medications purchased to evaluate hospital readmissions or unscheduled medical
      consultations.

      If an error is detected in the control group, it will be communicated to the health team
    
  