
    
      The aim of this study is to compare the effects of virtual reality applications on quality of
      life, performance, balance, prosthesis adaptation and gait parameters in individuals with
      transtibial amputation.20 transtibial amputee with 36 mean age were included in study. All
      participants were using transtibial prothesis with active vacuum system at least 1 year.
      Participants were divided into two groups. While a group of virtual reality applications were
      being performed, standard physiotherapy methods were applied in the second group. Balance and
      gait practices were performed for each group. Individuals were treated for 3 days a week for
      4 weeks, and individuals were evaluated before and after treatment. Individuals were
      evaluated for quality of life, performance, balance, prosthesis adaptation and time-distance
      parameters of walking.

      For this purpose, SF-36 Questionnaire, 6-minute walking test, one leg rest time, Trinity
      Amputation and Prosthetic Experience Scale, wearable biometric device and footprint method
      were utilized. There was a statistically significant difference between the two groups in
      pre-treatment and post-treatment performance, balance and gait parameters in the groups of
      individuals (p <0.05). The quality of life pain parameter was statistically decline in the
      group receiving virtual reality (p<0.05). On the other hand, significant differences in the
      quality of life and prosthesis adaptation of the individuals were not found between the
      groups (p> 0.05). The results of this study showed that virtual reality practices and
      standard physiotherapy methods are effective on performance, balance and walking in
      transtibial amputee rehabilitation. It is thought that it will be important to perform
      virtual reality applications in amputee rehabilitation separately in both methods, in
      addition to standard physiotherapy methods, to include in rehabilitation process, to bring an
      ability of alternative application to professionals working in this area and to work about
      amputees with using different suspension systems and with different amputation levels.
    
  