
    
      Unhealthy alcohol use (i.e. the spectrum ranging from heavy drinking that risks health
      consequences to dependence) is common among HIV-infected persons and is associated with worse
      health outcomes among people with HIV infection. However, much remains unknown about
      alcohol-related health effects in those affected by multiple drugs (particularly opioids), or
      about specific health effects such as detriment to bone. Alcohol use can disrupt bone
      remodeling by suppressing formation and increasing resorption; heavy alcohol use is
      associated with both osteopenia (low bone mineral density [BMD]) and incidence of fractures.
      Osteopenia is common among HIV-infected patients, and fractures are more common in these
      patients than among adults without HIV infection. Duration of HIV infection has been found to
      be associated with low BMD, and antiretroviral therapy (ART) also appears to be associated
      with BMD decline. While bone health is likely affected by HIV infection, ART, alcohol and
      other drug (e.g. opioid) use (in addition to other known risk factors), the
      alcohol-osteopenia association among those with HIV infection is not well-characterized. It
      is not known whether there is an association, the magnitude and nature of that association,
      and how the relationship is affected by other commonly co-occurring factors (e.g. opioid use,
      ART).

      Accordingly, as part of the Uganda Russia Boston Alcohol Network for Alcohol Research
      Collaboration on HIV/AIDS (URBAN ARCH) Consortium, we seek to expand and continue a cohort of
      HIV-infected adults to establish the Boston ARCH Cohort of 250 HIV-infected adults affected
      by multiple substances and that have a spectrum of alcohol use. This observational
      prospective cohort study will involve in-person assessments that will take place at 6-month
      intervals; participants will be followed for a minimum of 1 year and a maximum of 3.5 years.
      All assessments will include a researcher-administered questionnaire and breath alcohol test.
      In addition, the baseline assessment and each annual assessment (12, 24 or 36 months after
      enrollment) will also include: a urine pregnancy test (females only), blood collection,
      measurement of bone mineral density of the hip and spine (using Hologic QDR 4500W
      enhanced-array, whole-body, dual-energy radiographic absorptiometry [Bone Densitometer]), and
      measurement of bone microarchitecture of the wrist and ankle (using Xtreme CT [a device that
      measures high-resolution three-dimensional peripheral quantitative computed tomography]). We
      will conduct laboratory tests on blood samples collected at these time points, including
      tests for 25(OH) vitamin D3 and phosphatidylethanol (PEth). Remaining plasma and serum
      samples will be stored for future study of bone markers such as: parathyroid hormone,
      testosterone, carboxy-terminal collagen crosslinks (CTX) (a marker of osteoclast activity),
      and osteocalcin (osteoblast activity).

      In summation, this study will measure the effect of alcohol consumption on changes in bone
      health prospectively in HIV-infected adults with current substance dependence or ever
      injection drug use. To our knowledge, no other prospective HIV/bone study has studied these
      relevant factors simultaneously or used HR-pQCT to assess bone microarchitecture. Data on
      alcohol risks to bone health is important information for defining risky drinking amounts for
      people with HIV infection (and for advising such patients accordingly).
    
  