
    
      The frequency of depression in the elderly is little known and experiences from family
      practice indicate that older people not always communicate their mental health issues or
      present physical complaints which may arise from a state of depression. In this study we aim
      to register the occurence of depression among all patients at the age of 65 or older who
      visit their family physician. During a period of four weeks, all patients meeting the
      eligibility criteria will be asked to answer a questionnaire about mental and physic health
      issues. Those who respond in a manner that gives reasons to believe there is a depression
      will be contacted by their family physician to meet for a consultation and examination. If
      this examination confirms the diagnosis the patient will either be treated as usual by their
      family physician (control group) or be invited to a collaborative care with the family
      physician in cooperation with a psychiatrist who is specialized in psychiatry in the elderly
      (intervention group). In the control group the patients will receive usual care at their
      family physician or be referred to a psychiatrist or a psychologist if appropriate. In the
      intervention group the patients will have a evaluation session with the family physician and
      the psychiatrist together. Following this session, the patient and the family physician will
      meet for three treatment consultations based on the evaluation and recommendations given by
      the psychiatrist. Then there will be one more joint session with the patient, the family
      physician and the psychiatrist and the whole treatment program ends with three more treatment
      consultations at the family physician. - The aim of this intervention is to examine whether
      this treatment program is more or equally efficient to treat depression in the elderly as
      usual care and at lower cost and use of specialized care.
    
  