
    
      Peutz-Jeghers Syndrome is a hereditary polyposis condition in which hamartomatous tumors
      develop in many tissues of the body. These tumors are benign but frequently cause
      gastrointestinal obstruction and bleeding beginning in the 2nd-3rd decades of life
      necessitating surgical intervention. Unfortunately, a recent study showed that the lifetime
      risk of cancers that arise in Peutz-Jeghers Syndrome is 85% by age 70 years and is 60% by age
      60 years (Hearle et al., 2006).

      A working definition of PJS has been suggested by Giardiello et al ,1987(www.genetests.com):

        -  For individuals with a histopathologically confirmed hamartoma, a definite diagnosis of
           PJS requires two of the following three findings:

             -  Family history consistent with autosomal dominant inheritance

             -  Mucocutaneous hyperpigmentation (although this can fade with age)

             -  Small-bowel polyposis

        -  For individuals without histopathologic verification of hamartomatous polyps, a probable
           diagnosis of PJS can be made based on the presence of two of the three clinical criteria
           above.

        -  For individuals without a family history of PJS, diagnosis depends upon the presence of
           two or more histologically verified Peutz-Jeghers-type hamartomatous polyps (Tomlinson &
           Houlston 1997).

        -  For individuals with a first-degree relative with PJS, presence of mucocutaneous
           hyperpigmentation is sufficient for presumptive diagnosis.

      Recently, rapamycin (Rapamune, Wyeth), an FDA-approved drug for use in orthotopic transplant
      recipients, was successfully used in an off-label study of 5 individuals with a related
      condition called tuberous sclerosis in which the patients had subependymal giant cell
      astrocytomas that caused significant and insidious neurological problems such as
      hydrocephalus and seizures (Franz, et al. 2006). All astrocytoma lesions exhibited regression
      with treatment of oral rapamycin and in one case, necrosis. Treatment was well tolerated and
      may offer an alternative to operative therapy in tuberous sclerosis. Tuberous sclerosis is
      caused by germline mutations in the tuberous sclerosis 1 or 2 genes. These genes encode
      proteins that function downstream of STK11, the gene that is mutated in Peutz-Jeghers
      Syndrome. Mutations of STK11 or TSC1/2 leads to activation of mTOR (mammalian target of
      rapamycin). Dysregulation of mTOR has been demonstrated in several types of cancers and
      clinical trials are underway to see if inhibition of mTOR will be of benefit to a variety of
      cancer patients. A recent trial showed efficacy of everolimus in advanced renal cancer
      (Hudes, et al. 2007).

      All of these studies will be performed on an outpatient basis.
    
  