
    
      Diabetic neuropathy (DN) is a progressive complication causing serious problems in 25%-40% of
      diabetic patients. Significant complications produce painful peripheral dysesthesias, loss of
      sensation, and gastroparesis. DN may affect the peripheral motor and sensory nerves in
      addition to the autonomic nervous system (1-3). Treatment strategies for patients with DN
      have generally concentrated on pain relief, without addressing the underlying pathophysiology
      of the disease (4). Anecdotal reports from patients treated with pulsatile insulin for other
      complications suggest that this treatment may show efficacy in patients with DN. This study
      is designed to compare patients with DN who receive pulsatile insulin with a control group.

      Pulses of IV insulin encourages the glucose metabolism in diabetics to normalize in multiple
      organs, especially muscle, retina, liver, kidney and nerve endings. The process fundamentally
      requires the administration of high dose insulin pulses similar to those found in non
      diabetic humans by their pancreas into the surrounding portal circulation. Oral carbohydrates
      are given simultaneously to augment the process and prevent hypoglycemia. The process is
      monitored by frequent measuring of glucose levels and respiratory quotients (RQ). RQ is
      measured by a metabolic cart which determines the ratio VCO2/ VO2. This ratio is specific for
      the fuel used at any one time by the body. The glucose levels are monitored to keep glucose
      levels appropriate and the RQ determines the need to readjust the infusion protocol in each
      patient for subsequent insulin infusion sessions. The insulin pulses are delivered over
      1-hour periods with a 1-hour rest period between each session. Three treatments are given
      during each treatment day.

      The respiratory quotient (RQ) is a measurement of CO2 exhaled and O2 inhaled and is
      proportionate to the fuel sources being used by the body, primarily the liver over short
      periods of time. The higher the RQ, the more glucose and less alternative fuel sources are
      being utilized. Following the RQ change helps determine the effectiveness of physiological
      insulin administration in increasing anabolic functions in diabetic individuals. By improving
      the body's glucose metabolism and thereby causing beneficial effects of anabolic factors, the
      possibility of serious complications can be decreased. In addition the use of oral
      carbohydrate at the same time along with the physiologic insulin administration stimulates
      the appropriate gut hormones which augment this effect, a response which cannot be duplicated
      with intravenous glucose. The purpose of our studies is to determine whether the physiologic
      administration of insulin along with the augmenting effect of oral carbohydrates will
      normalize metabolism in diabetic patients and correlate with an improvement in their
      manifestations of diabetic neuropathy.

      The RQ is determined by the use of a metabolic cart. Individuals breathe into a mask for 3-5
      minutes after a rest period of 30 or more minutes. The ratio of exhaled volume of CO2 to the
      inhaled volume of O2 is determined as the RQ. The physiologic range is 0.7 to1.3. Individuals
      using fat as a primary fuel have a ratio of 0.7, protein or mixed fuels is 0.8-0.9 and
      carbohydrate is 0.9-1.0. Those taking excessive calories will have RQ's higher than 1.05.

        1. Tesfaye S, Chaturvedi N, Eaton SEM, Ward JD, Manes C, Ionescu-Tirgoviste C, Witte DR,
           Fuller JH, Vascular Risk factors and Diabetic Neuropathy N Engl J Med 352:341-50, 2005.

        2. Neuropathy Trust, Diabetic Neuropathy:Prevalence, www.neurocentre.com.

        3. Potter PJ, Maryniak O, Yamorski R, Jones IC, Incidence of Peripheral Neuropathy in the
           Contralateral Limb of Persons with Unilateral Amputation due to Diabetes, Journal of
           Rehabilitation Research and Development 35:335-39, 1998.

        4. Goldstein DJ, Lu Y, Detke MJ, Lee TC, Iyengan , Duloxetine versus Placebo in Patients
           with Painful Diabetic Neuropathy, Pain 116:109-18, 2005.
    
  