
    
      The limbus located between the cornea and the conjunctiva tissue, approximately 1.5 mm wide
      in adult human eyes, is important for not only providing a barrier frontier to prevent
      conjunctival tissue invasion into the cornea, containing nerves passing to the cornea, having
      blood and lymph vasculature for oxygen and nutrient delivery, but also the niche environment
      of limbal stem cells. The human limbus contains radially oriented fibrovascular rides named
      palisades of Vogt (POV), a unique tissue first noted in 1866 and were further described in
      detail in 1921. The POV has unique structure, configuration and dimension which was commonly
      found in all types of epithelial stem cell niche all over the body, which include the
      complicated niche area providing a safe place to protect the stem cells from damage or
      injury. During the past few years, progress in stem cell research and cell therapy has
      focused attention on the POV as the location of the stem cells that keep the corneal
      epithelial homeostasis and clarity. The POV also provide the niche environment for limbal
      stem cells. The niche cells surrounding the limbal stem cells, the stromal environment
      underneath the limbal epithelial cells, the blood vessels and nerve innervation around the
      limbal epithelium all help create the unique niche environment for limabl stem cells.
      Understanding the limbal structure, especially the POV, is necessary for the treatment of
      limbal damage and the development of stem cell therapies targeted at restoring impaired
      function of limbal stem cells.

      So far, in vivo image systems are not able to visualize or identify the limbal stem cells
      directly. One alternative practical is to visualize the histological morphology of POV, and
      to speculate the possible status of the stem cells accordingly. However, the microstructure
      of POV is not well defined or understood in spite of awareness of it's importance. Slit-lamp
      biomicroscope can be used routinely for clinical examination of the limbal morphology.
      However, this technology does not allow for high resolution imaging of structural details and
      only up to 20% of patients can be identified. In vivo confocal microscopy has been used to
      visualize the POV and can provide cellular level resolution images, but the technique is
      limited by high magnification that restricts the area of the scan. In addition, in vivo
      confocal microscopy requires direct contact with the eye. Although the quality of these
      images is impressive, the disadvantages existed included the direct contact during
      examination, the small field of view (~200μm x 200μm), and the limited axial resolution.
      Besides, both slit lamp biomicroscopy and in vivo confocal microscopy have the limitation of
      not being able to give an overall view of the dimension and structure of the whole palisades
      region.

      Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is an imaging modality that allows for non-invasive
      imaging of the morphology of biological tissue with micrometer scale resolution at imaging
      depths of 1-2mm below the tissue surface. During these few years, OCT has become a useful
      clinical and research tool for imaging of the ocular surface. In addition to the mostly used
      application for observing the optic disc and retinal choroidial structure, the usage in the
      anterior segment, especially cornea, was also widely developed. An anterior segment OCT
      (Visante; Carl Zeiss Meditec, Dublin, CA), a time-domain OCT, is a commercial available OCT
      designed for especially for anterior segment. This OCT instrument has been used widely in
      LASIK, different lamellar keratoplasties, keratoconus screening and evaluation of corneal
      diseases in different layers. However, its limited resolution does not allow for the
      observation of the epithelial layer on the ocular surface. Spectral domain OCT with a corneal
      module can provide much better resolution than time domain OCT for the observation of
      epithelial layer on ocular surface. It has been used recently to evaluate the corneal
      epithelial layer with reliable results. In this study, we use a fourier-domain optical
      coherence tomography OCT (RTvue, Optovue Inc., Fremont, CA), with a corneal-anterior module
      long lens adapter with low magnification, to observe the limbal structure (POV). The purpose
      of the study is to assess the role of aging and regions on the limbus.
    
  