
    
      Patients to be included in the study will be selected from the group between the ages of 18
      and 70 who apply to general surgery and emergency outpatient clinics, depending on patient
      approval. All patients will be informed about the surgery and procedures to be performed.
      Patients who agree to participate in the study will be included in the study. The study will
      be carried out by 2 surgeons with 5 years of laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) experience.
      Adult patients presenting with acute cholecystitis who underwent emergency LC by one of the
      two surgeons will be included in the study. These two surgeons will be responsible for
      participant registration. Patients with fever greater than 3.37.2 ℃, including 1) a diagnosis
      of acute cholecystitis confirmed by hepatobiliary ultrasound, 2) a high leukocyte count (> 7
      × 109 / L), will be included in the study. Patients undergoing elective laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy (E-LC) and patients who are converted to an open procedure will be excluded
      from the study. Patients will be divided into two groups. In Group A, patients with emergency
      LC will be administered intravenously 1 gr vial of paracetemol in 30 minutes during the
      awakening phase. In Group B, the lateral part of the latissumus dorsi muscle attaches to the
      external lip of the iliac crest, behind the middle axillary line and the end is directed
      towards the cranial, firstly the external oblique muscle and fascia, then the internal
      oblique muscle and fascia, and after hydrodissection with saline physiological. 15-20 ml of
      local anesthetic agent (Bupivacaine 0.5%) will be injected bilaterally.

      Standard laparoscopic cholecystectomy will be applied in two groups. Nasogastric tube will be
      inserted after intubation in both groups and will be removed at the end of the operation.
      Age, height, weight, ASA score, body mass index, duration of surgery, complications,
      comorbidities, fever, leukocyte, CRP levels, ALT, AST, GGT, total bilirubin, direct bilirubin
      values will be recorded. Pulse, heart rate, systolic and diastolic pressures, Oxygen
      saturation (with a palimeter) will be recorded during surgery in both groups. VAS and VRS
      pain scoring will be done after surgery. VAS (Visuale analogue score) 0-10 cm and VRS (no
      pain in cough (score = 0); pain in cough, not in deep breathing (score = 1); pain in deep
      breathing, but not at rest (score = 2); at rest pain will be evaluated as mild (score = 3);
      pain at rest, severe (score = 4)). Evaluations will be made statistically between the two
      groups.
    
  