
    
      Inadequate pain control after spine surgery in adults can result in increased patient
      morbidity and length of hospital stay, whereas improved postoperative pain control has been
      demonstrated to have numerous physiologic benefits and to reduce postoperative complications.
      When administered systemically, the amide local anesthetic lidocaine has potent
      anti-inflammatory properties, including inhibition of the arachidonic acid cascade and
      production of eicosanoids and prostaglandins. Previous studies have confirmed that the
      continuous intravenous administration of lidocaine during and after abdominal surgery in
      adults improves patient rehabilitation (specifically, pain intensity, duration of ileus,
      incidence of nausea and vomiting), and shortens hospital stay. The beneficial
      anti-inflammatory properties versus untoward side effects of the local anesthetics appear
      superior to steroids and the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Moreover,
      concern and controversy exists regarding the adverse effects of NSAIDs on bone healing,
      particularly in adults undergoing spine surgery.

      No study to date has investigated the efficacy of a continuous perioperative lidocaine
      infusion in the adult spine surgery population. Therefore, in this prospective, randomized,
      controlled trial, we will evaluate the analgesic efficacy, anti-inflammatory properties, and
      rehabilitation pattern with a continuous, perioperative intravenous infusion of lidocaine
      versus a normal saline placebo in adult patients undergoing a decompressive lumbar
      laminectomy for spinal canal stenosis. Subjects enrolled in this study will receive a
      standardized general anesthetic that is consistent with our present clinical practice. The
      study participants will be randomized to receive both a perioperative bolus (2 mg/kg) and
      subsequent intravenous infusion (3 mg/kg/hr) of the amide local anesthetic lidocaine or a
      normal saline placebo at an equal volume per hour. The study infusion will be continued for
      90 minutes after surgery. All patients will receive ample and adequate intravenous doses of
      an opioid (morphine sulfate) to reduce their pain intensity to acceptable levels. Pain
      intensity, opioid requirements, opioid-related side effects, and both the immediate and
      sustained rehabilitation pattern will be assessed. In addition to plasma lidocaine levels in
      the active drug group, plasma C-reactive protein, cortisol, and cytokine levels (e.g., IL-6,
      IL-10 and TNF-α) will be obtained at a series of perioperative time points in all study
      patients. Postoperative cytokine levels will also be measured in the surgical drainage fluid.
    
  