
    
      The combination of venetoclax (V) and ibrutinib (I) has recently emerged as a very effective
      therapy in both relapse and front-line settings. The preliminary results of the CLARITY (R/R
      CLL) and CAPTIVATE (untreated CLL) studies have demonstrated the promising potential of the
      I+VEN combination, which led to a very high rate of bone marrow MRD negativity. Moreover, the
      I+VEN combination might be given for only a definite period of time, contrarily to each of
      the two drugs which are given until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity per Smpc,
      according to their respective labels. The combination of V and I makes sense because of their
      in vitro synergy, non-overlapping toxicities and differential activity on different
      compartments of the disease. Therefore, the direct comparison in the front-line setting of
      the gold standard immuno-chemotherapy combining Rituximab plus Fludarabine and
      Cyclophosphamide FCR and an innovative chemo-free regimen combining I and V is essential in
      the intermediate-risk patients who benefit much less from FCR than the low-risk patients.

      Primary objective : to evaluate the efficacy of the chemo-free combination of ibrutinib and
      venetoclax in previously untreated intermediate-risk CLL in a face to face comparison with
      the gold standard immuno-chemotherapy regimen FCR in order to assess if it may replace
      chemotherapy.

      Secondary objectives :

        -  To determine the progression-free survival (PFS), event-free survival (EFS), overall
           survival (OS) and time to next treatment (TTNT)

        -  To evaluate the safety of the combination I + VEN

        -  To evaluate the dose intensity (RDI) of both treatments

        -  To assess the response (Complete Response / CR, CR with incomplete blood count recovery
           / CRi , CR with undetectable Measurable Residual Disease/MRD, Partial Remission / PR,
           nPR, with and without undetectable MRD)

        -  To determine the incidence of Richter transformation.

      Innovative aspects of this trial

      • Patient stratification based on robust prognostic factors. The risk stratification is based
      on IGHV status, genetic alterations by FISH analysis, karyotype and NGS (TP53 mutation), as
      now recommended by the IWCLL 2018 guidelines.

      Focus on the intermediate-risk CLL patients (as defined above) who represent more than half
      of the CLL patients in need of first-line therapy and for whom replacement of FCR with a more
      effective innovative approach is a crucial issue.

        -  Direct comparison between immuno-chemotherapy and a very effective chemo-free arm
           combining a BTK inhibitor and a Bcl2 inhibitor.

        -  MRD use to optimize treatment strategy in the experimental arm. Early treatment
           discontinuation will be considered in patients who will rapidly reach bone marrow MRD
           negativity (< 10-4).

        -  Evaluation of a fixed duration of treatment with targeted therapy that will not be
           continued beyond 24 months

        -  Evaluation of the kinetics of reappearance of the disease by regular monitoring of the
           MRD in both arms.
    
  