
    
      The objective of the present study is to demonstrate with an adequate methodology the
      efficacy and safety of Omalizumab for a new indication that is chronic autoimmune and no
      autoimmune urticaria. For that purpose, The investigators will perform a Multicenter double-
      blinded, placebo- controlled, randomized cross-over (2x2) trial. The investigators will
      include 20 patients including both female and male adults non respondent to antihistamines at
      supra therapeutic dose. Efficacy will be evaluated through the Urticaria Activity Score 7
      (UAS7), Chronic Urticaria Quality of Life validated questionnaire, patients' symptoms card
      and use of medication. Dropouts in each treatment group will be also evaluated. The
      investigators will also record leave days because of urticaria and Emergency Department
      visits, as well as adverse reactions during treatment.

      The present study would allow to offer to the Health System an evidence to evaluate the
      convenience or not to approve the use of Omalizumab for the new indication of chronic
      urticaria treatment. It is important to take into account that in the present study the
      investigators will include both autoimmune and non-autoimmune urticaria, since the efficacy
      could differ between both urticaria types. In the same way, the Health Authorities (AEMPS)
      would have independent additional information obtained through adequate methodology in the
      case that a new indication is requested. The investigators also want to stress that in the
      near future the company that manufactures this antibody could ask for a new indication for
      chronic urticaria.

      A third outcome expected is to offer information on the lasting effect of the drug that is
      symptoms' free weeks after the dose. This information would be provided from the washing
      period data and from those patients who were allocated of placebo after the active drug arm.
      This would give much needed information on the best dosing scheduling protocol.
    
  