
    
      Although the past 40 years has witnessed a substantial improvement in the acute and chronic
      management of persons with SCI, mortality remains high during the first year post-injury, and
      pulmonary complications including pneumonia, lung collapse (atelectasis), respiratory
      failure, and thromboembolism are the predominant cause. The propensity for pulmonary
      complications among subjects with SCI stems from paralysis of respiratory muscles. Injury to
      the cervical and upper thoracic cord significantly compromises function of the diaphragm,
      intercostal muscles, accessory respiratory muscles, and abdominal muscles. Respiratory muscle
      dysfunction is manifest as diminution in lung volumes, reduction in maximal static
      inspiratory and expiratory mouth pressures (MIP and MEP, respectively), and reduction in peak
      cough pressure and flow. Cough effectiveness is contingent upon both inspiratory and
      expiratory muscle strength; increasing the pressure-generating capacity of the inspiratory
      and expiratory muscles in persons with tetraplegia and high paraplegia may, therefore,
      translate to improved cough effectiveness and reduction in the propensity for atelectasis
      and, possibly, pneumonia.

      Respiratory muscle training, often utilizing simple hand-held portable resistive or threshold
      training devices, appears to have marginal effects on vital capacity and maximal static mouth
      inspiratory and expiratory pressures (MIP and MEP, respectively), although data is
      inconclusive. Pharmacologic interventions to improve respiratory muscle strength have
      received little attention in the SCI population. Studies involving oral beta-2 adrenergic
      agonists, which have been shown to elicit anabolic effects on skeletal muscle in young men
      and an increase in muscle strength among patients with facioscapulohumeral muscular
      dystrophy, have also demonstrated salutary effects in persons with SCI. There are many
      foreseeable advantages of a pharmacologic approach to improve respiratory muscle strength in
      persons with SCI. For instance, RMT can be physically demanding and time consuming,
      compliance can be an issue, and sustainable improvements have not been realized. The intent
      in the present proposal is to enroll a targeted cohort of 24 comparatively weaker subjects
      with tetraplegia and high paraplegia in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
      parallel group trial to assess the effects of an oral beta-2 agonist upon respiratory muscle
      strength and cough effectiveness.
    
  