
    
      Few neurological conditions are as scientifically mysterious and clinically, legally, and
      ethically challenging as disorders of consciousness (DOC). Typically developed after severe
      brain injury, this set of related conditions includes Coma, the Vegetative State (VS) and the
      Minimally Conscious State (MCS). In the past 20 years, an increasing amount of research has
      broken many conventions about these disorders, including the once widespread belief that
      these patients are entirely apallic - that is, lack any kind of "higher" activity. Since
      then, it has been shown that a lot of brain activity, including relatively high-level
      cognitive processes, can remain in DOC patients. Nonetheless, to date there exists no
      standard intervention for patients suffering from these devastating conditions. Developing
      interventions for this population is extremely important first and foremost for the
      well-being of patients, who - today - remain completely dependent on assisted care, are often
      unable to participate in rehabilitative programs because of their lack of behavioral
      responsiveness, and thus find themselves prisoners of a condition characterized by
      uncertainty at the medical, legal and ethical decision-making levels. In addition, these
      conditions, which can last indefinitely, also place great emotional and monetary strain on
      families, large burdens on care-takers - often leading to increased rates of burn-out - and
      large financial stress on medical structures and public finances due to the large costs
      imposed by prolonged intensive care.

      The present project is aimed at evaluating the potential of non-invasive Low Intensity
      Focused Ultrasound Pulsation (LIFUP) of thalamus (a key area for the consciousness network)
      as a neurorestorative stimulation for patients with severe brain injury.

      LIFUP will be performed during two sessions (one occurring after deep sedation is stopped and
      the second one occurring just before discharge). The proposed experiment will involve
      behavioral (i.e., CRS-R) and paramedical (i.e., MRI/fMRI and EEG) measurements just before
      and after each of the two LIFUP sessions (i.e., 5 non-consecutive minutes of stimulation in
      each session) in a small sample of patients (up to 15 acute and 15 chronic DOC patients) in
      order to evaluate the feasibility of a full scale clinical trial.

      Outcome measures (i.e., GOSE and CRS-R) will be administered at discharge and follow-up. The
      duration of participation in the study will be a year.

      In terms of impact, we think this project would have a number of immediate consequences. (i)
      A successful pilot study and any indication that this approach might have the hypothesized
      effect would place us in a unique position to initiate a fully-fledged double-blind clinical
      trial in a large cohort of patients.

      (ii) From a purely scientific point of view, by virtue of testing what is today the most
      prominent physiological hypothesis concerning loss and recovery of consciousness after severe
      brain injury, this project has a direct repercussion on our understanding of the mechanisms
      underlying these conditions. (iii) From a clinical and patient management point of view the
      present project is the first necessary step towards opening a completely new avenue for
      care-taking in patients suffering from this devastating condition for which there is no
      intervention. In particular, if this project were successful in the long run (e.g., after a
      double-blind full clinical trial), it could make widely available a non-invasive protocol
      which could substitute the currently highly invasive (and therefore not widely available, and
      high risk) only intervention available.
    
  