
    
      1. Purpose The purpose of this study is to investigate whether performing a single bout of
           exercise 24 hours prior to receiving infusions of the anthracycline chemotherapy agent
           doxorubicin for breast cancer can prevent some of the damaging cardiac effects.
           Currently, doxorubicin is the most effective chemotherapy agent for breast cancer but is
           also the most damaging. As such, increased risk of cardiovascular disease is a growing
           concern in doxorubicin-treated patients. Current strategies for minimizing cardiac
           injury are dose reduction and discontinuation of therapy, which compromise the
           effectiveness of the treatment. Interventions that can minimize the cardiac injury
           associated with doxorubicin could reduce cancer-related and cardiovascular
           disease-related mortality in women diagnosed with breast cancer.

        2. Hypotheses 1. Performing an acute bout of exercise within 24 hours before anthracycline
           infusion will decrease the acute negative change in subclinical markers of
           cardiotoxicity after the first anthracycline infusion seen in those who do not exercise
           for 72 hours prior.

      2. Performing exercise within 24 hours before every infusion of anthracycline will decrease
      the negative change in markers of cardiac dysfunction seen at the end of chemotherapy in
      those who do not exercise for 72 hours prior to each infusion.

      3) Justification An acute exercise bout prior to induction of a myocardial infarction in
      animals provides cardioprotective benefit by reducing the size of the infarct relative to
      control animals. Recently, acute exercise performed 24 hours before anthracycline injection
      in rodents has also provided a cardioprotective benefit. Oxidative stress and apoptosis of
      cardiomyocyte mitochondria are primary mechanisms of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity.
      The single acute bout of exercise prevented or attenuated some of the anthracycline-induced
      negative effects on cardiomyocytes including oxidative stress, apoptosis, mitochondrial
      dysfunction, as well as systolic dysfunction. There are no studies to date that have
      investigated the cardiac effects of an acute bout of exercise in close proximity to
      anthracycline infusion in humans. Aerobic exercise training is recommended throughout
      chemotherapy treatment, but there are no guidelines in place in terms of the timing of
      exercise in relation to receipt of chemotherapy infusions.

      4) Objectives

        1. To compare the acute effect of performing exercise (within 24 hours before the first
           infusion) compared to no exercise (no exercise for 72 hours prior to the first infusion)
           on markers of subclinical cardiotoxicity 24-48 hours after the first anthracycline
           infusion.

        2. To compare the chronic effect of performing exercise (within 24 hours before every
           infusion) compared to no exercise (no exercise for 72 hours prior to every infusion) on
           markers of cardiotoxicity 7 to 14 days after the final anthracycline infusion 5)
           Research Method This study will be a two-arm randomized control trial. Twenty-four women
           aged 18 or older newly diagnosed with stage I-IIIA breast cancer, and scheduled to
           receive neoadjuvant or adjuvant doxorubicin chemotherapy in cycles of 2-3 weeks will be
           recruited by oncologist referral and posters. Participants will be randomized to one of
           two conditions: i) an acute bout of exercise performed ≤24 hours prior to each cycle of
           anthracyclines and no exercise for 48 hours post; or ii) no exercise for 72 hours prior
           or 48 hours post each cycle of anthracyclines.

      6) Statistical Analysis The primary outcome will be global longitudinal strain measured by
      echocardiography. The secondary outcomes will be the NT-proBNP and cardiac troponin T cardiac
      biomarkers measured with an assay of blood taken via venous blood draw,
      echocardiography-derived left ventricular twist. The exploratory outcome measure will be
      treatment symptoms as reported by the Rotterdam Symptom Checklist. Cardiac outcome measures
      will be performed at the following time points: 1) Post diagnosis and prior to the first
      cycle of anthracyclines; 2) 24-48 hours after the first cycle; 3) at least one week after the
      last cycle of anthracyclines, but before subsequent chemotherapy treatments. The Rotterdam
      will be performed at baseline and within the last few days of each treatment cycle.

      Baseline characteristics of the two groups will be compared with independent t-tests.
      Descriptive statistics and frequencies will be calculated for all continuous and categorical
      variables. The acute effect will be determined by the difference between time points 1) and
      2). The chronic effect will be determined by the difference between time points 1) and 3).
      For each analysis, a linear mixed model with time as a fixed and repeated effect, group as a
      fixed effect, and a time by condition (2 x 2) interaction will be used. If the interaction
      effect is not statistically significant, the main effects of time and condition will be
      explored. An alpha of 0.05 will be used for all analyses.
    
  