
    
      Isotretinoin is a drug used commonly in dermatology, usually for management of acne and
      occasionally for management of other dermatological diseases. The most common side effect of
      oral isotretinoin is mucocutaneous dryness, which can lead to nasal dryness and crusting.
      Isotretinoin is derived from vitamin A and produces this side effect by arresting the cell
      cycle of mucus secreting cells in the nasal cavity. The mucus usually secreted moisturises
      the nasal cavity and provides a protective, lubricating layer overlying the cilia.

      Cilia and nasal mucous are both believed to have roles in defence against infection and
      immunity. Hence it was postulated at the start of the pandemic that the effect this
      medication has on the nasal environment may increase the likelihood of contracting a disease
      spread by droplet or aerosol particles, such as Covid-19.

      In March 2020 we established a departmental database of our patients on oral retinoid
      medications in order to track those currently receiving treatment. The database includes
      people taking isotretinoin, alitretinoin and acitretin. The greatest number of patients in
      this database are in the isotretinoin group and patients taking isotretinoin tend to be a
      relatively young and fit population. Acitretin on the other hand is often used in an older
      population who may have other underlying disease comorbidities. There were only a very small
      number of patients taking alitretinoin in the database.

      In order to limit confounding variables and provide as clear a result as possible, it was
      decided to limit this study to comparing the group of patients taking isotretinoin, aged
      16-40years, with an age-matched background population from NHS Grampian.

      This study would examine the electronic patient record of patients aged 16-40years, taking
      isotretinoin between March and October 2020 and compare their rates of Covid-19 infection,
      hospitalisation and complications with the rates of the local age-matched background
      population. Persons taking isotretinoin in the time period would be excluded from the
      background population.

      As Covid-19 is a new disease, the existing research literature on this specific topic is
      extremely limited, and so far this study would be the first in this area.

      The electronic patient record of patients aged 16-40years taking isotretinoin between March
      and October 2020 will be accessed and the following will be recorded:

        -  Covid-19 testing while on or within 4 weeks after treatment

        -  Positive Covid-19 test while on or within 4 weeks after treatment

        -  Hospitalisation with Covid-19 while on or within 4 weeks after treatment

        -  ICU admission while on or within 4 weeks of treatment

        -  Death directly attributed to Covid-19 while on or within 4 weeks of treatment. The data
           held in the database is identifiable and held on the NHS Grampian secure server.

      Once the details above are filled in each case will be anonymised with a case number. A key
      linking this back to the CHI will be kept on the NHS Grampian secure server.

      Further data analysis will be completed using the anonymised data.

      Details of an age matched local population can be obtained from Health Intelligence pending
      R&D approval of this study.

      The University of Aberdeen department of medical statistics have already been consulted about
      this project and are willing to offer their help with data analysis. Once statistical
      analysis has been decided upon we will update the protocol or submit the details as an
      amendment, before analysis takes place.
    
  