
    
      Background:

      Tremelimumab is a monoclonal antibody against cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4
      (CTLA4). Anti-CTLA4 therapy has been shown to enhance anti-tumor immunity by blocking
      tumor-induced immune suppression of cytotoxic T cells.

      Durvalumab is a human monoclonal antibody directed against Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1).
      Blockage of ligation between PD-L1 and Programmed cell death protein 1 (PD1) induces local
      immune activation and prevent anergy and exhaustion of effectors T-cells.

      Several studies have documented an increase in peripheral antitumor immunity following
      radiation. This effect is evidently too weak to be clinically relevant, but has the potential
      to be boosted by immune modulation.

      The underlying hypothesis of this study is that the effect of Immune Checkpoint inhibitor
      (Durvalumab with or without Tremelimumab) treatment can be enhanced by radiation in patients
      with advanced pancreatic carcinoma.

      Objective:

      To determine the safety, tolerability and feasibility of immune checkpoint inhibition
      [comprising either Durvalumab alone, or combined Durvalumab and Tremelimumab] in combination
      with stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in patients with unresectable pancreatic
      cancer.

      Eligibility:

      Histologically confirmed metastatic pancreatic cancer with primary in-situ (or
      locally-recurrent) with at least 1 measurable metastatic lesion by Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria and accessible for biopsy. There is no limit
      to the number of prior chemotherapy regimens received.

      Patients must be greater than or equal to 18 years of age and have a performance status
      (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG)) less than or equal to 1

      Life expectancy of greater than 3 months.

      Acceptable organ and bone marrow function.

      Patients must not have had standard of care chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or major surgery
      within the last 2 weeks prior to entering the study. For recent experimental therapies a 28
      day period of time must have elapsed before commencing protocol treatment.

      No active or prior documented autoimmune or inflammatory disorders (including inflammatory
      bowel disease, diverticulitis with the exception of diverticulosis, celiac disease, irritable
      bowel disease; Wegner syndrome; Hashimoto syndrome; Graves disease; rheumatoid arthritis,
      hypophysitis, uveitis, etc.) within the past 3 years prior to the start of treatment.

      No active or history of inflammatory bowel disease (colitis, Crohn's), irritable bowel
      disease, celiac disease, or other serious, chronic, gastrointestinal conditions associated
      with diarrhea. No active or history of systemic lupus erythematosus, Wegeners granulomatosis.

      Design:

      Subjects will be assigned to 4 arms

      Anti-PDL1 (Durvalumab) in combination with radiation (8 Gray (Gy) in fraction)

      - Anti-PDL1 (Durvalumab) in combination with radiation (5 Gy in 5 fractions)

      Anti-PDL1 (Durvalumab) and anti-CTLA4 (Tremelimumab) in combination with radiation (8 Gy in 1
      fractions)

      - Anti-PDL1 (Durvalumab) and anti-CTLA4 (Tremelimumab) in combination with radiation (5 Gy in
      5 fractions).
    
  