
    
      Stressful processes that pediatric oncology patients may be exposed to in the hospital can
      have a negative effect on the child's anxiety, decrease in activities, and consequently
      recovery and participation in hospital care. These processes are very difficult for school
      children as well as for all children. Hospitalization becomes a limiting factor for the
      school-age child in this period when he is open to mental and physical development, and he
      starts to attach more importance to socialization and independence. In addition, problems
      such as painful diagnosis and treatment procedures, side effects of chemotherapy drugs, and
      insufficient activity support in the hospital may cause the child to stay away from
      activities. For these reasons, pediatric oncology patients spend their time in their rooms
      during chemotherapy treatments. With non-pharmacological approaches that can be applied to
      pediatric oncology patients, chemotherapy-induced symptoms such as fatigue, pain, anxiety and
      nausea can be reduced, as well as helping to spend the time in the hospital more enjoyable
      and active. In the studies conducted, it is stated that these approaches are mostly
      distracting methods. In this context, the use of distraction methods in nursing care is a
      valuable aspect of care. In our country, randomized controlled studies in which nurses use
      non-pharmacological methods are quite limited. With the increase of these studies, the use of
      effective non-pharmacological methods for pediatric oncology patients will be widespread.
      This study was planned to examine the effect of occupational-based nursing program (OBaNuP)
      in pediatric oncology patients in reducing the symptoms of chemotherapy and on child
      satisfaction. In the experimental part of the study; It is planned to conduct a randomized
      controlled single blind experimental study with 60 pediatric oncology patients, including 30
      interventions and 30 controls, who received chemotherapy treatment. It is planned to apply
      OBaNuP to the initiative group for an average of 30 minutes a day for five days. Since there
      is no routine occupational-based nursing program applied to children in the clinic, it is
      thought that this study can contribute to both the literature and nursing practices.
      Therefore, in the planned study; It is predicted that OBaNuP applied to pediatric oncology
      patients can reduce the symptoms of chemotherapy and increase satisfaction.
    
  