
    
      Familial Hypercholesterolemia (FH) is a common cause of premature coronary artery disease
      (CAD). The prevalence of heterozygous FH has been estimated to be 1 in 500, but recent
      studies estimate that the prevalence might be as high as 1 in 200 or even higher. FH is an
      autosomal-dominant genetic disorder caused by defects in the hepatic uptake and degradation
      of LDL, primarily due to mutations in the LDL receptor gene, resulting in high levels of
      LDL-C and total cholesterol . As a consequence, patients with heterozygous FH have an
      increased risk of developing coronary artery disease (CAD). The risk of CAD has been
      estimated to be at least 3-4 folded, and in some studies more than 10-folded.

      FH is both underdiagnosed and undertreated, and it has been estimated that less than 1 % of
      the patients are diagnosed in many countries. However there are a few exceptions, such as the
      Netherlands and Norway. In these countries, national cascade screening programs have been
      implemented and it has been estimated that 71 % of the patients in the Netherlands and 43 %
      of the patients in Norway have a diagnosis. Early treatment with lifestyle changes and high
      doses of statins has been shown to be effective in reducing the risk of cardiovascular
      disease, reducing the risk of CAD with 40 - 70 % or more in treated individuals as compared
      to not treated.

      The diagnosis of FH is based on a combination of clinical signs, family history and
      cholesterol concentrations, sometimes in combination with genetic testing. In Sweden the
      long-term aim is to diagnose 80 % of all individuals with FH by 2025 according to the
      "National Guidelines for Cardiac Care 2015" published by The Swedish National Board of Health
      and Welfare.

      Clinical decision support (CDS) systems have shown promising results in improving healthcare
      performance, but results are still conflicting and some studies have not been able to find
      any clear improvement in quality of care or patient outcomes. Computer-based CDS systems have
      previously been implemented to aid in the identification and management of patients with FH.
      The results from these studies are promising; however, to the best of our knowledge, no
      randomized controlled trial has been conducted investigating the effects of a computer-based
      CDS in FH.

      Clinical decision support for Familial hypercholesterolemia (CDS-FH) is a cluster randomized
      trial that will be conducted in the primary care setting in the county of Östergötland and
      the county of Uppsala, Sweden. The primary care clinics participating in the study will be
      randomized 1:1 to CDS intervention or to serve as control. Before the study is initiated all
      of the physicians working at the participating primary care clinics will receive written
      information regarding FH and the associated risk for cardiovascular disease. Information
      regarding the study, FH and technical aspects of CDS-FH will be available for the
      participating physicians throughout the entire study period. The investigators intend to
      include all primary care clinics in the County of Östergötland (n = 43) and in the County of
      Uppsala (n = 51). Participation is non-compulsory. The population in the County of
      Östergötland is 460 471 inhabitants (September 2018) and the population in the County of
      Uppsala is 374 613 (September 2018).

      The CDS-FH has been developed in collaboration between Cambio Healthcare systems and Evry
      Healthcare Systems (the suppliers of the EHR in the county of Östergötland and the county of
      Uppsala), the Cardiology Department at Linköping University hospital, Uppsala University and
      primary care professionals in the counties of Östergötland and Uppsala. CDS-FH is activated
      when a physician attests a cholesterol lab result in the laboratory section of the EHR. If
      the patient has high levels of total cholesterol or LDL-C (Total cholesterol > 8 mmol/l or
      LDL-C > 6 mmol/l, adjusted for age, presence of premature CAD and treatment with cholesterol
      lowering medications, in combination with other risk factors for FH (according to the Dutch
      Lipid Clinic Network (DLCN) criteria), a screen warning will appear informing the responsible
      physician that the patient may have FH. On the other hand, if the patient does not have
      elevated levels of total cholesterol or LDL-C, or if any exclusion criteria are met, no
      screen warning will appear when the cholesterol lab-result is attested.

      By clicking on the warning screen that was activated due to high cholesterol levels, a window
      will open displaying an overview of the patient's cholesterol laboratory values and prior
      diagnoses recorded in the EHR that are consistent with premature CAD. A link to further
      information regarding FH from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare is also
      provided. The physician is thereafter urged to consider sending a referral to the local FH
      clinic, and to prescribe or intensify treatment with cholesterol lowering medication. The
      referral is automatically generated by the CDS application and the CDS also makes a short
      note regarding the suspicion of FH in the EHR. The physician can chose to postpone the
      decision or make a decision to refrain from sending the referral. In case the choice is made
      to refrain from sending the referral the physician is asked to specify why in a mandatory
      short text comment, in order to monitor the main reasons for not continuing the investigation
      of suspected FH.

      The FH clinic will receive all the referrals generated by the CDS-FH and all referrals
      generated as part of the regular routine in the county. All patients diagnosed with FH at the
      FH-clinic will be registered and assigned to either the CDS intervention group or to the
      control group. Any relatives currently residing in the County of Östergötland or in the
      County of Uppsala that are diagnosed with FH as a result of cascade screening will also be
      registered at the FH-clinic and assigned to either the CDS intervention group or to the
      control group.

      The primary outcome of the study is the number of patients diagnosed with FH at twenty-four
      months after study initiation.
    
  