
    
      -  Patients randomly assigned to receive either 0.5% ropivacaine diluted with NS or D5W.

        -  Randomization followed a computer-generated randomization table and patients are blinded
           as to their group allocation.

        -  Group allocations are concealed in a sealed opaque envelope and only known to an
           independent anaesthesia trainee who prepares 20mls 0.5% ropivacaine

        -  The anaesthesiologist involved in the performance of the supraclavicular brachial plexus
           block is blinded to group allocation

        -  All ultrasound-guided supraclavicular blocks are performed by 2 anaesthesiologists who
           are familiar with the technique.

        -  A trained anaesthesiology trainee who is blinded to group allocation evaluated sensory
           loss and motor blockade every 5 mins after injection of local anaesthetic.

        -  The extent of sensory loss is tested in the median, radial, ulnar, and musculocutaneous
           nerve distributions and evaluated using a 3-point score: 2 = normal sensation, 1 =loss
           of sensation to pinprick (ie, analgesia), or 0 = loss of sensation to light touch (ie,
           anesthesia). The extent of motor blockade is tested in the distribution of the radial
           (thumb abduction), ulnar (thumb adduction), musculocutaneous (flexion of the elbow in
           supination and pronation), and median nerves (thumb opposition) and evaluated using a
           3-point scale where 2 = normal movement, 1 = paresis, and 0 = absent movement.

        -  Block success is defined as loss of sensation to pinprick (sensory score 1) in each of
           the radial, ulnar, median, and musculocutaneous nerve distributions measured 60 mins
           after the end of local anaesthetic injection. Patients in whom block success was not
           achieved after 60 mins were excluded from data analysis.

        -  During the postoperative recovery period, pain (verbal response score 4 or patient
           request for analgesic) is treated with IV tramadol 25-50 mg slow bolus with or without
           fentanyl 25mcg boluses every 5 minutes as needed.

        -  When oral intake is allowed, patients will receive oral paracetamol 1g with oral
           diclofenac 50 mg or celecoxib 200mg, if not contraindicated.

        -  The block duration is subsequently taken as time from complete analgesia to the time
           when the patient first feels the slightest pain from the operative site.

        -  Patients are followed up twice; once on post-operative day (POD) 1 and once between POD
           7-10.

        -  They are seen in the ward or are contacted via telephone and asked for the presence of
           any pain, weakness, numbness, tingling, or any abnormal sensation in the operative
           extremity.

        -  If indicated, they are then told to come to hospital for further evaluation and
           management as necessary.
    
  