
    
      Low-flow, low-gradient (LF-LG) aortic stenosis (AS) may occur with depressed (i.e. Classical
      LF; CLF) or preserved (i.e. Paradoxical LF; PLF) LV ejection fraction (LVEF) and both
      situations are amongst the most challenging encountered in patients with valvular heart
      disease. Although, CLF-LG AS is recognized has an important clinical entity, current
      ACC/AHA-ESC guidelines however do not provide precise recommendations for clinical management
      of these patients because there is an important lack of data on this condition. PLF-LG AS is
      a new entity recently described by our group, which is characterized by more pronounced LV
      concentric remodeling with smaller LV cavity size and a restrictive physiology leading to
      impaired LV filling, altered myocardial function, and a low-flow state. Up to recently, this
      entity was often misdiagnosed, leading to underestimation of AS severity and inappropriate
      delays for aortic valve replacement surgery (SAVR). The two main challenges in patients with
      CLF- or PLF- LG AS are to distinguish between a true-severe (TS) versus a pseudo-severe (PS)
      stenosis and to accurately quantify the extent of myocardial impairment. Unfortunately, the
      traditional resting and stress echocardiographic parameters currently used to assess the
      severity of valvular and myocardial dysfunction in patients with LF-LG AS are far from being
      optimal, and as a consequence, quantification of disease severity and therapeutic management
      may not be appropriate in a substantial proportion of these patients. Furthermore, it remains
      uncertain which is the optimal timing and mode of treatment (SAVR vs. Transcatheter Aortic
      Valve Implantation [TAVI] vs. Medical) for the different subsets of patients with LF-LG AS
      patients (CLF- vs. PLF- LG AS; TS vs. PS AS; absence vs. presence of myocardial contractile
      reserve etc.) THE GENERAL OBJECTIVES of the TOPAS study are to develop and validate new
      parameters and biomarkers to improve the assessment of stenosis severity and myocardial
      impairment, the risk-stratification, and the clinical decision making in patients with LF-LG
      AS and to assess the impact of the different therapeutic strategies on patient outcomes.

      THE SPECIFIC AIMS of the phase III of the TOPAS study are: (1) To obtain and analyze the
      parameters of stenosis severity and LV functional impairment measured by stress
      echocardiography (SE), the degree of valvular calcification measured by multidetector
      computed tomography (CT), the extent of myocardial fibrosis measured by magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI), the blood levels of natriuretic peptides and markers of extracellular matrix
      (ECM) turn-over, and the occurrence of clinical events in a series of 310 patients with
      CLF-LG AS (210 in TOPAS- I and II + 100 in TOPAS-III) and in a series of 380 patients with
      PLF-LG AS (80 in TOPAS II + 300 in TOPAS-III). (2) To measure the weight and calcification of
      the valves explanted from the patients who will undergo SAVR during follow-up in order to
      corroborate the actual severity of the stenosis. (3) To assess the usefulness of: i) the
      projected aortic valve area measured by SE to separate TS from PS AS and predict outcomes in
      PLF-LG AS; ii) the amount of valvular calcium measured by CT to separate TS from PS AS and
      predict outcomes in CLF- and PLF- LG AS; iii) the myocardial contractile reserve measured by
      SE, the extent of myocardial fibrosis measured by MRI, and the plasma levels of BNP and ECM
      biomarkers to predict operative (SAVR) / procedural (TAVI) risk as well as hemodynamic (LV
      function), functional (DASI and 6-min walk test distance), and clinical (morbidity-mortality)
      outcomes in CLF- and PLF- LG AS. (4) To compare the different modes of treatment (SAVR, TAVI,
      Medical), with respect to hemodynamic, functional, and clinical outcomes.

      RELEVANCE OF THE STUDY: There have been very few prospective studies performed until now in
      patients with LF-LG AS and these studies have included a relatively small number of patients,
      have often used only one imaging modality (Doppler-echo) and a limited number of biomarkers,
      and they have generally not included the patients with PLF-LG AS. Our prospective study is
      the first of its kind, as it will use a complementary multimodality imaging approach and it
      will measure prospectively conventional parameters of disease severity as well as new
      emerging parameters and biomarkers developed by our team in large prospective series of
      patients with CLF- and PLF- LG AS. This study shall contribute to improve the diagnostic
      evaluation and clinical conduct in patients with LF-LG AS. This new knowledge will lead to
      the establishment of clinical guidelines for the management of these high-risk patients.
    
  