
    
      Chemotherapy Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (CIPN) is a significant clinical challenge for
      patients receiving specific chemotherapy regimen (e.g. taxanes and Bortezomib) and
      critically, if severe, CIPN can lead to the discontinuation of life prolonging treatment.
      CIPN poses a major problem for patient care as standard pharmacological treatments for CIPN
      have been found to be commonly ineffective and are often inadequate due to dosing
      complexities, delayed analgesic onset and side effects.

      A service evaluation of the clinical data secured from using acupuncture to manage CIPN
      symptoms over a period of 18 months at The Christie National Health Service (NHS) Foundation
      Trust suggests it has the potential to provide an efficacious management tool to be used in
      addition to standard medication. This aim of this trial is to formally evaluate a 10 week
      course of acupuncture in the management of CIPN of grade 2 or above (symptoms experienced
      have a functional impact, graded in accordance with CTCAE v4.03), in patients with breast
      cancer, multiple myeloma, gastrointestinal cancer or gynaecological cancer.

      This is a randomised, phase II, single-centre, controlled, open label trial . Patients
      meeting eligibility criteria will be randomised to receive acupuncture plus standard care
      (treatment arm) or standard care alone (control arm). Patients in both arms of the study will
      receive standard medication to manage symptoms of CIPN, as determined by a clinician in
      accordance with local trust policy. In addition to this, patients randomised to the treatment
      arm will receive 40 minute sessions of acupuncture on a weekly basis for 10 weeks. All
      patients will be offered acupuncture, to commence off trial at the end of their 10 week study
      period.

      Outcome measures have been focused on assessing the impact of acupuncture on the patients'
      quality of life, symptom burden of CIPN and quantifying any effect size. There will also be a
      preliminary health economic evaluation of cost effectiveness. The data will be disseminated
      in addition to being used to establish whether a larger, multisite trial to confirm efficacy
      across all diagnostic groups, user acceptability and cost effectiveness is appropriate. This
      work will facilitate the team validating the study protocol and design as a template for a
      multicentre study and confirm user acceptability of the approach through additional
      qualitative data collected through focus group work at the completion of study participation.
    
  