
    
      Psychopharmacological modulation of the catecholaminergic system can enhance some aspects of
      cognitive function. For example, catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitors such as
      tolcapone can improve working memory/executive function. Similarly, modafinil, a
      catecholaminergic agonist with norepinephrine (NA) reuptake blocking properties, was also
      shown to improve delay-dependent working memory in mice. Differences in the response between
      individuals might be related to a number of factors, including variations in the genes. The
      recent finding that a polymorphism in the COMT gene, which produces a change in enzyme
      activity, accounts for 4% of the variance in performance of working memory tasks in humans
      suggest that COMT genotype may predict response to COMT inhibitors or to other dopaminergic
      agonists that increase catecholaminergic function in the frontal cortex. In the present
      investigation our goal is to examine, in normal controls and patients with schizophrenia, the
      effect of atomoxetine, a selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor that increases
      extracellular levels of dopamine in the frontal cortex, on cognitive function. We predict
      that both normal controls and patients with schizophrenia with the val/val genotype, which
      present higher COMT activity and, thus, lower extracellular dopamine concentrations in the
      frontal cortex, will have a significant improvement in working memory. Furthermore, in
      conjunction with other National Institute of Mental Health imaging protocols, we would like
      to examine the neurophysiological correlates related to working memory. We predict improved
      measures in prefrontal efficiency in subjects and patients specifically with the val/val
      genotype. The present protocol will provide new insights on the importance of this genetic
      polymorphism in the regulation of aminergic-controlled cognitive function in normal
      individuals. Furthermore, this protocol will test whether atomoxetine offers a new treatment,
      based on genotype, for cognitive impairment in schizophrenia. An Investigational New Drug
      (IND) waiver will be requested for the present study.
    
  