
    
      Study 1: Subjects will visit the laboratory between 3 and 9 times for 4 hours to determine
      the BP response to each dose of the 3 study medications (midodrine, pyridostigmine, and
      mirabegron). Upon arrival to the laboratory subjects will be randomized to receive midodrine,
      pyridostigmine, or mirabegron. Subjects will remain seated in their wheelchair for the
      duration of testing. Instrumentation will be applied by study personnel while subject is
      seated quietly, this can take up to 20 minutes. Instrumentation includes placement of 3 ECG
      electrodes for continuous HR monitoring and finger and brachial BP cuffs. BP, BR and HR will
      be recorded for 5-minutes before medication administration (baseline). After baseline, a
      small pill will be given with a glass of water. BP, BR and HR will be monitored for 5-minutes
      every 30 minutes for 4 hours after drug administration.

      Study 2: Twenty will visit the laboratory on 4 occasions to determine the effects of three
      anti-hypotensive agents, compared to placebo, on BP, CBFv, and cognitive performance on
      selected neuropsychological tests. Upon arrival to the laboratory for every visit subjects
      will be randomized to receive midodrine, pyridostigmine, mirabegron, or matching placebo.
      Neither the study subject nor the investigator will know which is being administered.
      Subjects will remain seated in their wheelchair throughout the duration of the study session
      and will be closely monitored by study personnel. Instrumentation will include placement of 3
      ECG electrodes for continuous heart rate (HR) monitoring, finger and brachial BP cuffs, and a
      Doppler ultrasound probe positioned at the left MCA for continuous CBFv monitoring. Subjects
      will remain quietly seated in their wheelchair for 30-minutes after instrumentation for a
      5-minute recording of continuous HR, BP, and CBFv (baseline). Prior to the baseline data
      collection period, the first battery of cognitive tests will be administered. The study
      medication will be administered to the subject along with a glass of water approximately
      30-minutes after arrival to the laboratory. There will be a 2 hour break period until the
      second cognitive battery begins.
    
  