
    
      Recruiting, retaining and gathering complete data on participants in research projects, be
      they patients or health professionals, can be extremely difficult. These problems increase
      the risk that research will be abandoned before its true value is appreciated, or lead to
      delays in resolving uncertainty for decision makers, while further studies are done. Poor
      recruitment, retention and outcome collection frequently lead to many prospective studies
      being extended, increasing costs. Researchers need to use strategies that are themselves
      evidence-based. This study links with an existing longitudinal ageing study called NICOLA to
      provide evidence on what research participants prefer in relation to providing personal
      information through a self-completed questionnaire. NICOLA is a large study of people over
      the age of 50 that is being conducted in Northern Ireland. NICOLA is aiming to recruit 8500
      people and will ask them questions about participation in social activities, including
      organised structured and informal activities; relationship quality; loneliness; stress;
      resilience; quality of life; alcohol intake; food poverty and assess their health and
      wellbeing. Participants in NICOLA agree to having an interviewer visit them at home to ask
      questions about their lives, complete questionnaires in their own time and attend a health
      assessment appointment. They also agree to being followed up over a course of at least 10
      years.

      The research described here will examine the impact of differing invitation letters offered
      to participants on study recruitment rates, with the following specific objectives:

        -  Understanding if the gender of the person signing the invitation letter has an effect on
           recruitment

        -  Exploring the potential impact of the use of describing the research as a 'study' or as
           a 'project'

        -  Understanding if discussing and guaranteeing confidentiality for the participants in the
           invitation letter has an impact on recruitment.

      We will do this by randomly allocating each of the 13000 participants contacted by NICOLA to
      receive invitation letter by one of the following three choices using a 3x2x2 factorial
      design:

        1. Gender of the signatory (male versus female versus neutral team signature)

        2. Description of NICOLA (study versus project)

        3. Guarantee of confidentiality (inserted versus removed)

      We will then analyse the numbers of participants agreeing to join NICOLA and use this to
      determine which invitation letter is the most acceptable to the participants. This research
      will occur within the first 18 months of NICOLA, when all participants are being recruited.
    
  