
    
      Sickel cell disease (SCD) is the most common inherited red cell disorder worldwide, the
      genetic mutation in SCD results in the production of abnormal haemoglobin (HbS). This leads
      to anaemia and unpredictable painful episodes referred to as a sickle cell crisis. Sickle
      cell crises result in significant chronic health problems including stroke, kidney failure,
      breathing problems, leg ulcers and chronic and ultimately leads to a decrease in life
      expectancy.

      The method by which sickling results in the above issues is recognised as very complex and it
      is thought these patients may have enhanced blood clotting which may play a role in the
      complications they get. Sickle cell patients are reported to have higher risk of blood clots
      such as deep vein thrombosis.

      The primary aim in this study is to investigate the reported enhanced coagulation status in
      sickle cell adult sickle cell patients using 2 laboratory tests, thromboelastography (TEG)
      and Endogenous Thrombin Potential (ETP) , the investigators will compare the results in
      sickle participants to healthy race matched control participants to show if there is a
      significant difference. The investigators also aim to study the coagulation status in sickle
      participants on a variety of treatments such as transfusion and hydroxycarbamide, both
      treatments offered to sickle patients. Many trials have shown the benefits of both
      transfusions and hydroxycarbamide in SCD, they reduce the risk of stroke and frequency with
      which patients get crises.

      To the best of teh investigators knowledge this will be the first study evaluating the
      clinical utility of TEG and ETP in adult patients with SCD

      The trial will be conducted in compliance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki
      and the principles of Good Clinical Practice. It has been submitted for approval to the
      London NHS Research Ethics Committee.

      Trial Design & Flowchart This is a cross sectional case controlled clinical study in patients
      with sickle cell disease. Control participants will be race and age matched participants
      without sickle cell disease. Written informed consent will be obtained from all participants.
      The samples will be taken as part of the usual clinic or inpatient procedure with 10 extra
      millilitres of blood venesected at a phlebotomist or nurse scheduled to venesect participants
      as part of their usual medical care. Healthy controls will be asked to provide a 10ml blood
      sample which will be taken by a qualified member of staff. The investigators are aiming to
      collect samples from 100 patients in total and 20 healthy controls for comparison
    
  