
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of radiotherapy in combination with carboplatin and
           paclitaxel in patients with unresectable non-small cell lung cancer.

        -  Determine the 2-year survival of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the progression-free local control rate in patients treated this regimen.

        -  Determine the tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Assess the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of radiotherapy.

      Patients undergo radiotherapy* once daily 5 days a week for 7 weeks and 2 days (a total of 37
      fractions). Patients concurrently receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over
      30 minutes once weekly for 7 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *No prophylactic nodal radiotherapy is administered

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of radiotherapy until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, 12
      additional patients are treated at that dose level in the phase II portion of the study.

      Beginning 3 weeks after completion of radiotherapy, patients receive paclitaxel and
      carboplatin as above. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, once during the last week of radiotherapy, and then
      every 3 months for 2 years.

      Patients are followed at 3 weeks, every 3 months for 21 months, and then every 6 months for 3
      years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 90 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  