
    
      Non-valvular Atrial fibrillation (NVAF) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia and a major
      cause of morbidity and mortality because of cardioembolic stroke. Oral anticoagulation (OAC)
      with vitamin K antagonists (VKA) or Non-vitamin K antagonist anticoagulant (NOAC) is the most
      effective prophylaxis for stroke in NVAF. However (N)OAC therapy is associated with a
      significant bleeding liability and long-term (N)OAC therapy in patients with NVAF and
      concomitant high bleeding risk poses safety issues in a sizable and growing population in
      clinical practice. Thus, a new and emerging therapeutic option in this high-risk patient
      population is the left atrial appendage closure (LAAC). There are many available systems
      approved for percutaneous LAAC. One of the most widely used is the Watchman™ system (Boston
      Scientific), which was tested in the setting of two randomized control trials (RCT), which
      demonstrated the safety of the procedure and the non-inferiority in terms of stroke reduction
      compared to OAC. Another device largely used is the Amplatzer Amulet (St. Jude
      Medical-Abbott). There is no RCT comparing this device with OAC, but many prospective and
      retrospective studies had shown the same safety profile and the non-inferiority with the OAC.
      From the very beginning of the LAAC, a crucial assessment is the degree of LAA occlusion
      granted by the implanted device. Many imaging modalities have been used to assess LAA
      occlusion, including transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), fluoroscopy or cardiac computed
      tomography angiography (CCTA). In the setting of available randomized trials, successful
      closure was defined with the presence of a regurgitant flow ≤ 5 mm assessed with TEE. In the
      last years several groups assessed the value of CCTA as non-invasive post-procedural
      surveillance imaging modality after endovascular LAAC to evaluate atrial-side device
      thrombus, residual leak (and mechanisms thereof), device position, pericardial effusion and
      most importantly LAA patency. There are currently no randomized controlled trials assessing
      the degree of LAA occlusion between Amulet and Watchman.
    
  