
    
      Background:

      Abdominal Aorta Aneurysm(AAA) is a frequently occurring atherothrombotic disease, linked to
      male gender and aging. Due to the current aging of the population, the incidence of rupture
      may be increasing. The clinical evaluation of AAA usually includes a morphological
      assessment(size and localization) for diagnosis, open surgery or endovascular prosthesis
      (EVAR) may be indicated to prevent the onset of a rupture which is often lethal.
      Unfortunately, the durability of endovascular repair of AAA remains uncertain and the rupture
      risk or endoleaks onset requires continuous surveillance and the conventional imaging by CT
      scan often fails to predict this negative progression.

      Our hypothesis is that the therapeutic efficacity of endovascular surgery in the AAA is
      linked to the restoration of effective compartmentalization between the blood and the outer
      wall (removal of the thrombosis interface and blood pressure constraint). Thus, success of
      EVAR must be followed by the disappearance of adventitial inflammation visualized by
      metabolic activity in FDG-PET (18FDG uptake) and a normalization of biological markers of the
      injury. Conversely, the inefficacy of endovascular therapy should result in the persistence
      of an inflammatory metabolic activity in relation to the saccular endoleak and a persistent
      elevation of plasma biomarkers.

      Primary objective:

      The general aim of this pilot study is to assess the effect of endoprosthesis treatment on
      PET scan functional imaging of AAA.

      Materials and method:

      Seven French Hospitals will recruit 50 patients presenting a large AAA scheduled for EVAR
      (Endovascular prosthesis) within one month. A 18FDG PET scan will be added to their
      conventional follow up (CT scan, usual blood sampling, ECG…) i.e. within one month before
      endovascular surgery (inclusion visit), at one month and 6 month of follow-up.

      Furthermore, biological markers of the inflammation, proteolysis and coagulation potentially
      related to morphology and evolution of AAA will be investigated by the U698 (National
      Institute for Medical Research) Unit, implementing already existing database from others
      cohorts of patients with AAA, including biological samples conserved both by the Nancy
      clinical investigation center and the (U698) National Institute for Medical Research Unit.

      Study duration for a patient: 26 months

      Perspectives:

      This pilot study will help to assess the effect of EVAR in terms of it functional
      inflammatory response and determine the required sample size for a future project. Since
      aneurysm expansion rate varies widely among patients and even for one single patient over
      time, studying metabolic adventitial immuno-inflammatory activity using 18FDG PET imaging
      will provide new major informations about the efficacity of endovascular therapy in AAA.
      Plasma assays will help to identify intermediate biological markers of aneurysm evolutivity
      after endovascular therapy. Those complementary functional and biological criteria are of
      paramount importance to improve therapeutic management and prognosis of AAA.
    
  