
    
      Emergent orthopedic and urological surgeries in the elderly population are characterized by
      high incidence of chronic diseases of the target population on one hand, and the time factor
      which limits the possibility to properly assess the preoperative condition on the other hand.

      Therefore, anesthesiologist often perform these procedures such as hip replacement with
      insufficient data as compared to an elective case.

      In Israel, a hip fracture must be operated on within 18 hours. This type of fracture is
      common to the elderly population who naturally suffer more from chronic diseases that might
      influence the management of anesthesia. Due to the emergent nature of the procedures
      involved, the patients are often operated on with only basic preoperative assessment such as
      ECG, chest x-ray and blood tests.

      A more elaborated assessment, such as a valid echocardiography , evaluation of pleural
      effusion or the presence of ascites are often impossible to acquire due to inaccessibility of
      the echo lab (high burden, missing qualified personal ) or the availability of operation
      theater.

      This is an observational pilot study in which the ability of a focused, bedside preoperative
      ultrasound examination preformed by a qualified anesthesiologist to expose significant
      clinical data will be evaluated.

      Sample size: 30 patient. Male and female over the age 65. The examination will cover the
      heart (eg. volemic status, global systolic function, existence of severe valvular pathology,
      pericardial effusion), lungs (eg. pleural effusion, atelectasis, pneumothorax ) and abdomen (
      e.g ascites ). It will be preformed at the patient bed using the VIVID5S General Electric
      device. All fields will be examined using the low frequency cardiac probe.

      The data will be documented and saved electronically by the main investigator. All recorded
      ultrasound examination will be saved and coded with a number (no patient details).

      All data collected will be validated by a physician experienced in the field. Any mismatch
      between the anesthesiologist records to the validated data will be documented.

      Clinically significant findings will be documented and transferred (after validation) to the
      anesthesiologist performing the anesthesia (only senior anesthesiologist ).

      On the following day, the anesthesiologist will document :

        1. Any changes in anesthetic management due to the examination findings

        2. Subjective report regarding the utility of the examination

      Anesthetic changes and subjective report will be graphically documented. The anesthesiologist
      preforming the examination underwent the necessary qualifications to preform the exam. In any
      case, the preoperative examination and operation will not be held by the same
      anesthesiologist.

      Patient enrollment to the study will be preformed at the ward, E.R or preoperative hall. It
      must be emphasized that in any case the performance of the operation will not be detained by
      the examination.
    
  