
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle
           formulation given once weekly for 3 weeks when administered with carboplatin given once
           every 4 weeks.

        -  Determine the MTD of paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation given once
           every 3 weeks when administered with carboplatin given once every 3 weeks.

        -  Determine the MTD of paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation given in
           weeks 1 and 2 when administered with carboplatin given once every 3 weeks.

        -  Evaluate sequence-dependent effects on toxicity and pharmacokinetics in the combination
           of paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation and carboplatin.

      Secondary

        -  Explore the antitumor activity of paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation
           given once weekly or once every 3 weeks.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and paclitaxel
           albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15.
           Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and paclitaxel
           albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment
           repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and paclitaxel
           albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients in arms I and II undergo blood sample collection periodically for pharmacokinetic
      studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30 days.
    
  