
    
      Patients with intermittent claudication have decreased functional abilities and impaired
      quality of life [QOL]. In addition, peripheral arterial disease is associated with an
      increased risk of a life threatening cardiovascular event. Due to advances in endovascular
      technologies, peripheral revascularization procedures are now offered to a growing number of
      patients with lifestyle limiting claudication, rather than solely for the treatment of
      critical limb ischemia. Indeed, according to data derived from the National Health Discharge
      Survey, there was a 979% increase in the number of catheter-based revascularization
      procedures performed during the period 1995-2000. Despite well defined patency outcomes, the
      functional and QOL benefits of catheter-based revascularization procedures are largely
      undefined. In addition to improving leg symptoms and QOL, increasing walking ability among
      patients with claudication may lead to a less sedentary lifestyle and improvement of the
      cardiovascular risk factor profile. However, this relationship has not yet been demonstrated.
      The proposed project is a longitudinal cohort study that will follow patients with
      intermittent claudication for one year after a catheter-based revascularization procedure to
      measure changes in functional capacity, QOL, and cardiovascular risk factors. Patients will
      be evaluated at baseline and at 3 and 12 months following the procedure. A total of 60
      patients will be studied over a three-year period. Functional parameters to be assessed will
      include treadmill walking distances, the 6-minute walk test, walking velocity, and
      self-assessed walking ability as determined by the Walking Impairment Questionnaire. Activity
      level during daily life will be assessed using a vertical accelerometer device, which will be
      worn by patients for a 7-day period at each time point. Quality of life will be assessed by
      the Short Form-36 Questionnaire and the Geriatric Depression Scale. Cardiovascular risk
      factors to be measured will include anthropomorphic parameters, blood pressure, lipids,
      markers of inflammation, homocysteine, and insulin-sensitivity. It is intended that data
      generated from this study will provide initial data to plan a multi-centered randomized
      clinical trial of best medical therapy and exercise training versus catheter-based
      revascularization for the treatment of lifestyle limiting claudication.
    
  