
    
      Intravitreal injection (IVI) is a preferred route of administration of drugs in the posterior
      segment of the eye. Intravitreal injection of anti-VEGFs constitutes the mainstay for the
      treatment of various retinal diseases such as AMD, RVO, DME etc.

      The procedure of the IVI is, however, associated with a level of discomfort for the patient.

      Ophthalmic nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) constitute an established and
      effective treatment option for the management of inflammation and pain associated with
      cataract surgery and of pain associated with corneal refractive surgery, for inhibition of
      intraoperative miosis and for the treatment of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis.

      The primary goal of this study is to assess the analgesic effect of Nepafenac 0.1% Eye Drops
      a topical NSAID on pain related to intravitreal injections immediately after and up to six
      hours post-IVI.

      A number of patients scheduled to undergo IVIs will be divided in two groups. All patients
      must have already undergone at least one IVI. In patients receiving IVIs in both eyes only
      one eye will be included in the study.

      The patients of the first group will be randomized to receive Nepafenac 0.1% Eye Drops in the
      first appointment and then crossover to receive the placebo (Artificial Tears) in their next
      appointment for an IVI.

      The patients of the second will be randomized to receive the placebo (Artificial Tears) in
      the first appointment and then crossover to receive Nepafenac 0.1% Eye Drops in their next
      appointment for an IVI.

      All drugs will be administered prior to the injection by a member of the Department's
      personnel (a staff nurse).

      Patients will be required to complete the greek version of the short form McGill Pain
      Questionnaire (SF-MPQ) comprising of the Visual Analogue Scale, the main component of the
      SF-MPQ and the Present Pain Intensity Scale immediately after the injection and 6 hours
      post-IVI.
    
  