
    
      Ankle sprains can cause ankle joint stiffness. Ankle joint stiffness may be a cause of pain,
      disability, and repeated sprains. Physical therapists use many ways to treat ankle joints
      that do not move well. One way takes 1-2 seconds. Another way may take up to 1 minute. Both
      kinds of stretches seem to improve ankle flexibility. However, we do not know how well they
      work to improve pain and disability in individuals following ankle sprains. The purpose of
      this research is to find out which physical therapy treatments work best for people with
      ankle sprains. To start the study, subjects will be asked to fill out some forms that ask
      about their ankle problem. Subjects will receive an examination by a physical therapist that
      includes gentle movements of the feet and legs to test their flexibility, strength, and
      balance. Subjects will then be assigned to 1 of 3 treatments to be provided by a separate
      physical therapist. They will not get to choose their group. All 3 groups will receive ankle
      stretching by the physical therapist. The groups will differ in how much and how fast the
      stretch will be. The first group will have an ankle stretch that lasts 1-2 seconds. The
      second group will have a stretch that lasts 1 minute. The third group will have their foot
      held without any stretching. After stretching, all subjects will receive the same kind of
      exercise program. Study-related treatment will last 5 sessions over 4 weeks, with 2 sessions
      for stretching within the 1st week and 1 session per week for the 3 following weeks for the
      exercise program. After 1 week and 4 weeks, subjects will fill out the same forms as at the
      initial examination. The treatment part of the study will then be finished. After 6 months, 1
      year, and 2 years from enrollment in the study, subjects be asked to fill out many of the
      same forms that ask about their ankle problem. We think subjects that get a stretch will have
      a better outcome than subjects that get ankle holding. To test our idea, we will compare how
      subjects in each group tell us they are doing with their ankle problem on the Foot and Ankle
      Ability Measure at 1 week, 4 weeks, 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years following entry into the
      study. Since the way a person thinks and feels about their injury may have something to do
      with how much they improve during physical therapy, we will also measure these factors to
      find out if they affect the results of this study.
    
  