
    
      This study is a prospective cohort study. Setting: Danish general practice clinics across
      Denmark. We have no interventions for this study. Patients will be followed from their
      initial pre-recruitment GP consultation and onwards. The pre-defined follow-up assessments
      are 3, 6 (primary), and 12 months, but the cohort will be followed continuously onwards every
      1-5 years.

      The aim is to recruit a sample that represents the Danish child and adolescent population
      with musculoskeletal pain.

      The GP is suggested ways of recruitment, in order to choose which best suits the
      infrastructure of the individual clinic.

      Recruitment by an employee:

      The employee executes the recruitment process with a screen of all scheduled patients for
      that day. This prior to the first consultation of the day. The eligibility screening has two
      criteria: 1. Cause for consultation including a MSK pain complaint and 2. Age 8 to 19 years.
      The word MSK is written next to the names of all eligible patients to indicate and remind the
      employee or the consulting GP to hand out the questionnaire to the patient, before they leave
      the clinic.

      Recruitment by the GP:

      The GP screens the schedule for the day, and indicates eligibility with the word MSK written
      next to the patient name.

      When consulting a patient with the indicated MSK, the GP is reminded to hand the patient the
      patient material. This can be done, prior, during or in the end of a consultation while the
      patient is getting dressed.

      The patient hands in the completed questionnaire to an employee of the clinic, who stores it
      in a locked place. NP or her assistant will collect this in agreement with the clinic.

      The child must first be included in the study in order for his/her parent(s) to be eligible.
      Of included children, data will be requested from parents during a time window of two weeks
      from the time of Part-Quest (participant questionnaire). The investigators are not selective
      as to if and how many of the parents wish to participate. Parents declining participation
      will not cause withdrawal of the childs' eligibility or inclusion.

      Participants will be followed from their initial GP consultation initiating the inclusion and
      onwards. The pre-defined follow-up assessments are 3, 6 (primary), and 12 months, but the
      cohort will be followed continuously onwards every 1-5 years. At follow-up, a research
      assistant working together with and supervised by NP (Negar Pourbordbari) will contact the
      participants on phone, to remind them of the follow-up questionnaire they will receive by
      e-mail. A similar process will be repeated at all follow-up time points.

      All included participants will be registered at eligibility screen, acquired written consent,
      and assessments, the latter collected at both baseline and follow-up time points.

      With the primary outcome the investigators aim to capture pain that interferes with their
      everyday lives and collect the location of pain. The patient characteristics (exposures) are
      based on results from our systematic review, used in other studies (when including
      references).

      The specific wording in the outcomes and throughout the questionnaire has been pilot tested
      among similar aged kids and adolescents.

      The sample-size in this study was determined using the two following rationales: 1) a
      sample-size large enough to test and replicate the analyses from previous studies on. Given
      the prior odds (0.5, 1, 2) of follow-up MSK pain for patients, using estimates for the
      prognostic factors female sex, high disability index, multisite pain, and maximum HFAQ
      (Hannover Functional Ability Questionnaire) from our systematic review. The investigators
      gained an estimate of P-values according to sample size, for all factors individually
      (Appendix 8). Sample size of 500 patients, would result in an estimate of P-values below 0.05
      for all prognostic factors and 2) investigate a range of new prognostic factors related to
      the sparsely investigated ethnicity and socioeconomic status. As no one has yet tested any of
      these potential important prognostic factors, and never in a general practice setting, the
      investigators decided on 500 subjects. The 500 subjects was decided based on 250 cases (50%
      will assume to continue to experience pain at our primary follow-up time) giving
      approximately 125 cases per prognostic factor (500/number of prognostic factors). The results
      from this analysis will be considered as explorative as no studies have previously been
      conducted in a general practice setting. Again, assuming 50% has pain at follow-up and 20
      events for each to be tested factor are needed. The model should allow for 10-15 variables in
      a multivariable logistic regression analysis. This would lead to a sample size of 480.
      Assumed, 5% is lost to follow-up and we have a sample-size of 504 included participants.
      Given the high prevalence of MSK pain at follow-up, this sample-size is feasible to include.

      The investigators use three questionnaires in data collection of patient and parent
      characteristics: participant baseline questionnaire (Part-Quest-base) (Appendix 2),
      participant follow-up questionnaire (Part-Quest-follow-up) (Appendix 3), and the parent
      questionnaire (Pare-Quest) (Appendix 4).

      In relation to our previous study, all these factors have an interest as to whether they
      present as prognostic factors in MSK pain at follow-up.

      The questionnaires will be pilot tested among target participants; Part-Quest among
      8-19-year-olds with MSK pain and the Pare-Quest among parents to children with MSK pain.

      Our questionnaires wil be cross-cultural adaptive for participants with poor Danish language
      skills, insufficient to comprehend the original Danish questionnaires. In the process of
      translation and validation, we will translate our questionnaires both linguistically and
      culturally. Our three questionnaires and our bulletin will be translated from English to
      Danish, which is the mother tongue of the majority of our prospective participants.

      The questionnaires, will be handed to the participants and their parents in paper. If they
      are not able to complete the questionaires while still in the clinical setting (waiting room)
      and hand them to the secretary when completed, they may at a later point in time (no later
      than seven days) hand them in at the clinic. Seven days of response time, will be applicable
      also for follow-up questionnaires, before a reminder is sent out. In contrary to the baseline
      questionnaire, the follow-up questionnaires will be administered to the participants and
      parents through e-mail. If for some reason a participant do not respond within the given time
      limit, he/she will be reminded by e-mail or phone. This will be executed by the assistant, to
      ensure a satisfactory follow-up rate.

      Retrieved data from both baseline and follow-up participant questionnaires and parent
      questionnaire will be handled according to the Danish Data Protection Agency.

      Descriptive results will be stratified by sex and MSK pain type, presented with their central
      estimate and appropriate measure of dispersion (95% confidence interval CI). All descriptive
      statistics and test will be reported in accordance to the recommendations of the STROBE
      statement.

      We will test the univariate association between each potential prognostic factor as well as
      combining the factors in a multivariable model to show the individual contributions.

      The primary analysis will be done on those who has a first time consultation with their GP
      concerning their current MSK pain, but all consultations will be included.

      The full statistical analysis plan will be developed concurrently and will be finalized
      before the last patient is enrolled. Information bias will be minimised by use of identical
      questionnaires for all patients included, e.g. by asking both Danes and non-Danes whether
      they feel Danish or not.

      The adolescents included in the ChiBPS cohort will receive usual care, i.e. as usually
      administered at their GP. This study will not intervene in the diagnostic and therapeutic
      process.

      Since our target audience is general practitioners, our prognostic factors must be applicable
      in a GP setting in relation to the terminology they are presented in as results of this
      study. In order to gain recognition of this, NP will create a temporary subgrouping, based on
      the prognostic factors from our recent systematic review. She will convey this subgrouping to
      a focus group consisting of 15 clinically experienced, Danish GP physician peers for feedback
      on the suggested terminology in subgrouping of the prognostic factors. She will ask for any
      concerns in comprehension including any suggestions towards an easy digestible language, in
      the context of general practice.
    
  