
    
      Chronic heart failure in the European countries occurs in 2-3% of the population with a
      significant increase in the higher age groups (1). Improved treatment of acute conditions
      (especially myocardial infarction) has resulted in more patients entering into the category
      of chronic heart failure. Chronic heart failure has a poor prognosis. Diagnosis and treatment
      are challenging both medically and economically. Half of the patients with systolic heart
      failure die within 4 years and more than 50% of patients with severe heart failure (NYHA
      functional class of IV) die within one year (1). The current treatments for heart failure are
      not only aimed at influencing the symptoms, but also preventing the progression of heart
      failure to reduce mortality.

      Heart failure leads to the activation of compensatory mechanisms designed to restore adequate
      cardiac output. These mechanisms are initially beneficial, but their long-term activation
      leads to further progression of the pathological process and deterioration of cardiac
      function. One of the basic pathophysiological processes in heart failure is excessive
      activation of the sympathetic nervous system. This causes increased levels of circulating
      catecholamines which is proportional to the severity of the disease that is patients with the
      highest levels of norepinephrine have the worst prognosis. Beta-blocker therapy which is
      designed to inhibit activity of sympathetic nervous system causes milder symptoms of heart
      failure in patients by modifying disturbed hemodynamics and ultimately the clinical status.
      In recent years, the therapeutic efficacy of beta-blockers in chronic heart failure has been
      verified in a number of controlled clinical trials (2-5). These studies have confirmed that
      long-term treatment with beta-blocker therapy alleviates the symptoms of heart failure,
      improves the clinical condition of the patients and reduces mortality like ACE inhibitors.

      High activity of renal sympathetic nerves in patients with chronic heart failure is an early
      predictor of increased mortality (6). The main pathophysiological basis of this finding is
      probably excessive sodium retention due to direct activation of sympathetic fibers
      innervating renal tubules (7). Recent experimental work on animals have shown that surgical
      renal denervation inhibits an increase in renal vascular resistance, prevents a decrease in
      renal blood flow (8), and also prevents changes in expression of angiotensin receptors in the
      kidney (8).

      Surgical sympathectomy began to be used for the treatment of severe and malignant
      hypertension more than 50 years ago. But this was a rather complicated procedure, which was
      accompanied by a number of adverse effects (orthostatic hypotension and tachycardia,
      shortness of breath, bowel and sexual disorders]. Moreover it required a long hospitalization
      of 2-4 weeks and then required a recovery period of 1-2 months. However this intervention led
      to a rapid decrease in pressure and a higher survival rate after surgery in a large
      observational study(9).

      In recent years a method has been developed in which destruction of renal sympathetic nerves
      that are present in the adventitia of renal arterial walls is done by catheterization (10).
      This procedure uses a catheter with a radiofrequency ablator at its tip (Symplicity, Ardian /
      Medtronic, USA), which is introduced through the femoral artery and then progressively
      introduced into the renal arteries. A randomized study has demonstrated that this procedure
      has a high degree of safety for the patients and a high rate of efficacy as well. In patients
      with resistant hypertension treated with transcatheter renal denervation there was a
      significant drop in blood pressure of 33/11 mmHg (p < 0.0001) that occurred after 6 months
      compared to a control group receiving unmodified pharmacological treatment (11).
    
  