
    
      1. Study design:

           The proposed study is a randomized clinical trial to determine the effect of offering
           home-based partner education and testing (HOPE) to pregnant women. Up to 600 women will
           be enrolled and randomly assigned to the HOPE intervention (home-based partner education
           and testing - HOPE) and INVITE arms (clinic invitation to male partner to attend couple
           HIV counseling and testing). Women will be recruited into the study when they present
           for routine antenatal care.

        2. Study Area Description:

           This proposed trial will be carried out in and around Kisumu, located in Western Kenya,
           in collaboration with Kisumu District (now County) Hospital. This site has been selected
           because it has a high volume of new antenatal visits (~200/month), and high HIV
           prevalence among women presenting for antenatal care (~9.5-12%), which correlates with
           high HIV-1 incidence in this population. This will enable us to achieve the necessary
           number of outcome events in the desired timeframe. Kisumu District Hospital provides HIV
           testing to women and couples and offers PMTCT interventions to pregnant and postpartum
           HIV-1-infected women according to the Kenya Ministry of Health guidelines, which include
           ART when indicated. The facility adheres to the Kenyan national infant feeding policy
           and provides infant feeding counseling for pregnant and lactating women and their
           partners, emphasizing the benefits of breastfeeding and advocating for exclusive
           breastfeeding during infants first 6 months of life.

        3. Sample Method:

           Women will be recruited at the antenatal clinic at Kisumu District Hospital. All
           consenting women who report for care at the clinic will be screened, and all who are
           eligible will be invited to participate (continuous enrollment).

        4. Recruitment:

           Women will present to the antenatal clinic at Kisumu District Hospital, at which point
           they will be introduced to the study by study nurses and verbally asked for permission
           to be screened for eligibility. (A waiver of written consent is requested for
           screening.) Women who agree will be screened for eligibility, and eligible women will be
           invited to complete the consent process and provide written consent as a prerequisite
           for participation in the study. Scripts regarding information about the study and
           invitation to the study, which will be used by study nurses, are included in the
           screening forms, found in the appendix.

           Male partners will be approached at a home locator visit (a telephone call will be made
           if the man is not present), at which point the study's health advisors will introduce
           the study to the men. Men will be asked for permission to be screened for eligibility
           (waiver of written consent). Men who agree will be screened for eligibility and eligible
           men will be invited to the study and go through the consent process (written consent).
           Scripts regarding information about the study and invitation to the study, which will be
           used by study health advisors, as well as home visit and telephone contact protocols are
           included in the enrollment forms, found in the appendix. It is expected that some men
           will decline participation, and, although male partner participation is an important
           component of the study, male enrollment is not a prerequisite for the enrollment and
           continued participation of their female partners.

        5. Enrollment:

           Eligible women recruited at the Kisumu District Hospital Antenatal Clinic will be
           invited to the study and go through the consent process (written consent). Women will be
           invited to enroll the same day as they are screened. However, those who desire more time
           to consider their potential participation will be offered the option of returning the
           next day to enroll in the study. Once enrolled, women will be interviewed with a
           standardized questionnaire and tested for HIV using a HIV-1 rapid test. All women will
           have a home visit to verify and record the location of their home using GPS technology
           within 1 week of enrollment, as this will help to ensure follow-up in later stages of
           the study.

        6. Randomization:

           This study is a randomized clinical trial. At the end of the enrollment visit, women
           will be randomized to the HOPE treatment or the INVITE arm based on computer-generated
           block randomization.

        7. Consent Procedure:

           During screening, women will be asked for verbal consent during the screening process,
           and they will be presented with a consent form and asked for written consent at their
           enrollment visit. Men will be offered the consent form during the home visit or HOPE
           intervention. Participants can opt out of the study at any time.

        8. Data Collection Procedure:

           A. Basic details:

           Women in both study arms will have a clinic enrollment visit, two clinic visits
           postpartum at 6 and 14 weeks which correspond with childhood immunization visits, and a
           home visit at 6 months postpartum. Participants will be reimbursed at 300 Kenyan
           shillings per clinic visit and 200 Kenyan shillings per home visits. Irrespective of
           treatment status (i.e. standard ANC or HOPE arm), women will receive a home visit for
           tracing and retention purposes within 1 week of enrollment and one home visit at the end
           of follow-up when women are 6 months postpartum. Women in the intervention arm will have
           an additional home visit for home-based counseling and testing which will occur within
           1-2 weeks of enrollment. Each of these visits is described below in more detail and
           outlined in the study design flowchart.

           B. Enrollment visit:

           In addition to provision of informed consent and randomization, women in both arms will
           be interviewed and examined. Peripheral blood specimens will be collected for HIV-1
           rapid testing, and questions will be asked about demographic and socio-behavioral
           characteristics, medical, sexual, and reproductive history, and any recent or current
           symptoms. All women will then be asked to allow a counselor on the study team to
           accompany them home to confirm locator information for future tracing and retention
           efforts.

           C. Home visit:

           All women in the proposed study will have a home visit to confirm the physical location
           of the their home because written addresses are often unreliable. For our
           mother-to-child HIV transmission studies and HIV-discordant couple studies in Kenya,
           conducting a home visit on the day of enrollment or shortly thereafter has been highly
           acceptable and a critical component of an effective tracing and retention plan. Among
           HIV-discordant couples in Dr. Farquhar's recent prospective cohort study, uptake of the
           home visit was 97% and for pregnant HIV-infected women in Nairobi, the proportion
           agreeing to home visit also exceeded 95%. For this study, a written description of the
           physical location will be recorded by the counselor visiting the woman, and this will be
           incorporated into the woman's study file in addition to GPS coordinates, recorded using
           handheld devices that have been used successfully in Nairobi and other regions in Kenya
           by this research group. During the home visit, male partners of women randomized to the
           HOPE intervention will be asked to discuss their availability for the HOPE intervention
           when community health workers will next return. Alternatively, if the male partner is
           not at home, he will be contacted via phone or home visit to schedule a return visit.

           D. Intervention and control arm procedures:

           (See Interventions section)

           E. Postpartum follow-up visits:

           Three postpartum follow-up visits will occur in the clinic at 6 and 14 weeks postpartum
           when women return with their infants to receive routine immunizations and at 6 months
           postpartum at home. At these visits, women will complete a brief questionnaire, and
           blood will be drawn for rapid HIV testing at the 6-month visit.

        9. Retention procedures:

           Retention and tracing will be high priorities in this study. By design, there are only
           two follow-up visits prior to the 6-month final visit because more frequent follow-up
           with rapid HIV testing of women could alter women's behavior and reduce the observed
           effect of the home-based partner education and testing (HOPE) intervention. To minimize
           loss to follow-up, study staff will perform home visits for participants in both
           treatment arms and ask for at least 3 phone numbers of people who could be contacted if
           the participant is not responding to calls. In past studies these two approaches have
           been extremely effective for tracing individuals and couples. Additionally, active
           tracing will begin two weeks after the missed visit, for any women not presenting for
           their visits at 6-weeks or 14-weeks postpartum.

       10. Diagnosis and treatment of incident HIV-1 infection among women:

           For women who are initially HIV-seronegative, results of the 6-month rapid HIV tests
           will be provided as soon as they are available, and women with incident infection will
           be referred for initiation of antiretroviral treatment (ART). Study clinics and referral
           clinics will be educated about the importance of rapid initiation of ART when a woman is
           newly infected to promote immediate treatment. As a result of this education and given
           existing standard of care practices, sites will be prepared to provide ART at the study
           clinic and ensure that ART is initiated. When available, existing on-site PMTCT programs
           will be utilized to leverage PEPFAR and government resources and procure drugs for
           HIV-infected women at these sites. However, since national supplies may be inconsistent,
           the study team is prepared to supplement these stocks.

       11. Diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up of HIV-1 infection in male partners:

           In the regions surrounding Kisumu HIV-1 seroprevalence among women is estimated to be
           between 10-15%. Assuming a fairly substantial level of male participation (>75%),
           investigators anticipate diagnosing upwards of 25 men with HIV infection during the
           partner testing intervention. These men will be referred to the nearest Comprehensive
           Care Clinic (CCC) for CD4 testing, HIV care, and ART if indicated. For Aim 3, uptake of
           HIV care and treatment services among men testing HIV-seropositive during home-based
           testing will be measured using self-reports from the home visit at 6 months postpartum.
           A questionnaire will be used to assess the following outcomes: 1) presentation to the
           CCC for counseling, 2) initiation of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, 3) acceptance of CD4
           testing, and 4) ART initiation among those men who are eligible. While the study clinic
           does not anticipate needing to provide ART for these men, efforts will be made to ensure
           rapid uptake of ART by men identified as being at high-risk for transmitting HIV-1 to
           their female partners. The clinic will provide ART if necessary to bridge periods when
           medications are not available.

       12. Provision of services for intimate partner violence:

           While there does not appear to be an increased risk of intimate partner violence (IPV)
           associated with HIV testing, IPV is common among women in Africa and was considered in
           the design and implementation of this study. Investigators will monitor IPV by measuring
           it at enrollment and at each follow-up visit. Women reporting IPV will be encouraged to
           utilize counseling and education services, and counselors will be made available.

       13. Laboratory procedures:

      Infant filter paper assays will be performed on-site in the Kisumu KEMRI/CDC Laboratory which
      is located in close proximity to the study clinic. Study motorcycles will be used to
      transport specimens. HIV-1 rapid testing will be performed as part of routine care provided
      in the study clinics. Current protocols in the Kenyan national Voluntary Counseling and
      Testing (VCT) guidelines specify use of two commercial kits that are locally available, the
      Determine® HIV-1/2 Rapid Test (Abbott Laboratories) and the Uni-GoldTM Recombigen HIV Test
      (Trinity Biotech). Infant filter paper specimens will be assayed for HIV-1 DNA using PCR at
      the Kisumu KEMRI/CDC Laboratory following established protocols and Kenya national guidelines
      for infant testing.
    
  