
    
      EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN AND METHODS Patient Enrollment: The study population will consist of
      patients who come to the emergency room with acute abdominal pain and are found to have acute
      appendicitis on the basis of clinical evaluation and CT of the abdomen/pelvis. At UCSF, such
      patients are first evaluated by a small group of general surgeons who provide emergency
      consultations. Once a decision to operate has been made on clinical grounds, the principal
      investigator (Dr. Carter) or his delegate will be contacted to approach the patient for
      enrollment and informed consent.

      All patients will receive standard care which consists of preoperative broad-spectrum
      antibiotics consisting of Zosyn, Ertapenem, or Cipro/Flagyl and intravenous fluids.

      Surgeon Enrollment: All surgeons at UCSF who take call in the Emergency Department routinely
      perform conventional laparoscopic appendectomy for acute appendicitis. Surgeons wishing to
      participate in the trial will perform 5 proctored SILS appendectomies outside of the trial
      before enrolling patients. We chose the number 5 because one study showed that SILS operative
      times (a surrogate for procedural mastery) leveled off by the 5th case for surgeons already
      proficient in laparoscopy.

      Randomization: After enrollment, patients will be assigned to conventional laparoscopic
      appendectomy versus SILS appendectomy in a 1:1 ratio by a computerized random number
      generator (http://www.random.org). Even-numbered patients will receive conventional
      laparoscopic appendectomy, odd-numbered will receive SILS appendectomy.

      Conventional laparoscopic appendectomy technique: Patients are placed in the supine position
      and given a general anesthetic. An orogastric tube is placed. Sequential compression devices
      are placed on the legs. Unless the patient has just voided, a Foley catheter is placed in the
      bladder. The left arm is tucked and the abdomen shaved as necessary. The umbilical skin is
      anesthetized with 5mL of 0.25% marcaine. A 1.5cm vertical or transverse skin incision is made
      within the umbilical stalk, the fascia is retracted, and a 1.5cm vertical fascial incision
      made with a scalpel. A 12mm Hasson port is placed through the fascia and the abdomen
      insufflated to 15mmHg with carbon dioxide gas. Alternatively, a small nick in the fascia can
      be made, a Veress needle used to achieve pneumoperitoneum, and a 12mm VersSTEP port placed
      through an introducer sheath. Diagnostic laparoscopy is then performed, with inspection of
      the stomach, liver, gallbladder, colon, small intestines, and pelvis. If a diagnosis other
      than acute appendicitis is made (such as pelvic inflammatory disease, sigmoid diverticulitis,
      cecal diverticulitis, Crohn's disease, perforated duodenal ulcer, etc.), the patient is
      excluded from the study and treated appropriately. If the appendix looks normal and no other
      pathology is found in the abdomen, the patient may stay enrolled in the study if the surgeon
      decides to remove the appendix.

      Additional 5mm ports are placed in the left lower quadrant and suprapubic midline after the
      skin and peritoneum are anesthetized with 0.25% marcaine. A 5mm camera is transferred to the
      left lower quadrant port site and the appendix is exposed and retracted anteriorly. The
      mesoappendix may be divided with EndoGIA staplers, Ligasure, cautery and clips, or Harmonic
      Scalpel. The base of the appendix may be ligated with EndoGIA staplers or Endoloop. The
      appendix is removed through the umbilical incision after first placing it into an EndoCatch
      bag. Minimal irrigation is used; perforated cases are treated with suctioning of
      intra-abdominal pus and postoperative antibiotics. Blood loss is estimated. Umbilical fascia
      length is measured in millimeters, then closed with 0-Maxon absorbable suture. The umbilical
      skin is anesthetized with 0.25% marcaine, and all skin edges re-approximated with 4-0 biosyn.
      Indermil glue is the only dressing.

      SILS Appendectomy Technique: Patients are placed in the supine position and given a general
      anesthetic. An orogastric tube is placed. Sequential compression devices are placed on the
      legs. Unless the patient has just voided, a Foley catheter is placed in the bladder. The left
      arm is tucked and the abdomen shaved as necessary. The base of the umbilical stalk is everted
      by two penetrating towel clamps placed either side of the midline. The skin is anesthetized
      with 5mL of 0.25% marcaine. A vertical skin incision is made within the umbilical stalk, the
      fascia is retracted, and a 3 cm vertical fascial incision made with a scalpel. The peritoneum
      is entered with either a gloved finger, Kelly clamp, or scissors. The incision is retracted
      anteriorly with an Army/Navy retractor, and the SILSPort inserted into the incision using a
      shoe-horn maneuver. 5mm trocars are placed in the SILSPort™, and the abdomen insufflated to
      15mmHg with carbon dioxide gas, after which the trocars are repositioned into a staggered
      elevation. Diagnostic laparoscopy is then performed, with inspection of the stomach, liver,
      gallbladder, colon, small intestines, and pelvis. If a diagnosis other than acute
      appendicitis is made (such as pelvic inflammatory disease, sigmoid diverticulitis, cecal
      diverticulitis, Crohn's disease, perforated duodenal ulcer, etc.), the patient is excluded
      from the study and treated appropriately. If the appendix looks normal and no other pathology
      is found in the abdomen, the patient may stay enrolled in the study if the surgeon decides to
      remove the appendix.

      The appendix is exposed and retracted anteriorly. The mesoappendix may be divided with
      EndoGIA staplers, Ligasure, cautery and clips, or Harmonic Scalpel. The base of the appendix
      may be ligated with EndoGIA staplers or Endoloop. When staplers are used, one of the 5mm
      trocars is replaced with a 12mm trocar. The appendix is removed through the umbilical
      incision after first placing it into an EndoCatch bag. Minimal irrigation is used; perforated
      cases are treated with suctioning of intra-abdominal pus and postoperative antibiotics. Blood
      loss is estimated. Umbilical fascia length is measured in millimeters, then closed with
      0-Maxon absorbable simple interrupted sutures. Skin edges re-approximated with 4-0 biosyn.
      Indermil glue is the primary dressing.

      Postoperative Care: Patients are given a full liquid diet immediately after surgery, and are
      advanced to an unrestricted diet as soon as the patient feels up to it. Pain is controlled by
      a hydromorphone PCA (patient-controlled analgesia) pump for at least 12 hours after surgery,
      after which oral pain medications are prescribed. If the patient is allergic to
      hydromorphone, morphine may be used. No supplemental pain medications (Motrin, Toradol, etc.)
      will be used for patients enrolled in the study. No steroids (e.g. Decadron) will be given.
      Antibiotics for appendicitis are given at the discretion of the attending surgeon. Patients
      are discharged at the discretion of the attending surgeon, generally when the patient can eat
      without vomiting, pain is controlled with oral medications, and the systemic inflammatory
      response to the appendicitis has subsided.

      After 2-3 weeks, follow-up occurs in Dr. Carter's clinic. The wounds are assessed for
      infection, seroma, or hernia. Date of return-to-work and date of last opiate pain medication
      are recorded. At 6 months, patients return to clinic and complete a survey. The survey
      includes a Body Image Questionnaire, a Cosmetic Appearance Scale, and a Photo Series
      Questionnaire, all of which have been validated.8-12 The Body Image Questionnaire measures
      patients' perception of and satisfaction with their own body and explores attitudes toward
      their bodily appearance. Five questions are asked, with up to four points assigned per
      question, totaling 20 possible points. The Cosmetic Appearance Scale assesses the degree of
      patient satisfaction about the physical appearance of the abdomen (and its scars) using
      100-mm visual analogue scale. The patient is asked to make a mark along the horizontal scale
      that indicates the overall aesthetic appearance of the abdomen as a whole, and incisions
      separately. Numeric scores are then obtained by measuring the horizontal distance from the
      low end of the scale to the marking, rounded to the nearest millimeter. Finally, the Photo
      Series Questionnaire assesses whether knowledge of the cosmetic results of the alternative
      approach (SILS or conventional laparoscopic) influences the evaluation of the scar. It also
      measures the strength of the preference. Patients who do not return for follow-up will be
      mailed a survey and/or called for a telephone interview. Data management and interviews will
      be managed by a research assistant hired for the study.

      Definition of Study Variables and Outcome Measures Patient Characteristics: Age, height,
      weight, prior operations in the abdomen

      Intraoperative Variables:

        1. Operative time - defined as the amount of time to perform the operation from
           skin-incision to application of the dressing. This time is routinely charted by the
           circulating nurse in the operating room.

        2. Conversion - defined by the use of incisions and/or trocars in addition to the ones
           described in the Methods section, or the need to perform an open procedure.

        3. Visceral or vascular injury - defined as injury to the intestines, colon, omentum,
           vasculature, or pelvic organs during the dissection requiring intervention (suture or
           stapled repair, use of hemostatic agents).

        4. Umbilical fascia incision length (in millimeters).

      Postoperative Variables:

        1. Mean pain score over 12 hours - Pain is assess by the ward nurse as needed, but at least
           every four hours, and documented in the patient's chart. Pain is scored on a scale of
           0-10, 10 being the most severe pain imaginable. Average pain score for that patient is
           calculated over the first 12 hours (the time the patient is on a hydromorphone PCA)

        2. Hydromorphone use over 12 hours - Total hydromorphone usage (in milligrams) is charted
           by the floor nurse. The amount used in the first 12 hours after surgery, starting from
           the time the patient is discharged from the recovery room, is recorded.

        3. Length of stay - Number of calendar days the patient is hospitalized.

        4. Wound infection - Defined as the need for additional antibiotics, prescribed beyond the
           perioperative antibiotics given for acute appendicitis, for the purpose or treating a
           wound cellulitis, or the need to open the wound to drain a wound abscess, within 6
           months of surgery.

        5. Deep space infection - Defined as the need for reoperation, readmission, or percutaneous
           drainage of a deep (organ space) infection within 6 months of surgery. All
           intra-abdominal abscesses are classified as deep space infections.

        6. Wound seroma - Defined as an un-inflamed fluid collection under the skin incision > 1cm
           in diameter identified within 6 months of surgery.

        7. Time to return to work - Defined as the number of calendar days between discharge from
           the hospital and the first day back at work.

        8. Date of last opiate pain medication use.

        9. Readmission with 30 days.

       10. Body Image Score at 6 months

       11. Cosmetic Appearance Scale at 6 months.

       12. Photo Series Questionnaire at 6 months.
    
  