
    
      BACKGROUND, SIGNIFICANCE, AND RATIONALE (including preliminary studies and any results) The
      integrity of the two atrioventricular valves (AVV)(i.e., the mitral and tricuspid valve)
      plays an important role in the evaluation and management of patients with congenital and
      acquired heart disease. Loss of valve integrity (i.e., valve leakage in the reverse direction
      of normal blood flow), is known as valve regurgitation. Increasing severity of mitral
      regurgitation has been associated with increased mortality and morbidity. Tricuspid
      regurgitation can be a progressive problem that results in right atrial and ventricular
      dilation and possible right heart failure. Similarly, mitral valve regurgitation can result
      in left atrial and left ventricular enlargement. Treatment options for valvular regurgitation
      are based upon the degree of regurgitation in both adults and children. Therefore, assessment
      of the degree of AV valvular regurgitation has important clinical ramifications. AV valve
      regurgitation can be assessed in several ways, including both invasive and noninvasive
      modalities. The invasive assessment is performed by cardiac catheterization which enables
      qualitative and quantitative measurements of AV valve regurgitation and in the past has been
      considered the "gold standard". Noninvasive assessment is still the preferred method and
      consists of echocardiography, electrocardiography, chest x-ray, and CMR. TTE can be used
      qualitatively to describe the amount of AV valve regurgitation by the degree of color flow
      Doppler reflux into the left atrium during left ventricular contraction. This approach grades
      the regurgitation as mild, moderate or severe similar to angiographic grading systems, but is
      relatively subjective and affected by technical factors. TTE can quantitatively evaluate AV
      valve regurgitation through calculation of regurgitation orifice area, regurgitation volume
      and regurgitation fraction. These methods have been shown to have a good correlation when
      used for mitral valves compared to cardiac catheterization and CMR in adults. However,
      quantitative techniques are time consuming and require multiple measurements and more complex
      calculations. A simpler technique of objectively characterizing the regurgitation of the AV
      valves by TTE is measuring the width of the vena contracta (VC). The VC is the narrowest
      portion of a regurgitant jet which occurs at the level of or just below the valve leaflets
      and represents the effective regurgitant orifice. In adult studies, this method has shown
      that increase in VC width of the mitral valve strongly correlates with qualitative
      angiographic grades and quantitative measurements of regurgitant volume by cardiac
      catheterization and is a better assessment of regurgitation than measuring the regurgitant
      jet by TTE. Changes in VC width also had strong correlation with quantitative measurements of
      regurgitant volume and regurgitant orifice area using TTE. It is our intent to evaluate the
      feasibility and correlation of measurements of AV valve regurgitation by TTE with focus on
      the VC in pediatric patients compared to the non-invasive "gold standard" measurements by
      CMR.
    
  