
    
      Background: One of the fundamental problems of this epidemic is determined by the high
      percentage of SARS-CoV-2 infected patients who present rapid clinical deterioration that
      makes them need care in critical units. Identifying which factors are related to these more
      severe conditions would allow us to assess whether preventive or therapeutic measures can be
      put in place in advance or to better plan the services to be provided to these patients,
      either in this wave of the pandemic or in those that may occur in the future.

      Objectives: This project aims to create stratification scales of the risk of poor evolution
      in patients infected by SARS-CoV-2, defined as the appearance of clinical deterioration,
      ARDS, sepsis, SRIS, septic shock or death. Additional goals are: 1.-Evaluate the
      accessibility and equity that these patients have had in the different care processes,
      diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, with special interest in patients who came from
      residences, by age, gender or geographic origin. 2.-Evaluate the effectiveness of different
      therapeutic schemes that have been used in this pandemic. 3.-Evaluate the effectiveness of
      different diagnostic tests used to predict the poor evolution of these patients 4.- Evaluate
      the real costs associated with the treatment of hospitalized patients with COVID-19 Methods:
      The information will be extracted from the electronic medical record mostly, but will have to
      be done manually for certain fundamental parameters of prediction (clinical manifestations,
      date of onset of symptoms and duration of symptoms, and epidemiological history). Statistical
      analysis: Logistic regression/survival models/artificial intelligence algorithms will be
      created for the prediction of poor evolution of patients with CoVid-19.

      Two samples are included: 1.-All people COVID19 positive from the Basque Country (around
      18768 people); 2.-Patients admitted for COVID 19 in the centers participating in the study
      during the first wave of the pandemic, until May 31, will be included (in the case of the
      Basque Country, some of these patients will come from the population sample #1 described
      before). If there were new waves of a certain entity (more than 100 admissions in a month per
      center), this information would also be collected later. With the information the
      investigators have so far, the investigators see that the investigators would have between
      6000-7000 to select. Later, patients from the autumn wave would be collected, if it were
      given, until the end of May 2021, due to greater temporal similarity with the first wave.

      Sampling: The information to be reviewed from the medical record will be collected from the
      first wave of the pandemic between March-May 2020, where a random sampling will be carried
      out . For the second wave of autumn-winter of 2020-2021, a random sample of patients will
      also be collected, enough to meet the estimated sample size for this second wave. If not, the
      sample size will be completed with patients from the first wave.

      VARIABLES: Exposure: 1.-Sociodemographic data: Age, gender, residence (yes / no), country of
      origin. 2.- Personal history: associated diseases; Basal treatments, etc. 3.-History of the
      disease 4.-Physical examination at home or AP. 5.-Hospital history: symptoms on arrival at
      the emergency department, vital signs, signs and physical examination, Laboratory tests,
      chest radiography pattern, CAT pattern, established treatments, ICU data.

      Result: Clinical impairment: Dyspnoea at rest, Development of ARDS, sepsis, SIRS, shock, ICU
      admission, Death (date). Relief of symptoms, days until the absence of disease, death.

      Follow-up (6 months): Readmissions, New diagnoses, Complications, Biomarkers of fibrogenesis,
      Results of the diagnostic procedure (radiographs, MRI, CT), Death (with date and cause) Costs
      (index and 6 months income): Emergency or programmed admission; number of days of admission
      (in each of the Units / Plants / ICU / Emergencies); laboratory tests (number and type);
      number of days in which respiratory support was required; treatments used throughout the stay
      (drug, dose, dosage, duration); diagnostic procedures (radiographs, MRI, CT, etc.) performed
      during the study period; surgical procedures performed; external consultations (number and
      Service); day hospital (number and procedures); AP and home visits (related to COVID-19) DATA
      COLLECTION METHODS: Manual data extraction will be carried out by reviewers under the
      supervision of each PI per center. All the collected data will be entered in the RedCap
      database. Once the information is extracted, a common database will be created for subsequent
      analysis.

      STATISTIC ANALYSIS. The study unit will be the patient. A descriptive analysis of the entire
      sample will be carried out. A univariate analysis will be performed to determine potential
      factors or variables related to the outcome variables of interest. In the multivariate
      analysis, different models will be carried out according to the dependent variable of
      interest. In the case of dichotomous dependent variables, logistic regression models will be
      used. Statistical significance will be assumed when p <0.05 and all analyzes will be
      performed using SAS v9.4 and R statistical software. Also, the prediction of the variables
      will be evaluated individually by measuring the statistical correlation between each variable
      and the poor evolution; and collectively looking at the ability to predict the bad evolution
      from combinations, which will be obtained by generating Association Rules between variables
      from the underlying statistical relationships.

      The analysis of the comparative effectiveness between the different treatment options that
      have been observed will be carried out by intention to treat. In addition to descriptive
      statistical techniques, a time-to-event (mortality) survival analysis will be performed using
      multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression, and a parametric survival analysis with the
      corresponding distribution (Weibull, etc.) together with an estimate. of average survival.
      For the evaluation of comparative effectiveness, propensity score techniques will be used to
      create comparable treatment groups by adjusting baseline covariates by inverse weighting of
      treatment probability. Additionally, and because it is foreseeable that there will be
      multiple treatment groups, the specific estimation procedure called generalized boosted
      models will be applied.

      For the analysis of cost data, both for the analysis of associated variables and for a cost
      comparison objective, GLM regression techniques will be used with the type of distribution
      that best fits the data (using the Modified Park Test ), although preferably the gamma and
      logarithm family will be used as the link. The data will be analyzed with the Stata v14.2
      program.

      ETHICAL AND CONFIDENTIALITY ASPECTS. The project has been evaluated by the research
      commissions and the Research Ethics Committee with Medicines (CEIm), where it has been
      approved. The laws on personal data will be followed (RGPD 2018) All information will be
      treated in an absolutely confidential manner.

      Expected results: A prognostic stratification tool based on predictive models of poor
      evolution in CoVid-19 infection: clinical deterioration and development of ARDS, SRS, sepsis,
      and/or septic shock and/or death. This tool will help guide the most appropriate clinical
      management of patients, mainly those with the most severe presentations that may require
      attention in critical care units. Additionally, purposes of this study are alsoto provide
      information on the variability and costs in the provision of health care that may have been
      given, both in the use of diagnostic tests and in the use of different therapeutic options
      and also in the results finally obtained. The investigators seek to identify problems in the
      accessibility of different groups (elderly, people in residences, by gender, higher level of
      comorbidities, immigrants ...), and that can help us identify problems in equity in access to
      health services.
    
  