
    
      PARTICIPANTS: Forty healthy (no regular prescription medication use) male and females,
      between the ages of 18-70 years, will be recruited for this randomized-control cross-over
      study. Ideally, the investigators hope to recruit twenty "younger" (18-50) and twenty "older"
      (50-70) participants for this pilot study.

      All participants will be required to participate in two separate trials (a control and
      dehydration-rehydration trial, in randomized order), separated by at least a week. All
      menstruating females will be tested during the follicular phase of their menstrual cycle
      (i.e. within the first 14 days after the onset of the menstrual period). All participants
      will present to the lab in the evening for pre-testing and then in the morning for
      mid-testing/post-testing. With both pre-testing and mid-testing/post-testing each taking ~90
      minutes each, plus 12-hours of fluid deprivation or regular food/fluid intake overnight, the
      total time participating in collective study activities would be approximately 30-hours (~15
      hours per trial).

      PROCEDURES: For each of the two study trials, participants will come to the lab in the
      evening for pre-testing and then the following morning for mid-testing/post-testing (one
      trial). Hydration status will be assessed using blood (venipuncture), urine (spot sample),
      body weight, and thirst rating (100mm visual analogue scale). Cardiovascular variables will
      be assessed via heart rate, ECG, and blood pressure. Body composition will be measured using
      a dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan. Mood will be assessed using the Profile of
      Mood States (POMS) questionnaire.

      Once the participants present to the lab, pre-test blood, urine, body weight and composition,
      mood and thirst/sodium/hunger ratings will be obtained. Then, to enhance sweat water losses,
      each participant will be asked to walk on a motorized treadmill at a self-selected speed for
      60-minutes.

      During the Dehydration-Rehydration trial, participants will be asked to refrain from
      ingesting any fluid (fluid restriction) for at least 12-hours overnight (i.e. from leaving
      the lab that evening until coming into the lab the next morning) to facilitate dehydration.
      After mid-testing, the participants will be allowed free access to water for a 60-minute
      rehydration period to quench their thirst ("ad libitum" drinking). At the end of this
      60-minute rehydration period, post-test measures will be repeated. During the control trial,
      the participants can eat and drink as they please during the 12-hour overnight period.
    
  