
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with a range of cognitive impairments, most notably
      deficits of higher order cognitive control mechanisms referred to as "executive dysfunction".
      These problems have consistently been related to dysfunction of fronto-striatal circuitry
      (summary see Stocchi & Brusa, 2000). Executive function impairments may already be present in
      early stages of PD (Uekermann et al., 2004) and their severity may be exacerbated by
      affective changes such as depression (Uekermann et al., 2003). In addition to cognitive
      problems, PD patients frequently suffer from mood changes, in particular apathy
      (Kirsch-Darrow et al., 2006) and from affect processing impairments, relating to both the
      ability to decode the affective state of other people on the basis of facial expressions or
      prosody and to the ability to adequately express the patients' own emotions (e.g.
      Breitenstein et al., 1998; Zgaljardic et al., 2003, Pell & Leonard, 2005). The capacity for
      emotion perception was found to be linked to the severity of executive dysfunction; affective
      and cognitive changes are thus not independent, at least in patients with moderate PD
      (Breitenstein et al., 2001).

      In a recent drug monitoring study by Lundbeck GmbH/TEVA Pharma GmbH based on a small group of
      PD patients (n=29), introduction of Azilect (Rasagiline) therapy was associated with a
      significant improvement of PD patients' emotional expressiveness (e.g. facial expression,
      gestures, voice intonation) over an 8 week observation period. Significant improvements were
      observed for self-ratings of emotional expressiveness as well as ratings by physicians and
      relatives. The lack of a placebo-control group, however, does not allow any firm conclusions
      with regard to the specificity of these effects.

      Intact affect recognition and an adequate ability to express emotions are of critical
      importance for social interaction. The therapeutic efficacy of drug treatment on non-motor
      symptoms in PD has so far only rarely been addressed. The documentation of a beneficial
      effect of Azilect on emotional processing would be of great relevance for the quality of life
      of PD patients and greatly enhance their ability to participate in social life.

      The addition of a placebo control group is critical for the assessment of the specificity of
      the expected beneficial effects of Azilect.
    
  