
    
      This is a prospective observational study of epidemiological surveillance, multicenter,
      non-profit, spontaneous, italian on patients submitted to allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation organized under the auspices of the Gruppo Italiano Trapianti di Midollo
      Osseo that involves the principal Centres active in transplantation of any kind of
      hematopoietic stem cells in Italy.

      Allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation patients continue to be one of the
      highest risk categories for developing viral infections. Cytomegalovirus infection is the
      leading viral cause of morbidity and mortality and HHV6 and EBV are other major causes of
      complications in transplant. The risk of these infections is directly related to the type of
      transplant.

      A better and continuous monitoring of Cytomegalovirus and other herpesviruses complication in
      this setting would contribute to a better knowledge of the evolving epidemiology and would
      lead to a better use of diagnostic strategies and of preventive and therapeutic measures.

      This study is aimed to identify epidemiological characteristics of allogeneic haematopoietic
      stem cell transplantation patients developing cytomegalovirus and other herpesviruses
      infections, risk factors, diagnostic peculiarities and factors that may guide to pre-emptive
      therapy versus prophylaxis strategies.

      Virological monitoring and health care resources utilization in Allogeneic haematopoietic
      stem cell transplantation recipients according to the different risk of viral infection will
      be also assessed. This prospective analysis will provide useful information for local
      clinicians to define tailored antiviral strategies in line with the change of transplantation
      procedures.

      All consecutive patients submitted to allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation
      will be prospectively monitored for Cytomegalovirus Cytomegalovirus, Herpesvirus human 6 and
      Virus Epstein-Barr infections and diseases during the six months from transplant, because
      most of viral infections and diseases occur within this period after transplant. Risk
      factors, incidence and prognostic factors of each viral infection and disease, as well as
      diagnostic and therapeutic strategies employed in the various transplant centers, will be
      evaluated in the overall population and in subpopulations according to different transplant
      characteristics.

      The incidence of these infections and diseases will be also collected and described according
      to the different types of transplant and underlying disease conditions.

      The Secondary Objectives are:

      To assess the factors that may affect the incidence and the prognosis of allogeneic
      haematopoietic stem cell transplantation infections and diseases, as well as of Herpesvirus
      human 6 and Virus Epstein-Barr infections and related diseases To assess the impact of
      allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation infections and diseases on the overall
      and attributable mortality at 12 months from the transplant To describe the virological
      diagnostic strategies of allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation, Herpesvirus
      human 6 and Virus Epstein-Barr infections and the allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation specific immunological reconstitution tests used in the various centres To
      describe the antiviral strategies employed in the various centers and in the various
      subpopulations of transplant patients with focus on use of antiviral drugs in prophylaxis and
      therapy and use of allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation -specific intravenous
      IVIG in prophylaxis and therapy To evaluate the impact of a local strategy about use of
      antiviral drugs and allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation -specific IVIG in
      prophylaxis and therapy on the epidemiological findings, the clinical evolution of the
      allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation infections and diseases and on the Health
      Care Resources utilization (diagnostic procedures, pharmaco-utilization, hospitalization,
      outpatient visits).

      A web system data entry will be used for this study. Data will be stored using specific
      e-CRFs designed by GITMO committee and includes mainly descriptive variables. Data Center
      will perform extensive consistency checks and issue electronic Query Forms in case of
      inconsistent data. Follow-up period for the evaluation of survival will be from the date of
      transplant until 12 months post-transplant or death. However, patients may not have 12 months
      follow up and if the patients are not having 12 months of observation due to lost to follow
      up and not due to mortality, these patients characteristics will be compared with the rest of
      the patients in order to ascertain there is no bias or estimate the bias.

      The study will be conducted according to the principles of Good Clinical Practice, the
      current Italian and European laws and regulations, in agreement with the declaration of
      Helsinki. The protocol has been written and the study will be conducted according to The
      International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals for
      Human Use Harmonized Tripartite Guideline for Good Clinical Practice, issued by the European
      Union. The responsible Local Ethical Committee approval must be obtained before starting the
      trial. A copy of the patient informed consent form must be submitted to the appropriate
      authority or committee, together with the protocol for written approval. Written approval of
      the protocol and informed consent by the responsible and appropriate authority or committee
      must be obtained prior to recruitment of patients to the study.
    
  