
    
      The CAROUSEL Trial is a single-centre, non-randomised, open label Phase I clinical trial of
      an Advanced Therapy Investigational Medicinal Product (ATIMP) in adults (age ≥16) with
      relapsed/refractory Primary CNS Lymphoma. The ATIMP for this study is cryopreserved
      autologous patient-derived T-cells transduced with CD19CAR vector to generate CD19CAR
      T-cells.

      Patients will undergo an unstimulated leucapheresis for the generation of the ATIMP which
      will take approximately 15 days to generate. During this period, patients may receive
      "holding" chemotherapy as per institutional practice to maintain disease control. Patients
      will receive pre-conditioning lymphodepleting (LD) chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide 60mg/kg
      on Day -6, fludarabine 30mg/m2 administered over 3 days (Day -5 to Day -3) and pembrolizumab
      200mg on Day -1.

      All patients will be treated on Theme 1 of the study with 250 x 10^6 CD19 CAR T-cells i.v.
      following LD chemotherapy as described above. Patients with response of Stable Disease (SD)
      or Progressive Disease (PD) at Day 28 (or frank relapse beyond Day 28) and in the absence of
      severe toxicity related to the ATIMP, will be potentially eligible for Theme 2 of the study
      where they can receive Dose 2, a single dose of 25 x 10^6 CD19CAR T-cells intraventricularly
      via an Ommaya reservoir following LD chemotherapy as described above.

      The study will evaluate the feasibility of generating the ATIMP, the safety of administering
      CD19CAR T-cell therapy and how effectively CD19CAR T-cells engraft, expand and persist
      following administration in patients with relapsed/refractory primary CNS lymphoma.

      Following infusion of CD19CAR T-cell therapy patients will be monitored for between 2-4 weeks
      as an inpatient. Following discharge, patients will enter the interventional follow up phase
      and be followed up for 2 years. Patients will be seen monthly for the first 6 months, then 6
      weekly to 12 months and then 3 monthly until 2 years post CD19CAR T-cell infusion.

      If patients relapse within the first 2 years post CD19CAR T-cell infusion they will come off
      the interventional follow up and will be followed up annually until the end of trial is
      declared.

      After completing the interventional phase of the study all patients, irrespective of whether
      they progressed or responded to treatment, will enter long term follow up until the end of
      trial is declared.
    
  