
    
      We retrospectively reviewed the cases of seventy-seven patients who had hysterectomies for
      endometrial hyperplasia between January 1996 and September 2006 at the Department of
      Obstetrics and Gynecology, National Taiwan University Hospital. A preoperative pathologic
      diagnosis of endometrial hyperplasia was obtained by D&C (dilation and curettage) in all
      patients. Twenty of them were diagnosed as having endometrial carcinoma in their hysterectomy
      specimens. All of the specimens were reviewed by a gynecologic pathologist.

      Depending on the final pathologic reports of hysterectomy, we divided the seventy-seven
      patients into two groups - the non-endometrial carcinoma group and the endometrial carcinoma
      group. Fifty-seven of the studied patients were in the non-endometrial carcinoma group and
      twenty were in the endometrial carcinoma group. As already mentioned above, we investigated
      them by clinical parameters including age, menopausal status, obstetrical history, medical
      history of diabetes and hypertension, BMI (body mass index) and preoperative pathology of
      D&C.

      The clinical and pathologic characteristics of the twenty patients diagnosed as having
      endometrial carcinoma postoperatively were also reviewed. Initial manifestation, histological
      grading of the carcinoma, the depth of myometrial invasion, with or without adjuvant
      radiotherapy and recurrence were included. The histological grading of endometrial carcinoma
      was based on FIGO ( International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics ) definitions. The
      BMIs of the patients with endometrial carcinoma were also analyzed by the receiver operating
      characteristic curve. The Research and Ethics Committee of National Taiwan University
      Hospital approved this study.

      Statistical analyses were performed with the Independent-Samples T test and the Mann-Whitney
      test. Subsequently, multivariate analysis of risk factors was also employed with Binary
      logistic regression model to obtain the adjusted odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval
      (CI) for selective variables. P<0.05 was defined as significant.
    
  