
    
      A prospective, single arm, non-randomized, open label pilot trial will enroll ten patients
      with histologically-confirmed newly diagnosed GBM who meet all eligibility criteria. Patients
      will be recruited to the study by the principal investigator (PI) or one of the
      co-investigators (CI) at one institution, Hackensack University Medical Center. Accrual is
      expected to continue for 18 months.

      The protocol has a planned enrollment of 10 patients. Should patients discontinue treatment
      on protocol for reasons unrelated to toxicity (e.g. lost to follow-up, withdrawal of
      consent), additional patient (s) may be enrolled to complete enrollment.

      Following maximal debulking surgery, patients will undergo a gadolinium enhanced brain MRI
      within 72 hours and a screening visit 2 to 4 weeks following surgery. Extent of resection
      will be recorded as biopsy, partial resection or gross-total resection based upon residual
      enhancing tumor on post-operative MRI.The day prior to XRT start, patients will have a clinic
      visit for training and application of the NovoTTF-200A device. During this visit, the patient
      will be educated regarding general use and maintenance of the device, with a particular focus
      upon strategies to prevent, identify and manage dermatologic adverse events (dAE).
      Temozolomide will be dosed nightly during XRT as per standard of care, and NovoTTF-200A will
      be worn continuously, removed during XRT and replaced as soon as possible thereafter.

      During XRT and for 12 weeks to follow, the patient will have study visits at regular
      intervals (TAB A) for a physical examination and to assess toxicity and device compliance.
      Visits outlined in TAB A are in addition to weekly visits during radiotherapy with the
      treating radiation oncologist. MRI will be obtained at 4 weeks (+/-7 days) and 12 weeks (+/-7
      days) following completion of XRT, and maintenance temozolomide will recommence in 5/28 day
      cycles as per standard of care. Objective response will be assessed as defined by the
      Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria (TAB C) by the treating physician and
      confirmed by a second investigator.

      In the case of suspected pseudoprogression, continued treatment and subsequent evaluations
      will help clarify whether it is true progression. Patients may continue treatment at the
      discretion of the investigator. If subsequent evaluations suggest that the tumor has in fact
      progressed, the date of progression will reflex to the date when the issue was first raised.
      However, if subsequent evaluations demonstrate improvement without change in therapy, the
      initial tumor increase may be considered pseudoprogression and response may be recorded as
      not evaluable for that time point. In the case of clinical progression, an unscheduled MRI
      will be obtained within 1 week of the investigator becoming aware of the clinical
      progression. No additional MRIs will be required after progression.

      Temozolomide and NovoTTF-200A will continue until the final study visit, or until disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Thereafter, temozolomide, MRI and response assessments
      will continue as per standard of care. Following the final study visit, the patient will be
      followed at a minimum of every two months for survival, either by phone or in person. If the
      patient is free of unacceptable toxicity attributable to NovoTTF-200A, they will be offered
      the opportunity to continue the device at no financial cost, but without obligation to do so.

      Unacceptable toxicity includes the occurrence of device related serious adverse events or
      clinical and functional deterioration considered by the investigator to be prohibitive of
      continuing treatment. Treatment with the NovoTTF-200A device does not need to be terminated
      in the case of temozolomide toxicity.

      The primary endpoint will be safety and tolerability of combined modality treatment with
      radiotherapy, temozolomide and NovoTTF-200A, based upon the incidence and severity of adverse
      events. Secondary endpoints will be overall survival, progression free survival and quality
      of life.
    
  