
    
      Study design

      The MICOLON study is a prospective, single-centre, observational cohort study on the
      association between 5th generation high sensitive cardiac troponin T levels and non-cardiac
      outcome after major abdominal surgery in patients at risk for coronary artery disease.

      Patient eligibility

      Patients are eligible to enter the study if they are scheduled to undergo elective major
      abdominal surgery with an expected postoperative mortality rate >3%, are aged 45 years or
      older and have at least one of the following major cardiac risk factors: diabetes mellitus,
      peripheral artery disease (i.e. intermittent claudication or history of vascular surgery
      except arteriovenous shunt and vein stripping procedures), history of hospitalization for
      congestive heart failure, history of myocardial infarction, stable angina pectoris, history
      of coronary artery bypass grafting or percutaneous coronary angioplasty, renal insufficiency
      (defined as preoperative creatinine >150 μmol/L), history of cerebral vascular event, aortic
      valve stenosis (defined as aortic valve area <1 cm2), atrial fibrillation, moderate or poor
      left ventricular function (defined as left ventricular ejection fraction <55%), or two of the
      following minor risk factors for coronary artery disease: age >70 years, hypertension,
      hypercholesterolemia, history of transient ischemic attack, chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease, smoking or low functional capacity (capable of physical activity of 4 metabolic
      equivalents or less). Patients are excluded from study participation if they have no signed
      informed consent.

      Study procedure

      Patients eligible for the study are identified at the outpatient preoperative anesthesiology
      clinic. Patients are examined and screened for cardiac risk factors by an anesthesiology
      resident or a dedicated screening nurse. Results of preoperative laboratory tests, data on
      patient characteristics and preoperative use of cardiovascular drugs (i.e. statin,
      ß--blocker, platelet inhibitor, calcium antagonists, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor
      and angiotensine receptor blocker) were noted. Prior to any study procedure written informed
      consent is obtained from all patients. During the study period blood is collected for plasma
      troponin T measurements after induction of general anesthesia (baseline) and on the 1st, 3rd
      and 7th postoperative day. All plasma samples are frozen and stored at -20°C at the
      hospital's laboratory until analysis. Cardiac troponin T batch analysis is performed every 3
      weeks with the use of 5th generation Elecsys Troponin T high sensitive assay on an automated
      Cobas 6000 platform (Roche Diagnostics, Germany). The limit of detection of this high
      sensitive assay was determined at 3 ng/L with a 99th percentile upper reference limit of 14
      ng/L. In addition, plasma creatinine levels are measured in each sample with an enzymatic
      method on the same automated platform (Roche Diagnostics, Germany). An estimated glomerular
      filtration rate is calculated from plasma creatinine values using the Modification of Diet in
      Renal Disease formula. During the entire study period daily routine quality control samples
      for troponin and creatinine ensure comparable patient data across different reagent lots.
      After analysis the samples are stored at -80°C.

      Surgical procedures are performed under general anesthesia or a combination of general and
      epidural anesthesia. Anesthesia management is left to the discretion of the attending
      anesthesiologist. According to hospital protocol, patients scheduled for gastric-esophageal,
      pancreatic or hepatic surgery and patients aged ≥80 or with an American Association of
      Anesthesiologists physical status classification system ≥3 will be admitted to an intensive
      care unit postoperatively for at least 24 hours. To improve postoperative recovery all
      patients are treated according to the current Enhanced Recovery After Surgery guidelines.

      During the postoperative period research personnel performs patient visits, reviews medical
      charts and notes complications. At thirty days after surgery troponin results are reported to
      the researchers and a follow-up telephone interview is performed if patients are discharged
      from the hospital at that time. Patients will be asked if a medical complication has occurred
      since their discharge from the hospital. If so, medical details are retrieved from their
      treating physicians. Information from routine postoperative clinic visits is used if patients
      can not be reached by telephone. Noted endpoints are judged by an event committee, that is
      blinded for troponin results.

      Endpoint definition

      Primary parameter of the study is postoperative myocardial injury at day 1, 3 or 7. Secondary
      parameters are met by the occurrence of any of the following non-cardiac events within 30
      days after surgery: mortality - defined as death without cardiovascular origin; sepsis -
      defined as systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) in response to a proven or
      suspected microbial infection; pneumonia - defined as purulent sputum or isolation of a
      pathogen from sputum culture or blood culture and clinical symptoms (e.g. dyspnea, fever,
      cough) or a consolidation or pleural effusion on chest radiograph; respiratory failure -
      defined as non-cardiac hypoxia or hypercapnia leading to ICU (re)admission for respiratory
      support (e.g. (non)invasive ventilation or high concentration oxygen therapy); anastomotic
      dehiscence - defined as presence of luminal contents through drain or wound site causing
      local inflammation or SIRS, or leak detected on imaging studies in combination with clinical
      signs of SIRS; intestinal ischemia - defined as signs of superficial or transmural bowel
      ischemia on imaging studies and clinical symptoms (e.g. abdominal pain or tenderness) or
      SIRS; wound infection - purulent drainage from superficial incision or deliberate opening of
      superficial incision by surgeon and clinical signs of local inflammation (e.g. pain,
      tenderness, swelling, redness); bleeding - defined as abnormal postoperative bleeding needing
      surgical (i.e. re-operation) or endovascular (i.e. coiling) treatment. Other study parameters
      were length of hospital stay and in-hospital mortality.
    
  