
    
      This research will conduct a population-based field studies to determine whether the relative
      cost and efficacy of semi-annual versus annual administration of MDA using DEC (6 mg/kg body
      weight) plus ALB 400 mg (for all individuals regardless of weight) will be more successful in
      elimination of LF and reduction in the burden of soil transmitted helminth (worm) infections.
      The study involving participation of human subjects is observational in nature, uses drugs
      that are the standard approved treatment for LF in PNG and elsewhere in the Pacific and Asia,
      and does not involve administration of drugs by the investigators. Diagnosis of LF and
      administration of anti-LF drugs will be the responsibility of those authorized by the PNG
      Department of Health to perform this activity.

      The study design is repeated cross-sectional surveys examining each subject once. Some
      subjects may be included in more than one annual population survey, but this is not a
      longitudinal study. Approximately 3,200 individuals will participate per year at the
      beginning of the study and at years 1, 2 and 3 (a total of 4 cross-sectional surveys). The
      study will include both females and males 5 years of age and older who live in a LF endemic
      area of PNG. Subject selection will not be based on health status. The study aims to
      determine the relative impact and cost effectiveness of annual versus twice yearly MDA (DEC 6
      mg/kg body plus Alb 400 mg for all individuals) for elimination of LF and reduction in soil
      transmitted helminthic infection burdens in these populations.

      The project is comprised of repeated annual cross-sectional surveys in sentinel communities
      before and after initiation of MDA for LF. The surveys will be conducted over a period of 3
      years at the following times: 0 (pre-treatment baseline), 1, 2, and 3 years corresponding to
      annual treatment times. Government health officials as part of the GPELF will administer the
      MDA (standard regimen recommended by WHO is DEC + ALB). Part of the government-sponsored
      program will be to screen for LF using ICT card screening and finger stick bloods for
      measuring the density of blood born microfilaria (MF). The current protocol will assist in
      collection of these data. As part of the annual treatment infection surveillance the study
      team will also collect demographic data, history of lymphedema, scrotal swelling (hydrocele),
      acute filarial fever or adenolymphangitis, and history of prior treatment for LF.
    
  