
    
      Neurofibromatosis 1(NF1) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder with an incidence of one birth
      out of 3000. NF1 gene is located in 17q11.2. The penetrance is near 100% by the age of 8 and
      the de novo mutations represent half the cases. The product of NF1 gene is neurofibromin, a
      protein controlling cellular differentiation and proliferation. Phenotypic expression is
      variable even in the same family. Neurofibromatosis 1 is characterized by café au lait spots,
      freckling of the folds, Lisch'nodules (hamartomas of iris) and multiple neurofibromas.
      Manifestations of neurofibromatosis 1 are pleiotropic, potentially severe and unpredictable.
      Morbidity and mortality associated to neurofibromatosis 1 are linked with complications,
      optic pathway gliomas, neurofibromas of the spine or of peripheral nerves, learning
      disabilities, scoliosis and bone abnormalities and vasculopathy. The investigators already
      demonstrated the existence of modifiers, genes modifying the phenotypic expression of
      neurofibromatosis 1 (Hum Mol Genet. 2009;18(15):2768-78). Indeed, a quantitative analysis of
      inter and intrafamilial variability performed with the data of the investigators
      phenotype/genotype database showed a strong genetic component for most studied clinical
      traits with an estimated heritability from 44 and 45% for subcutaneous and plexiform
      neurofibromas, to 66% for small café au lait spots. The investigators also showed that the
      NF1 gene had minor effect in the phenotypic variability. The investigators results suggested
      the implication of genes non linked to NF1 gene. The identification of these variants called
      modifiers of the phenotype is possible thanks to the investigators vast collection of
      patients and its statistical power. The aim of the present study is to identify in the human
      genome genetic variants in the evolving pattern of the most frequent manifestation of
      neurofibromatosis 1, neurofibromas. The genetic association studies are the most adapted in
      that purpose. The investigators bank includes at the present time 1099 patients of 575
      families with genotypes, phenotypes and DNA samples.

      The investigators will include 450 index cases more to have around 1000 independent patients
      with neurofibromatosis 1 to get a 90% statistical power to detect variants of 30% frequency
      in the general population and having an effect of odds ratio of 2 for studied trait. The
      investigators will use Affymetrix® Genechips 6.0 covering well the whole genome.

      Identification of the variants will provide new comprehension of pathophysiology and new
      targets for treatment.
    
  