
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximally tolerated doses of dinaciclib and bortezomib, when used in
      combination, in two different schedules, for treatment of relapsed multiple myeloma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the toxicities associated with dinaciclib and bortezomib, when used in
      combination, for treatment of relapsed multiple myeloma.

      II. To determine the overall response rate associated with dinaciclib and bortezomib, when
      used in combination, for treatment of relapsed multiple myeloma.

      III. To explore the differences in toxicity associated with two different schedules of
      dinaciclib and bortezomib used in combination.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine if expression levels of target cyclin dependent kinase (CDK): CDK 2,5,7 and 9
      levels in cluster of differentiation (CD)138-purified tumor cells, will be correlated with
      response (clinical and molecular) to determine if high or low level target CDK expression, if
      present, influences dinaciclib efficacy.

      II. To examine if immunoglobulin (Ig)H translocation status, P53 status and presence of v-myc
      myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (avian) (Myc) amplification or rearrangement,
      determined on patient bone marrow before treatment, using a pre validated fluorescence in
      situ hybridization (FISH) panel to identify common myeloma translocations, will be correlated
      with molecular and/or clinical markers of drug activity, and to assess if specific genetic
      subgroups of myeloma tumors are responsive or resistant.

      III. To determine the gene expression profiles of myeloma cells before and after treatment to
      understand the role of tumor gene dysregulation and/or dinaciclib induced effects on
      transcription.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of dinaciclib and bortezomib. Patients are assigned
      to 1 of 2 treatment schedules.

      SCHEDULE I: Patients receive dinaciclib intravenously (IV) over 2 hours and bortezomib
      subcutaneously (SC) or IV (if patients do not tolerate SC injection) on days 1, 8, and 15 and
      dexamethasone orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16. Courses repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      SCHEDULE II: Patients receive dinaciclib IV over 2 hours on day 1; bortezomib SC on days 1
      and 8; and dexamethasone PO QD on days 1, 2, 8, and 9. Courses repeat every 21 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and 3 months.
    
  