
    
      Participants will comprise two groups: 1) 56 (male and female) adolescents and young adults
      likely to meet inclusion/exclusion confirmed by study assessment who will be outpatients,
      ages 13 to 30 years, inclusive; and 2) 18 (male and female) healthy adolescents and young
      adults without any history of significant psychiatric disorders or treatment, who will be
      ambulatory, and will reflect the racial, ethnic, and socio-economic composition of Los
      Angeles, and will be recruited without regard to gender, race, or ethnic background.

      Healthy control adolescents (and parents) and young adults who meet all inclusion and
      exclusion criteria, will undergo a one-day 4-5 hour research evaluation of current
      functioning and behavior, cognitive function, including intellectual testing, urine drug
      screen, completion of questionnaires about possible psychological symptoms, perform brief
      tests to measure reward response, and complete a research Magnetic Resonance Imaging scan.
      Healthy control will not receive any interventions or medication.

      All eligible ASD participants will be enrolled concurrently in a 16-week, structured,
      group-based, social skills training program (PEERS®). After screening evaluations, eligible
      subjects will undergo baseline MRI scanning and behavioral assessments (self- and
      parent-report measures, videotaped interaction) and then randomized in a blocked schedule to
      yield 1:1 L-DOPA: placebo assignment, before beginning weekly social skills training.
      Medication administration will begin simultaneously with social skills training, and subjects
      will be seen weekly for the 1st 8 weeks, then biweekly for the final 4 weeks for safety
      assessments, dose titration, and compliance checks. During the 16-week study period, primary
      behavioral assessments will be repeated at Week 8 and at end of study on Week 16. A second
      MRI scan will be obtained within + 4 days of last social skills session. A follow-up safety
      phone call to assess post-study condition will be performed 30 days after completion of
      double-blind. The rich set of behavioral observations obtained across the 16 weeks will allow
      the possible identification of early clinical efficacy changes associated with L-DOPA
      administration, which could add further support for investigating this mechanism in future
      studies. Results from the project should inform reseacher's understanding of determinants of
      social dysfunction in ASD and may support further investigation of treatments modulating
      central nervous system dopamine function as a therapeutic strategy to enhance social
      functioning in ASD.
    
  