
    
      The study will be consisted of screening period of 3 weeks before the beginning of
      Quisinostat administration, followed by the Investigational product treatment period of
      approximately 18 weeks (up to 6 cycles and 21 days for each cycle), a safety follow-up of 4
      weeks after the last administration of the study therapy and post-treatment follow-up aimed
      at determination of progression-free survival, time to disease progression and overall
      survival rate in the study population.

      An interim analysis will be performed after 10 patients are evaluated for efficacy. If 1 or
      less from 10 patients have an objective response (OR), the study will be stopped early for
      futility.

      After screening and confirmation of inclusion/exclusion criteria, patients will be asked to
      come to the site to start taking Quisinostat.

      All patients will receive Quisinostat in the dose of 12 mg on Day 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 and 11 of
      each treatment cycle. Administration of Paclitaxel and Carboplatin will be performed on Day 7
      of each cycle. The cycles will be repeated once every 3 weeks (21 days).

      In case of severe carboplatin hypersensitivity reaction, it is permitted to switch to
      Cisplatin (75mg/m2) as alternative to Carboplatin in the subsequent cycles.

      Patients will receive up to 6 cycles of study therapy and then patients will continue to be
      followed-up for ORR, PFS, TTP, OS assessment in the study population.

      The Post-treatment follow up will include:

        -  End of treatment visit will take place in case of treatment's completion within 6 cycles
           of study therapy.

        -  Early discontinuation visit will take place in case of the early study termination
           (before completion of 6 cycles) . The patients will be asked to make an Early
           discontinuation visit not later than in 4 weeks after administration of the last
           Investigational product dose.

      After End of treatment or Early Discontinuation visit the patient will continue to be
      followed- for up to 1 year from the start of study treatment or until ICRR-determined
      progression (or death) (whichever is earlier). This will include tumor assessments every 6
      weeks (±7 days).

      Following disease progression, the Investigator will contact the patients or their relatives
      not less than once in 3 months in order to collect information concerning the patient's
      survival status and, cause of death. This will occur up to 1 year after initial start of
      treatment on this protocol.
    
  