
    
      Title:

      Deep Phenotyping of Hearing Instability Disorders: Cohort Establishment, Biomarker
      Identification, Development of Novel Phenotyping Measures and Discovery of Therapeutic
      Targets

      Study Description:

      Disorders of hearing instability remain poorly characterized, phenotyped and ineffectively
      treated, and may result in sudden changes in hearing. These disorders include, but are not
      limited to, sudden sensorineural hearing loss (SSNHL) as well as hearing fluctuation,
      including, but not limited to, autoimmune inner ear disease (AIED), Meniere s disease (MD)
      and enlarged vestibular aqueduct syndrome (EVAS). While this group of disorders is likely to
      be clinically and etiologically heterogeneous, a common feature is fluctuation of hearing
      thresholds and speech understanding as measured by word recognition scores (WRS). This
      protocol seeks to ascertain a cohort of patients with hearing fluctuation to correlate these
      main phenotypic features with other phenomic data including audiometric indicators of
      endolymphatic hydrops as well as radiologic and immunologic biomarkers of inflammation over
      time. The overall hypothesis is that phenomic data will enable stratification of the
      phenotype of patients with hearing instability disorders.

      Objectives:

      Primary objective: To develop a cohort of patients with hearing instability (HI).

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To correlate evidence of HI with changes in phase-shift distortion product otoacoustic
           emissions (DPOAEs).

        2. To compare phase-shift DPOAEs to existing measures of auditory function including word
           recognition score (WRS), standard DPOAEs, and electrocochleography (ECochG) over time.

        3. To compare phase-shift DPOAEs to vestibular measures including cervical and ocular
           vestibular evoked myogenic potentials (VEMPs) over time.

        4. To correlate auditory and vestibular indicators of hearing instability and endolymphatic
           hydrops (EH) on MRI with quantitative differences in immunologic markers of inflammation
           over time.

      Exploratory objective:

        1. To stratify patients with hearing instability (HI) by differences in cytokine levels,
           which will inform the identification of clinical subtypes of HI and potentially identify
           therapeutic targets for future treatment with targeted agents.

        2. To perform transcriptional and immunoprofiling of PBMCs at time points associated with
           hearing fluctuation from phenotyped patient cohorts.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoint: Identification of phenomic features associated with HI.

      Secondary Endpoint:

      (1) Identification of a variety of phenomic features of patients with HI that allow
      assignment to clinical subdivisions.

      Exploratory Endpoints

        1. Identification of potential targets for therapeutics based on longitudinal
           immune/transcriptional profiling of patients with hearing instability.

        2. Identification of subtype-specific immune cell distributions

        3. Identification of immune profiles as well as immune cell transcriptional profiles
           related to hearing fluctuation

      Study Population:

      This study will ascertain patients who reside within the United States and exhibit HI.
      Subjects will undergo an informed consent process . Patients of all genders and all
      ethnicities will be recruited.

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      This will be a single site study that will be conducted at the NIH Clinical Center.

      Study Duration:

      10 years

      Participant Duration:

      15 months
    
  