
    
      1. Introduction:

           Trigeminal neuralgia (TN) is one of the most severe and progressive forms of chronic
           neuropathic pain.

           The latest scientific work has shown that the most likely cause of TN is a highly
           reversible tiny central nervous system (CNS) lesion at the root entry zone (REZ) of the
           trigeminal nerve measuring less than 0.5 cm cubed.

           The presence of a discrete, highly eloquent and highly reversible central nervous system
           (CNS) lesion presents a unique opportunity to test and measure the neuroegenerative
           potential of therapeutic modalities that can be effectively delivered to the site of
           this pathology.

           Ultrasound has been shown to be an effective treatment for the demyelination found in
           carpal tunnel syndrome in man ( Ebenbicher , Resch , Nicolakis, Weisinger ,Uhl, Ghanemm
           and Fialka 1998) , with numerous research studies showing its ability to accelerate
           peripheral nerve regeneration and functional recovery in rats(Crisci and Ferreria,
           2002). There is also a growing body of scientific evidence demonstrating the efficacy of
           ultrasound in facilitating wound healing and analgesia. Numerous published research
           studies of ultrasound, and specifically LILFU, have provided Level 1 evidence of
           efficacy in bone healing, prevention and treatment of fracture non-union, acceleration
           of fracture healing, and it is also showing promise in the field of tendon healing.
           (Campbell C.K and Jorns 2007). In vitro, low-intensity ultrasound, has been shown to
           have direct non thermal effects on cell physiology, stimulating the expression of
           numerous genes involved in the healing process, including aggrecan, an insulin-like
           growth factor, transforming collagen, nitric oxide synthase, cytokines, and angiogenesis
           (Devor, Amir and Rappaport , 2002).

           A dynamic balance appears to exist between ongoing neural damage from the repetitive
           mechanical stress at the sight of neurovascular compression and the ongoing efforts of
           the LILFU to repair the damage via endogenous remyelination. The investigators
           hypothesize that the nature of this balance may determine whether the TN sufferer finds
           himself in either a TN pain crisis or remission. This would explain the remission
           recurrence pattern typically seen in the early course of the disease as well as the
           progressive nature of the illness, which may be attributable to the progressive effect
           of repetitive micro-injury. It is possible that LILF/SAWU might be the catalyst in
           promoting neuroregeneration thus helping induce and sustain remission

        2. Rationale of the study TN, a form of neuropathic pain, is generally considered one of
           the most severe and life disrupting pains known to patients. Unfortunately, in most
           people, TN is a progressive illness that intensifies and becomes more difficult to
           control over the years. Medication, although often initially affective, usually loses
           its effectiveness over the trajectory course of the illness. Each patient with TN has a
           different response to these medications and to his/her pain, but over the years of
           disease progression, many will eventually find that medications do not adequately
           control their progressively worsening condition. (Zakrezewska and Linskey, 2009)
           Medication has not been shown to slow the progression of the disease. On the contrary,
           over the years, many people find themselves having to take higher doses of medication or
           having to take several different medications together to control their pain with a
           resultant accumulation of problematic side effects. Eventually, over the long term, more
           than half of trigeminal neuralgia patients will seek a surgical solution to manage their
           pain.(Zakrezewska et al.2009) There is a growing emphasis and desire for minimally
           invasive therapy and treatments of all abnormal pathologies and disease particularly TN.
           Although stereotactic radio-surgery is presently one of the least invasive procedures,
           it does have some potentially serious adverse effect, such as permanent nerve damage,
           causing weakness and sensory impairment, and in some cases anesthesia dolorosa, which
           can also occur with all ablative procedures (Emril and Ho, 2010) As stated earlier, this
           intractable pain appears due to a highly reversible micro lesion in the CNS at the REZ
           of the trigeminal nerve is considered to be the result of focal microvascular
           compression. The resulting demyelination and dysmyelination contributes to ephatic
           transmission between large myelinated fibers and pain conducting C-fibers possibly
           triggered by the pulsatile compression of the artery against the injured nerve. The
           reversibility of this small CNS injury is witnessed by the rapid onset of recovery of
           Somatosensory Evoked Potentials (SSEP's) measured pre-operatively at the time of
           surgical decompression as well as by the fact that anatomical studies show little
           axon-notmesis.( Leandri 2002 , Devor 2002 and Love, 1998) ) Our hypothesis is that the
           initial intermittent nature of TN pain is witness to the delicate balance between
           repetitive injury to the REZ of the trigeminal nerve and the bodies inherent ability to
           overcome it as shown by anatomical studies showing signs of remyelination. The presence
           of a discrete yet highly reversible CNS lesion presents a unique opportunity for our
           future research to test and objectively measure the neuroregenerative potential of
           therapeutic modalities that can be effectively delivered to the site of this pathology
           in an attempt to reinforce the potential of the CNS to regenerate the CNS myelin
           destroyed by this disease.

           Today, there are no readily accessible therapies for central or peripheral neuropathic
           pain that hold the promise of facilitating neuroregeneration.

           Ultrasound delivered to injured nerves has been shown in five animal studies in the past
           eight years to have neuroregenerative capacities and has also been associated with
           improved remyelination in carpal tunnel syndrome in humans in one RCT (Ebenbicher ,
           Resch , Nicolakis, Weisinger ,Uhl, Ghanemm and Fialka 1998) Ultrasound delivered to
           injured nerves has been shown in several studies to reverse nerve damage commonly seen
           in the trigeminal nerve of patient's with TN.(Crisci 2002, Chang 2004, Mourad 2001, Paik
           2002, Zhou 2006) Traditional high energy, high frequency bulk wave ultrasound devices
           does not penetrate the cranium and cannot, therefore, be used for treating the REZ of
           the trigeminal ganglion. Until the advent of the Painshield™ device, low intensity, low
           frequency surface acoustic wave ultrasound technology (LILF/SAWU) had not been applied
           in the field of medicine. It is, however, ever-present in cell phone devices' electronic
           circuits (Campell C.K). Based on the known physical properties of SAW acoustics, it is
           expected that when a SAW transducer is applied to a surface which has underlying bone,
           such as the forehead, the energy spreads over the entire surface of the bony skull and
           its internal foramina. It is efficiently transmitted via the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
           to the CNS structures situated close to or beside the bony structures. Hence, the REZ
           and ganglion of the trigeminal nerve, as well as the entire length of all its branches,
           are exposed to potentially healing acoustic ultrasound energy.

           The PainShieldTM system is a novel, patch based therapeutic ultrasound product, Food and
           Drug Administration (FDA) approved for the treatment of painful conditions, including
           trigeminal neuralgia. The device is a portable and battery powered and can be connected
           to a disposable patch through which it delivers localized energy creating waves, which
           affect localized pain and induce soft tissue healing. This is made possible due to the
           company's proprietary technology which allows for the creation of a therapeutic
           transducer that can be made disposable and incorporated into a patch. Until the
           Painshield™ technology came to light; there was no available ultrasound device that
           could safely deliver surface acoustic ultrasound technology intracranially, for up to
           several hours daily.

           In this single blinded crossover study, the investigators aim to determine the
           effectiveness of Low Intensity Low Frequency Surface Acoustic Wave Ultrasound
           (LILF/SAWU) in the treatment of TN pain.

        3. Objectives and Hypothesis:

           The primary objective of this study is to determine the effectiveness of Low Intensity
           Low Frequency Ultrasound Surface Acoustic Wave (LILFU/SAW) in the treatment of TN using
           a single blind n=1 cross over study design.

           Our hypothesis (H1) is that LILFU treatment, via Painshield™, will provide pain relief
           in patients suffering with chronic TN as measured by the modified Barrow Neurological
           Index score.

           The investigators further hypothesize (H2) that following this relief in pain the TN
           sufferers will enjoy improved functional health and well being as measured by the SF-36.

           This in turn will lead to a further hypothesis (H3) that the TN sufferers will reduce
           the amount of medication they consume each month, as reported by the participants
           themselves.

        4. Study Design:

      The study is designed as a single blind crossover trial. This design was chosen because TN is
      a rare disease and recruitment of adequate subjects for a formal RCT would prove too
      difficult. Subjects diagnosed with refractory TN for at least six months despite currently
      undergoing optimized pharmacotherapy (BNI V) will be treated with four weeks of a placebo
      PainSheield™ while continuing with their current pharmaco- analgesic regimen. All patients
      will be crossed over to active Painshield™ therapy for the next four weeks. They will apply
      the Painshield™ patch to their forehead for six-eight hours a night (depends on how many
      hours they sleep) for the four weeks.

      At the end of the second month of the study, patients will be offered to either continue with
      active PainShield™ treatment for the third and final month, or return to the "sham"
      PainShield™ treatment.

      Assessment of pain via the BNI index and Short form MCGILL Pain Questionnaire ("SFMPQ") will
      be recorded at two week intervals throughout the three months of the study. Functional health
      and wellbeing will be measured by the SF-36 Questionnaire at intake, cross over time (initial
      four weeks), post "Active" treatment and at the end of the three month study period.

      Statistical Analysis:

      The following parameters will be calculated:

        1. Mean scores of the Barrow Neurological Index.

        2. Mean scores for each SF-36 dimensions (General health, role limitation due to a physical
           problem, physical function and bodily pain).

        3. Percentage of patients who chose to continue with the active Painshield™ treatment for
           further four weeks.

        4. Proportion/ percentage of BNI scores- Initial response to treatment will be defined as
           an improvement in patient-reported BNI score to a level of BNI< IIIB.

      Comparisons of BNI scores between groups will be evaluated using following statistical tests:
      independent paired T-test for SF-36 scores, Wilcoxon test for BNI scores, and Chi-Square test
      in order to calculate the proportion of BNI scores.
    
  