
    
      This is a multi center, one arm, open label and prospective study to assess the safety and
      quality of the SOLO 2.0 MicroPump Insulin Delivery System, following changes that were done
      to the SOLO previous version which was validated in 54 subjects.

      SOLO 2.0 has the same intended use and core technology as previous SOLO with addition of
      safety measures, GUI changes and design changes for manufacturability.

      The study will include a 30 days treatment period with the Solo MicroPump with no special
      care required for maintaining glycemic control and with an optional extension period of up to
      three month in Israel and up to six month in Austria.

      The study includes 3 scheduled treatment and one follow up phone call one week after
      termination of the study. In case of participating the extension period, additional visits
      will consist once a month.

      The study includes 3 scheduled treatment visits and one scheduled telephone call

      Visit 1 includes eligibility, baseline evaluation and training in handling of the SOLO
      System. If no additional practice is required patients will be enrolled. Visit 2 will
      commence and Solo pump will be filled with insulin. If additional practice is required
      subject will be sent home for an additional training period of a few days practice using
      saline and then return for visit 2.

      Treatment visits will take place at 3, 10 and 30 days after the enrolment. Additional visits
      will take place at 60, 90, 120 and 150 days depending on the extension period.

      Medical assessment includes DTSQ information, Subject Diary, urine & blood sampling, physical
      examination, the SOLO Performance Questionnaire, R&D Questionnaire and Complaint Report
      Forms.Subjects will be asked to record blood glucose measurements, daily activities and
      carbohydrate consumptions between visits.

      Seven days after termination of study treatment a telephone contact with the study subject
      will take place for the purpose of adverse event reporting and the completion of DTSQ
      questionnaire.
    
  