
    
      How does Hilotherm therapy affect post-operative pain and swelling after surgical wisdom
      tooth removal?

      Wisdom tooth removal is one of the most common minor oral surgical procedures. The most
      widely experienced post-operative complications include pain and swelling, and so any
      research into how these effects can be minimised is of utmost importance to improve the
      quality of care we can deliver to our patients.

      Our research is investigating the efficacy of Hilotherm therapy, which uses pre-shaped
      plastic facial masks through which water circulates at a controlled temperature, to reduce
      the experience of post-operative pain and swelling.

      The Hilotherm face mask will be placed immediately after the surgery, while the patient is in
      the recovery area and will be worn on ONE side of the face, this being randomised using a
      computer programme and decided at the time of surgery. It will be worn for one hour after
      wisdom tooth removal. We will then use 3D photography analysis of the patients face to assess
      the extent of swelling, their assessment of pain using a visual analogue scale, and their
      overall satisfaction with Hilotherm therapy. These measurements will be recorded at:

      Day 0 - 60 minutes post-op after patient has worn Hilotherm cooling mask Day 3 Day 10 Day 24

      The person analysing the 3D images will be blinded to the side of the intervention.

      All patients undergoing wisdom tooth removal on both sides, of similar surgical difficulty,
      to be carried out under a General Anaesthetic of the Daycase Unit of One Hospital will be
      eligible. Both extractions will be carried out by the same surgeon. Participants who undergo
      complications during or after the procedure will be excluded from our study. Extractions
      which end up being too dissimilar will also be excluded, and patients unsuitable for use of
      the Hilotherm mask (for example allergies) will also not be considered. Any patients with
      immune system affecting diseases, and patients who suffer allergic reactions to
      pharmaceutical agents will also not be considered.

      No other elements of treatment will be changed from normal protocol.
    
  