
    
      Introduction

      Trauma can be defined as damage inflicted on the body as the result of an external force, and
      the body's associated response. It is one of the leading causes of death world-wide, causing
      almost five million deaths yearly, making up for close to nine per cent of global deaths. Of
      these, road traffic injury alone causes 1.3 million, making it the ninth leading cause of
      death, with a predicted rise to seventh leading cause by 2030. Overall, however, the world
      has experienced an increase in life-expectancy over the past 30 years, as well as a decrease
      in infant and maternal mortality. With evidence suggesting that surgical care results in at
      least one million deaths per year, twice the number of maternal deaths, it has been
      established that new health metrics are needed for assessing health system performance.

      The WHO Safe Surgery Saves Lives initiative proposes two metrics: day-of-surgery mortality,
      and 30-day postoperative in-hospital mortality. The subsequently introduced perioperative
      mortality rate (POMR) comprises these two. To date, no standard timespan for day-of-surgery
      measurement prevails - the same day as surgery has been suggested for convenience, while some
      institutions measure at 24, and others at 48 hours after surgery. The outcomes required to
      calculate POMR (death and number of surgeries) are easily defined. Additionally, there is an
      option to end follow-up at discharge, which makes the metric suitable for use in low-resource
      settings, where 30-day follow-up is rare. These are qualities that make POMR the choice of
      index for tracking the quality and safety of surgery in the world.

      Analyses of databanks of surgical patients establish some factors that are more intimately
      linked to perioperative mortality (POM) than others. In trauma, especially, thorough risk
      adjustment is highly stressed to enable comparisons at hospital and patient level. However,
      the data yielding adjustment models largely stems from high-income countries, which is
      relevant considering that not all risk factors associated with POM in a high-resource setting
      are applicable in a low-resource setting. This owes to the scarcity of data on surgical
      programs in low-resource settings, not least in India. As the country faces increasing
      motorisation, and with it an increase in trauma patients for which factors associated with
      POM is poorly understood, bridging this knowledge gap is important.

      Therefore, this study will be estimating the POMR and assessing the association between type
      of acute surgical intervention and POM among adult trauma patients in an urban Indian
      setting.

      Objectives/aims

      To estimate the POMR and asses the association between type of acute surgery and POM in adult
      trauma patients in a low resource setting. Based on subject matter knowledge and clinical
      experience the authors of this article hypothesise that the distribution of the multinomial
      variable type of acute surgery will differ significantly between survivors and non-survivors,
      and that this difference will remain significant after risk adjustment.

      Study design

      This is a retrospective analysis of the cohort study Towards Improved Trauma Care Outcomes in
      India (TITCO).

      Setting

      The data used is available in the TITCO database, which includes a total of 16,047 trauma
      patients enrolled prospectively from four public university hospitals between July 2013 and
      December 2015. The units are all located in megacities (Kolkata, Mumbai and Delhi) and
      classified as free-to-public. Data was collected through an on-site trained and supervised
      observer who systematically noted routine data on arrival through direct observation in the
      emergency room and through extraction from medical records. The observer worked rotating
      8-hour shifts covering morning, day and night. Data from patients admitted outside the
      observer's shifts was retrospectively extracted from patient records. Patients were followed
      until discharge from hospitals, or for 30 days, or until death.

      Source and method of participant selection

      The on-site observer included patients presenting to participating centres, either by direct
      observation or by retrospective data extracted from records.

      Explanatory variable

      The main explanatory variable will be type of acute surgery, categorised using the Nordic
      Centre for Classifications in Health Care (NOMESCO) classification of surgical procedures
      (NCSP), which is based on functional-anatomic body system groups.

      Other covariates

      The association between type of acute surgery and POM will be adjusted for mechanism of
      injury, patient age in years, sex, systolic blood pressure, heart rate, transfer status and
      Glasgow coma scale on arrival. A health centre identifier will be included to account for
      centre level nesting in the data.

      Data sources/measurements

      The POMR will be calculated for adult trauma patients who underwent acute surgical
      intervention within 24 hours of arrival by dividing the number of surgical patients who died
      within 48 hours of arrival, and the number of patients who died within 30 days of arrival,
      with the total number patients who underwent surgery. The timespan of 48 hours for
      day-of-surgery mortality measurement is deemed most accurate due to the database format, in
      which it is stated whether a patient is taken to the operating room (OR) within 24 hours or
      not. Only procedures performed in an OR under regional or general anaesthesia qualify. The
      resulting POMR will be reported as a percentage.

      Bias

      Observers collecting the data were holders of a health science master's degree, and were
      trained by project management. They were also cross-checked by project management on two
      occasions, upon each a random selection of enrolled patient records were compared with those
      on file with the hospital. No major discrepancies were identified during these quality
      control sessions.

      Inclusion of injury severity score (ISS) in the risk adjustment model, as recommended for
      predicting trauma mortality by the American College of Surgeons (ACS), will not be done in
      this study due to ISS performing poorly in predicting early mortality in low-resource
      settings. A physiological injury score, in the form of systolic blood pressure, heart rate
      and GCS score, is however included to adjust for physiological injury severity. ASA physical
      score and the need for ventilator use will not be included as this information is not
      available in the database.

      Limitations in the database do not allow taking into account whether a patient has had any
      secondary, subacute surgery outside of the first 24 hours, within 30 days. Thus, subacute
      surgical interventions made after the first 24 hours are not counted, and so are not included
      in the denominator for POMR. Effectively, instead of the denominator being defined, as is
      recommended, as the total number of procedures, this redefines it as the total number of
      patients. The authors acknowledge that this is not ideal as it confers to the potential risk
      of overestimating POMR in the case where a patient receiving additional surgery expires
      perioperatively.

      Study size

      Simulation studies of logistic regression models indicate a need for ten events, i.e.
      patients with the outcome, per parameter used in the model. For the logistic regression model
      in this study, the type of acute surgery will account for 14 parameters, i.e. coefficients to
      be estimated. Mechanism of injury will account for four parameters. The four different
      centres will account for three. Because age, heart rate and systolic blood pressure will be
      modelled using splines with four degrees of freedom these variables will account for three
      parameters each. Sex, Glasgow coma scale and transfer status for one respectively, coming to
      a total of 33 parameters. This analysis will thus require at least 330 non-survivors to allow
      for logistic regression analysis of both POMR48H and POMR30D. Assuming a POMR48H of 10%, the
      study size (the number of adults who underwent surgery within 24 hours) needs to amount to
      least n = 3300. All adult patients in the TITCO database who received surgical intervention
      within 24 hours of arrival will be included, and is expected to provide a sufficient study
      size by a wide margin.

      Quantitative variables

      All quantitative variables, i.e. age, systolic blood pressure, heart rate and Glasgow coma
      scale will be analysed as continuous. Age, systolic blood pressure, and heart rate are
      assumed to be non-linearly associated with mortality why these will be modelled using spline
      smoothing terms with four degrees of freedom, resulting in coefficients for three basis
      functions to be estimated for each of these. Glasgow coma scale is assumed to display a
      linear association with mortality.

      Statistical methods and analyses

      R, a language and environment for statistical computing, will be used for all statistical
      analyses. The main analysis will be a complete case analysis, in which observations with
      missing values in any of the covariate variables will be excluded. In the event of missing
      data being too extensive to allow for analysis, multiple imputation using chained equations
      will be applied. Sample characteristics will be reported using medians and values at the 25th
      and 75th percentiles as well as minimum and maximum values for quantitative variables and
      proportions for qualitative variables. The association between type of surgery and POMR will
      be assessed using multilevel generalised additive models, in two steps. First, the crude
      associations between type of surgery and POM will be estimated using a model that does not
      include additional covariates. Second, the adjusted associations will be assessed using a
      model that does include the covariates listed above. 95% confidence intervals and a 5%
      significance level will be used.

      Sensitivity analyses

      One sensitivity analysis will be conducted by using a generalised additive model without
      accounting for centre level nesting.
    
  