
    
      This clinical trial is performed at Ramathibodi hospital, Mahidol university in Bangkok,
      Thailand. The protocol has been approved by institutional ethical committee (ref. ID
      11-60-64) with informed consent required for all patients.

      The incidences of SIRS between the control and the filter group in pediatrics population from
      previous study were 35% and 25.2% respectively (risk difference -11.3%, 95% CI -21.8 to
      -0.5%). The author estimated the sample size of 486 randomized patients to give 80% power at
      the 10% significant level (alpha 0.1, beta 0.8).

      Patients aged 18 years or older undergoing elective cardiac surgery for acquired heart
      disease (including isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), isolated valve surgery,
      combined valve surgery, or concomitant CABG and valve surgery) are randomized 1:1 into
      in-line filtration (study group) and non-filtration (control group).

      For patients randomized to in-line filtration, in-line filters (Pall, Dreieich, Germany) are
      used for all intravenous access during operation and postoperative period in intensive care
      unit (ICU).

      For patients randomized to control group, All intravenous access is managed routinely
      according to local standard care without filtration during operation and postoperative period
      in ICU.

      Primary endpoint of this study is the incidence of SIRS after cardiac surgery. SIRS is
      diagnosed when patients have two or more of these criteria: 1.Heart rate >90/min,
      2.Temperature >38 °C or <36 °C, 3.Respiratory rate >20/min or Paco2 <32 mm Hg (4.3 kPa), and
      4.White blood cell count >12000/mm3 or <4000/mm3 or >10% immature band.

      Secondary endpoints are complications as defined by Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS) Adult
      Cardiac Surgical Database, daily SOFA score and organ dysfunction as defined by The Third
      International Consensus Definitions for Sepsis and Septic Shock (Sepsis-3).

      Continuous data were reported as mean (standard deviation, SD) or median (interquartile
      range, IQR) and compared by independent sample t-test or the Mann-Whitney U test. Categorical
      variables were presented as frequency (%) and analyzed by chi-squared or Fisher's exact test.
      Statistical significance was defined as a P-value < 0.05.
    
  