
    
      The evaluation of a combination of exercise and protein supplementation in intensive care
      unit (ICU) patients is novel and potentially very important. For instance, outside of the
      ICU, in other clinical conditions, the combination of protein supplementation and exercise
      improves protein synthesis, muscle mass, and muscle strength compared to protein or exercise
      alone.[63-70] Hence, an opportunity exists to improve ICU patients' physical outcomes via
      evaluating the combination of optimized protein intake and early exercise in the ICU setting.

      The proposed intervention and hypothesis: The investigators propose a multi-centered Phase II
      RCT, with blinded outcomes assessment, of a combination of intravenous (IV) amino acid
      supplementation and early in-bed cycle ergometry exercise versus usual care in ICU patients
      requiring mechanical ventilation. The investigators hypothesize that this novel combined
      intervention will: (1) improve physical functioning at hospital discharge; (2) reduce muscle
      wasting with improved amino acid metabolism and protein synthesis in-hospital; and (3)
      improve health-related quality of life, physical functioning, and healthcare resource
      utilization at 6 months after enrollment. Preliminary data show feasibility and safety of IV
      amino acids and the proposed exercise intervention. The investigators have chosen a primary
      outcome that correlates well with long-term outcomes including mortality, hospitalization,
      and quality of life. [54] If this Phase II trial is positive, investigators will seek funding
      for a Phase III RCT to demonstrate sustained improvements with a longer-term patient-centered
      primary outcome and to examine the feasibility, and facilitators/barriers of delivery of this
      intervention by ICU nurses, physical therapists, and others. If proven effective, this
      combined intervention has potential to revolutionize care of ICU patients and have a major
      public health impact on the growing number of ICU survivors.

      Objectives: To demonstrate that the innovative combination of amino acid supplementation plus
      early in-bed cycle ergometry exercise improves physical outcomes of ICU patients.

      Specific Aims of Full Phase II RCT:

        1. Short-term performance-based physical function outcomes. To determine if a combined IV
           amino acid supplementation and in-bed cycle ergometry exercise intervention, compared to
           usual care, improves in hospital muscle strength and performance-based physical
           functioning outcomes in critically ill patients, using a primary endpoint of six-minute
           walk distance (6MWD) at hospital discharge.

        2. Body composition. To determine if the combined intervention, compared to usual care,
           improves amino acid utilization and decreases muscle wasting in ICU patients (secondary
           endpoints).

        3. Patient-reported outcomes and health care utilization at 6 months. To determine if the
           combined intervention, compared to usual care, improves physical functioning,
           health-related quality of life, and healthcare utilization at 6 months after study
           enrollment (secondary endpoints).

      NEXIS Flame mechanisitic Ancillary sub study:

      In the proposed sub-study, the addition of bronchoaveloar lavages, blood sampling and muscle
      sampling measures during the participant's ICU stay will provide the ability to examine the
      effects of the NEXIS intervention on inflammation as a possible mechanism for improved muscle
      weakness.

      Specific Aims of the NEXIS FLAME mechanistic ancillary study:

        1. To determine if the NEXIS intervention attenuates the release of IL-17 and related
           cytokines to reduce systemic inflammation in humans.

        2. To determine if the NEXIS intervention reduces lung injury and neutrophilic lung
           inflammation in humans.

        3. To determine if the NEXIS intervention attenuates skeletal muscle fiber atrophy via down
           regulation of muscle proteolytic pathways.

        4. To determine if the NEXIS intervention, and exercise specifically, reduces the content
           of inflammatory cells in skeletal muscle.
    
  