
    
      OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to explore the experiences of mothers of sons with
      X-linked retinoschisis (XLRS) compared to fathers of sons with XLRS and to draft a
      personality profile of both mothers and fathers based on the findings.

      <TAB>

      STUDY POPULATION: Up to 50 mothers of sons of all ages diagnosed with XLRS are eligible to
      participate in this study. Up to 50 fathers of sons of all ages with XLRS are also eligible
      to participate and will serve as a comparison group.

      DESIGN: This is a pilot mixed-methods study that involves a cross sectional qualitative
      interview and a self-administered questionnaire. Participants will be recruited through a
      "parent" study "Clinical and Molecular Studies of X-linked Retinoschisis" (03-EI-0033).
      Interviews will be conducted either in person at the National Institutes of Health Clinical
      Center (NIH CC) or by telephone. The interview will explore the experiences and impact of
      having a son with XLRS. Interviews will be recorded, transcribed verbatim, coded by two
      independent coders, and analyzed thematically. Participants will also be asked to complete a
      questionnaire to assess personality traits, anxiety, and optimism, using scales shown to be
      valid and reliable in the general population and in clinical samples. Results from these
      scales will provide information about variables that cannot be reliably assessed from an
      interview. This study is not designed to assess causality; rather, it will be used to
      generate hypotheses and inform future social and behavioral and/or basic science research
      studies of parents of sons with XLRS.

      OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcomes of this study include a description of the experiences
      of mothers of sons with XLRS compared to fathers of sons with XLRS and a preliminary
      personality profile of mothers and fathers.
    
  