
    
      LEVOTHYROXINE ABSORPTION IN MORBIDLY OBESE PATIENTS BEFORE AND AFTER ROUX-EN-Y BARIATRIC
      SURGERY INTRODUCTION Levothyroxine sodium (LT4) is an effective drug prescribed as
      replacement therapy for patients with hypothyroidism, as a controversial suppressive therapy
      for nodular thyroid disease and after surgical removal of thyroid cancer. Incidence rates of
      differentiated thyroid cancer of all sizes have increased both in men and women, as have the
      rates of autoimmune thyroiditis disease. It is estimated that 3.7% of the United States
      population has hypothyroidism, indicating that millions of people are in continuous use of
      LT4.

      Absorption of LT4 formulations approximates 80% of the oral dose. It is reduced when LT4 is
      ingested concomitantly with several drugs including aluminum hydroxide, cholestyramine,
      sucralfate, ferrous sulphate, calcium carbonate, sodium polystyrene sulfonate, as well as
      with coffee and fiber supplements.

      Intestinal absorption of LT4 depends primarily on its dissolution in gastric acid secretion.
      Therefore, may be affected by H. pylori infection and autoimmune gastritis. There are
      substantial interindividual variations in LT4 requirements dependent on patients age, gender
      and body size, with lean body mass being the major determinant of dose correction for LT4.
      Morbidly obese patients apparently have impaired LT4 absorption.

      The prevalence of obesity has increased to epidemic proportions. Effective treatment may be
      achieved by bariatric surgeries, but these procedures are associated with several
      morbidities, such as gastrointestinal and nutritional complications. It is plausible to
      hypothesize that since bariatric interventions (such as Roux-en-Y) reduce gastric
      hydrochloric acid secretion, they may impair LT4 absorption.

      OBJECTIVE The aim of this study was to evaluate the absorption of LT4 tablets in morbidly
      obese patients before and after bariatric surgery in order to determine the need for
      adjustment of LT4 doses.

      MATERIAL AND METHODS

      Patients Patients will be recruited from the Gastric Surgery Division of Hospital das
      Clínicas. Thirty morbidly obese patients will be divided in two groups. The NS group will
      include 15 patients for whom bariatric surgery is planned. Body mass index (BMI) of this
      group of patients has to be ≥40 Kg/m2. The S group will include 15 patients who had undergone
      Roux-en-Y bariatric surgery 2 to 3 months before inclusion in the study.

      Clinical data and medication information were collected before recruitment. Exclusion
      criteria includes a previous diagnosis of thyroid cancer, diabetes mellitus in use of
      insulin, chronic or atrophic gastritis, and use of medications associated with impaired LT4
      absorption.

      All patients will signed an informed consent. The study was approved by the Ethical Committee
      of Hospital das Clínicas, University of São Paulo Medical School (CAPPesq N0 1039/07).

      Methods Absorption of LT4 will be measured using a previously described nonisotopic method.
      After an overnight fast, a forearm intravenous catheter is inserted and two blood samples
      will be collected with a 30-minute interval before administration of 600 µg of oral LT4.
      Blood samples will be collected 30, 60, 120, 180, 240, 300, and 1440 minutes (24 hours) after
      administration of LT4. Patients will fast for five hours after receiving the drug. They will
      be then instructed to have a light meal in the evening and to return the next morning in a
      fasting state to collect the 24 hour sample.

      Serum free T4 (FT4), total T4 (TT4) and serum TSH will be determined in all samples by
      electrochemiluminescence immunoassay (Roche Corporation, Indianapolis, IN, USA). The
      concentration of each hormone at baseline will be calculated as a mean of the two samples
      collected before the LT4 dose. To correct for endogenous hormone synthesis, the incremental
      rise of each hormone concentration (deltaTT4, deltaFT4, deltaTSH) will be calculated by
      subtracting the basal value from the subsequent time intervals samples. To evaluate LT4
      absorption, the area under the curve of deltaTT4 and deltaFT4 from baseline to 240 minutes
      and to 300 minutes (AUC240, AUC300) as well as the peak of deltaTT4 and deltaFT4
      concentrations will be determined.

      Serum leptin will be measured by Human Leptin Elisa Kit (Millipore, Billerica, MA) in all
      patients, before and after weight loss following the surgery.

      Chronic autoimmune gastritis will be ruled out by absence of clinical signs and negative
      antiparietal autoantibodies.

      Statistical analysis Results will be expressed as mean±standard deviation (SD). Analysis of
      variance and Tukey Multiple Comparison test, Student's t test and Spearman correlation
      analysis will be performed to compare the data. All tests will be performed with a
      significance level of 5%.
    
  