
    
      Background:

      Celecoxib is a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) inhibitor belonging to the non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) class of medications. Adult studies have evaluated single
      dose and short term courses of Celecoxib and shown improved postoperative analgesia. One
      pharmacokinetic (PK) study suggested that celecoxib had faster clearance in pediatric
      patients implying the need for a higher dose in children. Adult literature has reported Cox-2
      inhibitor administration up to 10 times the typical dose without adverse side effects. One
      adult chemotherapy drug trial involved high dose Celecoxib for a median of 8.4 months with
      very limited side effects. Another study demonstrated that blood brain barrier (BBB)
      permeable selective Cox-2 inhibitors effectively reduced central nervous system Prostaglandin
      (PG) E2, (a surrogate marker of Cox-2 activity) concentrations and postoperative pain.

      Celecoxib may influence CSF levels of various drugs, possibly via a P-gp regulation
      mechanism. Brain uptake of drugs is limited by both an anatomic (passive) and a biochemical
      (active) blood brain barrier (BBB). Metabolic enzymes and efflux protein transport systems
      represent the latter; the best known group is the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) protein
      transporters and best studied is P-gp encoded by the ABCB1 (aka MDR1) gene. P-gp actively
      pumps drugs and toxins out of the central nervous system (CNS) and acts in concert with
      detoxification enzymes to defend against cell damage. Celecoxib has been shown to
      down-regulate P-gp expression. Ondansetron and fentanyl are substrates of P-gp and CNS levels
      are influenced by its activity. Clinically, NSAIDs augment opioid effect and reduce nausea
      and vomiting, possibly by preventing the CNS extrusion of opioids and ondansetron via P-gp
      down-regulation. We will use peripheral blood mononuclear cells P-gp activity, as measured by
      RT-PCR and ELISA, as a surrogate for P-gp activity at the BBB and correlate with celecoxib
      plasma levels. Also, there are single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the ABCB1 gene
      associated with pain and drug transport in humans (rs2032582, rs2229109, rs9282564, rs1045642
      and rs1128503) and they may influence CSF drug levels including ondansetron and fentanyl
      based on their associated drug efflux capacity or susceptibility to celecoxib
      down-regulation. In addition, SNPs of the CYP2C9 P450 enzymes (rs1057910 and rs1799853) have
      been implicated in altered PK of celecoxib in humans. Although controversial in children, in
      adults they have been associated with "slow" to "poor" metabolism and increased area under
      the curve (AUC) up to three fold.

      At our institution, children diagnosed with hematologic malignancies routinely undergo
      general anesthesia for bone marrow aspiration/biopsy (BM) and diagnostic/ therapeutic lumbar
      punctures (LP). Post intervention site pain may be associated with a post dural puncture or
      atypical headache. Recently there have been reports of elevated Cox-2 expression in patients
      with CML and lymphomas. Data suggests that the combination of Cox-2 inhibitors with standard
      chemotherapeutics may enhance the potential of treatment for some hematological malignancies.
      Access to blood and cerebral spinal fluid provide a unique opportunity to determine celecoxib
      concentrations in the respective compartments.

      Objectives and Hypothesis:

      The primary objectives are to determine cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels (ug/L) of celecoxib
      120-180 minutes following ingestion of a 14 mg/kg or 7 mg/kg dose of a 20 mg/ml celecoxib
      suspension (Phase I) and to develop a pediatric CSF and plasma 24-hour pharmacokinetic (PK)
      profile of a 14 and 7 mg/kg dose of a 20 mg/ml celecoxib suspension (Phase I and Phase II).

      The investigators hypothesize that a 14 compared with a 7 mg/kg oral dose of a celecoxib 20
      mg/ml suspension will achieve a significantly higher CSF level (ug/L) of at least 15 ug/L
      (equivalent to 50% of the COX-2 enzyme inhibition) 121-180 minutes post ingestion. It is also
      hypothesized that adequate analgesic plasma levels will be achieved rapidly and tolerated
      using these celecoxib doses. Alleles of the ABCB1& CYP2C9 genotypes are predicted to
      influence CSF levels of fentanyl ondansetron and celecoxib PKs and efficacy, respectively.
      Specific P-gp SNPs are vulnerable to celecoxib down-regulation. The investigators expect that
      Celecoxib will improve quality of life and reduce discomfort when administered before and
      after a LP +/- BM.

      Experimental Design:

      This is a two-phased double-blind randomized controlled study of sixty-five (65) children
      aged 2-18 years in maintenance therapy for leukemia, who will receive a single dose of
      celecoxib prior to a scheduled lumbar puncture.

      In Phase I, twenty (20) children will receive either celecoxib 14 or 7 mg/kg 120-180 minutes
      prior to lumbar puncture (LP). In Phase II, forty-five (45) children will receive celecoxib
      14 mg/kg, 7 mg/kg or placebo in one of 5 time intervals, 1-24 hours prior to LP.

      Drug levels in CSF and plasma will be measured using established HPLC-Mass Spec techniques.
      Pharmacogenetic data of the ABCB1 & CYP2C9 genotypes will be determined. Patient follow-up
      will be on Day 1 & 7 after ingestion to document adverse events.

      Potential Impact:

      CSF penetration of Cox-2 inhibitors may reduce the incidence of acute pain evolving into a
      chronic pain model. The results of this study will establish the safety of this class of
      medications in children and enable a more rational approach to their dosing in acute pain
      models and perhaps future chemotherapeutic protocols
    
  