
    
      The IHC4 prognostic signature is an algorithm based on a combination of biomarkers evaluated
      in immunohistochemistry and anatomical-clinical parameters. Immunohistochemistry is routinely
      performed as a diagnostic procedure for estrogen receptor (ER; H-score 0-300), progesterone
      receptor (PR; % of marked cells), HER2 (positive vs negative status) and Ki67 (% of marked
      cells evaluated by counting). Clinical parameters include lymph node status (0N+, 1-3N+,
      >3N+, >3N+), tumour size in mm (≤10mm, 11-20, 21-50, >50mm), histologic grade (1, 2, 3),
      patient's age at diagnosis (<65 years, ≥65 years), and type of treatment (anti-estrogen or
      aromatase inhibitors).

      The method for reading and scoring conditions is very precise and currently guarantee the
      validity of the test (validated centrally in TransATAC). However, there is not yet an open
      access web platform available for the calculation of the IHC4 score, due to the prior need
      for homogenisation of the interpretation of immunochemistry (standardisation of the protocol)
      to generate a reliable and validated IHC4 under decentralised "real life" conditions. There
      is currently few published data on the weight of technical parameters (antibody clones,
      automaton type, etc.) or interpretation methods (scoring) in the calculation of the IHC4
      score (IHC4 robustness). However, only one study, published recently, shows a good tolerance
      of the test to variations in technical protocol or reading.

      In this context, a study coordinated by the GEFPICS group, composed of expert pathologists in
      breast cancer, has been set up to better define the robustness and the scope of IHC4 score.
      These project will assess 2 main aspects: (i) validate the local "real life" technique for
      the calculation of the IHC4 score; and (ii) homogenise the IHC reading method (especially for
      Ki67), on a cohort of cases from the GEFPICS, tested in a prognostic molecular signatures.
    
  