
    
      Infantile-onset Pompe disease is an inherited disorder caused by lack of or defect in the
      enzyme acid alpha-glucosidase (GAA). GAA enzyme deficiency causes glycogen to build up and
      damage cells throughout the body, especially in the heart and muscles, which is normally
      diagnosed within the first months of life. Current treatment for Pompe disease involves
      enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) using the drug alglucosidase alfa (Lumizyme/Myozyme), which
      provides a form of the GAA enzyme to replace the enzyme that is missing or not working
      properly in the patient's blood.

      In this study, the investigators will learn about the patient's ability to tolerate ERT.
      Cross-Reactive Immunological Material (CRIM) is a measurement of natural GAA production and
      an important factor that affects how patients respond to ERT with Myozyme. Children who
      produce some natural GAA are classified as CRIM positive (+), while children who do not
      produce any natural GAA are classified as CRIM negative (-). Children who are CRIM+ generally
      tolerate ERT well. But, children who are CRIM-, and some children classified as CRIM+, have a
      poor response to ERT due to complications from an immune response against the drug.
      Treatments are currently being developed to stop this immune response and prevent
      complications from ERT.

      This is a longitudinal natural history study of Infantile Pompe disease. The investigators
      will regularly collect and review medical information regarding the diagnosis of Pompe
      disease, response to enzyme replacement (ERT) using alglucosidase alfa (Lumizyme/Myozyme) and
      response to immunosuppressive therapy in cases at risk for developing or those who have
      developed high and sustained antibodies to ERT. A subset of de-identified information about
      the natural history of Pompe disease and the response to treatment will be incorporated into
      the Lysosomal Disease Network (LDN) disease registry. The LDN is a nonprofit organization of
      scientists located around the world whose research focuses on Lysosomal disease.

      The specific aims of this study are:

        1. To determine and correlate Cross-Reactive Immunological Material (CRIM) status with the
           GAA gene mutations found on these patients

        2. To validate an approach for determining CRIM status from whole blood sample, with the
           gold standard determination of CRIM status by skin fibroblasts and mutation analysis

        3. To explore the clinical treatment response and natural history of CRIM-positive and
           CRIM-negative Pompe disease patients with and without immune modulation

        4. To investigate the role of immune response to treatment
    
  