
    
      Sample size To the investigators' knowledge, no similar study was done and predicting the
      difference in reaction time depending on level of noise is difficult. In comparable studies,
      sample size is small. The investigators then used a convenience sample based on the number of
      residents and staffs anesthesiologists who agreed to participate; the number of participants
      in this study exceeds the number of participants in previous research. Using the t value and
      the degrees-of-freedom of the unpaired t-test, the investigators calculated the effect size
      (r) to characterize the magnitude of the effect and evaluate if the sample size is enough to
      answer the research hypothesis. An r value of around 0.2 was considered a "weak" effect, 0.5
      "medium", and 0.8 "strong". We recruited 15 participants in each group.

      Simulation scenario The scenario was performed in situ in an operating room of the
      investigators' tertiary care hospital. It consisted of doing a spinal anesthesia for a 61
      years old woman for a total hip replacement. She was known for stable asthma, high blood
      pressure and dyslipidemia. Upon entering the room, the anesthesiology evaluation and signed
      consentment were already completed. A simulated patient with a lumbar puncture simulator
      fixed on its back (Kyoto Kagaku M43B Lumbar Puncture Simulator II ®) was in position on the
      operating table for the technique. A simulated anesthesiology nurse was also present in the
      room. Standard monitoring with EKG, pulse oximeter, non invasive blood pressure were
      projected on a remotely controlled monitor with Castle Andersen ApS' SimMon app®. Simulated
      intravenous access was also already in place with the possibility to inject drugs if needed.

      The participant then proceeded to the technique. Upon completion of local anesthesia, a mild
      auto-resolutive drop in heart rate from 85 to 65 without any other hemodynamic change. This
      benign change was used to try addressing hyper vigilance which is often happening in
      simulation scenarios. At the moment of dural puncture, a vasovagal event happened. It
      consisted of a standardised progressive diminution of the heart rate from 80 bpm to 30 bpm.
      After 10 seconds, blood pressure would fall to 70/40 with appropriate alarms at standard
      levels. The simulated patient did not tell its discomfort spontaneously but answered to
      questions if asked. After appropriate treatment, (putting the patient in dorsal position,
      administration of vasopressors or parasympatholytics) vital signs normalised in less than 30
      seconds. The participant was then assigned to complete a questionnaire in another room.

      Data Collection All participants were filmed for further revision. Demographics were gathered
      with a questionnaire. Collected datas were age, sex, resident or anesthesiologist status,
      number of years as a certified anesthesiologist or year of residency and if a hearing deficit
      was previously diagnosed. Participants also rated scenario realism on a 1 to 5 Likert scale.

      Noise sensitivity was measured with Weinstein's Noise Sensitivity Scale, a 21-items validated
      questionnaire

      After completion, collected datas were explained to the participants, questions were answered
      and if needed a more complete debriefing was made.
    
  