
    
      This proposal is currently approved by CHR (#H9577-18534-03C, exp date 3/26/04); the purpose
      of this new application is to split the currently approved protocol into a separate protocol
      with a separate PI. Data collected and patients seen under the previously approved protocol
      will be carried over into this new separate protocol. This is a longitudinal observational
      study of HIV-infected patients and HIV-negative control patients, and individuals with
      autoimmune diseases. We plan to obtain measurement of carotid artery intima media thickness
      (IMT) using high resolution ultrasound as a noninvasive means for tracking atherosclerotic
      progression. In addition, patients will undergo ct scan for coronary calcium and single slice
      abdominal ct scan to assess visceral fat. We will also measure lipid and lipoprotein levels,
      inflammatory markers, markers of CMV infection, thrombotic markers, atherogenic lipoproteins,
      and markers of immune function. Immunophenotyping will be performed on freshly collected
      blood and analyzed by flow cytometry to identify activated T cells,T cell turnover,
      proportions of T cells, and CMV function. HIV-infected patients will have CD4 count and HIV
      viral load measured in addition. Patients will undergo detailed clinical history including
      HIV disease, specific HIV medications, comorbid conditions, and health related behaviours.
      Physical exam and measurements will be obtained to assess for the presence of lipodystrophy.
      Patients will undergo study visits for ultrasound, blood draw, and interview at 4-12 month
      intervals for the next 3 years. Patients will also go assessment of endothelial function,
      endothelial progenitor cells, arterial stiffness as measured using pulse wave tonometry. In
      patients with detectable calcium on CT scan, they will be given the option of obtaining CT
      angiography. Patients will also undergo testing for peripheral arterial disease using ankle
      brachial index testing and exercise treadmill testing.
    
  