
    
      The design of the trial will be as a single-center, prospective, blinded, randomized trial
      comparing the infusion of TNKase versus saline for treatment of symptomatic loculated pleural
      effusion in patients with malignancy. Patients with known malignancy and symptomatic
      loculated pleural effusion who are referred for percutaneous drainage will be eligible for
      this study. Patients will undergo standard placement of a 8-10 french percutaneous drain into
      their pleural space under computed tomography or ultrasound guidance. If there is incomplete
      drainage of the pleural fluid at the time of initial catheter placement or if followup chest
      radiography performed within 24-48 hours of chest tube placement reveals persistent pleural
      fluid, the effusion will be considered to be loculated. After informed consent, patients will
      be alternately randomized to a 3 day course of twice a day intrapleural TNKase or sterile
      saline injections. Both the patient and the patient's primary care physician will be blinded
      as to the infusate. The test fluid will be kept with the pleural space for a minimum of 2 hrs
      before the drainage tube is returned to suction. The standard dose of TNKase will be 4 mg/60
      ml NS. The control group will received 60 ml NS for each infusion. There will be a cross-over
      design so that patients who fail to have significant drainage during the first 2 days of
      therapy may be switched to the other infusate for up to an additional three days (at the
      primary care provider's discretion). Thus, patients who are in the saline arm will be
      switched to TNKase if there is a symptomatic persistent residual loculated effusion and those
      who fail TNKase will be switched to saline after 2 days. This is necessary in order for
      primary care providers to allow their patients to be enrolled in this study since our
      standard of care is to use Activase. We will use a cutoff of 2 days rather than 3 days before
      switching therapy because we cannot justify the expense of keeping patients hospitalized for
      an extra day in the face of failed therapy given the extremely high cost of hospitalization.
      Therefore, if patients have not had significant drainage in the first 2 days of therapy with
      either agent (saline or TNKase), the primary care provider may request that the patient be
      crossed over to the other agent. However, if there is some, albeit incomplete, drainage in
      the first 2 days of therapy, we will ask the primary care provider to wait until a complete
      course of intrapleural injections has been performed. We expect to enroll 40 patients during
      a period of 18 months.
    
  