
    
      Myofascial pain syndrome (MPS) is a commonly encountered condition frequently associated with
      the muscles of mastication. It is defined as a regional muscular pain condition characterized
      by myofascial trigger points found in one or more muscles and/ or connective tissues. A
      trigger point is an exquisitely tender spot in discrete taut band of hardened muscle that
      produce local and referred pain, among other symptoms. Associated symptoms may include muscle
      weakness, muscle spasm, stiffness, decreased range of motion and autonomic dysfunction.
      Trigger point can be active i.e. always tender or latent i.e. tender only when palpated.

      Any kind of muscle overuse or direct trauma to the muscle can lead to the development of
      trigger points. Although muscle damage is not required for the development of trigger point,
      it may be caused by the disruption of the cell membrane, damage to the sarcoplasmic reticulum
      with a subsequent release of high amounts of calcium ions, and disruption of cytoskeletal
      proteins, such as desmin, titin and dystrophin. Muscle overuse leads to ATP depletion which
      causes oxidative stress resulting in local ischemia and lowered pH with subsequent
      accumulation of inflammatory mediators at these trigger points.

      Various therapeutic modalities have been used to treat myofascial trigger points and
      myofascial pain syndrome including therapeutic ultrasound, muscle stretching, manipulation,
      acupuncture, occlusal appliances, botulinum injection, pharmacotherapy and dry needling.
      Platelet rich plasma (PRP) is a newer therapeutic modality for treatment of trigger points.
      PRP contains many growth factors important for muscle regeneration and myogenesis. The goal
      of PRP therapy is to concentrate the main growth factors from native blood and to reintroduce
      them in the injured tissue. Besides healing, it can also decrease pro-inflammatory and
      apoptotic cells, reducing inflammation. However, still there is paucity of literature and
      lack of RCT related to use of PRP in trigger points.

      So, the present study has been designed to evaluate the efficacy of Platelet Rich Plasma
      injection in trigger points in masseter muscle in myofascial pain syndrome patients.
    
  