
    
      Aims:

        1. To conduct a randomized controlled pilot test of a behavioral adherence intervention to
           improve medication adherence among HIV-infected youth aged 13-24. Feasibility of all
           study procedures and participant acceptability will be assessed.

        2. To explore whether the intervention leads to improved medication adherence among youth
           who receive the intervention, compared to a control group of youth who do not.

      40 HIV-infected adolescents will be recruited for a RCT pilot of the Positive STEPS
      intervention at Fenway Health and Children's Hospital Boston. Participants will be randomized
      into one of two arms (half and half). Randomization for all participants will occur after the
      beginning of the week 2 study visit. The duration of the study is 3 months

      Randomization:

      The investigators will conduct block randomization based on two categories of electronic
      adherence: 85% or above versus < 85%. All participants will have exhibited some non-adherence
      in order to be eligible for the study, although they may vary in the extent of non-adherence.
      Because insufficient information is known about the range of non-adherence in the population
      to determine the most valid non-adherence cut-off points, the investigators may need to
      reconsider adherence categories over the course of the pilot study. The investigators will
      regularly examine the data to determine whether finer adherence categories are needed, and
      the investigators will adjust the categories if such a determination is made.

      Intervention arm:

        -  Participants will receive one on one Positive STEPS counseling sessions (~1 hour
           sessions per week for 5 weeks).

        -  Participants will receive motivational reminders to take medications sent via text
           message to their cell phones

        -  Participants will receive the Medication Event Monitoring Systems (MEMS) pill cap
           monitoring device to measure antiretroviral medication adherence.

      Comparison condition arm:

      • Participants will receive the Medication Event Monitoring Systems (MEMS) pill cap
      monitoring device to measure antiretroviral medication adherence.
    
  