
    
      This is a pilot, open label study in which eligible subjects will undergo surgery, radiation
      therapy, Temozolomide, bone marrow harvest, MRIs, and intravenous infusion of ALD-451. The
      subjects will be followed via the safety and efficacy procedures completed during visits over
      12 months.

      Two to 8 weeks following gross total resection (GTR), patients with WHO grade IV malignant
      glioma that have agreed to participate in the study by signing the informed consent will
      undergo screening procedures to determine eligibility. Once enrolled on the study, baseline
      neurocognitive testing will be performed. Two to 8 weeks after enrolled subjects have
      completed the 6 -6 ½ weeks of radiation therapy and daily temozolomide, subjects will have
      their bone marrow harvested by undergoing a bone marrow aspiration with 160 (+/-20) mL of
      bone marrow collected from the iliac crest (one to 2 days after the patient has been
      re-assessed for continued eligibility).

      The sample will be transported to the Robertson CT2 GMP Facility where ALD-451 will be
      manufactured and the ALD-451 product returned to the Investigational Chemotherapy Services
      for infusion. A small aliquot of ALD-451 will be taken from the starting bone marrow,
      de-identified, labeled with the manufacturing lot number, and stored at Duke University for
      the duration of the trial to support ongoing studies determining potency of the product. For
      all ALD-451 products, a retained aliquot that is the equivalent of 10 mls of the starting
      bone marrow will be cryopreserved and stored in the vapor phase of liquid nitrogen. Harvest
      of 160 mL of subject bone marrow will allow for retains without excessive reduction in the
      anticipated ALDHbr dose. These frozen retains will be used for product characterization and
      development of a potency assay. These aliquots will not be used for any other purposes and
      any remaining aliquots will be destroyed at the time of Biologics License Application (BLA)
      approval.

      Two - four days after having bone marrow harvested for ALDHbr cells, ALD-451 will be
      administered through a peripheral IV, up to 1 hour. This will be followed by 4 hours of IV
      fluids and observation. Normal Saline will be used as the IV fluids and will be initiated a
      few minutes before the administration of ALD-451. The bag within which ALD-451 will be
      received will be flushed once with 10 ml of Normal Saline and the fluid obtained after
      flushing the bag will be administered to the patient, to assure that the investigators have
      reinfused in the patient the vast majority of the ALD-451 present in the bag.

      Temozolomide will be reinitiated four weeks after completion of radiation therapy and daily
      Temozolomide (at least two weeks after ALD-451 infusion). Temozolomide will be dosed at 150
      mg/m2 orally on days 1-5 of a 28-day cycle for the first cycle and 200 mg/m2 orally for the
      following 11 cycles. Patients will receive a total of 12 cycles of Temozolomide following
      completion of radiation therapy.

      Neurocognitive testing and patient-reported outcomes will be obtained at study enrollment,
      two weeks after completion of radiation therapy and temozolomide and after six and twelve
      cycles of temozolomide.
    
  