
    
      OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study is to investigate the pathophysiology of Formal
      Thought Disorder and variable outcomes in the early stages of schizophrenia. In particular,
      investigators aim to test the hypothesis that 1. Anatomical abnormalities involving the grey
      matter of the Anterior Insula and Medial Prefrontal Cortex in first episode schizophrenia
      predicts FTD that persists by 6 months of illness 2. An excess of glutamine/glutamate, or
      reduction in glutathione, in Medial Prefrontal Cortex at index episode will be associated
      with persistent FTD 3.Aberrant connectivity between Anterior Insula and Medial Prefrontal
      Cortex will specifically predict the severity of persistent FTD irrespective of the stage of
      illness; the change in this connectivity will track the variable 3-year outcome among
      patients with first episode of psychosis.

      METHODS: This study will employ a cross-sectional design recruiting n=126 participants from
      the Prevention & Early Intervention Program for Psychoses (PEPP). Four groups of participants
      will be assessed: patients at a later stage of schizophrenia (chronic illness group) (n=42),
      newly referred first episode group of PEPP patients (n=84), Clinical High Risk patients
      (n=60) and healthy Controls (n=45). Measurements: Patients will be diagnosed using the
      criteria for schizophrenia according to DSM-V(34). Demographic variables such as age, gender
      and parental socioeconomic status will be recorded to adjust for potential confounding
      effects. Patients will undergo baseline assessments to assess seven features of FTD (poverty
      of speech, weakening of goal, perseveration, looseness, peculiar word usage, peculiar
      sentence usage and peculiar logic) in line with the validated procedure for administering
      Thought Language Index [TLI](17). First episode patients will undergo four 7T MRI scanning
      sessions over the course of 2.5 years (baseline, 6 months, 18 months, 30 months)lasting for
      60 minutes each, as described in our previous work (15). During this time, researchers will
      perform MR spectroscopy (MPFC voxel (31)), T1 weighted structural scan and eyes-closed,
      task-free, 6 minutes resting-state functional MRI. 6 months after the onset of first episode,
      the clinical assessment will be repeated using TLI. Patients with persistent FTD will be
      identified (from previous studies, 40% of patients are expected to have persistent FTD (9))
      and separated from patients who have no FTD at 6-months time point. Patients with established
      illness will undergo only 2 scans: baseline and 1 year later.
    
  