
    
      Background and Rationale Inhospital cardiac arrest still constitutes an important clinical
      problem with survival to discharge ranging within 0-42% (most common range = 15-20%) (1).
      Survival after witnessed, pulseless ventricular fibrillation/tachycardia (VF/VT) that is
      responsive to one or two direct current countershock(s) may exceed 30%. However, survival
      after inhospital asystole, pulseless electrical activity, or refractory VF/VT (defined as not
      responsive to two countershocks) may be substantially lower (i.e., 5-10%) (2). As in
      nonsurvivors, both endogenous vasopressin and adrenocorticotrophin are reduced compared to
      survivors (3,4), the investigators hypothesize that the addition of exogenous vasopressin
      during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) (5) and of steroids during and after CPR may
      increase the rates of return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) and improve post-arrest
      survival. This hypothesis is supported by the single-center results of NCT 00411879. Thus,
      the investigators intend to either refute or provide definitive evidence supporting this
      hypothesis (and its generalizability) by conducting the present multicenter, randomized,
      controlled clinical trial of inhospital cardiac arrest.

      Methods Adult in-patients with cardiac arrest not responsive to two direct current
      countershocks (when applicable), or asystole, or pulseless electrical activity are randomized
      to receive either arginine vasopressin (20 IU/CPR cycle for the first 5 CPR-cycles in
      non-VF/VT and from the second to sixth CPR-cycle in VF/VT) plus epinephrine (1 mg/CPR-cycle)
      plus methylprednisolone (single dose = 40 mg during the first and second CPR-cycle in
      non-VF/VT and VF/VT, respectively) or normal saline-placebo plus epinephrine (1 mg/CPR-cycle)
      plus normal saline-placebo during the first 5 or second to sixth CPR-cycles. Further
      CPR-vasopressor treatment includes epinephrine (1 mg/CPR-cycle) for both groups. Apart from
      the initial, combined drug administration in the study group, CPR is conducted in full
      concordance with the 2005 Guidelines for Advanced Life Support (5). Following ROSC and in the
      presence of postresuscitation shock (defined as inability to maintain mean arterial pressure
      > 70 mm Hg without using exogenous catecholamines at infusion rates conferring vasopressor
      and/or inotropic activity), study group patients receive stress-dose hydrocortisone (300
      mg/day for a maximum of 7 days and then gradual taper), whereas controls receive saline
      placebo. Patients with pre-arrest history and clinical features, and/or electrocardiographic,
      biochemical, and echocardiographic evidence of acute myocardial infarction receive the
      stress-dose hydrocortisone (study-group) or the saline-placebo (control-group) for a maximum
      of 3 days, followed by gradual taper.1 This time-limit has been chosen to prevent any
      potential retardation of infarct healing by glucocorticoid treatment (6).

      Following ROSC, control group patients may receive stress dose steroid treatment if
      prescribed by the attending physician for indications such as septic shock or known
      adrenocortical insufficiency. This holds also for study group patients during the follow-up
      period. Any steroid prescription by attending physicians cancels any concomitant
      investigational interventions regarding steroid supplementation and results in patient
      exclusion, unless the prescribed corticosteroid regimen is in full concordance with the
      above-described, protocolized one.

      The investigators involved in CPR drug administration are blinded to the use (or no-use) of
      vasopressin and methylprednisolone, and do not coordinate the CPR procedures. For the study
      group, steroid treatment is determined by the hospital pharmacies, which are also aware of
      the computer-based patient randomization and encoding, and prepare the study drugs for CPR.

      Patient follow-up and data recording is conducted by associates who are unaware of CPR drug
      regimens. Daily follow-up to day 60 post-arrest includes physiological variables, medication
      and other treatment interventions, results of laboratory and diagnostic studies (including
      serum interleukins for days 1-10), and determination of the sequential organ dysfunction
      assessment (SOFA) score. For the first 10 days post-randomization, monitored/recorded
      physiological variables include hemodynamics (arterial and central venous pressure, and heart
      rate), gas exchange and respiratory mechanics, body temperature, urinary output and fluid
      balance. Patient neurological status will be assessed with the Glasgow Coma Score. Additional
      follow-up data will include hospital/intensive care unit (ICU)-related morbidity, length of
      ICU/hospital stay, and cerebral performance/residual disabilities (7) at hospital discharge.

      As in previous cardiac arrest trials, the requirement of informed consent for the drug
      combination during CPR has been waived. However, informed consent is actually requested for
      corticosteroid treatment of postresuscitation shock. Furthermore, the patients' families are
      always informed about the trial after the resuscitation procedures. Any next-of-kin objection
      regarding the trial will result in patient exclusion.

      Randomization Technique Randomization will be conducted in blocks of four with the use of the
      Research Randomizer (www.randomizer.org).

      Pre-specified subgroup analyses included the effect of study center, and data from patient
      subgroups defined according to the need for >5mg or =<5 mg of epinephrine during CPR.

      Post hoc analyses included within-group control group comparisons according to the actual use
      or no use of stress dose hydrocortisone (300 mg /day for a maximum of 7 days followed by
      gradual taper) by attending physicians. Also, patients without "crossover" of the control
      group were compared to patients of the VSE group. Lastly, following a relative suggestion by
      the Data Monitoring Committee, we attempted to determine the 1 year survival with good
      neurological recovery; for this purpose, survivors of both groups (and/or their families)
      were contacted / interviewed through telephone communication; this was followed by in-person
      interview/examination of the survivors.

      After completion of three years from the last patient data collection on the primary
      outcomes, the study data will be maintained in de-identified electronic form.

      In concordance with a suggestion of a recent Editorial (Intensive Care Med (2014)
      40:743-745), the Original and (its minor revision to) the Final Form of the Study Protocol
      detailing the Pre-specified Study Planning (which explains the reason for any prior changes
      in the current registration data) can be found at the bottom of the following webpage:
      http://www.evaggelismos-hosp.gr/index.php/istoriko-eepne
    
  