
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Recent advances and insights into the molecular pathogenesis of cancer have led to the
           development of novel molecular and biologic targeted therapies for the treatment of
           advanced cancer patients. A critical challenge in extending these studies involves the
           identification and validation of new therapeutic targets for future cancer therapies.

        -  As Surgical Oncologists at the NCI, we have an interest in identifying novel molecular
           and biologic targets to facilitate the development of future cancer therapies. In
           addition, we have the primary responsibility for providing surgical consultative
           services to the NIH. As such, we are uniquely positioned to acquire and perform
           important studies on solid tumor tissue to help identify therapeutic targets that may
           have significant clinical ramifications.

      OBJECTIVES:

      - To collect biologic samples from patients undergoing diagnostic, preventative, or
      therapeutic interventions for premalignant, primary or metastatic solid tumors for the
      purpose of identifying novel molecular and biologic therapeutic targets.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Patients age greater than or equal to 2 years and older with radiographic or clinical
           suspicion of, genetic predisposition for, biochemical evidence of, or
           histologically/cytologically proven solid neoplasms who require diagnostic,
           preventative, or therapeutic intervention as a part of the diagnosis and/or treatment
           and/or follow up for their neoplasm. Note: Patients greater than or equal to 2 years of
           age and under 18 years of age may only participate in research sample collection if the
           tissue acquisition is performed during a clinically indicated surgical procedure, and
           the sampling of tissue, blood or urine does not add risk to the clinically indicated
           procedures.

        -  Patients without solid tumors in whom a diagnostic, preventative, or therapeutic
           intervention is being performed, but for whom surgical quality and safety outcomes data
           are generated.

        -  Patients should have laboratory and physical examination parameters within acceptable
           limits by standard of practice guidelines prior to planned intervention.

      DESIGN:

        -  A tissue acquisition trial in which tissues will be obtained at the time of intervention

        -  No investigational therapy will be given.

        -  It is anticipated that 1000 patients will be enrolled over a period of 10 years.
    
  