
    
      Many patients who take oral medication to treat schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder
      have trouble taking their medication every day. They may not want to take it, or they may
      just forget. Risperidone injections, given once every 2 weeks, are expected to be just as
      effective as risperidone tablets taken once a day. The option of getting an injection every 2
      weeks rather than taking a tablet every day may help patients keep to their medication
      administration schedule and could help to reduce the symptoms of their disease. The study
      will assess the usefulness of the Risperdal® Consta® Treatment Guidebook in a Community
      Mental Health Center setting, over a period of three months. This Guidebook was designed to
      help doctors switch adult patients from oral risperidone tablets to long-acting risperidone
      given once every 2 weeks by injection. During the study, patients will continue to take oral
      risperidone for 2 weeks following initiation of risperidone injections, which will be given
      every 2 weeks during a 12-week period. Physical examinations and laboratory tests will be
      performed to test the safety of the risperidone injections. Both the patient and the doctor
      will be asked questions about the usefulness of the guidebook and the effectiveness of the
      injections. The objective of this study is to demonstrate the effectiveness of the Risperdal®
      Consta™ Treatment Guidebook in switching patients with schizophrenia and schizoaffective
      disorder from daily oral risperidone to long-acting risperidone injections. In addition,
      safety evaluations are assessed throughout the study. Risperidone oral tablets, 2 to 6
      milligrams per day for the first 2 weeks after initiation of long-acting risperidone
      injections; long-acting risperidone injections are given in doses of 25, 37.5, or 50
      milligrams per 2 milliliter injection once every 2 weeks for 12 weeks.
    
  