
    
      1. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

           Lung cancer is one of the most common cancers in the Singapore population, being the 2nd
           most commonly diagnosed cancer amongst males and 3rd most commonly diagnosed cancer
           amongst females. Pulmonologists, oncologists and thoracic surgeons are often consulted
           for the evaluation of imaging-identified pulmonary nodules. These may have been
           identified either incidentally or through screening. The majority of these are
           indeterminate and definitive investigation with biopsy or resection is invasive and not
           without risk. Hence, current consensus guidelines adopt a largely expectant strategy in
           the management of these indeterminate pulmonary nodules.

           There is substantial evidence that lung cancer in Asians may be unique with multiple
           driver mutations, lower age of presentation and may be independent of tobacco exposure.
           In addition, there are guidelines that recommend that the management of lung nodules in
           Asia should account for these differences. However, the evidence for alternative
           recommendations is lacking.

        2. HYPOTHESIS AND OBJECTIVES

           The aim of the study will be to identify radiological and clinical predictors that can
           improve the diagnosis of lung nodules. These predictors may help build a model for lung
           nodule evaluation and surveillance.

        3. EXPECTED RISKS AND BENEFITS

           There are likely to be no benefits to subjects. They will not be subject to any novel
           therapy and their clinical/radiological data will only be collected.

           Risks are minimal because patients are subject to only standard diagnostic work-up and
           existing clinical data collected. There will be no new additional interventions,
           consultations or hospital visits. They will be asked to complete validated quality of
           life surveys that will be included into the clinical record.

        4. STUDY POPULATION

           4.1. List the number and nature of subjects to be enrolled.

           Patients will only be enrolled from those who present to Singapore General Hospital,
           National Cancer Centre, National Heart Centre, Changi General Hospital and Sengkang
           General Hospital (either in an ambulatory or inpatient setting). There is no exclusion
           of women or minorities. Children are excluded because lung nodule detection in them is
           rare and the pathological processes, as well as clinical considerations are different.

           4.2. Criteria for Recruitment and Recruitment Process

           Subjects will be recruited if they already have radiographic evidence of a lung nodule.

           4.3. Inclusion Criteria

           The subject must meet all of the following inclusion criteria to participate in this
           study.

             1. Evidence of lung nodule on chest radiograph or Computed Tomography regardless of
                underlying aetiology

             2. Age > 21 years old

             3. Ability to provide informed consent

           4.4. Exclusion Criteria Subjects who no radiographic evidence of lung nodules or who are
           unwilling/unable to provide informed consent

        5. STUDY DESIGN AND PROCEDURES/METHODOLOGY

           This study will collect existing or prospective data that is part of standard clinical
           care

             -  Source of the data: electronic medical record of patients (ambulatory and
                inpatient)

             -  Data will be collected prospectively.

             -  Time period: May 2018-2023

             -  When subject collection is complete, the data will be de-identified and kept in an
                electronic database

             -  Only principal investigator and co-investigators will have access to collected
                information.

             -  Data be kept for 6 years after completion of study for data analysis and manuscript
                preparation

             -  All electronic copies of data will be destroyed at the end of the study. All manual
                records if any will be shredded.

           Data that will be collected

             -  Demographic data such as age, gender, ethnicity, ambulatory/inpatient setting

             -  Clinical data including co-morbidities, medication history, American Society of
                Anaesthesiologists (ASA) status, smoking history, functional status (eg ECOG),

             -  Risk factors such as BMI, exercise intensity, previous malignancy, radiation
                exposure, 2nd hand cigarette exposure, Family history of cancer,
                asbestos/environmental exposure

             -  Radiographic data including nodule size, location and characteristics (borders,
                density, calcification, cavitation thickness), fibrosis, adenopathy

             -  Laboratory data including LDH, glucose, albumin, total protein; Full blood counts,
                Renal panel, Liver Panel, Coagulation studies

             -  Histopathology and microbiology results

             -  Procedure details: designation of operator, procedure duration, anaesthesia used,
                complications, number of biopsies taken, size of specimen, location of procedure,
                use of anti-microbials

           Subjects may withdraw voluntarily from participation in the study at any time. They will
           have standard care as indicated by the managing physician

        6. SAFETY MEASUREMENTS 6.1. Definitions

           An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs as a result of the
           study. This will reported to CRIB.

           6.2. Collecting, Recording and Reporting of Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events to
           CIRB

           PI will be responsible for submitting to the approving CIRB the completed serious AE
           Reporting Form within 7 calendar days after the investigator is aware of the event,
           followed by a complete report within 8 additional calendar days. AE that are related
           events should be reported at least annually (together with Study Status Report for
           annual review).

           6.3. Safety Monitoring Plan

           Not applicable. Current standard investigations and treatment to be provided to all
           subjects.

           6.4. Complaint Handling

           Complaints about the study will be escalated to the clinical Head of Department and
           included in reports to the CIRB.

        7. DATA ANALYSIS

           7.1. Data Quality Assurance

           Data collection will be done by the investigators through the clinical team managing the
           patient to ensure completion and accuracy.

           7.2. Data Entry and Storage

             -  Data will be entered and stored in a secure web application (REDCap)/password
                controlled hospital computer. When subject data collection is complete, the data
                will be de-identified and kept in an electronic database (password secured) for
                analysis. Only investigators will have access to the data.

             -  There are no plans to keep any documentation of patients beyond the informed
                consent forms. These will be stored in the locked department office of the
                investigators.

        8. SAMPLE SIZE AND STATISTICAL METHODS

           8.1. Determination of Sample Size

           The sample size is determined by the number of patients accrued into the database during
           the study period. As this is a non-comparative study, study size calculation not
           applicable.

           8.2. Statistical and Analytical Plans

             -  Continuous safety analyses tracking for AE

             -  Interim Analyses of data on an annual basis

        9. DIRECT ACCESS TO SOURCE DATA/DOCUMENTS

           The CRIB will be permitted to audit the database as needed. Source documents are from
           electronic medical records.

       10. QUALITY CONTROL AND QUALITY ASSURANCE

           Data collection will be done by the investigators through the clinical team managing the
           patient to ensure completion and accuracy.

       11. ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS

           11.1. Informed Consent

           Informed consent will be sought from the patient or legal guardian (in the case of
           minors) by the study investigators before any data collection is done.

           11.2. Confidentiality of Data and Patient Records

             -  Data will be entered and stored in a secure web application (REDCap)/password
                controlled hospital computer. When subject data collection is complete, the data
                will be de-identified and kept in an electronic database (password secured) for
                analysis. Only investigators will have access to the data.

             -  There are no plans to keep any documentation of patients beyond the informed
                consent forms. These will be stored in the locked department office of the
                investigators.

       12. PUBLICATIONS

           Investigators will be involved in authorship depending on the degree of contribution.

       13. RETENTION OF STUDY DOCUMENTS

           Study documents will be retained for 6 years after the end of the study in a locked
           department office and hospital computer that is password protected.

       14. FUNDING and INSURANCE

      This study has no funding.
    
  