
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Effective treatment and prevention strategies for childhood stroke and porencephaly can only
      be developed once the causes are understood. There is increasing evidence that inherited and
      acquired coagulation abnormalities, alone or in combination with environmental factors,
      predispose to arterial and venous thrombosis. Inherited abnormalities of factor V leiden,
      prothrombin, protein C, protein S, and antithrombin III may account for many of these
      thromboses. At present there is little information on the existing distribution of these
      coagulation anomalies in children with thrombosis. Recent reports suggest that these clotting
      abnormalities may be responsible for some instances of intracranial hemorrhage, porencephaly,
      cerebral palsy and fetal death.

      The objectives of this protocol are: 1) to determine the frequency of coagulation
      abnormalities in children with porencephaly or stroke as compared to healthy children, 2) to
      determine the frequency of coagulation abnormalities in children with porencephaly or stroke
      as compared to their family members, 3) to determine the frequency of coagulation
      abnormalities in mothers of children with stroke as compared to mothers of healthy children,
      and 4) to describe the exogenous conditions, which in concert with coagulation factors, may
      have led to the development of thrombosis in children with stroke.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      This study will examine: 1) children with a history of porencephaly or stroke, 2) their
      biological mothers, fathers, and siblings, 3) healthy volunteer children, and 4) healthy
      volunteer mothers.

      DESIGN:

      This is a case-control study conducted at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders
      and Stroke. Children with a history of porencephaly or stroke before 18 years of life, their
      first-degree relatives, healthy volunteer children, and healthy volunteer mothers will be
      enrolled. Each subject may complete a blood draw, buccal smear, questionnaire, and/or review
      of medical records depending on their study group.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      This study will measure the frequency of several coagulation factors among the study's
      different population groups as well as examine the exogenous conditions that may have
      contributed to stroke in these children. Analysis will be descriptive and quantitative.
    
  