
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Design, implement, and evaluate an educational intervention and a nutrition education
           intervention specifically aimed at improving adjustment among younger women who have
           been newly diagnosed with and treated for stage I or II breast cancer and who are ending
           the active phase of treatment.

        -  Determine the processes through which the interventions affect quality of life.

        -  Assess whether the interventions are differentially effective for different groups of
           women.

        -  Determine how women who decline participation differ from those who participate.

        -  Determine the nature and extent of adjustment difficulties, using baseline data, in
           younger women living in an urban setting who have been treated for early stage breast
           cancer.

        -  Identify personality and situational correlates of individuals who adapt well to
           early-stage breast cancer diagnosis and treatment and those who do not.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention groups or
      a control condition.

        -  Arm I (control group): Patients did not undergo any intervention. Patients were
           evaluated at baseline and at 4 and 13 months.

        -  Arm II (breast cancer education group): Patients attended a series of approximately
           2-hour-long breast cancer education group sessions once a month for 4 months. Sessions
           involved the presentation of information concerning breast cancer, followed by a guided
           discussion of related topics. Sessions topics included: talking with children about
           cancer, life after diagnosis, relationships/intimacy, and hormones and breast
           cancer/basic factors of heredity. Patients were also given booklets and brochures to
           read at home. Patients were evaluated at baseline, immediately after the intervention,
           and at 9 months after the intervention.

        -  Arm III (nutritional education group): Patients attended a series of approximately
           2-hour-long nutritional education group sessions once a month for 4 months. Sessions
           involved the presentation of information concerning nutrition, followed by a guided
           discussion of related topics. Session topics included: healthy cupboards, what's
           cooking, shopping for success, and out on the town. Patients were also asked to keep a 4
           day record of diet. Patients were evaluated at baseline, immediately after the
           intervention, and at 9 months after the intervention.
    
  