
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a dilatation of the abdominal aorta which can, if
      undetected, lead to rupture. The mortality associated with ruptured AAA is estimated to be 90
      percent, while elective repair has a mortality risk of approximately 6 percent. Ruptured AAA
      is a leading cause of death among older Americans. The identification of markers of AAA risk
      could lead to preventive intervention. AAA aggregates in families, and segregation analysis
      shows that familial risk of AAA is best explained by the segregation of a major gene with an
      autosomal recessive mode of inheritance.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Affected relative pairs (primarily sibling pairs) with AAA and no evidence of a family
      history of a connective tissue disorder were genotyped for 150 highly informative
      microsatellite polymorphisms marking the autosomal genome at a resolution of 20 cM. The
      linkage between AAA and these loci was tested using robust affected pedigree member methods
      to identify genomic regions which might contain genes that predisposed individuals to develop
      AAA. The existence of predisposing gene(s) were confirmed and their location refined using a
      defined search strategy, genotyping at increasing levels of resolution, and re-analysis of
      family data. The predisposing gene(s) were identified by a combination of saturation mapping
      and molecular analysis of candidate loci. The association of AAA with environmental measures
      was investigated to determine an equation for estimating risk for relatives of AAA patients
      based upon environmental measures and genotype. Power calculations based upon the number and
      structure of families already collected demonstrated the feasibility of identifying genes
      that predisposed to AAA using this strategy, even in the presence of significant
      heterogeneity with respect to the loci involved. In addition to identifying genes that were
      necessary for AAA by linkage analysis, a series of analyses of association were undertaken to
      identify true susceptibility genes that were neither necessary nor sufficient to cause
      disease, but which modified an individual's risk of developing AAA.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  