
    
      ENKTL is an aggressive type of NHL characterized by poor survival, for which the optimal
      treatment strategies have not been fully defined. Radiation therapy (RT) is widely
      administered for patients with localized nasal disease, and produces a complete response (CR)
      rate of up to 70%.However, local and systemic failures are observed frequently in patients
      who receive RT alone.Therefore, chemotherapy is needed in combination with RT to reduce the
      risk of recurrence. Unfortunately, ENKTL shows a poor response to the CHOP chemotherapy
      regimen (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone) . EPOCH (etoposide,
      vincristine, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide and prednisone) chemotherapy followed by involved
      field radiotherapy (IFRT) results in a CR rate of 75.0%. Recently, a chemotherapy regimen
      including gemcitabine,oxaliplatin and l-asparaginase (GELOX) has emerged, with promising
      results.Since 2003, a proportion of patients newly diagnosed with ENKTL were treated with the
      EPOCH chemotherapy regimen at some hospitals in China. From 2008, many hospitals in the
      southern part of China began to use the GELOX( Pegaspargase is used instead of
      l-asparaginase,P-Gemox).Our multicenter retrospective study showed the GELOX regimen produces
      a better long outcome with less toxicity than the EPOCH regimen for patients with early stage
      ENKTL.However,further prospective randomized clinical trials are needed to confirm the
      conclusion.

        1. Patients

             -  All patients should sign a written informed consent form before enrollment, and the
                study should be approved by the Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center Ethics Board.

             -  Baseline of patients: Computed tomography (CT) scans of the chest, abdomen, and
                pelvis, magnetic resonance imaging studies of the head and neck, and bilateral bone
                marrow aspiration or biopsy. Positron emission tomography-CT scans (optional).
                Epstein-Barr virus (E B V) DNA blood levels, titer of EBV antibody (EA-IgA,
                VCA-IgA), β2-micro globulin (β2-MG) , IL-9 and IL-15 in the serum.

             -  Recheck before and after every course: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA blood levels,
                titer of EBV antibody (EA-IgA, VCA-IgA), β2-micro globulin (β2-MG), IL-9 and IL-15
                in the serum.

             -  Recheck every two course: Computed tomography (CT) scans of the chest, abdomen, and
                pelvis, magnetic resonance imaging studies of the head and neck, and bilateral bone
                marrow aspiration or biopsy. Positron emission tomography-CT scans (optional)

        2. Treatment Protocol:

             -  The GELOX regimen consist of the following drugs: gemcitabine ：1250 mg/ m2 on days
                1,ivdrip oxaliplatin ：85 mg/m2 on day 1, ivdrip pegaspargase : 2500 IU/m 2 daily on
                day 1,intramuscular. The treatment cycle is repeated every 14 days.

             -  The EPOCH regimen included a 24 h continuous infusion of etoposide (50 mg/m 2
                /day), vincristine (0.4 mg/m 2 /day) and doxorubicin(10 mg/m 2 /day administered on
                days 1-4, followed by cyclophosphamide (750 mg/m2 /day) over 15 min intravenously
                on day 5 and prednisone (60 mg/m 2 /day) 60 mg/m 2 /day on days 1-5.The treatment
                cycle is repeated every 21 days.

      After at least two cycles of chemotherapy, patients who have achieved stable disease (SD)
      following two cycles, partial response (PR) after four cycles or complete response (CR) after
      six cycles of chemotherapy are referred to primary IFRT.

      ◦IFRT was delivered using 6-MeV linear accelerator using 3-dimensional conformable treatment
      planning. The IFRT dose was 56 grays (Gy) in 28 fractions, we define the clinical target
      volume of limited stage IE disease as the bilateral nasal cavity, bilateral ethmoid sinuses,
      and ipsilateral maxillary sinus; and the clinical target volume would extend to involved
      tissues for patients who had extensive stage IE disease. For patients who had stage IIE
      disease, the clinical target volume also, included the bilateral cervical lymph node area.
    
  