
    
      The Autism Spectrum Ambassador Program (ASAP) is a medical student staffed program designed
      to improve the experience for children with Autism Spectrum Disorder coming into the
      Children's Hospital Emergency Department (ED) for an acute visit. This program will pair an
      interested and trained medical student with a family whose child presents to the Children's
      Hospital ED and identifies as having Autism and requiring special accommodations to improve
      cooperation and procedure tolerance.

      Patients will be identified by the study team members, who are ages 30 months to 17years with
      the diagnosis of Autism Spectrum Disorder. Participants will be recruited through posters and
      flyers in the Pediatric Emergency Room Waiting area; families who are interested in enrolling
      will enter the research study. Interested caregivers will be asked to complete a confidential
      survey that will identify areas that can be accommodated during their visit. This survey will
      then be automatically be printed for the ED staff and ambassador to review. The student will
      meet the family in the ED and accompany the family through their visit; the student will
      print the child's Accommodation Plan, place it at the bedside, and make it available for each
      member of the treatment team.

      Students will be trained to chart a child's Accommodation Plan for each member of the
      treatment team and place it at bedside, as well to advocate on behalf of the child and their
      family, communicate with the staff (including nurses, primary care providers (physicians and
      Physician Assistants (PAs)), and techs (radiology, phlebotomy, transport). To the extent
      possible, the investigators hope that having a student advocate, educate staff in the ED, and
      implement changes as needed will improve patient satisfaction with the experience and improve
      the ease with which a procedure can be carried out for a child with ASD. Students will also
      be queried as to the experience and survey data will be used to improve the program over
      time.

      Training will be completed so that all members of the treatment team will be aware of the
      program and aware of the possible accommodations. Treatment team members will be provided
      additional training to enhance the success of the ASAP program and all treatment team members
      will be encouraged to work together for the best possible outcome for all patients. Treatment
      team services include: nursing, ED physicians, PAs, technicians (radiology, phlebotomy,
      transport), registration, and to the extent possible, the personnel involved in the care of
      these children.
    
  