
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS

      This research directly meets the goals of the NIH Cognitive and Emotional Health Project and
      the Healthy Brain Initiative which seek to "maintain or improve the cognitive performance of
      all adults," especially for "populations experiencing the greatest disparities and risks in
      cognitive health."

      Significance: Using Fascati criteria, 52% - 59% of people with HIV experience HIV-associated
      Neurocognitive Disorder (HAND) which affects driving safety, medication adherence, and
      instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs). Cognitive aging in this group represents a
      major concern since by 2020, 70% of adults with HIV in the United States will be 50 and
      older. Thus, there is a growing population that is particularly vulnerable to HAND due to the
      co-occurrence with aging-related cognitive impairments. In our prior study (R03MH076642-01A2)
      conducted in the HAART era, when comparing cognitive functioning between older and younger
      HIV-positive and HIV-negative adults, older adults with HIV performed the worst. In the HAART
      era, these cognitive impairments continue to be observed in several cognitive domains
      including memory, reasoning/executive functioning, and one area of particular importance -
      speed of processing.

      Speed of processing is the rate at which cognitive functions are performed. People with HIV
      are vulnerable to speed of processing declines, especially as they age. Such speed of
      processing declines are associated with poorer driving performance, and more at-fault crashes
      in normal older adults, as well as middle-aged (40+) and older adults with HIV, which is a
      growing public health concern. In the Southern U.S., specifically in the Deep South where
      this study will occur, these points are highly relevant because: 1) even with speed of
      processing declines, adults with HIV must rely on their own driving, especially in rural
      areas with limited public transportation; and 2) the epicenter of HIV has emerged here in the
      last decade, which means many lower SES adults and/or African Americans with HIV will also
      have HAND or borderline HAND. Regrettably, few behavioral interventions have tried to improve
      cognition in this pharmacologically-burdened population; and pharmacological cognitive
      interventions produce adverse side effects in a population already experiencing multiple
      comorbidities. Fortunately, some types of computerized cognitive interventions have been
      shown to improve cognition without adverse side-effects. Yet, only two types of computerized
      cognitive interventions have been conducted in adults with HIV, with one being Speed of
      Processing Training.

      Specific Aim 1: Determine whether 10 vs 20 hours of Speed of Processing Training will improve
      this cognitive ability at post-test, year 1, and year 2 after baseline. Hypothesis 1- Adults
      with HAND or borderline HAND will have improved speed of processing over time as they engage
      in more hours of training compared to those in the contact control (sham) condition.

      Specific Aim 2: Determine whether 10 vs 20 hours of Speed of Processing Training will improve
      everyday functioning at post-test, year 1, and year 2 after baseline. Hypothesis 2- Adults
      with HAND or borderline HAND will have improved everyday functioning (e.g., IADLs, driving,
      medication adherence) over time as they engage in more hours of training compared to those in
      the contact control (sham) condition.

      Exploratory Aim: Determine whether improvement in speed of processing and/or everyday
      functioning over time mediate improvement in quality of life (e.g., depression, locus of
      control, health-related quality of life).

      Innovation: We are the first to develop Speed of Processing Training and use it with older
      adults and those with HIV. This non-pharmacological intervention improves the rate at which
      normal, community-dwelling older adults process information and has been shown to improve
      performance in driving, IADLs, and health-related quality of life several years after
      training. In prior studies, we demonstrated that after only 10 hours of Speed of Processing
      Training, this inexpensive intervention significantly improved speed of processing and IADLs
      in adults with HIV in the short-term. As part of the ACTIVE Study (N = 2,802), three types of
      cognitive training in 6 sites across the U.S. were compared: speed of processing, memory, and
      reasoning. NINR/NIA (January 14, 2014) announced that Speed of Processing Training used in
      the ACTIVE Study enabled "older people to maintain their cognitive abilities as they age,"
      even 10 years after training. The ACTIVE Study also examined reasoning and memory training;
      however, Speed of Processing Training was uniquely found also to enhance tertiary outcomes:
      (1) protect against depression and (2) improve self-rated health, internal locus of control,
      and health-related quality of life. These tertiary/quality of life outcomes are essential
      areas in HIV that likewise require intervention. This RCT of 264 adults with HAND or
      borderline HAND will extend the ability to demonstrate that we cannot only improve speed of
      processing and everyday functioning in the short-term, but over a 2-year period.
    
  