
    
      Urinary incontinence (UI) is defined as a complaint of involuntary leakage. Researches show
      that 9%-72% women between age 17-79 are urinary incontinence, in which stress urinary
      incontinence (SUI) is the most prevalent type of urinary incontinence. The morbidity rate of
      UI through the world is 27.6%, which SUI take percentage of 50.Morbidity rate of UI in
      Beijing is 46.5%,and among which 59.6% is SUI. Aging is a high risk for SUI, which will
      increase morbidity rate of SUI. Totally, 61.9% women over 50 year-old have SUI. SUI is
      defined as a complaint of involuntary leakage during sneezing or coughing, which make
      patients embarrassed and can not attend social activity normally, decreasing the quality of
      their lives. Attending social activity is very important for people's health, otherwise,
      people will get a series of diseases, like osteoporosis, obesity, diabetes, hypertension,
      coronary heart disease,etc The International Consultation on Urological Diseases recommended
      pelvic floor muscle training as A level evidence treating simple mild and moderate stress
      urinary incontinence, which curative rate varies 30% to 60%. But the length of treatment
      should last at least 3 month. Therefore, patients' compliance is a key to the effectiveness.
      While, electroacupuncture is verified as a better treatment for SUI, which length of
      treatment is shorter than pelvic floor muscle training, and effective rate is over 80%,
      showing potential advantages. Early clinical research show that electroacupuncture for SUI is
      effective.

      This subject is primary to compare effectiveness of electroacupuncture and pelvic floor
      muscle training for SUI, and evaluate optimal efficiency of electroacupuncture for SUI. The
      early clinical research is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with a small sample, which
      consists of two arms, electroacupuncture group and sham electroacupuncture group to value
      difference of extent of SUI in 1h pad test after 4 weeks. The result indicates that
      electroacupuncture is effective.

      As a further study, this research is a large sample multicenter trial with two parallel arms
      of electroacupuncture group and pelvic floor muscle training group. The primary purpose is to
      value effectiveness of electroacupuncture for SUI in aspect of frequency of leakage and
      amount of leakage, comparing with pelvic floor muscle training. And the secondary purpose is
      to evaluate safety of electroacupuncture therapy, and compare acceptance of
      electroacupuncture treatment and pelvic floor muscle training.
    
  