
    
      Patients with suspected Acute Myocardial Infarction (AMI) constitute one of the largest
      patient groups in emergency medicine. The majority of these patients, however, have other
      causes than AMI, for their chest discomfort and many are discharged again without any
      initiation of treatment.(1) At present, cardiac troponin is gold standard in diagnosing AMI.
      Diagnostic levels of troponin are not reached until hours after onset of symptoms and serial
      sampling is recommended at intervals of 3-6 hours to confirm or rule-out AMI. The novel
      biomarker copeptin, a by-product of vasopressin production, is released immediately from the
      pituitary gland as part of the hormonal response to AMI. However, copeptin elevation, is not
      specific of AMI. Peak concentrations of copeptin are reached within the first hour and the
      values normalizes within 4-10 hours.(3) Previous studies have suggested the combination of
      copeptin and high-sensitive cardiac troponin T (hs-cTnT) for early and reliable rule-out of
      AMI.(2,3,6) These studies are based on copeptin measurement in blood sample acquired at
      hospital admission. However, because of the rapid release of copeptin, the blood sampling
      should be performed as early as possible after symptom onset, preferably already in the
      ambulance, whereas the analysis can be performed after arrival at the hospital because
      copeptin is stable. The PREHAB trial conducted in the Central Denmark Region, documented that
      prehospital blood sampling is performed 70 minutes earlier than first in-hospital sample.(5)
      Post-trial analysis of blood samples from the PREHAP trial has demonstrated the potential for
      early and safe rule-out of AMI using the combination of prehospital copeptin and in-hospital
      troponin analysis. AMI could potentially be safely, ruled out in approximately 40-50% of
      patients, in whom the AMI diagnosis eventually was dismissed.

      During the last 7 years, studies have evaluated the effect and validity of prehospital blood
      sample analysis. This is now standard procedure in The Central Denmark Region, Denmark.(5)
      Currently, prehospital blood sampling is carried out in two major randomized studies, aiming
      at identifying patients with myocardial infarction and heart failure (NCT01638806 and
      NCT02050282).

      Unfortunately, there is at present no point-of-care analysis equipment for copeptin
      available. Manufacturer of copeptin analysis equipment, Thermo Fischer, has informed that the
      development of point-care-care equipment is in process, but will not be available in near
      future. Therefore, we will perform in-hospital analysis of the prehospital blood samples.

      Overall aim of this protocol is to demonstrate the combination of troponin T and copeptin as
      a safe and effective biomarker for rule-out of AMI. In a randomized setting, we will compare
      the combination of prehospital copeptin and in hospital hs-cTnT, to the standard diagnostic
      procedure in patients with suspected AMI, evaluating rule-out potential and potential for
      reduction of the length of stay at the hospital. The diagnostic effects of measuring
      copeptin/ hs-cTnT in prehospital vs in-hospital blood samples will be evaluated. Moreover an
      other diagnostic rule-out strategy, using hs-cTNT at admission and 1 hour after admission,
      will be evaluated in retrospective analysis of blood samples acquired from patients in the
      conventional diagnostics arm of the study.

      Primary purposes of the AROMI trial:

        1. To evaluate if early discharge, based in the combined biomarker analysis is associated
           to duration of hospital stay. Will be evaluated in interim analysis after rule out of
           AMI(discharged within 12 hours) in 900 patients (300 patients in each site)

        2. To evaluate if early discharge, based in the combined biomarker analysis is associated
           to major adverse cardiac events (MACE) during index admission, after discharge, within
           30, 90, and 365 days of randomization (separately or in combination). No interim
           evaluation of MACE.

      Secondary purposes of the AROMI trial:

        1. To evaluate if early discharge, based in the combined biomarker analysis is associated
           to time to decision of discharge or continued hospitalization. Will be evaluated in
           interim analysis after rule out of AMI(discharged within 12 hours) in 900 patients (300
           patients in each site)

        2. To evaluate if early discharge, based in the combined biomarker analysis is
           cost-effective regarding satisfaction and safety from a patients perspective.

        3. To evaluate if early discharge, based in the combined biomarker analysis is
           cost-effective from a public perspective, regarding staff resources, costs of hospital
           stay, adherence to the labour market, and use of other healthcare services, Cost benefit
           analysis(CBA).

        4. To evaluate if early discharge, based on the hs-cTnT analysis at arrival and 1 hour
           after arrival at hospital is associated to duration of hospital stay.

        5. To evaluate if early discharge, based on the hs-cTnT analysis at arrival and 1 hour
           after arrival at hospital is associated to MACE(major adverse cardiac event) during
           index admission, after discharge, within 30, 90, and 365 days of randomization
           (separately or in combination).

        6. To evaluate the diagnostic properties (including sensitivity, specificity, negative
           predictive value, and positive predictive value) of the accelerated rule out algorithm
           using copeptin and high sensitivity troponin. Will be evaluated in interim analysis
           after rule out of AMI(discharged within 12 hours) in 900 patients (300 patients in each
           site). Will be evaluated in the total cohort (since both prehospital and inhospital
           copeptin and high sensitivity troponin is available in all patients) and randomization
           will not be revealed during this evaluation.

        7. To evaluate the prognostic value of the accelerated rule out algorithm using copeptin
           and high sensitivity troponin. Will be evaluated in interim analysis after rule out of
           AMI(discharged within 12 hours) in 900 patients (300 patients in each site). Will be
           evaluated in the total cohort (since both prehospital and inhospital copeptin and high
           sensitivity troponin is available in all patients) and randomization will not be
           revealed during this evaluation.
    
  