
    
      Parkinson´s Disease (PD) affects between 4.1 and 4.6 million people in the world. Diagnosis
      of PD is currently clinical and based on its motor manifestations (bradykinesia, rest tremor,
      and rigidity). However, non-motor symptoms such as pain, fatigue and neuropsychiatric
      manifestations are present in more than 70% of subjects. Pain affects about 85% of patients
      but is paradoxically under-reported and consequently under-treated in PD patients with a
      great impact on their quality of life. Levodopa, which is the election treatment in PD, has
      shown controversial results regarding pain sensitivity and has been shown ineffective for
      enhancing the endogenous pain modulation system. Furthermore, there is a lack of management
      protocols and nonpharmacologic treatments for pain in PD. Several syndromes are hypothesized
      to be involved in PD pain generation. Generally, PD patients suffer from alterations in
      peripheral transmission, sensitive-discriminative processing, pain perception, and pain
      interpretation in multiple levels, due to neurodegenerative changes in dopaminergic pathways
      and non-dopaminergic pain-related structures. Therefore, central mechanisms are proposed to
      be crucial for the development and establishment of pain in PD patients. Regarding pain
      processing features, PD patients have reduced pain thresholds, an augmented Temporal
      Summation (TS) after repetitive nociceptive stimulus, and the impairment of their Conditioned
      Pain Modulation (CPM) is correlated with greater severity and premature onset of the disease.
      Cortical excitability reduction is common in patients with pain. Therefore, diverse therapies
      are being developed to counteract this cortical excitability reduction and obtaining,
      consequently, effective pain relief. In consonance with these findings, in PD condition,
      especially in off state, there is also evidence of cortical excitability decrease but, to the
      best of the investigators´ knowledge, there are no studies targeting cortical excitability to
      treat pain in PD. Thus, the present study proposes non-invasive brain stimulation therapy for
      the treatment of PD-related pain. The non-invasive brain stimulation therapy will be
      transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) over the Primary Motor Cortex (M1). tDCS over
      M1 is capable of increase corticospinal excitability in both M1 and other pain
      processing-related areas such as the thalamus, Dorsolateral Prefrontal Cortex (DLPFC),
      cingulate cortex, and insula, also involved in PD pain processing. These increments of
      cortical excitability have been correlated with pain relief in chronic pain such as
      fibromyalgia, osteoarthritis, migraine, and spinal cord injury. It is also hypothesized that
      tDCS would be an effective strategy to treat central sensitivity-related pain, a process
      whose features are common with PD condition. Moreover, specifically in PD, tDCS over M1 has
      shown to increase cortical excitability, augmenting the Motor Evoked Potential (MEP)
      amplitude by 78.5%, correlating with motor improvements. The main aim of this study is to
      conduct an independent parallel randomized controlled trial based on tDCS targeting changes
      in 1. validated general and specific PD related pain scales and 2. psychophysical
      measurements of pain modulation mechanisms. The investigators´ main hypothesis is that active
      tDCS will be superior to its respective control placebo intervention.
    
  