
    
      Study Objectives: This research proposes to evaluate the feasibility of the proposed
      two-phased study: 1) compare two diet strategies to management of Gestational Diabetes
      Mellitus via a 12-day randomized cross-over feeding study, and 2) support patient
      self-management of assigned diet for remainder of pregnancy with clinical management team.

      Study Type and Design:

        1. Type/Design: Single-center, randomized controlled cross-over feeding study

        2. Intervention and Control Procedures:

             1. Women between the ages of 18-40 years attending the University of Kansas Medical
                Center's high-risk clinic with a positive GDM diagnosis will be recruited.

             2. Randomization will occur after consent and will determine: 1) the first study diet
                for the 12-day cross-over controlled feeding, and 2) the 2nd study diet for the 12-
                day cross-over controlled feeding, which will be continued as the study diet for
                the remainder of pregnancy.

             3. All food will be provided to participants during the 12-day controlled feeding
                period.

                Consented women will report to the Clinical Research Center (CRC) on day 1 to
                collect venous blood samples and receive 2 days of wash-out diet. Participants will
                return on day 3 fasting for placement of the continuous glucose monitoring system
                (CGMS) and to collect 3 days of the first randomly assigned study diet (MOD or SC).
                On day 6, participants will return to the CRC fasting, provide a blood sample, and
                remove the CGMS. They will be served a breakfast for the first study diet, and
                hourly blood samples will be collected for 5 hours. After all blood samples have
                been collected, participants will receive wash-out diet meals/snacks through day 8.

                The same protocol will be repeated for days 9-12 for the alternative study diet
                (MOD or SC).

             4. At the completion of the 12-day cross-over controlled feeding study, participants
                will continue with the SC or MOD study diets (the last diet followed after
                randomization) to implement with registered dietitian (RD) support for the
                remainder of the pregnancy. Food will not be provided by the study team for this
                portion of the study. Standard care guidelines for dietetics practice in GDM
                recommend three visits with a registered dietitian. These visits will take place as
                as two face-to-face and two telephone encounters.
    
  