
    
      The prevalence of type 1 diabetes has been steadily increasing for about 20 years. Despite
      therapeutic progress, between 20 and 65% of people with diabetes develop diabetic neuropathy,
      resulting in increased morbidity and mortality.

      Diabetic neuropathy is not limited to sensitive pain in the lower limbs. It also affects the
      fibres of the autonomic nervous system (ANS), which results in systemic complications, often
      disabling (erectile dysfunction, dysidrosis, gastroparesis, orthostatism, etc.) and a
      probable alteration in the body's thermogenic capacities, although this possibility has not
      been studied in humans. In rodents, it is possible to activate induced thermogenesis via
      central stimulation of the ANS or to inactivate it, which promotes the development of obesity
      and greater insulin resistance. This knowledge is based on cellular and animal models that
      have identified the bio-molecular mechanisms that give brown adipose tissue (BAT) the ability
      to dissipate energy in the form of heat.

      Induced thermogenesis is mediated by decoupling proteins 1 (DCS-1) located on the
      mitochondrial inner membrane of the TAB. DCS-1 decouple oxidative phosphorylation from ATP
      production, dissipating the proton gradient. The activation of UCP1 is particularly
      influenced by the sympathetic system and more particularly by catecholamines which will bind
      to ß3 adrenergic receptors (Rß3). In humans, the persistence of active areas of TAB has
      recently been demonstrated by positron emission tomography (PET) imaging using a glucose
      analogue radiotracer, 18F-Fluoro-Deoxy-Glucose (18F-FDG), coupled with the scanner (CT).
      Recently, it has been shown that the use of 18F-FDG PET coupled with magnetic resonance (MRI)
      is equally effective in differentiating TAB from white fat tissue with less patient
      irradiation. The activity of the TAB is estimated using the measurement of SUV (standard
      uptake value) which represents the total glycolytic activity of the tissue and is also
      commonly referred to as the total metabolic volume. It has been shown in humans that TAB
      activity is inversely correlated with body mass index and age and positively correlated with
      exposure to cold and stress levels[6]. Among diabetics, the data are disparate but the
      spontaneous prevalence of TAB appears to be reduced compared to the general population (1.1%
      vs 7.5%). To date, no studies have investigated a possible link between the decrease in TAB
      activity observed in diabetics and the presence of autonomic neuropathy, which is a common
      and often under-diagnosed complication of diabetes.

      The main purpose of this study is to evaluate whether the activity and distribution of TAB in
      patients with diabetes is influenced by the presence of diabetic neuropathy. On the other
      hand, if the existence of diabetic neuropathy influences energy expenditure in the event of
      exposure to cold. Finally, whether any differences in the activity and distribution of TAB
      could be related to changes in the central nervous system.

      The investigators plan to include a total of 24 patients with type 1 diabetes and separate
      them into 2 groups: group A; no neuropathic complications and group B; presence of
      neuropathy. All patients will be characterized in terms of clinical, metabolic and energy
      expenditure. The activity of the TAB will be evaluated through the use of 18F-FDG PET/IRM
      imaging, after a cold stimulation protocol (refrigerated jacket) in order to activate the TAB
      in a homogeneous manner among the participants.
    
  