
    
      Objective: To assess the incidence of post-TIPS OHE within the first three months after
      prophylactic administration of lactulose and rifaximin versus placebo in patients who undergo
      Transjugular Intrahepatic Portosystemic Shunt (TIPS) placement.

      Study design: A multicentre, randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind study.

      Study population: Adult consecutive patients undergoing elective TIPS placement (for
      refractory ascites or secondary prophylaxis in variceal bleeding) in all Dutch academic
      centres where TIPS procedures are performed: Amsterdam UMC, location Academic Medical Centre
      (AMC), Erasmus MC, Leiden University Medical Centre (LUMC), Maastricht University Medical
      Centre+ (MUMC+), Radboud University Medical Centre (Radboudumc), University Medical Centre
      Groningen (UMCG), and University Hospitals Leuven (UZ Leuven) in Belgium.

      Intervention: Rifaximin 550 milligram (mg) b.i.d. will be prescribed, in combination with a
      starting dose of 25 milliliter (mL) lactulose b.i.d. and further dependent on the amount of
      daily bowel movements, with the objective not to exceed more than two soft stools per day.
      Intervention will start 72 hours before TIPS placement, and will last till three months after
      TIPS placement. The control group will receive placebo in combination with lactulose (as
      described above).

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary endpoint is the development of OHE within three
      months after TIPS placement determined by the West Haven criteria. Secondary endpoints are 90
      day mortality; development of a second episode of OHE within the first three months;
      development of OHE in the period between three and twelve months after TIPS placement;
      development of MHE between TIPS placement and twelve months after placement; the increase of
      the psychometric hepatic encephalopathy score (PHES) and simplified one minute animal naming
      test (S-ANT1) compared to baseline. Differences in molecular composition of peripheral /
      portal blood samples at TIPS placement. Furthermore, quality of life will be assessed.
    
  