
    
      Diabetic lower extremity wounds and venous stasis wounds are two of the most challenging,
      costly medical problems of our population. Moreover, the Veterans Affairs population has a
      very high percentage of diabetes and venous stasis wounds.

      Foot ulcers are the most common reason for a diabetic patient to be admitted to the hospital,
      and occur in approx 25% of patients (CDC) with an average stay of 3 weeks and a cost of
      25,000$/ per treatment (21,22, 23). The pathophysiology of diabetic wound healing is
      characterized by microcirculatory ischemia and an abnormal wound healing cascade due to
      glycosylated cells and proteins.

      Venous stasis disease affects 10-35% of the US population (24) and is characteristically
      difficult to treat, recurrent and costly. The dermal microcirculation is aberrant with
      cellular stasis, capillary leak, edema and prone to chronic wounds. As venous pressures
      increase in these patients, there is microcirculatory ischemia which predisposes to wound
      formation.

      In the skin, the normal wound healing cellular cascade mechanism acts to restore epithelial
      components and ends in collagen deposition and scar formation. Imperative to this process is
      angiogenesis, cellular signaling, and cellular mitosis. These wound healing processes can be
      promoted by stem cell transplantation.

      It is now known that lipoaspirate obtained by standard small volume liposunction techniques
      contains autologous mesenchymal stem cells. We propose that autologous stem cell
      transplantation via lipoaspirate injection to these recalcitrant wounds could be a safe and
      effective treatment modality. Because the cellular derangement of both diabetic wounds and
      venous stasis wounds is derived from abnormal cell signaling, micro-ischemia and abnormal
      capillaries, stem cell treatment which can aid in angiogenesis and cellular signaling may be
      a treatment option which is aimed directly at the root cause of the disease.

      Aim 1: A prospective, single blinded randomized clinical study will be performed to determine
      if the injection of lipoaspirate into diabetic or venous stasis wounds promotes wound healing
      or wound closure at a faster rate than conventional treatment.

      Rationale: Despite considerable effort, successful healing of diabetic lower extremity wounds
      and venous stasis wounds remain as a difficult therapeutic challenge. We will examine whether
      autologous lipoaspirate injection is a safe and effective treatment option for diabetic lower
      extremity wounds and venous stasis wounds.

      Hypothesis: Injection of lipoaspirate subcutaneously around diabetic wounds and venous stasis
      wounds will promote wound healing more effectively than conventional treatments.
    
  