
    
      The costs and potential complications (side effects) of therapies currently used to treat
      Crohn's disease could potentially be reduced if a non-invasive test existed that determined
      which therapies benefit patients and which do not. Currently, once therapies are prescribed,
      doctors rely solely on clinical parameters to gauge whether the therapies are helpful. This
      includes evaluation of overall general well-being, abdominal pain, and number of liquid
      stools per day. There is no established and reliable non-invasive test that can predict
      whether a person is responding to therapy early in the course of treatment when these
      evaluations may be inconclusive.

      During this research study we will look for changes in sugar metabolism on low-dose PET/CT
      before and 2 weeks after the first infusion of infliximab therapy. This is to find out if
      these changes can predict clinical response and steroid-free remission at two, six and 12
      months, in patients with Crohn's disease.

      PET/CT can be used to detect active inflammation (reaction of a part of the body to injury or
      infection) in Crohn's disease as well as complications such as ulcers, fissures, and
      strictures (thinning of, breaks in, and fixed narrowing of the bowel, respectively). PET
      (positron emission tomography) scans take pictures using special dyes that "light up" inside
      the body. This happens because the special dyes contain radiation, which is similar to the
      radiation in a standard x-ray. CT (computed tomography) uses x-rays and a computer to make
      pictures.

      The radioactive tracer that will be used in this study is FDG. FDG is a radioactive sugar.
      FDG is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This tracer can show early
      response to chemotherapy or other cancer treatments for a variety of tumors. Changes in FDG
      uptake accurately predict persistent response in as little as hours to days after therapy has
      begun. These changes often happen weeks to months before anatomic changes on CT or MRI.
      Sometimes the CT or MRI never changes.

      One of the few FDG PET studies looking at treatment for an inflammatory condition showed that
      FDG uptake decreased significantly within two weeks of starting therapy for rheumatoid
      arthritis. Accurate early assessment with FDG PET/CT shortly after starting therapy with
      infliximab has the potential to change the standard clinical approach to both initial and
      continuing infliximab therapy in patients with Crohn's disease.
    
  