
    
      Cardiovascular and coronary heart diseases continue to be the leading causes of morbidity and
      mortality among adults in Europe and North America. Since the number of elderly people and
      therefore the number of chronic-inflammatory diseases rise, preventive therapies become more
      important. Within preventive strategies, nutrition plays a central role.

      Cross-sectional studies suggested that omega-3 fatty acids, especially the very long-chain
      fatty acids Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA, C20:5ω3) and Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, C22:6ω3), are
      protective against cardiovascular and coronary heart diseases. Their cardio protective
      potential is based on their positive effects on blood lipids, vascular tonus and blood
      clotting. A number of controlled clinical trials have shown that EPA and DHA supplementation
      lower fasting and postprandial plasma concentrations of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins and
      their remnants. Biochemical research revealed numerous metabolic effects of EPA and DHA,
      ranging from their effects on membrane fluidity to the modification of the eicosanoid
      profile.

      However, only a few human clinical trials examined the regulative effects of DHA and EPA
      supplementation on gene expression. Furthermore, to our knowledge no published research data
      is available dealing with the effect of these fatty acids on gene expression in subjects with
      hypertriglyceridemia in comparison to healthy subjects. Such findings are of great concern
      due to hints that especially people with hypertriglyceridemia benefit from the triglyceride
      lowering effect of EPA and DHA supplementation. Presently it is not well-established if the
      gene regulative potential of EPA and DHA in these persons differs from healthy persons. These
      findings could help to understand the differences in the metabolic effects of EPA and DHA in
      healthy vs. hypertriglyceridemic persons, which have a greater risk for cardiovascular and
      coronary diseases. Finally, these data could contribute to a knowledge basis for targeted
      strategies in preventive therapies with the very long-chain omega-3 fatty acids EPA and DHA.
    
  