
    
      Object and source: Patients diagnosed with DKD who meet the inclusion criteria are enrolled
      into the study.

      Observation index: At baseline and every medical visit, therapeutic relevant information was
      collected. Data mainly include demographic characteristics(age, gender, place of residence,
      marriage, education degree), lifestyles(smoking, drinking, exercise), clinical
      characteristics(body mass index, blood pressure, duration , history of CVD, complications,
      nutrition situation), laboratory indexes (serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, glycosylated
      hemoglobin, urinary albumin to creatinine ratio, 24-hour urinary albumin, 24-hour urine urea
      nitrogen, etc.).

      Quality assurance plan: The present study should be performed according to the principles of
      the Declaration of Helsinki and has been approved by the Ethics Committee of Guangdong
      Provincial People's Hospital.

      Plan for missing data: When the participants drop out, the researcher should contact the
      participants by phone, email, text message, letter etc. and ask the reason, making record as
      full as possible.

      Statistical analysis plan: Data are presented as mean±SD for continuous variables and as a
      number(percentage) for categorical variables. According to sex and CKD stage , patients are
      divided into four groups,then evaluate the prognostic value of mean sUCR and ΔsUCR
      (fluctuation of sUCR over time, meaning monthly rate of change) in the progression of DKD.
      The relationship between baseline characteristics among the four groups was compared by using
      one-way analysis of variance test, Kruskal-Wallis test or Chi-squared test where appropriate.
      Survival rates are estimated using Kaplan-Meier analysis, and the significance of differences
      was analyzed using the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazard regression analysis is used to
      assess the association between the clinical outcomes and mean sUCR and ΔsUCR. In multivariate
      analysis, we enter variables using a P value of <0.10 as the selection criterion or
      considered clinically significant. Hazard ratios (HRs) are presented with 95% CIs. All
      statistical analysis was performed with the use of SPSS (version 19.0, SPSS, Chicago, USA)
      and Prism 7.0 (GraphPad Software, San Diego, CA, USA). A two-tailed P value <0.05 was
      considered to be statistically significant.
    
  