
    
      The primary aim of this R21 proposal is to test the efficacy of a 5-session intervention
      designed to increase adherence to FA safety guidelines among low-income, young children (6-8
      years of age) with FAs. This intervention, the Food Allergy Superheroes Training (FAST)
      Program, will be developed and refined across Phases 1a and 1b to target skills beneficial to
      promote adherence to FA guidelines (i.e., food avoidance). During Phase 1a, we will recruit a
      parent-child advisory board to aide in integrating principles of behavioral skills training
      within the FAST Program manual. We will then examine the initial acceptability and
      feasibility of the FAST Program in an open trial with 10 low-income, young children with FAs
      to further refine the intervention's content. During Phase 1b, we will randomize 50 young
      children with a FA who are from a low-income background to receive either the FAST Program or
      FA knowledge. We will employ developmentally relevant FA assessments (i.e., child-report,
      role-play, in situ) before, after, and one-month post-intervention as our primary outcomes.
      Aim 1: Determine feasibility and acceptability of the FAST intervention. We will evaluate the
      feasibility and acceptability of this intervention with 60 participants (n=10 in pilot trial
      [Phase 1a] and n=50 in a preliminary randomized trial [Phase 1b]). Aim 2: Estimate the effect
      size of the FAST intervention relative to FA knowledge alone. Adherence will be measured via
      a multi-modal, FA assessment including child-report, role-play, and in situ assessment. This
      form of naturalistic, FA assessment will be designed to measure the child's behavior (i.e.,
      ingest food, touch or play with food, etc.) in a safe yet realistic manner. This study will
      contribute to the field's knowledge of efficacious interventions for promoting adherence
      among young children with FAs.
    
  