
    
      The purpose of this study is to compare two pain medications delivered by two different forms
      of patient-controlled analgesia (PCA). PCA is a form of pain management that allows the
      patient to control the amount of pain medication he or she receives. The PCA E-TRANS fentanyl
      system is a credit card-sized unit that is worn on the patient's upper outer arm or chest. It
      uses low-intensity electrical current to move fentanyl through the skin and into the
      patient's bloodstream. It does not require the insertion of an intravenous (IV) needle, or
      injection for pain management. PCA IV morphine is delivered into a vein by an IV infusion
      pump that is specially designed to be controlled by the patient. The PCA E-TRANS fentanyl
      system delivers a 40 microgram dose of fentanyl and the PCA IV morphine delivers a 1
      milligram intravenous dose of morphine. The patients in this study are those scheduled for
      non-emergent abdominal or pelvic surgery. Before surgery, patients will be taught how to use
      both PCA devices, and randomly assigned to receive either PCA IV morphine or E-TRANS
      fentanyl. After undergoing surgery, patients will have the PCA device applied to the skin
      (E-TRANS fentanyl) or an IV inserted into a vein (PCA IV morphine), according to the random
      assignment. The patient will then be allowed to control delivery of the assigned medication
      for 72 hours. During the first 24 hours, the patient will be asked about the amount of pain
      he or she is having. The primary measure of effectiveness is successful pain relief (defined
      by a rating of "Excellent", or "Good") on the 24-hour patient global assessment of the method
      of pain control. At 24, 48, and 72 hours, the patient will be asked a set of specific
      questions to measure the effectiveness of the PCA. In addition, the patient's doctor, and
      nurses, will answer questions about the PCA system. Safety will be assessed by monitoring the
      patient's vital signs and recording any adverse events, including problems at the location on
      the patient's body where the PCA device has been applied or inserted. The objective is to
      establish that the Fentanyl HCl Patient-Controlled Transdermal System (E-TRANS fentanyl) is
      as effective as intravenous (IV) PCA morphine in controlling pain after non-emergent
      abdominal or pelvic surgery.

      E-TRANS fentanyl 40 mcg transdermally per patient-activated dose over 10 minutes, up to 6
      doses per hour or a maximum of 80 doses in 24 hours; Patient controlled intravenous morphine
      1 mg dose, up to 10 doses per hour or a maximum of 240 doses in 24 hours. Study duration is
      72 hours.
    
  