
    
      Sarcoidosis is a systemic granulomatous disease of unknown cause, most commonly affecting the
      lungs, which tends to afflict young adults in the prime of their lives. Recent data
      indicating that sarcoidosis mortality rates are rising in the U.S. (1) and Europe (2)
      highlight the inadequacy of current therapies. As noted in a recent NIH-sponsored sarcoidosis
      workshop, the lack of relevant animal, computer or in vitro models represents a bottleneck
      for progress towards understanding disease mechanisms and developing highly effective
      sarcoidosis treatments (3). The lack of useful disease models likely contributes to the
      current lack (zero) of investigator-initiated (RO1) projects supporting sarcoidosis research.

      The long-term goal of this proposal is to develop a novel human sarcoidosis research model to
      fill the current void in the field, thereby expediting exploration of basic disease
      mechanisms and pre-clinical testing of novel therapies. The objective of this application,
      which is the first step towards achieving the long-term goal, is to develop a novel in vitro
      human granuloma model to represent abnormal granuloma formation in the context of
      sarcoidosis. In this regard, a growing body of evidence indicates that mycobacterial antigens
      are commonly harbored in sarcoidosis tissues, to which these patients are sensitized (4, 5).
      Our central hypothesis is that the pathological mechanisms of sarcoidosis can be modeled in
      vitro, as represented by abnormal granuloma formation in response to mycobacterial and other
      ubiquitous environmental antigens. The feasibility of our proposed model is supported by
      preliminary studies showing that subjects sensitized to Mycobacterium tuberculosis antigens
      (latent TB tuberculosis with a positive TB skin test) form well-organized granulomas readily
      in response to challenge with TB antigens, compared to healthy controls. This project is
      highly innovative and we feel has an excellent likelihood of leading to a critical
      breakthrough in the field of sarcoidosis research.
    
  