
    
      Patients and methods: a prospective multicenter (Clínica Alemana de Santiago and Hospital San
      José) cohort randomized controlled trial. The study will comprise four periods (during
      hospitalization and at 2, 6 and 12 months of corrected age). An experimental and a control
      group will be randomized during the MLP newborn neonatal care unit hospitalization. The
      experimental group will be composed of late and moderately late preterm infants (MLP) born
      between 32 to 366 weeks of pregnancy, who will be verbally intervened by neonatologists in
      outpatient well child consultations at 2, 6 and 12 months corrected age, trough a standarized
      guidance intervention with the aim of potentiating the interaction of the infant with the
      parents to reduce sustained social withdrawal. Likewise, an analysis of both institutions
      (Clinica Alemana de Santiago and Hospital San Jose) will be performed to assess the
      differences between them. The tools that will be applied are the ADBB scale, as dependent
      variable; the Edinburgh Post-natal Depression Scale to be applied to parents; the Modified
      Perinatal Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Questionnaire and the Revised Impact of Events
      Scale. During the hospitalization of MLP infants, the painful and invasive procedures to
      which the infant is subjected will be quantified, as well as neonatal pain, hours of
      skin-to-skin contact, breastfeeding and parental visits. Results relevance and applicability:
      Efficient early detection and intervention in infants with sustained social withdrawal
      behavior is essential to prevent problems in their social and emotional development.
      Assessing sustained social withdrawal using a standardized and simple scale like the ADBB
      Scale will allow for monitoring the infant and implementing cost-effective interventions that
      will benefit him, his family and the society. Identifying the risk groups, i.e. with
      difficulties in the social and emotional development area, will allow us to optimize the
      follow-up and integral support programs according to the infants' health needs as well as to
      establish a care standard.

      Intervention Experimental group: the intervention consist in verbal interventions on infants
      (accompanied by their mother/father) who presents sustained social withdrawal detected on the
      child consultations (at 2, 6 and 12 months of corrected gestational age). The sustained
      social withdrawal will be assessed by neonatologists certifieds in the assess of Alarm
      Distress Baby Scale (during the child consultation) and by certifieds external evaluator, by
      means of a video (8 to 12 minutes of extension) that will be recorder by the neonatologist
      and assessed by the external evaluator. If the trained neonatologist detect sustained social
      withdrawal he will perform the verbal intervention during the child consultation. If the
      neonatologist does not detect sustained social withdrawal during the pediatric check-up, but
      the certified external evaluator does when assessing the video, the patient will be contacted
      and will receive treatment within the time limits described (+- 30 days). Also, the verbal
      intervention is described in a guide for "Promotion of verbal interventions for interaction"
      , and will be supplemented with a written guideline for parents to promote adequate
      interaction between parents and infant.

      Control group: infants will assist at child consultations (at 2, 6 and 12 months of corrected
      gestational age) whit non trained neonatologists. These neonatologists will record a video
      that will be assessed by certifieds external evaluators. Infants in the control group won't
      receive the verbal intervention. However, they will receive a development stimulation guide
      adapted of the ministerial guides for the stimulation of development of the Ministry of
      Health of Chile.

      Infants will be randomized while they are hospitalized in the NICU of Clinica Alemana de
      Santiago or in the NICU of Hospital San Jose. At the time of randomization, it will be
      defined whether the infant should attend medical check-ups at 2, 6 and 12 months of corrected
      gestational age with a neonatologists trained in Alarm Distress Baby Scale, or with a
      physician not trained, who will not perform the treatment.

      Additionally, if during the experimental group medical check-ups at 2, 6 or 12 months of CGA,
      the physician trained in ADBB detects social withdrawal or finds any acute morbidity such as
      acute respiratory infection, fever, dehydration, hyperemesis, diarrhea, prolonged pain or
      irritability, or some acute condition that might affect the quality of the baby's
      interactions, he will perform a second assessment with the ADBB scale within 15 days.

      At the end of the clinical trial, all the infants who present sustained social withdrawal in
      the medical check-up at 12 months of corrected gestational age will be offered free
      assessment and intervention (3 sessions) by the research team of this study.
    
  