
    
      All subjects will read and sign an informed consent prior to participation in the study. The
      proposed study will be conducted at the Academic Health Care Center of the New York Institute
      of Technology, College of Osteopathic Medicine (Old Westbury, NY). Subjects will have 2
      testing days where they will have to come into the Academic Health Care Center .

      This study will consist of 30 participants and will last 8 weeks. Inclusion criteria will be
      male and female NYIT students between the ages of 18-35, a BMI ≥ 25.0, and own their own
      smart phone. All subjects will have their body composition measured, blood pressure, and
      pulse measured before and at the end of the study.

      Participants will be randomly assigned by gender into two groups. Group one, the control
      group, will consist of 5 males, and 5 females. Group two, the intervention group, will
      consist of 10 males, and 10 females. At the start of the study both groups will have blood
      pressure, and pulse recorded, along with a duel x-ray absorptiometry body scan to measure
      resting metabolic rate (RMR) and body composition (lean body mass, body fat, BMI). At that
      time both groups will also receive the "NYC My Plate Planner", and the "USDA Dietary
      Guidelines for Americans 2015-2020".

      Both Groups will be instructed to use the MyFitnessPal smart phone weight loss application to
      record calorie intake based on their resting metabolic rate determined by the body scan.
      Additionally both groups will initially receive a validated confidential survey on body
      image. The control group will not be contacted again until the end of the 8 weeks study. The
      intervention group will be contacted every week by email to discuss their weekly calorie
      intake, and compliance with the program. At week 4 each person in the intervention group will
      receive a phone call to discuss their calorie intake, and address any problems, or concerns.
      At the end of week 8 both groups will receive a follow up validated confidential survey on
      body image. At that time both groups will also return for a follow-up blood pressure
      recording, pulse recording, and body composition scan to measure resting metabolic rate and
      body composition (lean body mass, body fat, BMI).
    
  