
    
      The REAppropriate study is an international multicentric cross-sectional survey exploring
      perception of inappropriateness of CPR.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the prevalence of perceived
      inappropriateness of CPR (PICPR) of the last resuscitation performed out-of-hospital or in
      the Emergency Department (ED) by Healthcare Providers (HCP) working in prehospital Ambulance
      Services and EDs. PICPR is defined as resuscitation efforts perceived by HCPs as
      disproportionate to the expected prognosis of the patient in terms of survival or quality of
      life. Prevalence of PICPR is defined as the number of HCPs reporting PICPR in the last
      cardiac arrest situation they attended divided by the total number of surveyed HCPs.

      Secondary objectives are to evaluate the hypothesis that PICPR is not only associated with
      patient related factors but also with personal characteristics and work related factors.
      Other objectives will be assessment of moral distress and intentional job leave.

      In each participating country a National Coordinator is nominated by the Steering Committee.
      National Coordinators are selected because of their leading role in national or international
      scientific organisations related to Emergency Medicine and/or their teaching or research
      activities related to Emergency Medicine.

      Each National Coordinator establishes a network of Local Investigators who coordinate study
      proceedings within EDs and Ambulance Services.

      Study population:

      The survey will focus on HCPs directly involved in treatment of cardiac arrest patients
      (out-of-hospital or in the ED): nurses, doctors, ED Technicians/Nurse Assistants and
      Emergency Medical Technicians(EMT)/Paramedics working in EDs and prehospital Ambulance
      Services active in the Emergency Medical Services system of the country. Hospitals in
      countries without established EDs but with a group of HCPs working inside the hospital and
      having as their daily duty the first care and stabilisation of patients arriving unplanned in
      the hospital are also eligible for participation in the study. The Local Investigator will
      clearly delineate this functional unit within the hospital thus determining the number of
      eligible HCPs within the center.

      Survey:

      Two electronic questionnaires will be used: one for the Local Investigator of the ED or
      Ambulance Service and one for the HCPs.

      Questionnaire for Local Investigator: this questionnaire requests quantitative data on
      organisational issues like number of beds, ED or Ambulance Service activity, number of
      doctors, nurses, EMTs/Paramedics etc. and a few questions about resuscitation practice.

      Questionnaire for HCPs: the HCPs are asked about their personal characteristics and
      educational background. There are questions about their working conditions, job strain and
      teamwork within their professional environment. Their opinion is asked about possible reasons
      and statements concerning perception of (in)appropriate resuscitation. Finally they are
      questioned about the last resuscitation they were involved in themselves (it will not be
      necessary for them to have the medical file available while answering these questions). The
      HCP is first asked an opinion about the (in)appropriateness of the intervention and the
      resulting amount of moral and emotional distress, should this be the case. This is followed
      by questions about the circumstances of the cardiac arrest and a query on the relative
      importance of patient related, situational and interprofessional items. Four level Likert
      items are used where appropriate. Interest level analysis will be incorporated in the
      questionnaire to assist in assessing nonresponse bias.

      Completion of the questionnaire will take approximately 20 minutes. Participation is on a
      voluntary basis.

      Translation of surveys:

      A modified Brislin's model of translation will be used. The primary questionnaires are in
      English. Both questionnaires are being translated in additional languages (the so called
      target languages) using the following procedure:

        1. The first step will be forward translation of the English questionnaire into the target
           language by two native speakers of the target language with a proficient knowledge of
           English and ideally with a background in the medical specialties covered by the topic of
           this research.

        2. The second step is that a third person whose native language is the target language
           reviews the translated versions together with the translators of step 1 for grammatical
           style and comprehensibility without the English text (so this can be a monolingual
           person). The most appropriate forward translation is chosen.

        3. When this has been achieved the third step is the back translation to the English
           language of the most appropriate forward translation by two different bilingual persons
           (ideally native English speaking with a proficient knowledge of the target language) who
           are blinded from the original English version. Again efforts are made that the back
           translators are professionally involved in the research field to improve the quality of
           the translation process. The two back translations are reviewed with a third person and
           the most appropriate back translation is chosen.

        4. In the last and fourth step the Steering Committee compares the most appropriate back
           translation of both questionnaires with the original English version. If necessary,
           recommendations will be done for modifications.

      Throughout this process regular interaction and feedback with the Steering Committee will
      further optimise the quality of the translation.

      Information Technology:

      All the data will be collected through the use of a website especially designed for this
      study. Normal web applications use HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) to transfer web pages
      between the web server and the web browser. In order to guarantee data safety a HTTPS website
      signed by a trusted certificate authority will be used for this project. All the transferred
      data are encrypted in these circumstances and can only be read by the web browser and the web
      server.

      Ethics approval:

      For the HCP no risk is associated with participation in the study since the survey is
      completely anonymous. Insight in medical files is unnecessary to complete the questionnaires.

      The National Coordinator will submit the protocol to one or more national ethical committees
      according to the rules applied in his/her jurisdiction. Ethical approvals should be sent to
      the Steering Committee.

      If necessary, written informed consent will be obtained from the participating HCPs.
      Otherwise, completion of the questionnaire by the HCP will be taken as evidence of consent to
      study participation. In countries where informed consent must be obtained, it is preferable
      that the informed consent is uniform for the whole country.

      Centers are not allowed to retrieve and report data unless ethical approval or after
      reporting to the Steering Committee there is no requirement for ethical approval for their
      country.
    
  