
    
      Alveolar bone graft is an essential step in the primary surgical treatment of unilateral or
      bilateral cleft lip and palate. The procedure involves repairing the alveolar cleft by an
      autologous iliac bone graft.

      Clinical experience suggests that many post-operative complications in alveolar bone grafts
      are related to pre- and post-operative oral hygiene issues. This surgical procedure therefore
      requires optimal pre-and post-operative oral hygiene.

      In addition, children with cleft lip and palate have a higher risk of oral hygiene issues,
      partly due to the systematic use of orthodontic devices such as Quad Helix.

      Prevention of post-operative complications (delays in scarring, scar dehiscence, fistulas,
      infections of the surgical site, total or partial losses of the graft) requires patient
      education efforts in order to improve pre-operative oral hygiene.

      Connected devices allow an objective follow-up tooth brushing and could be effective
      instruments in the primary and secondary prevention of pre-and post-operative complications
      linked to the alveolar bone graft, via a better oral hygiene.

      Connected health is a growing and promising technology. It is important for physicians to
      demonstrate the efficiency of connected objects. Recent medico-economic studies have
      demonstrated the added value of connected devices as part of a general health monitoring, but
      more prospective assessments are required, especially in pediatric populations. Also, because
      of its importance in terms of public health, the field of oral hygiene is at the forefront of
      connected health applications.

      The main objective of the research is the evaluation of pre-operative oral hygiene of
      children benefiting from an alveolar bone graft and having a type Quad Helix orthodontic
      device.

      The secondary objectives are to describe the use of the Ara ® Toothbrush by a population of
      children with a cleft lip and palate and to know whether the use of the Ara ® toothbrush has
      an influence on the occurrence of post-operative complications evaluated at 6 months of
      intervention (delays in scarring, scar dehiscence, fistulas, surgical site infections, total
      or partial losses of the graft).
    
  