
    
      Patients are being asked to partake in this study because the PI has decided on clinical
      grounds as outlined in the clinical trial, NASCET, (either asymptomatic 70% carotid stenosis
      or symptomatic >50% carotid stenosis) that CAS or CEA is indicated. The only aspect of the
      study that is research is the cognitive testing, the inflammatory blood markers, and
      components of the neuroimaging.

      In this pilot study 20 patients, undergoing CAS for CS, will undergo cognitive testing at 2
      time points before intervention (1 months, and 2 months) and at 2 time points after invention
      (1 month and 2 months). The two preoperative time points will serve as the control group and
      the two postoperative time points will serve as the intervention group.

      Patients, as outlined by NASCET criteria, will have between 50% symptomatic stenosis or 70%
      asymptomatic stenosis of the carotid artery. If patients present acutely or are otherwise
      clinically determined to be unstable (e.g. crescendo TIAs, intolerance of normal physiologic
      blood pressure, etc.) due to their carotid disease, they will excluded from the study.

      Patients will serve as their own controls, classifying the study as a within-subjects design.
      Patients will also have venous blood drawn to ascertain the change in serum markers
      associated with endothelial dysfunction and inflammation before and after intervention.
      Finally, patients will have magnetic resonance imaging (MRA) one month before intervention
      and 2 months after intervention in order to assess changes in global cerebral blood flow.

      The following neurocognitive tests will take place - the duration of all typically takes one
      hour to complete.

        1. Memory measured with the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R) and Rey Complex
           Figure

        2. Executive function assessed with Trails A and B

        3. Attention/processing speed measured with Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale Digit Span
           and Coding subtests

        4. Language assessed with the Multilingual Naming Test and Verbal Fluency

        5. Visuospatial abilities measured with Block Design

        6. Global cognition measured with Mattis Dementia Rating Scale

        7. Estimated premorbid intelligence measured with the American version of the National
           Adult Reading Test (preoperatively only)

        8. Mood assessed with the Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) and Beck Anxiety Inventory
           (BAI) Biomarkers, as a proxy for systemic inflammation will also be collected. The
           following biomarkers are associated with inflammation-TNF-α, IL-6, IL-1β, CRP, IFN-γ and
           endothelial cell activation-sICAM sVCAM will be obtained from venous blood (5 ml) and
           stored at -80° C until the time of electrochemiluminescence assay. As an accompanying
           measurement of inflammation, complete blood counts will be assessed.

      R statistical software will be used for the statistical analysis. Fisher exact, chi square,
      and logistic regression testing will be used to assess categorical data while paired t tests
      and linear regression models will be used to assess continuous variables. Multivariable
      univariate logistic and linear regression will be performed to assess if carotid intervention
      is associated with statistically significant changes in neurocognitive performance or changes
      in serum biomarker levels.

      Additional predictors to assess neurocognitive performance will include age, gender, race,
      degree of carotid stenosis, side of stenosis, prior history of stroke, prior history of
      neurosurgical or endovascular interventions, presence of coronary artery disease, active
      malignancy, vasculopathy including diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, obesity, systemic
      vascular disease, intracranial atherosclerosis, ultrasound perfusion of intracranial vessels,
      prior neurocognitive decline: ie prior history of Alzheimer's, degenerative neurological
      disease. Outcome variables will include standardized neuropsychological measures. The
      investigators hypothesize a more exuberant neurocognitive response in patients with an
      incomplete circle of Willis.

      A dropped model will be performed to prevent overfitting of the regression analysis. A p
      value less than 0.05 will be used to define statistical significance.

      The investigators predict that patients will not have a statistically significant change in
      neurocognitive performance during the three-month and six-week time points prior to
      intervention-and this will serve as the control period. We predict that 35% of patients will
      have some improvement in neurocognition after intervention. The sample size calculator to
      identify a difference in groups at a p<0.05 with a power of 0.8 predicts with 5% attrition
      determines that 20 patients will be required for the analysis.
    
  