
    
      A total of 24 subjects with CF with impaired glucose tolerance or with diabetes related to CF
      (CFRD) unmedicated will be recruited. Participants will be recruited through a research nurse
      in CF , which will analyze the available data to medical records and seek the participation
      of subjects who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria . Patients receive during their
      visit to the outpatient clinic of FK at Hotel -Dieu du CHUM hospital , a inform consent form
      (ICF) for the study. Their intention to participate and the main inclusion and exclusion
      criteria will be confirmed in a telephone interview conducted by a member of the team at the
      IRCM. Finally, during the visit at the IRCM , the subject will get answer to his question for
      ICF and ICF will be signed before any procedure.

      All participants who agree to participate in the research project must undergo a short
      telephone interview (20 minutes) and 4 assessment visits ( approximately 1-5 hours) Pre (2
      visits ) and post (2 visits ) study . The control patients with delayed exercises conduct a
      further assessment visit at the end of the training.

      GROUP 1 EXERCISES : Patients in exercises group will be required to take part of two
      supervised training sessions and 8 follow up phone call . The exercise program will be
      performed three times per week for about one hour .

      GROUP 2 CONTROL: Participants in the control group will be contacted by phone once a month
      following entry into the study. On this occasion a reminder to complete the physical activity
      log will be realized. Following the visit #6 , patients in the control group will be invited
      to participate in a second study phase to participate in supervised exercise program . This
      participation will involve an additional 12 weeks of follow-up, which included the same visit
      as Group 1 with exercises. In this case, to simplify participation and reduce the volume of
      blood collected , the final visit (#5) of the project will also be the first visit of
      exercises phase. This part of study, involves 2 supervised training sessions and 8 follow up
      phone call . The exercises program will be performed three times per week for about one hour
      .
    
  