
    
      Our group has tested the hypothesis that the molecules involved in the neurobiology of the
      stress response are key elements in the pathophysiology, treatment, and medical consequences
      of major depressive disorder. Leptin is implicated in the regulation of adipose tissue, body
      weight and homeostasis. In the first three years of this protocol we accomplished the
      following: (1) discovered leptin pulsatility; (2) showed that is secreted in a highly
      organized manner in men and women; (3) showed for the first time in humans an inverse
      relation between rapid fluctuations in plasma leptin concentrations in healthy volunteers and
      those of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol; (4) demonstrated a complex relation
      between the minute-to-minute dynamics of leptin and those of luteinizing hormone and
      estradiol; (5) showed a striking correlation between the 24-h dynamics of leptin and those of
      TSH and GH; (6) demonstrated highly significant correlation between hourly fluctuations of
      leptin levels and those of psychometric variables such as sadness, social withdrawal, and
      carbohydrate craving, and (7) showed that women produce twice as much leptin per secretory
      event than men. By studying patients with a leptin gene mutation we showed that at least one
      intact copy of the leptin gene is required for the regulation of TSH function and GH
      architecture in humans. These results indicate that leptin, a peripherally secreted molecule,
      appears to modulate the secretion of hypothalamic hormones. We have therefore proposed that
      hypothalamic neuroendocrine transduction, a key function of the CNS, may be regulated by
      leptin, a peripheral pulsatile signal of nutritional status. We would like to continue and
      expand our studies on the interactions of leptin, fat distribution, and the pituitary-adrenal
      axis in normal volunteers and also in patients with depression, because depression is
      characterized by alterations in food intake, body weight, and neuroendocrine function. Leptin
      profoundly affects the regulation of these three parameters. Leptin also increases insulin
      resistance, being therefore a risk factor for coronary artery disease, which is more
      prevalent and associated with higher mortality in depressed patients than in the general
      population. The data to be generated by this study will provide a better understanding of
      pathophysiology and medical consequences of major depression.
    
  