
    
      The goal of the proposed study is to test the effect of adding Transcranial Magnetic
      Stimulation (TMS) to Brief Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (BCBT) to reduce Veterans' rates of
      suicide ideation and related behaviors. Over 20 Veterans die each day of suicide and rates
      have not appreciably decreased in the last ten years.

      BCBT is a well-established and efficacious treatment that is an extension of Cognitive
      Behavioral Therapy, a treatment that is widely implemented across VA health care systems.
      However, not all patients respond to BCBT. Thus finding ways to enhance treatment efficacy
      for reducing suicide is critical. Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) may be an optimal
      treatment to use in conjunction with psychotherapy. TMS is a noninvasive technique that uses
      a pulsed magnetic field to induce neuronal depolarization in a targeted brain region,
      typically the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. TMS can reduce psychiatric symptoms
      associated with suicide risk in Veterans, including depression and PTSD. Furthermore, TMS is
      not associated with the systemic and costly side effects associated with medications used for
      these disorders (e.g., weight gain, diabetes, sexual side effects).

      The primary objective of this study is to conduct a fully-powered randomized controlled trial
      evaluating the effect of adding a standard TMS course of treatment to BCBT to reduce suicide
      behaviors in a sample of Veterans hospitalized for suicide behavior. One hundred and thirty
      (130) Veterans admitted to the psychiatric unit for suicide ideation or attempts will be
      randomly assigned to either active TMS plus BCBT or to sham TMS plus BCBT. Participants will
      be assessed at baseline, post treatment, six, and 12 months post hospital discharge. Efficacy
      of the program will be determined by examining a primary suicide composite outcome and
      several secondary outcomes including suicide attempt, time to first attempt, number of
      re-hospitalizations and severity and severity of suicidal ideation. Secondary analyses will
      be conducted to help identify the types of patients who will receive the most benefit from
      the addition of TMS to BCBT Brief Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for suicide.

      If successful, this study would result in a combined treatment to decrease suicide ideation
      and related behaviors. The proposal addresses HSRD post-deployment health priority,
      specifically suicide prevention and is innovative in that it will be the first study to
      examine efficacy of combined treatment specifically for suicide prevention.
    
  