
    
      PURPOSE OF PROTOCOL:

      The overall goal of this randomized, controlled trial is to test whether educational
      interventions - directed toward empowering patients and delivered via the BIDMC's secure
      patient Internet portal PatientSite - can improve outcomes and satisfaction with care of
      adult primary care patients with 3 common conditions: chronic pain, depression, and
      progressive difficulty walking.

      Primary study outcomes include improvement among intervention patients in:

        1. detection and treatment of the target conditions;

        2. patient-reported signs and symptoms of pain, depression, and impaired lower extremity
           mobility;

        3. patient-reported quality of life, patient-clinician communication, and satisfaction with
           care; and

        4. health care utilization. The secondary outcome is physicians' views that the
           intervention improved the efficiency and quality of care they deliver.

      The specific aims of the project are:

        1. to improve physicians' detection and treatment of patient-reported pain, depression, and
           impaired walking among intervention patients compared to controls;

        2. to reduce patient-reported symptoms of chronic pain, depression, and impaired walking
           among intervention patients compared to controls;

        3. to improve patient-reported quality of life, patient-clinician communication, and
           satisfaction with care among intervention patients compared to controls; and 4. to
           improve physicians' assessments of the efficiency of office visits and quality of care
           they provided for the 3 study conditions.

      SIGNIFICANCE AND BACKGROUND FOR THE STUDY:

      Chronic conditions affect 99 million Americans and limit the daily lives of 41 million
      (Institute for Health & Aging 1996). Moreover, these conditions are often unrecognized.
      Myriad reasons contribute to the under-diagnosis of chronic conditions, including problems
      with patient-clinician communication, providers' lack of awareness of the prevalence of these
      conditions or how to screen for them, and abbreviated office visits (e.g., Beckman 1999).
      Many conditions are difficult to ascertain, such as depression and pain, without objective
      and readily apparent indicators of impairment. Some persons believe that mobility
      difficulties are an inevitable consequence of aging, and something that physicians can do
      little to help, and primary care physicians generally have little formal training in mobility
      assessments (Iezzoni 2003a). An accurate, timely, and inexpensive way to identify and address
      chronic conditions could potentially transform the care of patients, enhance their quality of
      life, improve clinicians' work life, and mitigate the social cost of these conditions.

      This project will test whether a secure patient Internet portal is a useful conduit for
      information that can improve patient care, by screening patients for certain conditions,
      communicating the results directly to the patient and their physician, empowering patients to
      address these condition with their physicians, facilitating clinicians' actions, and
      activating patients to participate in their own care.

      PATIENTSITE:

      PatientSite is a secure, personalized messaging system serving BIDMC and affiliated sites. It
      allows patients to communicate confidentially with their physicians and the physicians' staff
      via the Web. Patients are eligible to enroll in PatientSite if one of their physicians has
      agreed to use PatientSite. Data in PatientSite are encrypted and password protected. Patients
      register online, and receive passwords from administrators at their own practice site in
      order to confirm the patient's identity. Patients and clinicians must use a confidential
      password to obtain access to the system. To alert PatientSite users to the presence of a
      message, PatientSite sends users a traditional email message that they have a PatientSite
      message, along with a link to the PatientSite Web portal.

      DESCRIPTION OF RESEARCH PROTOCOL:

      The researchers are conducting a randomized, controlled trial of a PatientSite intervention
      designed to improve pain, depression, and impaired mobility among primary care patients,
      among other outcomes.

      The researchers are recruiting physicians who currently use PatientSite from among those
      practicing at BIDMC's academic primary care practice and at 2 community practices affiliated
      with BIDMC. Patients of physicians who agree to participate are potentially eligible for the
      study. Two weeks before their next scheduled primary care office visit, The researchers are
      sending these patients an e-mail invitation via PatientSite to participate in the study. The
      e-mail briefly describes the study (including the procedures for randomization) and links
      patients to a complete, electronic informed consent form as well as standard HIPAA
      disclosures.

      Patients who electronically sign the informed consent, thereby agreeing to participate in the
      study, are sent a screening questionnaire asking about signs and symptoms of chronic pain,
      depression, and difficulty walking. Persons who screen positive for at least one of these
      three conditions are enrolled in the study and randomized to intervention and control groups.

      Patients randomized to the intervention electronically receive an e-mail message containing
      additional information about ways to address the condition during their primary care visit
      within the upcoming two weeks. The message includes condition-specific suggestions about how
      to discuss the problem with their clinician, along with standard tips about communicating
      with doctors. It provides a confidential link to an "electronic advocate" - a clinical nurse
      "e-Coach" who coaches (advises) the patient online about how to address the problem with
      their physician in the upcoming appointment.

      Patients randomized to the control group receive an e-mail containing links to federal
      government Web sites containing general health information unrelated to the target
      conditions.

      The researchers are surveying both intervention and control group subjects via PatientSite 1
      week and 3 months after their index visit to find out about their visit and their
      satisfaction with care, their clinical outcomes relating to the target conditions, and use of
      additional health care services. At one week post-visit, the researchers are specifically
      asking whether they discussed the condition with their clinician and whether the clinician
      did anything about it. The researchers are further asking patients who did not address the
      symptom with their physician for the reason. Three months after the index visit, the
      researchers re-administer the screening instruments used at baseline in order to ascertain
      change in the target conditions, quality of life, health communication, and satisfaction. The
      researchers also review patients' medical records to abstract demographic information (age,
      gender, race, ethnicity, primary language), administrative data (insurance type, utilization
      of health services), and clinical characteristics (from the index visit note written by the
      physician) to corroborate discussion and management of target conditions, and to assess
      medical care utilization.

      The researchers are surveying participating physicians at the conclusion of the study to
      obtain their perceptions about the impact of the intervention on their work including time
      burdens and quality of care. In addition, the researchers are reviewing the electronic
      medical records to ascertain provider and utilization outcome information at the end of the
      study.
    
  