
    
      Concrete Aims: The investigators aim to conduct a a feasibility study, e.g., a pilot study
      before a randomized controlled trial can be planned in detail. This initial pilot-study is
      intended to test out the standard operating procedures, evaluate the feasibility, acceptance
      and adherence to the study protocol as well as preliminary efficacy of the web-based
      intervention for survivors of Hodgkin lymphoma. In detail, this study contains all
      preparation for conducting a trial, i.e., the translation, the adaptation and evaluation of
      the cognitive-behavioral web-based intervention manual from the original Dutch Version, the
      adaptation and implementation of all necessary technical and research-administrative
      requirements to successfully conduct the web-based randomized controlled trial and the
      evidence-based training of all study therapists including the implementation of therapists
      supervision. The investigators further assess adherence of the patients and therapists, the
      response rate and the patient satisfaction. Furthermore, preliminary efficacy of the
      intervention will be tested assessing levels of fatigue and quality of life at each
      measurement point.

      Study Design: The design of this pilot web-based intervention on treating fatigue will be a
      non-randomised prospective non-controlled before-and-after study, in which observations will
      be made only in a patient group that receives the intervention. No control group will be
      recruited. Assessments will be conducted on the three measurement points: before the therapy
      (T0), after the intervention (T1) and 3 months after the intervention (T2).

      Intervention: The internet-based cognitive behavioral therapy on postcancer fatigue includes
      two face-to-face sessions with their therapist and eight web-based treatment modules, each
      approximately 45 minutes in length, delivered over 6 months. The intervention will be
      specifically tailored to the individual needs of each patient: The therapy model of
      cancer-related fatigue distinguishes six perpetuating factors: 1) insufficient processing of
      being diagnosed with Hodgkin lymphoma and being treated for it; 2) excessive fear of disease
      recurrence; 3) inactivity or a dysregulated (physical) activity pattern; 4) dysfunctional
      fatigue-related beliefs; 5) dysregulated sleep-wake pattern and 6) lack of social support.
      For each of these six cognitive-behavioural factors that can perpetuate fatigue a treatment
      module has been developed. The intervention will consist of a maximum of eight treatment
      modules: aside from the six modules addressing the fatigue maintaining factor there is a
      module on goal formulation and realization of goals.

      Recruitment: the recruitment will be realized on the basis of two ongoing trials of the
      German Hodgkin study group (HD 16- HD18) where fatigue of the patients is measured
      continuously.

      Duration: The duration for patients will be 9 months (6 months intervention, 3
      month-follow-up assessment). The duration of the whole study will be 18 months.
    
  