
    
      Research on brief therapeutic interventions for those diagnosed with BPD have often involved
      a year or more of treatment in an outpatient, inpatient or partial hospitalization setting.
      The goal of this research proposal is to examine if a 5-week day hospital treatment program
      at a tertiary hospital within Shared Health can demonstrate effective amelioration of subject
      symptoms on a number of measures.

      As noted in the introduction there is significant public health considerations associated
      with persons living with borderline personality disorder pathology. Evidence-based public
      health should be informed by practice-based evidence stemming from the rigorous evaluation of
      relevant natural experiments. Due to logistic and ethical considerations a randomized control
      trial isn't feasible. Given these considerations, the proposed research design is a
      naturalistic pre- post-intervention with no control group. Although causality cannot be
      determined in a naturalistic design, methodological rigour employed will mitigate the impact
      of outside variable from invalidating the results obtained from the proposed research.
      Participants data will be collected at two times and the data from the same individual will
      be compared focusing on differences between pre- and post-intervention. The benefit in the
      longitudinal design is the potential to control for temporal or secular changes observed in
      the outcome. A challenge in interpreting randomized control trials is potential biases that
      impact external validity and reduce the ability of the researchers to generalize the outcomes
      associated with an intervention. Naturalistic studies can reduce the impact of confounding
      variable by identifying and controlling potential variables, such as socio-economic factors.

      Sample Characteristics and Selection Participants are referred to the STAT program through
      emergency room consultations, family physician referrals and from psychiatrists working in
      the community, outpatient department or during an inpatient admission. Participants are
      individuals 18 years and older.

      Although participants in the STAT program are primarily females there is no exclusion
      criteria based on gender. These participants are assigned a therapist who will complete a
      psychiatric interview and review a self-report each participant is required to complete prior
      to the initial interview. Potential participants will meet with a psychiatrist to review the
      information gathered in the therapist interview and determine if the client will be admitted
      to the STAT day hospital program. Participants are accepted if they meet admission criteria
      as determined by the psychiatrist. Participants are excluded if they have a diagnosis of
      antisocial personality disorder, criminal charges, or significant substance abuse.
      Participants are required to formulate behaviour-oriented goals to work on while
      participating in the STAT program. Participants are not admitted to the program if they do
      not formulate treatment goals. Potential participants referred from one of the above noted
      sources are assigned to a therapist each Tuesday at a weekly meeting of the STAT program
      staff. The therapist will contact the individual and arrange a date for an initial interview.
      If a therapist is unable to reach an individual by phone, a letter with the date for an
      appointment is mailed along with the self-report questionnaire each client is expected to
      complete for the first interview with the therapist. The self-report materials include a
      series of questions to elicit a social history of the individual along with current stressors
      and self-identified problems. The assessment process involves roughly two appointments with
      the therapist and an additional appointment with the psychiatrist requiring roughly three
      weeks to complete. Participants will be given a letter of invitation outlining the research
      project as well as the SCL-90-R and DERS psychometric questionnaires. Individuals will be
      asked to complete the SCL-90-R and DERS at the beginning of their first appointment if they
      agree to participate in the research project.

      Once an individual is accepted to the STAT Program, they are placed on the waiting list for a
      period of roughly four to six weeks. During that period, the therapist will meet with clients
      roughly two times to assist in formulating treatment goals and develop a therapeutic rapport.
      While a client is admitted to the program and participating in the groups, they are also seen
      by their assigned therapists on a weekly basis for an individual therapy session. Individual
      sessions with the therapist assist participants in understanding the psychoeducation group
      learning materials, assist with homework, and to process current stressors.

      The participants will complete the Symptom Checklist-90-Revised (SCL-90-R) and Difficulties
      in Emotion Regulation Scale (DERS) prior to the first interview. Participants will be
      re-administered the SCL-90-R and DERS following completion of the 5-week treatment.

      Program Description The Short-term Assessment and Treatment (STAT) program is a day hospital
      program operated at Health Sciences Center in Winnipeg, Manitoba. The STAT program operates a
      5 week continuously running treatment program. Clients are admitted to and complete the
      program weekly. Similarly, other researchers have had participant entering the program at
      different points in the skill training and found no interaction effect and didn't
      significantly influence the participants' frequency or type of skills practised. The number
      of clients in the group is roughly 15 - 18. The STAT program employs a multidisciplinary team
      comprised of social workers, an occupational therapist, several nurses and psychiatrists.

      The STAT program is comprised of psychoeducation and psychotherapy groups, and individual
      therapy with an assigned therapist. Clients attend morning and afternoon groups daily for the
      5-week duration of the program. Groups are scheduled for 1 hr 30 min with an hour break for
      lunch. Two therapists lead each group and rotate through groups on a predetermined schedule.
      Psychoeducation groups are informed by the principles of DBT and CBT. Many of the skills
      taught are directly taken from Dr. M. Linehan's DBT skills training manual. Psychoeducation
      is taught in the morning with the assigned module handed out at the beginning of the week.
      There are six psychoeducation topics that clients will be taught during the course of
      treatment. One of five topics is introduced on Monday and mindfulness is taught each Friday.
      These topics are: Distorted Thinking, Anger Being Effective, Communication and Assertiveness,
      Goal-Setting and Self-Esteem. A new skill related to the mindfulness psychoeducation module
      is introduced each Friday. Participants are given daily reading material and homework to
      complete related to the weekly topic. Participants are asked to share daily from their
      homework in the group.

      Many people with emotional struggles cope by engaging in self-injurious behaviours. Monday
      afternoon group focuses on the principles of Harm Reduction. Harm reduction groups teach the
      principles of stages of change, effective coping, and distress tolerance skills taught in
      DBT. Psychotherapy groups occur in the afternoon between Tuesday and Thursday. Participants
      are required to "check-in" at the beginning of group with a topic they would like to discuss.

      Procedure As outlined above, participants will be given a letter of invitation outlining the
      research project a demographics questionnaire, the SCL-90-R and the DERS psychometric
      questionnaires. Individuals will be asked to complete the SCL-90-R and DERS at their first
      appointment if they agree to participate in the research project. The two questionnaires will
      be handed into the therapist along with the original copy of their signed Informed Consent.
      Participants will retain a copy of the informed consent letter along with the letter of
      invitation. The therapists will have adhesive identifiers to correspond the pre- and
      post-intervention self-report questionnaire to the participant. The therapist will affix an
      identifier to the envelope indicating the anonymous participant envelop contains
      preintervention self-report data. The therapist will code if the patient participated in
      psychoeducation and psychotherapy groups or just the psychoeducation groups. The rationale
      for the distinction is to control the confounding variable of differences in the treatment a
      participant will receive. For the purposes of this research project only participants that
      attend both psychoeducation and psychotherapy groups will be examined. Attrition will be
      accounted for and those participants will be compared with treatment completers to examine
      potential significant differences between these groups. Attrition will be identified by only
      having a pre-intervention self-report surveys completed. The participant will be given a card
      with the identifier number and the therapist will affix the third adhesive identifier to an
      envelope for the post-intervention assessment. Participants will be re-administered the
      SCL-90-R and DERS following completion of the 5-week treatment. The participants will be
      given the two instruments on the last day in the program to complete. The therapist will ask
      the participants if they have the card given to them with identifier affixed when they
      completed the pre-intervention questionnaire. The participants will be given the
      corresponding post-intervention envelope containing the SCL-90-R and DERS surveys. The
      participants will hand in the completed questionnaires to their therapist. The goal will be
      to solicit 60 clients to the research project.

      Anticipated Outcomes The author expects that there will be an improvement in global severity
      index, improvement of emotion regulation, and a reduction hostility and improved
      interpersonal relationships as self-reported. Literature has reported attrition rates upwards
      of 30% for treatment programs with those who have borderline personality disorder attributed
      to a lack of motivation, interpersonal conflict, difficulties with emotional distress,
      substance use, suicide attempts and antisocial personality disorder. The STAT program model
      may reduce the attrition rate because potential participants with significant substance abuse
      and an antisocial personality disorder are excluded from participating in the program.
      Researchers have noted attrition was related to treatment characteristics and life
      circumstances. The STAT program will not admit participants that don't have housing, stable
      finances such as employment insurance, and a family physician. Many treatments including
      standard DBT and mentalization-based therapy are also lengthier potentially making commitment
      for participants more difficult. Related to the admission criteria and the brief structure of
      STAT program the author expects the rate of attrition to be below the 30% rate noted above.

      Proposed Data Analysis

      A repeated measures t-test or an ANOVA data analysis will be used to determine if there is a
      predicted significant improvement in participants self-reports between pre- and
      post-intervention. An exploratory correlation data analysis will be used to examine if there
      are differences between participants that complete the STAT program versus those that don't
      complete the program.
    
  