
    
      Coronary artery disease remains the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in women
      accounting for more than 250,000 deaths per year. While mortality rates have decreased
      significantly in men during the last several decades, there has been little change for women.
      Furthermore, despite the high prevalence of ischemic heart disease (IHD) in women, most
      clinical trials have focused on male cohorts, resulting in a lack of data for women. Their
      exclusion from clinical trials has been primarily due to the following: 1) child- bearing
      potential, 2) beyond the arbitrary age limits established for trials, 3) frequent concomitant
      or advanced disease, and 4) inhomogeneity within the study population.

      Extrapolation of the published clinical trial data (predominately obtained in men) for women
      is controversial due to differences in epidemiology of heart disease in women. Treatment is
      often sought later in life and is usually accompanied by more advanced disease and
      co-morbidities, which therefore, impact survival. In addition, women more frequently have an
      absence of clinical symptoms or an atypical presentation, making the diagnosis of coronary
      artery disease (CAD) challenging. Furthermore, women may also have their first manifestation
      of CAD as sudden death or acute myocardial infarction. Therefore, there is a clear need for
      the early identification of IHD in women so that treatments may be employed prior to having
      an advanced state of disease and higher risk for unfavorable outcomes.

      The optimal non-invasive test for evaluation of IHD in women is unknown. A number of
      different modalities have been employed including exercise ECG stress testing, 2-dimensional
      stress echocardiography, single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) myocardial
      perfusion imaging, and electron beam tomography. Additionally, the cohort of women for whom
      testing is performed is also ill defined.

      The most recent AHA/ACC guidelines suggest that ECG stress testing should be the preferred
      approach. Supportive data for this recommendation are controversial, as many of the studies
      examining the diagnostic value of ECG stress testing were largely performed in small cohorts
      of women and are dated. These trials indicate that the diagnostic accuracy of stress testing
      is only fair (sensitivity=32-89%; specificity=41-68%). A recent meta-analysis in 3,874 women
      demonstrated modest sensitivity and specificity, 62% and 69% respectively, even after
      adjustment for referral bias (8). Published guidelines have also included a meta-analysis and
      confirmed a low level (sensitivity=33%) of detection of disease. Additionally, the high rate
      of false positives, as well as the inability to fully ascertain the extent of disease,
      therefore limits the potential value of ECG stress testing.

      Even though exercise stress testing is supported by recent clinical guidelines, the addition
      of SPECT myocardial perfusion imaging has independent and incremental diagnostic and
      prognostic value. Improved diagnostic accuracy has also been noted with perfusion imaging and
      its ability to predict cardiac events in women is well established. Furthermore, recent data
      supports the cost-effectiveness of strategies that employ myocardial perfusion imaging in the
      assessment of women at risk for ICD.

      The current AHA/ACC recommendations fail to take into account that women often have limited
      ability to complete maximal exercise, a problem that is likely due to their older age and
      more frequent co-morbidities as compared with men. This functional impairment may lead to a
      lack of ischemia provocation and/or indeterminate exercise testing results. Maximal predicted
      heart rate, oxygen consumption, and, more commonly, metabolic equivalents (METs) are measures
      to estimate physical work capacity. The Duke Activity Status Index (DASI) is a simple 12-item
      questionnaire that estimates peak oxygen consumption. The Duke Activity Status Index (DASI)
      questionnaire may identify patients who are likely to perform inadequate exercise, which
      amounts to nearly 40% of all women referred for exercise testing.

      The optimal strategy for the evaluation of women with suspected ischemic heart disease is
      unknown and quite controversial. Several algorithms have been suggested for the evaluation of
      women with suspected CAD. A recent consensus paper from the American Society of Nuclear
      Cardiology suggested a strategy that employed perfusion imaging, but provided little evidence
      to support such a clinical strategy, such as with a prospective clinical trial. The focus of
      this investigation is to compare different strategies for the assessment of women at
      intermediate or high clinical risk for IHD and to do so on a prospective, randomized basis.
      This study is therefore focused on providing a high level of clinical evidence on which to
      base future recommendations and guidelines for the care of women with heart disease.
    
  