
    
      Study Protocol, Methodology, Procedure: The study will be conducted with 90 patients aged
      18-65 years with an ASA score of I and II who are planned for elective laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy. Patients converted to open surgery during laparoscopy and those with an ASA
      score of III and IV will be excluded from the study. All the patients will undergo physical
      examination and laboratory tests 1 day prior to the procedure. On the same day, each patient
      will be informed about VAS scoring system which is based on a 0-10 scale representing the
      severity of pain and the patients will be asked to grade their postoperative pain on this
      scale, where 0 indicates no pain and 10 indicates the most severe pain.

      Placebo Group will receive 100 cc of isotonic solution within 30 min before the procedure.
      Dexketoprofen Group will receive 50 mg iv dexketoprofen in addition to 100 cc of isotonic
      solution within 30 min before the procedure. Ibuprofen Group will receive 800 mg iv ibuprofen
      in 100 cc of isotonic solution within 30 min before the procedure. Hemodynamic parameters
      including heart rate (HR), systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP),
      mean arterial pressure (MAP), and oxygen saturation (SpO2) will be recorded every 10 min for
      each patient both preoperatively and throughout the procedure. Additionally, total operative
      time will be recorded for each patient. The surgical procedure will be performed under
      general anesthesia. Anesthetic induction will be achieved with iv 2 mg/kg propofol, 2 mcg/kg
      fentanyl, and 0.6 mg/kg rocuronium. Anesthetic maintenance will be achieved with 8%
      desflurane, 40% O2, and 1 mcg/kg fentanyl. After the surgery, deep and subcutaneous
      infiltration of trocar insertion sites will be achieved with 4 cc of 0.5% bupivacaine.
      Moreover, to antagonize the effects of muscle relaxants, intravenous 0.015 mg/kg atropine and
      0.04 mg/kg neostigmine will be administered. Patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) will be
      adjusted to a bolus dose 25 µg of fentanyl with a maximum of 6 doses/h, lockout interval of
      10 min, and no basal infusion.

      Postoperative Analgesia: Intravenous PCA will be adjusted to a bolus dose 25 µg of fentanyl
      with a maximum of 6 doses/h, lockout interval of 10 min, and no basal infusion.

      Throughout laparoscopy, an intraabdominal pressure of 12-14 mmHg will be maintained. After
      the procedure, the patients will be transferred to the recovery room. In the recovery room,
      patients with a modified Aldrete score of 9 or more will be transferred to the general ward.
      VAS scores at postoperative 1, 2, 4, 6, 12, and 24 h will be recorded as resting VAS scores.
      The nurses/physicians recording the VAS scores will be blinded to the analgesic drugs and the
      patient groups. Patients with a VAS score of ≥4 will receive additional 50 mg tramadol in 100
      cc of isotonic solution. Total procedure time will be recorded for each patient.
      Postoperative events occurring within the first 24 h including nausea, vomiting, mouth
      dryness, itching, palpitation, and headache will be recorded for each patient. At the end of
      the procedure, a survey will be performed to assess patient satisfaction regarding
      postoperative pain and other complications. To achieve this, the patients will be asked to
      grade their satisfaction on a 1 to 3 scale, in which 1 represents poor, 2 represents fair,
      and 3 represents good outcome.
    
  