
    
      Severe obesity affects approximately 3% of Canadians (nearly 1 million people) and is
      becoming increasingly common and costly. Surgery for severe obesity, known as bariatric
      surgery, substantially reduces weight and the risk of death, decreases obesity-related health
      problems and increases quality of life. However, surgery carries a 0.5-2% up-front risk of
      death, has potentially serious short and long-term complications, and an uncertain
      cost-to-benefit ratio. Surgery is becoming increasingly popular, programs are being initiated
      or expanded across the country, and waiting lists are several years long. Provincial
      governments, unable to keep pace with surgical demand, are sending patients to the US for
      surgery and patients are petitioning governments for increased access to care.

      By collecting data from a clinical obesity program that services an entire Canadian health
      region of over 1 million people and linking these data to provincial and regional data
      sources, this study aims to:

        1. Determine whether surgery improves 2-yr medical and patient-centered outcomes (such as
           quality of life, satisfaction, and others) compared to both medical and community
           wait-list control patients;

        2. Comprehensively compare the 3-yr costs of surgical and non-surgical care;

        3. Determine the impact of 2-yr wait times for surgery on patient health and wellness,
           including quality of life and patient satisfaction.

      This study will provide essential data to accurately determine the benefits, risks, and costs
      of bariatric surgery in the Canadian context for patients, care providers, and decision
      makers. Equally important, it will determine whether the health and quality of life of
      Canadians waiting for surgery is adversely affected because of extended wait-times. Results
      will directly influence and streamline patient care, will be applicable to similar programs
      across the country, and serve as an important foundation for future research and data
      collection.
    
  