
    
      Homozygous sitosterolemia is an autosomally inherited recessive disorder of sterol
      metabolism. Patients with homozygous sitosterolemia can present with accelerated
      atherosclerosis with initial CHD events occurring in childhood. In addition, these patients
      can have tendon xanthomas, hemolytic episodes, as well as arthritis and arthralgias. Plasma
      levels of sitosterol and other dietary sterols are markedly elevated in homozygous
      sitosterolemic patients, and are diagnostic of this disorder. A low sterol diet provides only
      limited reduction in sitosterol levels and currently available medical treatments, such as
      bile salt binding resins, are usually insufficiently effective or poorly tolerated.

      SCH-58235 is a member of a new class of therapeutic agents, specific cholesterol absorption
      inhibitors, being developed to treat hypercholesterolemia. Preclinical animal studies and
      clinical studies in humans have demonstrated significant reductions in serum cholesterol
      levels with SCH-58235 treatment. In the current study, the efficacy and safety of SCH-58235
      will be studied in patients with homozygous sitosterolemia, an inherited condition in which a
      wide range of plant sterols, including sitosterol, are excessively absorbed and inadequately
      excreted, leading to dramatic increases in tissue deposition. SCH-58235 may lower sitosterol
      levels by directly inhibiting sitosterol absorption (since plant sterols and cholesterol are
      structurally similar sterols) and/or by inhibiting cholesterol absorption and indirectly by
      increasing hepatic uptake of plasma LDL with increased cholesterol and sitosterol excretion.
      These mechanisms of action could lead to reductions in both plant sterol and LDL cholesterol
      levels in these patients, thereby providing important clinical benefits. The current study
      will determine if SCH-58235 will be safe and well tolerated and provide significant
      reductions in plant sterols (plasma sitosterol and campesterol) and low-density
      lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C) concentrations in patients with homozygous sitosterolemia.

      This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study lasting 12 weeks.
      Patients with a diagnosis of homozygous sitosterolemia who have an elevated plasma sitosterol
      level on their current regimen will be studied. Patients will be eligible to enroll in the
      study whether their current regimen is medication(s), surgical (prior ileal bypass),
      apheresis, a combination of treatments, or no active regimen. The primary objective of this
      study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 10 mg/day of SCH-58235 in patients with
      homozygous sitosterolemia who continue to have an elevated plasma sitosterol level.
    
  