
    
      The family planning field has shown the importance of providing sufficient choice to meet
      individuals' changing needs and preferences, and has demonstrated that diversifying delivery
      modes and dosing options is key to expanding acceptability, use and continuation of
      contraceptive products. It is not yet clear to what extent choice and preference of modes of
      delivery will play in the biomedical HIV prevention world. It may be possible that closely
      associated with the behavioural components of decision to use, uptake, and consistent
      adherence to prevention products will hinge on a sense that a particular modality is
      preferred or suits an individual compared to other modalities. Vaginal rings, pills, and
      injectables have already proven successful in the field of contraception, and therefore may
      act as surrogates for a range of HIV prevention delivery options that may help to meet the
      different sexual and reproductive health concerns of women.

      A better understanding of the population of adolescents seeking contraception can also help
      researchers understand the acceptability and feasibility of, as well as adherence to similar
      modes of delivery for HIV prevention options. By using contraceptive methods as a proxy for
      available female-controlled HIV prevention delivery methods, such as microbicides and PrEP,
      we propose to examine in detail, the acceptability of these surrogates to adolescent women;
      their preferences for mode of delivery; and their adherence barriers and facilitators thereof
      to such products. Three contraceptive options will be used in this study to emulate the modes
      of delivery currently being developed for HIV prevention options: (1) monthly vaginal ring
      (NuvaRing), (2) bi-monthly injectable contraception (Nuristerate) and (3) daily dose oral
      contraception (Triphasil or Nordette).

      This is an open-label, randomized crossover study of 150 sexually active female adolescents
      (>16 and <18 years) to be recruited, with parental consent, and randomly assigned to a
      monthly vaginal ring, bi-monthly injectable contraception, or daily dose oral contraception
      at baseline. After 4 months, participants will crossover, ensuring that all participants use
      the vaginal ring, and either the oral contraceptive or the bi-monthly injectable
      contraceptive throughout the course of the study. Participants will be followed for a total
      of 8 months.

      Upon enrollment participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio to one of three study
      arms (50 participants per arm):

      Arm 1/Group A: Participants will receive an injectable contraceptive once every 8 weeks for a
      4 month period.

      Arm 2/Group B: Participants will receive the contraceptive intravaginal NuvaRing to be
      inserted once every 28 days (and removed after 21 days of each 28 day insertion) for a 4
      month period

      Arm 3/Group C: Participants will be supplied with oral contraceptives and will be required to
      take a daily tablet for 21 days each month and a placebo tablet for days 22 to 28 each month,
      for a 4 month period.

      After 4 months, participants in Group A and Group C will be assigned to Group B; participants
      in Group B will be allowed to select either Groups A or Group C, ensuring that all
      participants use the vaginal ring, and most either the oral contraceptive or the bi-monthly
      injectable contraceptive.

      Participants will attend follow-up visits every 8 weeks throughout the duration of the study.
      Those participants receiving the oral contraceptive or intravaginal ring will therefore
      receive 8 weeks' product supply at each visit. At each visit preference / acceptability,
      sexual behaviour and adherence to study product will be assessed using mainly quantitative
      measures and general attitudes and experiences of use will be assessed in focus group
      discussions at the end of the study.
    
  