
    
      Asthma pathogenesis and exacerbations have been associated to multiple risk factors,
      particularly respiratory viruses. In children respiratory syncytial viruses (RSVs) may induce
      bronchiolitis, and Human Rhinoviruses (HRVs) also may induce wheezing illnesses. RSVs and
      HRVs are age dependent risk factors for asthma, with the influenza virus also considered a
      prominent risk factor in adults. The Center for Disease Control recommends influenza
      vaccination in asthmatics annually. Both HRV and RSV infections were detected in a pilot
      integrative personal omics investigation, and provided a unique temporal expression signature
      in the non-asthmatic subject, with the involvement of a common set of antigen and defense
      response genes, as well as immune related pathways. These observed patterns in addition to
      the results of the vaccination study will be used as a guide, to find differences in healthy
      versus asthmatic patients' pathway activations which will provide insights into the genes and
      mechanisms involved in asthma pathogenesis and immune response to influenza vaccination. The
      twin paradigm will allow us to control for multiple confounding factors and focus on the
      individual genetic and possible epigenetic variation. The investigators will be able to infer
      novel networks and pathways and get into the genes and mechanisms involved in asthma, flu
      vaccination, and individual responses, while evaluating personalized genetic risks compared
      to medical history in the same study.

      Our primary investigation involves integrative multi-omics monitoring of individual
      monozygotic twins, healthy or discordant for asthma, following their flu vaccination, over a
      period of two annual vaccination cycles. The investigators will be collecting blood samples
      from monozygotic twin volunteers, for multiple time-points post influenza vaccination. The
      measurements will be repeated the following year after a second vaccination. Genomic
      sequencing will be used to evaluate the volunteer's genomic risks based on variants with
      known disease association. Full transcriptome (via RNA-Sequencing), proteome and metabolome
      profiling (via mass spectrometry) will be performed per time-point, as well as cytokine
      profiling. This will allow the dynamic monitoring of thousands of molecular components and
      their responses to vaccination, capturing both the initial innate response reaction in
      addition to the adaptive response and return to baseline. The study involves following
      responses in blood and saliva components after influenza vaccination. Two annual vaccinations
      will be considered, one per year for 2 years, and at 8 time points samples will be collected.

      This study involves a simple blood draw, saliva collection, standard FDA-approved influenza
      vaccine administration and Spirometry.
    
  