
    
      The purpose of this study is to improve the applicability of islet transplantation for
      treatment of type 1 diabetes utilizing a novel immunosuppressive regimen centered on the use
      of adhesion molecule blockade with an anti-LFA-1 antibody (efalizumab). The
      lymphocyte-function associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) adhesion molecule is expressed on multiple
      cellular populations including T cells, B cells, and NK cells and is important in
      facilitating cell migration and homing. In addition, interaction of LFA-1 with its ligand
      ICAM-1 on antigen presenting cells provides a powerful costimulatory signal for T cell
      activation.

      Animal models using anti-LFA-1 antibodies have shown impressive prolongation of vascularized
      and cellular allograft survival. These potent immunosuppressive properties have also been
      documented in several clinical trials with efalizumab, a humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody
      directed against LFA-1. The drug was found to be safe, well tolerated, and efficacious in
      treating moderate to severe psoriasis.

      More recently, a multicenter trial employing efalizumab in conjunction with prednisone,
      sirolimus and cyclosporine maintenance immunosuppression in recipients of kidney allografts
      showed an acceptable safety profile when used at a dose of 0.5mg/kg/week and excellent
      rejection-free graft survival over the first 6 months after transplant.

      This study represents the first clinical trial that applies adhesion molecule blockade with
      efalizumab to prevent the immune response against pancreatic islets in the setting of type 1
      diabetes mellitus, with the long-term goal of immunosuppression withdrawal.

      Genentech, the manufacturer of efalizumab voluntarily withdrew the drug from the U.S. market
      in April of 2009. Previously transplanted subjects have been transitioned to alternative
      immunosuppressives and no new subjects will be transplanted under this protocol.
    
  