
    
      A total of approximately 320 subjects will be enrolled in parallel in one of the following 6
      cohorts based on tobacco usage:

        -  Exclusive moist snuff users (n=50)

        -  Exclusive Camel SNUS users (n=50)

        -  Dual users of Camel SNUS and cigarettes (n=50)

        -  Dual users of moist snuff and cigarettes (n=50)

        -  Exclusive cigarette smokers (n=40 males and 20 females)

        -  Non tobacco users (n=40 males and 20 females)

      The study duration will be 5.5 weeks or less, depending upon the study procedures required
      for the subject's specific cohort. The study duration includes screening up to 35 days prior
      to clinic check in (Day 1) and a 2 day confinement period of approximately 24 hours (Day 1
      and Day 2). Subjects will be discharged in the morning on Day 2.

      At the Initial Screening Visit, clinical study staff will perform screening assessments.
      Tobacco users will be instructed to provide a sufficient supply of their UB product(s) for
      use during pre-clinic procedures (i.e., pre-clinic used tobacco product collections) and for
      use during clinic confinement.

      Prior to checking in for clinic confinement, subjects will return to the clinic for a
      Pre-Enrollment Outpatient Visit to assess enrollment eligibility related to the safe
      completion of triplicate spirometry and to pick up used tobacco product collection kits
      and/or urine collection containers for pre-clinic collection procedures. Within 14 days prior
      to clinic admission, subjects will be instructed, depending on their tobacco cohort, to
      continue smoking and/or using Camel SNUS or moist snuff at their normal rates and to collect
      their used cigarette butts (1 day collection) and/or used snus pouches (7 day collection),
      and retain the labeled snuff containers (1 day usage). Subjects will turn in their used
      tobacco product collections upon clinic check in.

      Subjects will report to the clinical research unit in the morning on Day 1 for baseline
      testing, confirmation of continued study eligibility, check in of their UB tobacco
      product(s), and return of their urine collection containers and used tobacco product
      collections. Subjects will be allowed to use their UB tobacco product(s) ad libitum; tobacco
      products will be stored by clinic staff and will be dispensed subsequent to subject request,
      as allowed during scheduled study procedures (i.e., questionnaires, spirometry,
      carboxyhemoglobin, 6MWT [six-minute walk test]). Each UB product usage will be recorded. At
      approximately 2200, fasting (from all food and drink except water) and tobacco abstention
      will begin. Subjects must agree to remain abstinent for approximately 8-10 hours and until
      all Day 2 fasting procedures (i.e., samples for biomarkers of tobacco effect and exposure)
      have been completed.
    
  