
    
      Objective: To investigate the effect of treatment with CSF : A placebo controlled double
      blinded crossover study.

      Design: Crossover Randomized Control Trial

      Setting: Academically affiliated private infertility centers

      Subjects: Female IVF patients of all ages who are willing to be randomized to treatment and,
      in either IVF treatment, frozen embryo cycles (FET) or donor IVF cycles (D-IVF), 5 days
      before ET, have inadequate endometrial thickness.

      Interventions: Subjects receive transvaginally, utilizing an insemination catheter, 2 slow
      intrauterine lavages with CSF-1 (Neupogen or generic, 300ug in 1 ml) 5 and 3 days,
      respectively, before embryo transfer and controls receive 1 ml of saline instead. Patients
      who do not become pregnant will after one month washout times continue treatment in the
      opposite study arm if they so choose and if they have remaining embryos.

      Main Outcome Measures: Number of patients reaching embryo transfer with adequate endometrial
      thickness of at least 7mm.

      Second Outcome Measures: Implantation and pregnancy rates..

      Statistical and Power considerations: This is a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) with two
      study arms and panned crossover. Patients will be randomly assigned to Study group A or B
      according to a computer generated randomization table with 50:50 distributions. The study
      will test the null hypothesis that there is no difference in the transfer rates between the
      two groups. Transfer is only possible if the endometrial thickness reaches 7 mm or more.
      Order of treatment ab v ba will be added to the models as a separate factor and each phase
      will be analyzed as separate treatment strata.

      The investigators are planning a study of independent cases and controls with 1 control per
      case. Prior data indicate that the transfer rate among controls is < 1%. If the true transfer
      rate for experimental subjects is 25%, the investigators will need to study 38 experimental
      subjects and 38 control subjects to be able to reject the null hypothesis that the transfer
      rates for experimental and control subjects are equal with probability (power) 0.8. The Type
      I error probability associated with this test of this null hypothesis is 0.05. We will use a
      continuity-corrected chi-squared statistic or Fisher's exact test to evaluate this null
      hypothesis.

      There will be a planned interim analysis after 20 participants have completed the trial and
      if significant effects are observed the trial may be terminated at that time. The power to
      detect a difference in this interim analysis is only 42.6%.
    
  