
    
      Hirschsprungs disease is found in 1:5000 newborns, the disease is caused by aganglionosis of
      the colon, leading to severe constipation and possible bowel obstruction. The diagnosis is
      based on leveling biopsies taken from the rectum and colon. Treatment is supportive if
      complications had arisen, and surgical for definitive correction of the pathophysiological
      condition which is the cause of the disease. Currently, clinicians rely on histopathology,
      for diagnosing the disease, and planning surgical correction. The main goal of Surgical
      treatment will be the creation of a continuous patent and innervated bowel, in which
      effective propulsive peristalsis is taking place. This is achieved by resection of
      aganglionic colon, and anastomosis of normal colon with normal ganglia, to anus. Today
      surgeons await histopathology report for the diagnosis of Hirschsprungs disease, and frozen
      section biopsies taken when in surgery to ascertain the level of ganglionated bowel.

      In this study the investigators aim to correlate electrophysiological reading, from colon
      suspected of Hirschsprungs disease. If correlation is found, or a specific pattern which is
      diagnostic of the disease may be found, the electrophysiological study may offer a new way of
      diagnosing the disease, which is not invasive and allows prompt diagnosis in contrast to
      histopathology which is time consuming. A reliable electrophysiological study for
      Hirschsprungs disease may be helpful in early and correct diagnosis, with a noninvasive
      procedure as compared to a biopsy of the colonic wall. Children with chronic constipation,
      suspected of having hirschsprungs disease, who are admitted for rectal biopsy will be
      included in the study. During the procedure, electrophysiological reading from the site
      chosen for biopsy will be done. Correlation between electrophysiological data and
      histopathology will be analyzed. The actual reading will be carried out by a custom made
      electrode by GAELTEC DEVICES LTD : DUNVEGAN : ISLE OF SKYE : SCOTLAND.
    
  