
    
      1. Background:

           Osteoarthritis (osteoarthritis, OA) is a common joint disease. It is characterized by
           recurrent joint pain, swelling, increasing of disease status, joint deformity and
           activity disorders.

           The pathogenesis of OA has not been fully understood. It may be associated with a
           variety of factors, such as: mechanics, biochemistry, genetics, and so on. Its main
           feature is the imbalance between synthesis and catabolism of articular cartilage cells.
           The imbalance may refer to cell aging, cell apoptosis, local inflammatory factor in
           joints as well as stress mechanism and so on.

           OA usually develops in burdened and active joints, such as: the knee, the spine
           (cervical and lumbar spine), hip and ankle, hand joints, etc. The first session of The
           National Health and Nutrition Survey (The first National Health and Nutrition
           Examination Survey, NHANESI) found that 12% of people in The United States have at least
           one joint in accordance with the clinical diagnosis of OA. Radiographic result shows
           that rate of American adults knee OA prevalence is 14% and 37%, and women are more
           common .A large study found that at least one joint in people over 55 years have
           radiographic hand OA, and female prevalence is 67%, male is 55% .

           The OA in Chinese are more likely happened in elder women than men. Prevalence rate
           could up to 50% in people over the age of 60, and 80% in 75 years old.

           Osteoarthritis patients suffer huge pain, and it cause huge economic burden to the
           society, and it becomes a serious impact on social productivity and lead to huge
           economic burden.

           In the United States, OA cost $ 1,855 billion per year and in 27 million patients, and
           women spend $ 6212 per year, male $ 4730 per year; OA cost 1% ~ 2.5% of gross domestic
           product (GDP) in the United States, Britain, France, Canada, Australia and other
           developed countries. There is no burden of economic data of OA in China .

           Classification criteria of knee osteoarthritis

           According to the affected areas, OA can be divided into knee OA, hip OA, hand OA (distal
           interphalangeal joints, the first wrist palm joints), foot OA (first plantar toe joints,
           heel), etc.

           Knee OA is the most common disease in clinical disease. The classification of the knees
           OA contains clinical criteria, and also clinical and imaging criteria in the modified
           American College of Rheumatology (ACR) classification criteria in osteoarthritis
           classification criteria.

           Knee osteoarthritis usually occurs with obvious fricatives, bony enlargement, Baker cyst
           expansion and joint effusion is generally not associated with skin redness.

           The most common deformity comes out with varus in severe cases, but also it may appear
           in the early mild disease. That clinically obvious varus may be a predictive factor
           during the disease progression. That quadriceps become weak is a changeable risk factor
           for early knees OA disease progression, especially in women . Muscle atrophy occurs in
           late stage of disease progression. And it brings huge burden of disease to patients.

           Treatment of knee OA

           The aim of the treatment is to relieve pain, prevent and delay the progress of disease,
           protect the joints function, improve the quality of life. The treatment should be
           individualized. Full consideration to the patient' illness risk factors should be given,
           including: joint structure changing, the degree of inflammation and pain, concurrent
           disease status and other specific situation and condition. Treatment should be given
           priority to combine non-drug therapy with drug therapy. Operation should be performed
           when it is necessary .

           Non-drug therapy include psychosocial intervention , decreasing weight, reasonable
           exercise, physical therapy which includes heat therapy, spa therapy, etc.), etc.

           Drug therapy mainly includes drugs using external, drugs using in whole body and drugs
           intra-articular injections.

           Topical drugs include: capsaicin, non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) for
           external use and lidocaine for external use only.

           Systemic medicine include: a: non-opiate drug. Acetaminophen is the first choice of OA
           treatment, and the main reason is that the less side effects and good curative effect.
           b: NSAIDS. There are two effect of NSAIDS: anti-pain and anti-inflammatory, which is the
           most commonly used for the control of OA symptoms. The main adverse reactions are
           gastrointestinal symptoms, renal or liver damage, effect on platelet function, and it
           may increase the risk of cardiovascular adverse events. c: opioid analgesics. It can be
           considered if Pain still difficult to control after non-drug and drug treatment.

           Drugs injection intra-articular, including: intra-articular injection of glucocorticoid
           and hyaluronic acid derivatives.

           Research of TNF-α application in OA:

           TNF-α and IL1 play an important role in the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis, IL1 - beta
           often express highly in middle to late course of OA. In the OA flare course, TNF-α and
           IL1 alpha will increase significantly; TNF-α has been considered to be one of the
           important factors associated with the degree of OA inflammatory, and the IL1 alpha has a
           significant relation with the start of OA inflammatory.

        2. Aims:

           Primary: evaluate efficacy of subcutaneous injection of etanercept for moderate and
           severe knee osteoarthritis

           Second: investigate the potentiality of serum cytokines (TNF-α, L1-α, IL1-β, MMP1,
           MMP13) to predict the response of subcutaneous injection of etanercept for moderate and
           severe knee osteoarthritis.

        3. Patients:

           Recruit Patients of moderate and severe knee osteoarthritis, totally 60 patients
           (According with classification of "Clinical Image" of 1986 American college of
           rheumatology criteria in osteoarthritis of the knee )

        4. Study Design:

           A 12-week, multi-center, open-labeled, randomized study. Moderately and severe knee
           osteoarthritis patients, total 60 patients (consider expulsion rate 15%)(According with
           classification of "Clinical Image" of 1986 American college of rheumatology criteria in
           osteoarthritis of the knee )

           The 60 patients were randomly assigned into two groups:

           Etanercept treatment group: etanercept of 50 mg/w, subcutaneous injection health
           education, exercise and diet guidance; treatment: 8 weeks Routine care group: Routine
           care group, health education, exercise and diet guidance; treatment: 8 weeks

           This study has two stages:

             1. Screening/baseline period: - 4 weeks ~ 0 weeks;

                Patients should have signed informed consent form (ICF) before participating the
                study.

                Obtain the history before treatment, medical records, disease history and
                demographic information of patients. And also perform pregnancy test (optional),
                HIV testing (optional), hepatitis B virus (HBV) detection (optional), hepatitis C
                virus (HCV) detection (optional), electrocardiogram examination, chest radiograph,
                tuberculin test (PPD) test, vital signs, physical examination, blood routine, urine
                routine and blood biochemical examination, imaging examination
                (anteroposterior/lateral of X-ray in knee joint, horizontal position/lateral
                projection/side lateral projection of ultrasound in knee, supine position in knee
                joint of MRI (sagittal and coronary are commonly used), measure the erythrocyte
                sedimentation rate (ESR) and C reactive protein (CRP) and store serum in - 80 ℃ to
                detect serum protein markers level during baseline period, at the same time keep
                the plasma to - 80 ℃.(refer to "9.3 lab operation"). Collect disease assessment
                result in baseline, and record the pain Visual Analog Pain Scale (VAS) score, MOS
                12-item Short Form Health Survey (SF12) score, the knee injury and osteoarthritis
                score (KOOS) score, 30 s - Chair Stand Test (CST) score, 40 m Fast-paced Walk Test
                (FPWT) score, ultrasonic relative index score and MRI relative index score.

             2. Follow-up: 2, 4, 8, 12 weeks supervision.

           At 2nd week, vital signs will be recorded, pain VAS score, SF12 score, KOOS score,
           condition of drug combination and adverse events will be recorded as basic disease
           assessment.

           At 4th week, vital signs will be recorded, and blood routine, urine routine, blood
           biochemical, the ESR and CRP will be examined and recorded, collect basic evaluation
           results such as: pain VAS score, SF12 score, KOOS score, and condition of drug
           combination and adverse events will be recorded as basic disease assessment.

           At 8th week, 12th week, vital signs, blood routine, urine routine and blood biochemical
           will be examined and recorded and imaging examination will be performed (horizontal
           position/lateral projection/side lateral projection of ultrasound in knee、 supine
           position of MR in knee joint (MRI will be performed only at 8th week, sagittal and
           coronary will be used as usual)). Measure the ESR and CRP and store serum in - 80 ℃ to
           detect serum protein markers level during baseline to 8th week and 12th week, at the
           same time, store plasma to - 80 ℃.(refer to "9.3 lab operation"). Collect disease
           assessment result, and record the pain VAS score, SF12 score, KOOS score, 30 s - CST
           (Chair Stand Test) score, 40 m FPWT (Fast-paced Walk Test) score, ultrasonic relative
           index score and MRI relative index score. And condition of drug combination and adverse
           events will be recorded.

        5. Laboratory tests

           Main laboratory examination:

           Detect the level of TNF-α, L1-α, IL1-β, MMP1, MMP13 levels in patients peripheral blood
           at baseline period and 4th week, 8th week by using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

        6. The curative effect evaluation/check points:

           The primary checkpoint: at 8th week and 12th week, changes of pain VAS score, KOOS score
           relative to the baseline.

           The Secondary checkpoints: at 8 weeks and 12 weeks changes of SF12 score, 30s-CST score,
           40 m FPWT score, ultrasound score, MRI score, level of TNF alpha, IL1 alpha, IL1 - beta,
           MMP1, MMP13 in serum relative to the baseline.

        7. Statistical methods:

      Based on the curative effect data of patients, analysis by using R software or Statistical
      Analysis System (SAS) statistical software:

      Calculate the measurement data using t-test and rank test; Rate is calculated using
      chi-square test.

      Perform single factor and multiple factors regression analysis on indicators of baseline
      prognostic factors of patients (protein markers) and curative effect.
    
  