
    
      Six 14-day cycles of high-dose MTX will be given at the beginning of the study. Randomization
      will be performed centrally at the study headquarters in UKBF Berlin already at study
      inclusion. Patients meeting all inclusion criteria will receive the first systemic treatment
      with 4 g/m2 MTX i.v. over 4 hours within 14 days. Dexamethasone in a dose of 3 x 8 mg/day
      orally for 10 days will additionally be given in the first cycle. This dexamethasone dose
      will be started 3 days before the first MTX application. Ten to 14 days after the 3rd and 6th
      MTX dose, the response to MTX therapy will be evaluated by MRI and a repeated CSF examination
      in the case of renewed CSF involvement. Assessment can also be made at any other time point
      if there is clinical deterioration. In all cases, the neuroradiological reference center
      (Department of Neuroradiology, University of Tübingen) will decide about the response to MTX
      therapy. MRI and CT scans should be sent to the neuroradiological reference center after HD
      MTX is terminated for central response evaluation. If complete remission is achieved after
      completing high-dose MTX therapy, patients will be treated with WBI (45 Gy in 1.5 Gy
      fractions) starting a minimum of 4 and a maximum of 7 weeks after the end of chemotherapy
      (arm A1) or WBI at first recurrence (arm A2). If primary therapy is not successful (partial
      remission, stable disease after the 6th cycle, progression at any time of MTX therapy),
      patients will receive WBI (45 Gy in 1.5 Gy fractions; arm B1) or high-dose AraC chemotherapy
      3 g/m2 i.v. over 3 hours every 12 hours for 2 days (arm B2) according to the randomization.
      If high-dose MTX therapy leads to termination before the application of 6 cycles of MTX (see
      termination criteria) but allows further AraC therapy or WBI, further treatment is given in
      the non-CR arm according to the randomization. High-dose AraC therapy will be administered in
      four 3-week cycles. If complete remission occurs already after one or two cycles, only one
      additional cycle will be applied. Patients will not be crossed over into the B arms.

      If there is a recurrence or progression after finishing a complete treatment arm, the patient
      can be treated with chemotherapy according to PCV protocol or WBI in the B2 arm. This
      decision is left up to the individual study center.

      The G-PCNSL-SG-1 study is a prospective, controlled phase IV study with central
      randomization. Patients in both arms will be submitted to stratified randomization according
      to age (< 60; > 60) and center to minimize the effect of important therapy-related prognostic
      factors. The study is not blinded. Randomization will be performed centrally at study
      inclusion at the Institute of Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology, University
      Hospital Benjamin Franklin of the Free University of Berlin.

      The planned study duration is 7 years - 4 years in the recruitment phase with a subsequent
      3-year follow-up period and a 6-month evaluation phase. For an individual patient, the
      treatment time in arm A1 is 12 weeks for 6 cycles of MTX therapy, followed by a 4-7-week
      resting period and then 6 weeks until the completion of WBI (arm A1). In arm A2, the patient
      is irradiated (a total of 6 weeks) only in the case of recurrence. Up to that point, the
      patient will be followed up in fixed intervals like those patients in A1 after WBI. In arm B,
      MTX therapy is immediately followed by 6 weeks of WBI (arm B1) or the maximal 3 months of
      AraC therapy. After completing the protocol of the planned therapy, all patients will be
      followed-up for at least three years.
    
  