
    
      Oxygen is probably one of the commonest "non-prescription" drug used in the hospital and its
      advantage in several situations including carbon monoxide poisoning, central hypoxia and
      prior to planned intubation in an acute situation are today well-established and commonly
      used. Oxygen has been frowned upon in the resuscitation of newborn babies because of the risk
      of retrolental hypoplasia, now well accepted and adopted in clinical practice. Oxygen has
      also been traditionally used to increase oxygen carrying capacity in patients presenting with
      an acute coronary syndrome (ACS), to reduce surgical site infections (SSI), to ensure
      adequate oxygen delivery to tissues in unconscious patients, during cardiac surgery and for
      postoperative management, specifically after major surgery. Thus, deliberate use of high
      inspiratory oxygen concentrations (e.g., 80% or above) is recommended in the treatment of
      specific intoxications, such as with carbon monoxide or cyanide, wherein hyperbaric oxygen
      should also be considered. In addition, a high oxygen fraction has been suggested to prevent
      adverse outcomes after surgery and anesthesia, including a reduction in wound infections and
      postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV). In critically ill patients, oxygen delivery to the
      tissues is often compromised, and supplemental oxygen (e.g., face mask with 10 L oxygen per
      min) is commonly administered to patients with pneumonia, sepsis, acute coronary syndrome, or
      stroke - in fact, it is estimated that oxygen is given during transport in approximately
      one-third of all ambulance journeys.

      Several reports published recently have questioned many of the "routine" uses of oxygen and
      some evidence even seems to point towards negative outcomes in some of these conditions.
      Specifically, excessive oxygen is likely to do more harm than good in the neonatal period,
      following cardio-pulmonary resuscitation and likely following acute myocardial infarction.
      Prospective, randomised studies on this important use of oxygen in the preoperative string
      are, however, lacking in the literature and in view of theoretical risks for hyperoxemia to
      several organs, the routine use of high oxygen fractions during the peri-operative phase can
      be questioned.

      This study aims to assess peri-operative complications up to 1 year following vascular
      surgery in patients randomised to receive high inspired oxygen concentration (endpoint: SpO2
      98 - 100%) or minimal inspired O2 concentration (endpoint: SpO2 > 90%).
    
  