
    
      Regular aerobic exercise with sufficient intensity can improve overall health, however daily
      energy expenditure is low in those with SCI, especially in those with high level lesions. The
      investigators have developed Functional Electrical Stimulation Row Training (FESRT) that
      couples volitional arm and electrically controlled leg exercise, increasing the active muscle
      and resulting in benefits of large muscle mass exercise. Despite the potential for enhancing
      aerobic capacity, those with high level lesions (C4 to T2) have a remaining obstacle to
      attaining higher work capacities. They have the greatest pulmonary muscle denervation and our
      preliminary work suggests this limits the aerobic capacity that can be achieved with FESRT.
      External ventilatory support could improve the ability to reach higher level of peak
      ventilation and hence enhance the ability to exercise in high level SCI. Therefore, the
      investigators hypothesize that the use of NIV during FESRT will reduce ventilatory limits to
      exercise, leading to increased aerobic capacity in high level SCI. The aims are to examine
      the acute effect of NIV on FES-row VO2max in subjects with both high and low level SCI. The
      investigators have access to a large (N>70) and unique population of individuals with SCI who
      have been enrolled in FESRT for at least 6 months. Roughly half have SCI between C4 and T2
      and half with lower injury levels (<T3). 15 individuals who have FES row trained for at least
      6 months will perform FES-VO2max row tests on separate days with and without the use of NIV
      to determine maximal aerobic capacity and ventilation. Both FES-VO2max Row tests will be
      performed at least 48-hours apart. Both tests will be performed with the NIV set-up but with
      and without use of the NIV support in a random order. The level of inspiratory pressure will
      be individually set during a familiarization test. The investigators will assess maximal
      aerobic capacity, minute ventilation, tidal volume and cardiac output during FES-rowing.
      Based on current data, it is hypothesized that only those with higher level of injury (> T3)
      will experience further increases in aerobic capacity when using the NIV support. This
      exploratory/developmental research project will determine feasibility and effectiveness of
      this approach to exercise and will lay the groundwork for a larger, controlled trial.
    
  