
    
      Secondhand tobacco smoke (SHS) remains a major public health problem.This is important
      particularly as the generations that endured the highest amount of SHS exposure are aging,
      which could potentially accentuate the SHS-related occult health problems that may have been
      previously too subtle to be recognized. Although acute and subacute health effects of
      exposure to SHS have been studied, its long-term consequences have been more difficult to
      examine in part due to challenges with exposure assessment. Nonsmoking flight attendants (FA)
      who worked on commercial aircrafts before the enactment of the smoking ban were exposed to
      heavy SHS in aircraft cabin for many years, in a range similar to the nicotine exposure
      burden experienced by "light" smokers. The regularity of this intense exposure in the cabin
      work environment lends itself to relatively accurate SHS exposure quantification through
      employment history, and makes the exposed FA a unique population in which the long-term
      health effects of previous exposure to SHS could be examined as a form of "natural"
      experiment that is also generalizable to other SHS exposed populations.

      Over the past several years, the investigators recruited a nonsmoking cohort of FA with such
      history of cabin SHS exposure who had subclinical signs and symptoms of pulmonary disease.
      Furthermore, while the FA in this cohort had no history of known cardiovascular disease, and
      were able to perform well on maximum effort exercise testing, they had an abnormal
      cardiovascular (hypertensive) response to exercise (HRE) that was associated with their cabin
      SHS exposure. Subtle abnormal cardiovascular response to exercise in the absence of overt
      disease, such as what the investigators observed in this cohort, has been described in other
      populations with likely subclinical disease and is suggested to be associated with impaired
      cardiovascular function with potential future adverse outcomes. However, the underlying
      mechanisms that contribute to these abnormal cardiovascular responses are unclear, and the
      rationale for initiation of preventative medical interventions in this setting remains
      unproven. Thus, the nature and clinical significance of these subtle abnormalities demands
      further investigation.

      The hypothesis of this study is that:

        1. Prolonged exposure to secondhand tobacco smoke (SHS), even when remote, is associated
           with occult cardiovascular disease as determined by (a) abnormal cardiac structure and
           function, (b) abnormal vascular structure and function, and (c) abnormal circulatory
           mediators, which altogether generate a hypertensive response to exertion and limit
           exercise capacity.

        2. Management of hypertensive response to exercise (HRE) via blocking of the
           renin-angiotensin system, using an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) receptor blocker,
           reduces the hypertensive response and improves exercise capacity, proxies for long-term
           cardiovascular health outcomes.

      The investigators will investigate the above hypothesis through the following specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1- Determine whether hypertensive response to exercise (HRE) is associated with
      abnormal cardiac and/or vascular structure and function in flight attendants (FA) with
      prolonged cabin SHS exposure but without overt cardiovascular disease. The investigators will
      perform cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to measure myocardial dimensions and
      function including left ventricular (LV) mass, volume, ejection fraction (LVEF), and
      diastolic function. The investigators will also measure aortic stiffness by regional pulse
      wave velocity (PWV) measurement in the thoracic aorta from the MRI. The investigators will
      then examine the associations of these outcomes with SHS exposure and HRE.

      Specific Aim 2- Determine whether HRE is associated with abnormal circulatory markers of
      cardiovascular disease in those with prolonged SHS exposure but without overt disease. The
      investigators will examine subjects' peripheral blood samples for circulatory markers of
      systemic inflammation, vascular function, and prothrombotic state including ACE, C-reactive
      protein (CRP), endothelin-1 (ET-1), P-selectin, fibrinogen, and von Willebrand Factor (vWF).
      Moreover, the investigators will perform molecular phenotyping of peripheral blood monocytes,
      an important culprit in atherogenesis, using mass cytometry in search for a proinflammatory
      profile associated with cardiovascular disease. The investigators will then examine the
      associations of these outcomes with HRE and SHS exposure.

      Specific Aim 3- Determine whether short-term treatment with an ACE receptor blocker
      (Losartan) improves HRE and exercise capacity in those with prolonged exposure to SHS but
      without overt cardiovascular disease. The investigators will perform a placebocontrolled
      double-blind randomized controlled trial (RCT) in subjects with HRE but without known
      cardiovascular disease to determine the efficacy (and safety) of blocking the
      reninangiotensin system in reducing HRE and improving exercise capacity, a proxy for improved
      cardiovascular health.
    
  