
    
      Objective:

      Despite recent advance in addiction neuroscience, achieving a breakthrough in predicting
      addiction treatment outcome has been difficult and long-term abstinence success unacceptably
      low. The aim of this study is to create a biomarker using various neuroimaging metrics that
      can predict treatment outcome in opioid and alcohol use disorder patients.

      Study Population:

      Total study enrollment will include up to 650 participants. The main study population will
      include up to five hundred (500) participants to reach three hundred fifty (350) completers
      (50 per group) based on their addiction status (1) healthy, non-drug using control
      participants (CON) (2) Early-in-treatment, healthy prescription opioid use disorder
      participants currently enrolled in physician health program (PHP) within 2 month of starting
      treatment (POUD-E), (3) Long-term-in-treatment, healthy prescription opioid use disorder
      participants currently enrolled in PHP more than 2 months and less than 5 years (POUD-L), (4)
      Early-in-treatment, healthy alcohol use disorder participants currently enrolled in PHP
      within 2 month of starting treatment (AUD-E), (5) Long-term-in-treatment, healthy alcohol use
      disorder participants currently enrolled in PHP more than 2 months and less than 5 years
      (AUD-L), (6) Early-in-treatment, healthy dual prescription opioid and alcohol and use
      disorder participants currently enrolled in PHP within 2 month of starting treatment
      (POAUD-E), (7) Long-term-in-treatment, healthy dual prescription opioid and alcohol use
      disorder participants currently enrolled in PHP more than 2 months and less than 5 years
      (POAUD-L). The Addiction Phenotype Characterization arm will include up to 150 completers.

      Design: Two studies will run simultaneously:

      The main study includes two studies that will run simultaneously:

        1. Cross-sectional study that will include participants enrolled at a PHP over the past 5
           years and have been in treatment for more than 2 months. Three target groups, in
           addition to the control group, will be included in this study [POUD-L, AUD-L, and
           POAUD-L]. Each participant will complete a screening evaluation session (approximately
           3-4 hours) and a second online session for study consent review (approximately 1-2
           hours) at home or at the PHP through secure communication. These online sessions will
           include the screening consent process, administration of a structured psychiatric
           interview and a semi-structured assessment, instructions for the completion of detailed
           self-administered questionnaires to characterize clinical phenotype and physical
           condition, and consent review for the study. Participants subsequently cleared for and
           enrolled in the cross-sectional study will be invited to come to NIDA IRP for one
           imaging visit that will take approximately 8-10 hours.

           The aim of the cross-sectional study is to identify imaging based brain differences
           between control group and drug using groups and to examine correlations between brain
           imaging markers at different stages of recovery and (1) severity of drug use (duration
           and quantity), (2) duration of abstinence, and (3) number of relapses in drug using
           groups.

           The primary outcome measure for the cross-sectional study will be differences in
           functional connectivity and BOLD signal activation in executive and impulsive
           neurobehavioral decision systems at various stages of sobriety in relation to controls.

        2. Longitudinal study that will include all participants enrolled at PHP within two months
           of starting treatment. Three groups, in addition to the control group, will be included
           in this study [POUD-E, AUDE, and POAUD-E]. Each participant will complete the screening
           evaluation session as described in the cross-sectional study and three imaging visits at
           NIDA; 1) first (baseline) visit within 2 months of eligibility determination, (2) second
           (mid-year) visit within 4-8 months from baseline visit and (3) third (one-year) visit
           within 10-14 months from baseline visit. Each imaging visit will take approximately 8-10
           hours.

      The aim of the longitudinal study is to measure brain imaging changes over time in abstinent
      and relapsing addicts and to identify brain imaging markers that differentiate between
      abstinent and relapsing participants at 6 months and at 1 year. The rationale behind the
      mid-year visit is that most relapses take place early (within the first 6 months) during
      treatment and by one year some of those who relapsed earlier achieve abstinence. We chose one
      year follow up in order to compare brain imaging changes between abstinent and relapsing
      participants after relatively long sobriety and to add clinical value to our prediction
      model. By including both these visits, we will preclude a contaminated sample of both
      abstinent without early relapse and abstinent with early relapse which could confound our
      results.

      The primary outcome measure for the longitudinal study will be differences in baseline and
      changes over time in functional connectivity circuits, BOLD signal activation in executive
      and impulsive neurobehavioral decision systems between abstinent and relapsing addicts that
      can predict treatment response at 6 and 12 months. Most importantly, we will use imaging,
      behavioral and genetic measures at the onset of treatment in a machine-learning framework in
      an attempt to predict subsequent treatment success in this cohort of participants.

      Secondary outcome measures for both studies will be phenotypic (performance on behavioral
      tasks, self-reported measures of cravings, impulsivity and personality traits), genotypic and
      imaging (structural and spectroscopy) differences between different addiction groups.

      The Addiction Phenotype Characterization arm will include participants who are ineligible for
      the main study due to imaging-related exclusions or other medical exclusions (e.g.
      medications, other SUD disorders). These participants will complete the characterization
      measures (structured psychiatric interview, a semi-structured drug use history assessment,
      and several self-administered questionnaires to characterize clinical phenotype and physical
      condition).

      The aim of the Addiction Phenotype Characterization arm is to characterize addiction
      phenotype and physical condition in health professionals.

      The primary outcome measures for the Addiction Phenotype Characterization arm are the
      characterization measures.
    
  