
    
      Experimental Design and Methods:

      This will be a prospective randomized controlled trial of intubation using the C-MAC video
      laryngoscope versus standard laryngoscopy for patients requiring emergent intubation in the
      Emergency Department.

      Study Setting and Population:

      This study will be performed at an urban county medical center with approximately 97,000
      patient visits per year. Adult patients (age >17) requiring intubation will be enrolled.

      Study Protocol:

      All ED patients who are unable to adequately breathe on their own requiring emergent
      intubation for airway management will be screened for inclusion in the study. Identified
      patients will be deemed eligible when the need for intubation has been determined by the
      treating physician. Eligible patients will be placed on capnograph, cardiac, blood pressure
      and pulse oximetry monitors. Patients will be randomly assigned to be intubated using
      standard laryngoscopy with the C-MAC blade or C-MAC videolaryngoscope. Sealed envelopes
      containing the randomization assignment for the treatment groups will be kept at the
      patient's bedside in the stabilization room. Patients will be monitored by oxygen saturation,
      blood pressure, heart rate, and respiratory rate, which are typical for patients requiring
      intubation in our ED. Data will be recorded every minute by a trained research assistant at
      the patient's bedside. The lowest oxygen saturation during the procedure will be recorded for
      determination of hypoxia. Hypoxia will be defined as an oxygen saturation <93%. The number of
      attempts made to intubate and the total time to successful intubation will be recorded. An
      attempt starts when the intubating device enters the patients mouth and ends when the
      endotracheal tube placement is confirmed or when a new intubating device is put in the
      patients mouth after the previous device had been removed. Data collection includes the
      timing and number of breaths given via Bag-Valve-Mask and patient repositioning between the
      attempts. All treatments will be recorded. Data collection will continue until the patient is
      discharged from the Emergency Department. The patient's diagnosis at the time of discharge
      from the ED will be recorded. Patients' charts will be reviewed to determine the diagnosis,
      occurrence of aspiration pneumonia, ICU length of stay, and inpatient length of stay. Two
      attempts will be made to contact patients 28 days after study enrollment to determine their
      condition at that time.

      Data Analysis:

      Data will be collected by a designated research assistant during the procedure and will then
      be entered into an EXCEL (Microsoft Corp., Redmond, WA) database for storage. Data will be
      exported into STATA 10.0 (STATA Corp., College Station, TX) for further analysis. The number
      of attempts to successful intubation and total time to intubation will be compared using
      descriptive statistics. Occurrence of hypoxia and aspiration pneumonia will be compared in
      patients who were intubated with the C-MAC to patients intubated with standard laryngoscopy
      using Chi-Square tests. Oxygen saturation, ETCO2, and heart rate will be compared in both
      groups using multiple linear regression.

      The length of stay and 28 day follow up between the two groups will be compared using
      Wilcoxon rank sum tests. In order to detect a 15% difference in the length of stay between
      the two groups, with a power of 80% and an alpha of 0.05, 100 patients will be required in
      each group for a total of 200 patients.
    
  