
    
      The Therapist Education and Massage for Parent-Infant Outcomes program involves components
      during and after hospitalization.

      During infant hospitalization • Visit 1: Early Parent Education Session: Initiated within 3
      weeks of infant birth. The therapist will educate the parent about the importance of infant
      positioning, the impact of prematurity on the motor and sensory systems, and how to read and
      respond to infant behavioral-motor cues using a written pamphlet with pictures to supplement
      the verbal education lasting about 30 minutes.

        -  The therapist will ask the parent to complete a contact information form and a
           demographic form and a baseline questionnaire.

             -  Visits 2-8: Weekly Parent Education Sessions <34 weeks: Following the initial
                parent education session, the therapist will hold weekly parent education sessions,
                ideally at the time of therapy. When the infant is this young (<34 weeks
                gestation), therapist intervention and education will focus on infant
                behavioral-motor cues, reading/response to infant cues, positioning
                strategies/concerns, and developmentally appropriate stimulation of the infant. If
                the parent is not available for all therapy sessions, then the parent will receive
                a weekly update about their infant's progress face-to-face and/or via video chat.

             -  Visits 9-10: Infant Massage Parent Education Sessions: Parent-administered infant
                massage will be incorporated into the therapy plan of care as soon as the infant's
                medical provider determines that the infant is physiologically stable and can
                tolerate massage. This time is generally once the infant is approximately 34 weeks
                gestational age, approximately 1500 grams, and is demonstrating temperature
                stability out of the isolette for short periods. At a minimum, the therapist will
                teach massage for the back or lower extremities over 2 parent education sessions.
                The therapist will demonstrate massage strokes on a doll using verbal cues to guide
                the parent while the parent administers massage on the infant. An instructional
                massage pamphlet will be provided. Once the therapist has determined parent safety
                with massage administration, parents will be encouraged to practice infant massage
                when they visit the baby and to note when they do this by marking a card at the
                bedside.

        -  Pre and Post both massage sessions, the Primary Investigator or study coordinator will
           collect salivary cortisol via buccal swab as a measure of physiologic stress.

             -  Visits 11+: Weekly Parent Education Sessions >34 weeks: Weekly parent education
                once the infant is >34 weeks will begin to incorporate hands-on developmental play
                activities, introduction to visual engagement, and postural control practice in
                variety of positions that the infant tolerates. Additionally, the therapist and
                parent may choose to review massage at these visits. If the parent is not available
                for all therapy sessions, then the parent will receive a weekly update about their
                infant's progress face-to-face and/or via video chat.

             -  Final Visit during hospitalization: Within the week of hospital discharge, the
                therapist will schedule a face-to-face parent education session lasting about 30
                minutes to review age-appropriate developmental play activities for home and review
                infant massage. A supplemental handout and therapist email and pager information
                will be provided.

        -  At this visit, the therapist will have the parent fill out a questionnaire.

      Follow- up procedures (by visits) The program has additional components that extend beyond
      the hospital period. Parent and infant outcome measures will be collected at the first
      follow-up and 12 month corrected age follow-up clinic visits.

      After hospitalization:

        -  Visit 1: Parent Education Post-Discharge: The therapist will call the parent within 2
           weeks of discharge to follow up about discharge education and massage. During this phone
           call, the therapist will review the home program and massage techniques. The therapist
           will also answer any parent questions. Therapist email and pager information will be
           provided.

        -  Visits 2-12 (approximate): Bi-weekly emails (or texts): The therapist will send
           bi-weekly emails or texts (depending on parents' preference) with developmental play
           activity and massage reminders and tips from hospital discharge through the first follow
           up appointment.

        -  Visit 13 (approximate): First Visit Follow-up Massage Review Session: At the infant's
           first follow-up appointment with the multidisciplinary neonatology team, the therapist
           will provide a gross motor screening assessment and education. In addition, as part of
           the program, a therapist will facilitate a parent-administered infant massage session to
           provide an opportunity for parent to receive feedback on technique from the therapist.
           This session will address any safety concerns, infant changes, and parent questions.

           o At this visit, the therapist will have the parent fill out a questionnaire for ongoing
           measurement.

        -  Visits 14+ (approximate): Bi-weekly emails (or texts): The therapist will continue to
           send bi-weekly emails or texts (depending on parents' preference) with developmental
           play activity and massage reminders until the 12 month followup appointment.

        -  12 Month Follow-up Appointment: At the standard of care 12 month corrected age follow-up
           appointment with the multidisciplinary neonatology team, the PI or study coordinator
           will interview the parent about acceptability of the program.

             -  At this visit, the therapist will have the parent fill out a questionnaire for
                ongoing measurement
    
  