
    
      Participating Centers : 10 China high neurointervention volume (>200) centers Rationale:
      Clopidogrel (75 mg/day), in combination with aspirin (100 mg/day), is currently the
      antiplatelet treatment of choice for prevention of stent thrombosis, and clinical trials have
      shown that, in high-risk patients, prolonged dual antiplatelet treatment is more effective
      than aspirin alone in preventing major thromboembolic events. However, despite the use of
      clopidogrel, a considerable number of patients continue to have thromboembolic events.
      Numerous in VITRO studies have shown that individual responsiveness to clopidogrel but also
      to aspirin is not uniform in all patients and is subject to inter- and intraindividual
      variability. The recent possibility of bedside monitoring of oral antiplatelet therapy offers
      the unique opportunity of tailoring antiplatelet therapy. However, the relevance of such
      strategy has never been evaluated in a randomized prospective adequately powered study of
      intracranial aneurysm patients. Late state stent thrombosis and after interruption of OAT, is
      another important safety issue raising the questions of the modalities of interruption of
      dual OAT within six months according to the most recent updated recommendations. When is the
      best interruption of dual OAT? Our first hypothesis is that a strategy of dose adjustment of
      OAT based on biological monitoring reduces the rate of the combined ischemic endpoints of
      death, stent thrombosis and stroke as compared to a conventional strategy (local practice
      without monitoring) in patients scheduled for intracranial stent implantation and followed up
      for six months. Our second hypothesis is that interruption of clopidogrel after 1.5 months of
      dual OAT is associated with a higher rate of the same combined ischemic endpoints as compared
      with patients in whom dual OAT is maintained for 3 months follow-up.

      Objectives: 1) To demonstrate the superiority of the strategy of monitoring with dose
      adjustment in suboptimal responders (Monitoring Arm) as compared to a more conventional
      strategy (Conventional Arm) with fixed dose regimen of both oral antiplatelet agents in all
      patients as defined by the international guidelines to reduce the primary endpoint evaluated
      one year after DES implantation. 2) to demonstrate the superiority of a strategy of pursuit
      of a dual OAT beyond 3 months(Pursuit Arm) as compared to a strategy of interruption for 1.5
      months(Interruption Arm).

      Duration of the participation : from 18 up to 30 months according to the time delay from
      study start to randomization. No participants will be excluded from the study at the
      exception of consent withdrawal. However, participants who have not been randomized for
      interruption or continuation of DAPT at the 6 month follow up visit will terminate the study

      Number of patients: 1856 patients. This number was obtained for the demonstration of the
      superiority of the strategy of monitoring (Monitoring Arm) over the conventional strategy
      (Conventional Arm) to reduce the primary endpoint by 33% (relative risk reduction).

      Expected results: The ARCTIC study will provide answers to two major clinical challenges. It
      will also give a unique opportunity to assess the prevalence and the associated risk factors
      of suboptimal answers to OAT, but also to improve a suboptimal biological response. Finally,
      the economic impact of both strategies of monitoring and of interruption will be evaluated.
    
  