
    
      This study includes a sample of community dwelling Black women with uncontrolled HTN. All
      participants meeting study eligibility requirements will receive the Chronic Disease
      Self-Management Program (CDSMP) workshop for 6 weeks. Participants from this pool will be
      randomized to the treatment and control arm. All study participants will continue to receive
      usual care for their HTN.

      The intervention will be divided into three steps. At Step 1 for 3 months, the treatment arm
      will receive electronic monitoring (of participants' BP, weight, physical activity, food
      diary, and medication-taking) with weekly Interactive Technology Enhanced Coaching (ITEC)
      while the control arm will receive usual care with manual BP measurements monthly. At Step 2
      for three months, the treatment arm will receive electronic monitoring with ITEC biweekly,
      and the control arm will receive electronic monitoring only. At Step 3 for three months, both
      the treatment arm and the control arm will receive electronic monitoring only.

      Our sample of n=45 participants per arm (N=90 in total), will be measured (electronic
      measurements, anthropometric measurements, and data collection tools) at baseline, 3 months,
      6 months, and at 9 months post CDSMP. A hierarchical, mixed-effects repeated measures design
      will be used to analyze the data.

      The project is a two-arm randomized controlled trial with specific aims to determine whether
      the effects of CDSMP combined with ITEC will maintain BP control, attain medication
      adherence, and achieve lifestyle modifications (physical activity, diet, and weight
      management) compared to the CDSMP alone. We will test the hypothesis that:

        1. More participants in the CDSMP/ITEC arm will have controlled BP less than 130/80 at 3
           months, 6 months, and at 9 months post CDSMP, compared to participants in CDSMP alone.

        2. More participants in the CDSMP/ITEC arm will have higher levels of adherence to
           antihypertensive medication(s) at 3 months, 6 months, and at 9 months post CDSMP,
           compared to participants in the CDSMP alone.

        3. More participants in the CDSMP/ITEC arm, will have higher levels of adherence to
           lifestyle modifications (physical activity, diet, and weight management) at 3 months, 6
           months, and at 9 months post CDSMP, compared to participants in the CDSMP alone.

      Information from this study may be used to enhance self-care management, control blood
      pressure, and increase the quality of life for Black women who are burdened with the adverse
      effects of HTN and its high disability and mortality rates.
    
  