
    
      This is a phase II clinical trial in which study subjects will be treated with multiple doses
      of Ad-ISF35 given via intranodal injection using a fixed dose of 3.3 x 10^10 ISF35 viral
      particles. Intranodal injections will be administered every 2-4 weeks up to six total
      injections.

      This will be the first time that repeat administration of Ad-ISF35 will be performed via
      intranodal injection in subjects with a diagnosis other than CLL/SLL. Therefore, in order to
      allow sufficient time to evaluate the safety and toxicity of this procedure in non-CLL/SLL
      patients, we will treat the first three non-CLL/SLL subjects with inpatient admission for 24
      hours observation at the GCRC-UCSD. If no serious adverse events are observed in these first
      three patients after they have received their first two injections of ISF35 and have been
      observed for at least 28 days, then we will proceed with enrollment of cohorts of four
      subjects per month. This will be done at one week intervals until study enrollment is
      completed. These subjects will be treated as outpatients at the GCRC and observed for 3 hours
      prior to discharge.

      All subjects with a diagnosis of CLL or SLL will be treated as outpatients at the GCRC and
      observed for 3 hours prior to discharge. These subjects will not need to be treated in an
      inpatient setting, based on our previous clinical experience with subjects enrolled on the
      phase II study of repeat intranodal injections of Ad-ISF35 in CLL/SLL

      ISF35 has already been used in Phase I clinical trials. The trials demonstrated that ISF35
      treatment is well-tolerated and patients did not experience any significant or unexpected
      adverse events. Patients reported flu-like symptoms from ISF35, which disappeared within one
      to three days.

      ISF35 is an abbreviation for Immune Stimulatory Factor 35, an offspring of technology
      discovered by Dr. Thomas J. Kipps, MD, PhD, Professor, Department of Medicine and Deputy
      Director for Research,UCSD Moores Cancer Center.
    
  