
    
      Chronic conditions such as knee or hip osteoarthritis (OA), chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD), heart failure (HF), coronary heart disease (CHD), hypertension, type 2
      diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and depression are among the leading causes of global disability and
      affect hundreds of millions of people around the world. In recent years, multimorbidity,
      commonly defined as the co-occurrence of at least two chronic conditions, has also gained
      interest due to its substantial impact on the person and society. In general, multimorbidity
      affects more than half of all people with chronic conditions. Two out of three people with OA
      have comorbidities, with HF, CHD, hypertension, T2DM, COPD and depression being some of the
      most common.

      People with multimorbidity account for 78% of all consultations in primary care and
      multimorbidity is associated with poorer function and quality of life, depression, intake of
      multiple drugs and increased health care utilization, with some studies demonstrating an
      almost exponential relationship between the number of chronic conditions and their health
      care costs. Furthermore, we know from qualitative research that treating one condition at a
      time is inconvenient, inefficient and unsatisfactory for the person with the chronic
      conditions and his or her health care provider. Most research so far has excluded people with
      multimorbidity, due to its focus on only one specific condition, and most of the health care
      sector manages each individual condition on its own instead of the person, highlighting the
      negative impact of the current disease-based curative models on multimorbidity. With a
      population that is ageing, and a significant number of people with multimorbidity being
      younger than 65 years of age, the proportion of people with multimorbidity is increasing
      rapidly, emphasizing the need to take action to deal with the increasing burden of chronic
      conditions and multimorbidity through treatment and prevention.

      Identifying and developing effective and affordable treatment strategies to deal with the
      global burden of chronic conditions and multimorbidity is a major focus of modern health care
      around the world. Despite the significant burden of multimorbidity, little is known about how
      to treat this effectively. A 2016 Cochrane systematic review found that interventions
      targeting populations with specific combinations of conditions and addressing specific
      problems such as functional difficulties may be more effective. A treatment addressing
      functional limitations that is able to improve symptoms in at least 26 chronic conditions,
      including OA, HF, CHD, hypertension, T2DM, COPD and depression is readily available. This
      treatment is exercise therapy, which is effective, safe and supported by substantial evidence
      in patients with knee and hip OA, HF and CHD, hypertension, T2DM, COPD, depression and a
      range of other chronic conditions. A new systematic review found that exercise seems
      effective in people with multimorbidity (the conditions included in the current study),
      however highlighting the need for further high-quality RCTs. Furthermore, self-management is
      increasingly recognized as an essential component of interventions to improve outcomes in
      patients living with multimorbidity. There is increasing evidence that effective management
      of multimorbidity requires the active participation by patients in the care process.
      Self-management interventions have been shown to change health behaviors, improve health
      status, and reduce health care utilization and costs. Self-management support is centered on
      enabling patients to develop a set of behavioral skills and abilities to help them navigate a
      range of disease management tasks across different chronic conditions.

      In an RCT of people with knee OA, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, we found
      that 3 out of 4 patients eligible for total knee replacement improved enough from
      self-management, supervised exercise therapy and other non-surgical treatments to postpone
      surgery for at least one year. Furthermore, in patients with T2DM, 56% did not take
      antidiabetic medication after 1 year of supervised exercise therapy, self-management and
      diet. Together, these studies indicate the potential of combining exercise, self-management
      and other treatments to reduce the need for surgery and medication. A recent cohort study
      found that an eight-week exercise and self-management program demonstrated similar
      improvements in health outcomes for people with OA and the comorbidities included in the
      current study as for people without comorbidities.

      Altogether, this highlights exercise therapy and self-management as viable treatment options
      for people with multimorbidity, but the evidence supporting this is of low quality and more
      high-quality RCTs are needed to improve care for the millions of people suffering from
      multimorbidity worldwide.

      The overall aim of the MOBILIZE project is to empower patients with multimorbidity to take a
      more active role in their health care through a personalized exercise therapy and
      self-management program so that they may reduce symptoms of the individual conditions,
      increase quality of life and physical function and prevent development of other chronic
      conditions. To ensure relevance to the patients and the health care system and to make sure
      that the project is implementable in clinical practice afterwards, strong interdisciplinary
      collaboration involving many different scientific methodologies and a high degree of patient
      involvement throughout the entire research process are at the heart of the project. The
      MOBILIZE project has received funding from several foundations, including the European
      Research Council (ERC) under the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation
      program (grant agreement No 801790). Building on the Medical Research Council's framework for
      the development and evaluation of complex interventions, the MOBILIZE project has four
      phases. During the first phase of the project, outcomes and biomarkers that predict better
      health outcome from different types of exercise therapy and exercise characteristics
      associated with a better outcome in people with different combinations of chronic conditions
      will be identified through exploratory observational cohort studies of people with
      osteoarthritis who have undergone an 8-week exercise therapy and education program in Denmark
      (GLA:D) as well as scoping reviews, systematic reviews and meta-analyses that summarize the
      existing evidence. Subsequently, in phase 2, a 12-week exercise therapy and self-management
      program will be developed based on existing recommendations for exercise and strategies to
      facilitate behavioral changes. To ensure a high degree of patient and provider involvement,
      focus group interviews will be conducted with patients with multimorbidity, health care
      providers and other relevant stakeholders to acquire their views and perspectives on
      multimorbidity and exercise. Once this phase is completed, the exercise therapy and
      self-management program will be tested in a feasibility trial involving 20 patients with
      multimorbidity (recruited from Feb 2021 and onwards). The same procedures and outcomes as in
      the subsequent RCT will be used, and data will be collected at baseline and immediately after
      the intervention (12 weeks). The feasibility trial will primarily focus on feasibility
      outcomes (recruitment, retention, adherence to treatment, burden of outcomes, improvements in
      outcomes, adverse events), using a red/amber/green traffic light system, guiding the
      progression to the subsequent RCT. Experiences from the feasibility trial will be used to
      evaluate and implement any adjustments that need to be made prior to commencing the RCT
      (described in details in the current trial registration). The RCT corresponds to phase 3,
      while phase 4 focuses on developing a model for implementation of the personalized exercise
      therapy and self-management program in clinical practice, if supported by the study findings.

      The aim of the RCT described in this clinical trial registration is to investigate the
      effects of a personalized exercise therapy and self-management program in addition to usual
      care on self-reported, objectively measured and physiological outcomes in people with
      multimorbidity (i.e. at least two of the following conditions: OA (knee or hip), heart
      condition (HF or CHD), hypertension, T2DM, COPD and depression). The primary endpoint is 12
      weeks, but 6-month and 12-month follow-ups are included to investigate the medium and long
      term and health economic effects of the program.

      The primary study hypothesis is that a personalized exercise therapy and self-management
      program in addition to usual care will improve quality of life and physical function more
      than usual care alone, when measured immediately after the program (12 weeks) with concurrent
      positive effects on secondary outcomes. Furthermore, it is hypothesized that improvements
      immediately after the program (12 weeks) will be sustained in the medium and long term (6 and
      12 months) and that the program will be cost-effective.

      People who only fulfill some of the eligibility criteria (at least 18 years old, at least two
      of the relevant conditions and do not have an unstable health condition or are at risk of
      serious adverse events as evaluated by a medical specialist and do not have psychosis
      disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder, Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, attention deficit
      hyperactivity disorder, autism, anorexia nervosa/bulimia nervosa or an abuse) and people
      fulfilling all eligibility criteria, but are unwilling to participate in the RCT, will be
      offered participation in an observational cohort study where only the self-reported outcomes
      are completed. Recruitment for the cohort will start and end with the recruitment for the
      RCT.
    
  