
    
      Aim of this study

      The aim of this study is to assess the factors that are related to readmission and mortality
      of COPD patients in Hong Kong.

      Method

      This is a prospective observational study of patients. Patients who are admitted to the
      participating hospital with acute exacerbations of COPD (AECOPD) will be recruited. AECOPD
      was defined as occurring when a patient with background COPD11, with FEV1/FVC ratio <70%,
      presented with at least two major symptoms (increased dyspnea, increased sputum purulence, or
      increased sputum volume), or one major and one minor symptom (nasal discharge/congestion,
      wheeze, sore throat, or cough) for at least 2 consecutive days. Written informed consent will
      be obtained from each subject.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Subjects with a diagnosis of COPD according to the Global Initiative for chronic
           Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) Guideline16 with previous spirometry showing FEV1/FVC
           ratio of <0.70 with an AECOPD will be recruited for this study.

        2. Age ≥40 years

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Subjects who have been diagnosed with asthma, bronchiectasis or other chronic lung
           disease apart from COPD will be excluded

        2. Patients with history of lung resection

      4. Those who are unable to give consent Baseline assessments

        1. Baseline assessments will be performed at 6-8 weeks after the AECOPD when the patients
           are at their stable state.

        2. Demographic data including age, sex, body weight, height, smoking history, social
           history and medication usage, co-morbidities and any home oxygen or non-invasive
           positive pressure ventilation (NPPV) usage will be collected. Number of hospitalizations
           and accident and emergency department attendance in the past 12 month will be recorded.
           Any history of intubation or acute NPPV usage will be noted also.

        3. American Thoracic Society (ATS) respiratory questionnaire17 will be asked.

        4. Spirometry will be performed using the MICROLAB 3300 spirometer (Micro Medical, Kent,
           UK) in a sitting position, according to the ATS/European Respiratory Society (ERS)
           standards.18 Both pre- and post-bronchodilator (20 min after inhaling 400 mg of
           salbultamol [Ventolin; GlaxoSmithKline, E´ vreux, France] through a 500 mL spacer) tests
           will be performed. The updated predicted spirometric values for the Hong Kong Chinese
           were used.

        5. Six min walk test will be performed according to the ATS guideline.

        6. Modified Medical Research Council dyspnoea scale (MMRC)21 will be assessed.

        7. St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ)22 and medical outcomes short form 36
           questionnaire (SF-36) 23 will be administered to all subjects.

        8. Depression score

        9. Blood saved for inflammatory markers analyses

      Subsequent assessment:

      Subjects will be reassessed every 12 months for repeat spirometry, 6 minute walk test, MMRC,
      SGRQ and SF-36 score for a total of 3 years. All hospitalizations, scheduled and unscheduled
      clinic visits in the subsequent 36 months after the baseline assessment will be recorded by
      asking the patient and with verification of their computer medical records. Any mortality
      (and the cause) will also be recorded.

      Sample size:

      This is a prospective observational study with primary aim to assess factors related to
      readmission and mortality of COPD patients in Hong Kong. We believe a sample size of 800
      would be able to give us some meaningful data.

      Data analysis:

      Data will be analyzed by the Statistical Package of the Social Science (SPSS) Statistical
      software for Window, Version 17.0 (SPSS Inc, IL, USA). Descriptive statistics will be used
      and data will be presented as mean (SD) or median (IQR) as appropriate. Chi-square test,
      t-test, Mann-Whitney U test will be used to compare the clinical parameters of COPD patients
      with the different disease severities as appropriate. A p value of < 0.05 will be considered
      to be significant.
    
  