
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the cytostatic, anti-tumor activity of Gleevec (Imatinib Mesylate) through the
      probability of surviving progression-free for at least 6 months in patients with recurrent or
      persistent epithelial ovarian or primary peritoneal carcinoma receiving Gleevec.

      II. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse effects of Gleevec in this cohort of
      patients as assessed by CTC.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the distribution of the overall survival. II. To determine the distribution
      of progression-free survival. III. To estimate the clinical response rate (partial and
      complete response as defined under the RECIST criteria).

      IV. To assess the effects of prognostic variables: initial performance status, platinum
      sensitivity, and mucinous (or clear cell) histology).

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the levels of expression of c-KIT and its ligand, stem cell factor (SCF) in
      archived, formalin fixed, paraffin embedded primary tumors collected prior to the initiation
      of first-line chemotherapy.

      II. To determine the levels of expression of platelet derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR)
      and its ligand PDGF in archived, formalin fixed, paraffin embedded primary tumors collected
      prior to the initiation of first-line chemotherapy.

      III. To determine the levels of expression of AKT2 and its activated form, phospho-AKT2, in
      archived, formalin fixed, paraffin embedded primary tumors collected prior to the initiation
      of first-line chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive oral imatinib mesylate twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.
    
  