
    
      This study will involve secondary data analysis for a study done by Wylie-Rosett et al. in
      2001. Using a 3-arm, 12-month randomized clinical trial, Wylie-Rosett et al. evaluated the
      costs and effects of incremental components of a weight-loss program. The study included 588
      individuals (BMI> 25 kg/m2) in a freestanding health maintenance organization and achieved an
      81% completion rate. The intervention used a cognitive behavioral approach for tailoring
      lifestyle modification goals. The incremental levels of interventions included a) a workbook
      alone, b) the addition of computerized tailoring using onsite computer kiosks with touch
      screen monitors, and c) the addition of both computers and staff consultations. For the
      increasing levels of intervention intensity, the mean 12-month weight losses were 2.2, 4.7,
      and 7.4 pounds, with the respective cost per participant being $12.33, $41.99, and $133.74.
      The decreases in mean BMIs for these respective intervention levels were 0.4, 0.9, and 1.2.
      All groups reported a decrease in energy and fat intake and an increase in blocks walked
      (p<.01). Intervention variables that correlated with weight loss included more computer
      logons, achieving computer-selected goals, more self-monitoring, increased walking, and
      decreased energy and fat intake, as well as higher attendance in staff consultation group
      sessions for that treatment condition. Weight loss correlated with decreases in fasting
      glucose and blood pressure. Wylie-Rosett et al. (2001) concluded that, in a weight-loss
      program, computers can facilitate selecting behavioral change goals. More frequent usage
      resulted in greater weight loss, and staff counseling to augment the computer intervention
      achieved the most weight loss. The purpose of this study will be secondary analysis of the
      data collected in the original MODELS study.
    
  