
    
      As the baby boom population ages, a large number of older adults have found that continuing
      care retirement communities (CCRCs) offer an attractive residential option. These communities
      include independent apartments, assisted living and skilled nursing options and often provide
      a menu of wellness services and a "safety net" of higher level care if/when that care is
      needed. CCRCs have proliferated in recent years and the number of older adults selecting this
      residential option is expected to continue. CCRCs represent a largely untapped provider
      setting in which interventions that have been proven effective in clinically-oriented,
      controlled studies of community-dwelling elderly can be translated into practice.

      Multiple randomized studies have shown the benefits of physical activity interventions such
      as resistance and endurance exercises on a number of performance measures including walking
      speed, balance and ability to stand from a chair. These studies have shown that if given an
      exercise program matched to their needs, the onset and progression of disability can be
      decreased among persons who are identified at high risk of disability. However, most data
      supporting the beneficial effect of exercise in old age have been generated from studies
      conducted in highly controlled clinical trial settings, not in "real world" provider settings
      in which older adults live and function day-to-day. Thus, it is not known if screening for
      disability and implementing an exercise program among high risk elders can be effectively
      implemented in residential settings in a manner that not only promotes health and prevents
      disability, but that is also attractive to providers from a business standpoint and that can
      be incorporated into typical staffing patterns.

      The American Association of Homes & Services for the Aging (AAHSA) is conducting a trial that
      builds on a strong evidence base of the beneficial effect of exercise in old age in an effort
      to accelerate translation of research into practice in CCRCs. The trial will screen CCRC
      residents for disability using a short set of performance measures called the Short Physical
      Performance Battery (SPPB). After identification of persons at risk for disability, we will
      enroll 320 CCRC residents to a program of moderate exercise or an active control arm focused
      on general wellness. The primary study endpoint is the SPPB score. Secondary endpoints
      include falls; hospitalizations, and death.

      A key feature of the current proposal is that it seeks to extend findings from clinical
      studies into routine practice in the CCRC setting. This represents true translation of
      research into practice, and will offer providers an evidence base upon which to make informed
      decisions.

      The trial will take place in 8 CCRCs operated by the Good Samaritan Society, the largest
      nonprofit provider of services to older adults in the country. Because of its large size and
      existing dissemination capacity, Good Samaritan is in a unique position to take a leadership
      role among aging services providers in terms of dissemination of effective, innovative
      programs in diverse residential settings, including CCRCs.
    
  