
    
      Atezolizumab will be administered intravenously (iv) at a dose of 1200 mg over 60 minutes on
      day 1 of each cycle. The subsequent cycles of atezolizumab can be administered over 30
      minutes, if there were no infusion-related toxicities. Pemetrexed will be administered at a
      dose of 500 mg/m2 iv over 15 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. In addition, folic acid, vitamin
      B12, and dexamethasone 4mg bid will be administered one day before and after pemetrexed
      treatment. Carboplatin will be administered at a dose with an area under the curve of 5 over
      30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle approximately 30 minutes after the end of the pemetrexed
      infusion. After completing 4 to 6 cycles of carboplatin plus pemetrexed and atezolizumab,
      patients will continue with pemetrexed in combination with atezolizumab until unacceptable
      toxicity, disease progression, patient/physician decision or completion of 2 years of
      therapy.

      Tumor measurements by CT scan (systemic response) and brain MRI (intracranial response) will
      be performed every 6 weeks until the 12th week and thereafter every 9 weeks until disease
      progression. In case of brain progression, rescue with brain radiotherapy should be
      considered. In case of exclusive brain progression, patients are allowed to receive brain
      radiotherapy (WBRT or SRS) and then continue with study therapy if the patients maintain
      clinical benefit and appropriate performance status (ECOG PS≤2).Immunotherapy should be
      started no later than 4 weeks after completing radiation therapy (brain radiotherapy 2 weeks
      + 4 weeks of recovery from potential acute toxicity). In case of systemic progression without
      brain progression, a novel line of systemic treatment should be considered. Patients
      experiencing systemic progression and/or brain progression will be followed and two
      post-progression visits will be performed at 30 and 90 days.

      Response will be assessed independently in the brain and systemically: systemic response will
      be evaluated according to RECIST v1.1 and brain response according to the RANO response
      assessment criteria for BM (RANO-BM). Adverse events will be assessed throughout and assessed
      using the CTCAE version 4.03. EORTC quality of life questionnaire EORTC C30 and the
      submodules QLQ-LC13 and BN20 will be assessed in the ITT population at baseline, cycle 5
      (week 12),cycle 9 (week 24), at end of study treatment (30 and 90 days) and/or at disease
      progression. Periodic evaluations of the trial data will be conducted by an independent DMC
      to ensure subject safety and to evaluate the efficacy at the interim analyses. Neurocognitive
      assessment including the standardized neuropsychological tests: Hopkins Verbal Learning Test
      (HVLT), Trail Making Test (TMT), Rey-Osterrieth complex figure test (ROCF) and Controlled
      Oral Word Association Test (COWA) will be assessed at baseline cycle 5 (week 12),cycle 9
      (week 24), at end of study treatment (30 and 90 days) and/or at disease progression.
    
  