
    
      Introduction:

      Current medical literature reveals that the life expectancy after cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation (CPR) for out of hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is 6.7-9.6%.1,2 The hypoxic
      process, also referred to as post-resuscitation encephalopathy (PRE), is a major factor
      affecting the neurological outcome following return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC).3 Many
      studies, aiming the early prediction of the neurological outcome via vital signs, scoring
      systems, various biochemical markers and imaging techniques exist in literature.1-8 Optic
      nerve is a part of central nervous system and its posterior part is covered with dura mater.
      Studies have found that, elevations in intracranial pressure (ICP) resulted in elevated
      subarachnoid fluid pressure, leading to increased optic nerve sheath diameter (ONSD).9
      Bedside USG measurements of ONSD are reported to be utilizable for evaluation of ICP.9,10

      Aim of the study:

      The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the relationship of bedside USG measurements of
      ONSD following the ROSC after CPR for OHCA patients, with early (3rd day) neurological
      evaluation and 30 days survival rate, proposing that increased ONSD may be related to
      negative neurological outcomes. Considering a relationship is found, the secondary goals of
      the study are established as, identifying a cut-off value for ONSD related to negative
      neurological outcome and the optimal time to measure ONSD.

      Material and Methods:

      This study is designed as a multicenter, prospective, cohort clinical study. The Utstein
      Templates for Resuscitation Registries are used for OHCA records.11 The associate researchers
      are demanded to have an experience of at least 5 years in USG use and be certified by the
      Emergency Medicine Association of Turkey (EMAT) for participating and/or being a faculty in
      the Emergency USG courses on ONSD evaluation, by the EMAT USG study group (EMATUS), which
      organizes planned USG courses for Emergency Physicians. A one-day education to standardize
      the researchers of the study, with theoretical and implementation sections are planned to be
      held by the authors of the study, regarding the methodology of the study and standardization
      of the USG techniques for ONSD measurements. In the implementation section, the researchers
      will perform ONSD measurements with ocular USG on healthy volunteers and the reliability
      among performers will be measured with Interclass Correlation test.

      This study will be performed in the adult emergency departments of the participating
      hospitals, after the ethics committee approval. The OHCA patients presenting to the adult
      emergency departments of the participating hospitals will render the study population. The
      non-traumatic, non-intracranial event related OHCA patients in whom the ROSC is achieved will
      render the sampling group. The sampling size with a power of 95% is calculated to be 203
      patients. The patients whose available next of kin has given consent will be admitted to the
      study.

      All patients will receive standardized advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) measures in line
      with the most recent American Heart Association (AHA) guidelines by emergency department
      teams, uncommitted to the study. Following the ROSC, a time period of 20 minutes is
      determined in order to appropriate tissue perfusion to be stated, with a systolic blood
      pressure ≥90 mmHg or mean arterial pressure ≥65 mmHg and peripheral capillary saturation
      ≥94%.14 ONSD measurements will be performed in patients who had uninterrupted ROSC for 20
      minutes with bedside USG and the time between the achievement of ROSC and the measurement
      will be recorded. The routine care plan of the patients will not be manipulated. In case the
      clinician decides that a cranial computed tomography (CT) is indicated according to routine
      practices and current guidelines, a copy of the CT images will be taken to investigate the
      presence of an intracranial mass leading to increased ICP.

      The neurologic evaluation of the patients in the study group will be performed in three
      steps. Primary neurological evaluation will be performed following the achievement of
      appropriate tissue perfusion after ROSC, prior to any sedative or paralyzing drug
      application. This step is about identifying and recording the alertness, presence of
      activity, and the level of motor response, brain stem reflexes and myoclonic status
      epilepticus. The second neurological evaluation will take place after the 72nd hour following
      the ROSC. The alertness, presence of spontaneous motor activity, and the level of motor
      response, brain stem reflexes and myoclonic status epilepticus will also be identified and
      recorded in the second step, as well. The third evaluation will be the evaluation of
      neurological final outcome at 30th day or hospital discharge, utilizing the Modified Rankin
      Scale (MRS).

      Statistical Package for the Social Sciences 22.0 for Windows will be used for statistical
      analysis. Descriptive statistical values will be presented as quantity and percentiles for
      categorical variables and as mean and standard deviation for numerical variables. Comparisons
      of numerical variables between two independent groups will be performed by Student-t Test if
      normal distribution is obtained and by Mann-Whitney U test if it is not obtained. The
      differences between the mean values of categorical variables of two independent groups will
      be tested with Chi-Square analysis. The relationships between the numerical variables will be
      reviewed with Pearson Correlation analysis under parametric test conditions, and Spearman
      Correlation Analysis under non-parametric test conditions. The appropriateness of four
      separately measures ONSD values will be evaluated with concordance correlation coefficient
      measurement. The cut-off value will be determined with Receiver Operating Characteristics
      Curve Analysis. The statistical alpha significance level will be accepted as p<0.05.
    
  