
    
      The aim of the project is the testing and research of the impact on metabolism using the
      approved bariatric method AspireAssist, which is currently used in the adult population. The
      method has been approved by FDA since 2016. The method involves the introduction of
      percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) that allows the aspiration of a portion of the food
      and the control of the size and volume of the food received, even in the unmanaged size and
      volume of food intake.

      Potential participants of the study will undergo an initial examination at the clinical
      department of pediatric medicine specializing in obesitology at the Vítkovice Hospital
      Ostrava a.s. In addition to a pediatric and internal examination, a potential patient will be
      examined by a clinical psychologist for the ability to participate in such a type of study on
      a long-term basis, and will further assess the degree of patient support and co-operation.
      Selected participants in the study or their family members will receive informed consent. A
      study participant is considered to be a participant in the study after consent to his / her
      inclusion in the study after the informed consent has been signed. The AspireAssist
      aspiration device is the definitive participation in the study.

      Two parts will be monitored within the project. (1) Safety and efficacy will be assessed
      first in young obese patients for whom the use of bariatric methods is still a question of
      discussion, especially in surgical methods. (2) The second objective is to monitor the
      saccharide and lipid metabolism, GI hormones and also the impact of the AspireAssist method
      on the nutritional status of the adolescents studied.

      The patients enrolled in the study are followed for the period of twelve months.

      Timetable of the study procedures and controls:

      Preoperative examination:

        -  Demographic data on age, sex, weight, height, smoking

        -  Assessment of body composition and sampling of blood

        -  Questionnaires for the quality of Life Examination 3 months postoperatively

        -  Assessment of body composition and sampling of blood

        -  Questionnaires for the quality of Life Examination 6 months after surgery

        -  Assessment of body composition and sampling of blood

        -  Questionnaires for the quality of Life Examination 12 months after surgery

        -  Assessment of body composition and sampling of blood

        -  Questionnaires for the quality of Life

      Statistical data processing for statistical evaluation descriptive statistics is used
      (arithmetical average, standard deflection, frequency tables), X2 test, Fisher's exact test,
      analysis of variance (ANOVA), calculating of the OR (odds ratio) with 95 % confidence
      intervals, and logistic regression. Statistical tests are evaluated at the significance level
      of 5%. Statistical analysis is performed in the "Stata 10" programme. Program EpiData is used
      for data collection.
    
  