
    
      Prostate cancer is very common and results in the death of many men in the developed world.
      Prostate cancer that has not spread outside the prostate can usually be cured by surgical
      removal of the prostate gland (radical prostatectomy).

      Radical Prostatectomy can be associated with urinary incontinence due to damage to the
      involuntary sphincter and erectile dysfunction due to damage of the nerves that run within
      the outer coverings of the prostate. Surgical sparing of these nerves to preserve quality of
      life may risk leaving cancer cells behind often meaning that the patients need extra
      treatment with radiotherapy. This trial is designed to evaluate a new method designed to
      decrease the risk of compromising cancer control associated with sparing of the nerves as
      well as evaluate effects on the need for radiotherapy after surgery if cancer is left behind.
      The Investigators will also evaluate effects on the quality of life in patients who have
      undergone RALP. The trial is needed now because the nature of prostate cancers treated
      surgically is changing rapidly. The techniques developed in low risk cancer to spare the
      nerves which run alongside the prostate, may not necessarily be safe when used on the more
      aggressive cancers operated on nowadays and if they are adopted without adequate
      investigation, the risk is that patients will be exposed to increased risk of cancer
      recurrence and needing extra treatment with radiotherapy with consequent side effects and
      extra cost to the NHS.

      On the outside of the prostate, within its outermost coverings, run the nerves thought to be
      responsible for producing erections. Preservation of these nerves has also been linked to
      more rapid reestablishment of urinary continence following surgical removal of the prostate.
      Robotic technology has been developed which allows the prostate to be removed through very
      small incisions. The surgeons view is magnified in 3D, which facilitates the peeling off of
      the outer layers, containing the nerves (so called nerve sparing). With nerve sparing the
      nerves controlling erections are left intact whilst the prostate itself, along with the
      cancer within it, is removed.

      This increases the patient's chances of getting erections of sufficient quality for
      penetrative sex. Data from several case series, including our own, suggest that the higher
      the degree of nerve sparing performed, the more likely a patient is to be potent and
      continent of urine. In our series, bilateral nerve sparing results in 85% of men being able
      to get usable erections*, whereas only 45% of men will have useable erections* when only one
      side is spared.

      Nerve sparing has largely been developed and the effects have been evaluated in the USA where
      prostate cancer is detected at an earlier stage because PSA screening is performed commonly.
      In the UK, where PSA screening is not commonly carried out, tumours resected at surgery are
      larger and more aggressive, often having spread through the capsule of the prostate. In
      addition, the move away from surgery for small low-grade tumours in the UK means that the
      prostate cancers treated by surgery are larger and more aggressive overall. This means that
      the tumours are closer to the outer limit of the prostate because the more aggressive tumours
      tend to work their way out through the outer capsule of the prostate. A nerve sparing
      approach is associated with an increased risk that tumour will be left on the surface of the
      resected specimen. This is referred to as a positive surgical margin (PSM). One of the
      principles of (radical) cancer surgery is that cancerous tissue should be removed with a
      covering of non-cancerous tissue to give the best chance of cure (a so called negative or
      clear surgical margin). Positive surgical margins are associated with an increased chance of
      recurrence following surgery and require further treatment, usually with radiotherapy, which
      is expensive and engenders its own side effects. The investigators plan to evaluate the use
      of a modified version of a frozen section technique called NeuroSAFE in promoting nerve
      sparing without diminishing the oncological effects of surgery by generating PSMs. During
      this frozen section technique, once the prostate is removed, the areas of prostate adjacent
      to the spared nerves are sliced from the surgical specimen and rapidly frozen and stained so
      that they can be examined carefully by a pathologist. If the pathologist identifies a
      positive surgical margin, the spared nervous tissue on that side will be surgically resected
      before the patient is woken up at the end of the operation. When this is done the cancer
      behaves as if it had been resected with a negative surgical margin at the outset. Frozen
      section analysis does not add much time to the surgical procedure, as once the prostate is
      removed, the rest of the operation (joining the bladder to the urethra and removing pelvic
      lymph nodes) can proceed whilst the frozen section analysis is performed. Patients enrolled
      to the trial will be randomised between A) standard UK nerve sparing practice, wherein the
      degree to which the nerves can be spared is determined by the operating surgeon based on
      clinical examination, biopsy results and multi-parametric MRI and B) bilateral nerve sparing
      with frozen section analysis.

      The Trial team recently surveyed UK robotic prostatectomists and confirm that currently UK
      surgeons predominately rely on MRI, biopsy and Digital Rectal Exam (DRE) findings to
      determine whether they can spare nerves, but that there is little consistency in the means by
      which a surgeon decides whether or not they can spare nerves in a particular case. Our survey
      tells us that UK surgeons do not use frozen section to direct nerve sparing with only 5% of
      UK prostatectomists ever having used it at all.

      What are the potential outcomes of this research? This trial will provide a thorough
      evaluation of a new technique designed to minimise the occurrence of PSM and exposure to
      extra treatment or cancer recurrence. It will generate vital data regarding the cost/benefit
      of using this procedure. The relationship between the degree and frequency of nerve sparing
      on quality of life will be evaluated in terms of sexual potency and urinary continence in UK
      patients undergoing RALP. The assessment of these functions will include patient reported
      outcomes.

      * At 2 years following surgery using Viagra or an equivalent PDE5i.
    
  