
    
      Cesarean delivery (CD) is one of the most currently practiced surgeries in the world. In
      2013, surgical deliveries represented 32.4% of births in the United States and 26.9% in
      Canada. Maternal hypotension is a frequent adverse event during CD under spinal anesthesia
      and can be detrimental to the fetus and mother. Many means have been studied to decrease the
      incidence of hypotension in this context such as crystalloid/colloid pre-loading and
      co-loading, vasopressors, and positioning.

      Aortocaval compression of the inferior vena cava (IVC) by the gravid uterus is a major
      contributor to this hypotension and many positions on the operating table have been
      researched to decrease its influence.Current recommendations for term women undergoing
      cesarean delivery include left lateral 15 degree tilt in order to reduce aortocaval
      compression which may cause maternal hypotension and fetal compromise. However, a recent
      meta-analysis did not show conclusive evidence to favour the tilted versus the supine
      position. This is probably due to a compensatory mechanism involving venoconstriction of the
      lower limbs, raising venous pressure and causing flow through collateral channels. Supine
      hypotensive syndrome with clinically significant effects occurs in 8-10% of women at term,
      possibly due to less compensatory mechanisms.

      Respiratory variations of the IVC diameter measured by an ultrasound may determine the best
      position on the operating table for term parturients during cesarean delivery. Large
      variations of IVC diameter during expiration and inspiration have been shown to be related to
      hypotension in non-pregnant patients.

      The primary objective of our project is to compare the collapsibility index of the inferior
      vena cava during elective cesarean delivery after the administration of spinal anesthesia
      with a phenylephrine infusion. Each participant will be their own control.

      20 patients scheduled for elective cesarean delivery will be included. Each participant will
      be her own control for the ultrasound measurements of the inferior vena cava, with and
      without a tilt before and after spinal anesthesia with a phenylephrine infusion. A
      transcutaneous oximetry monitor (NIRS) will be used in order to measure the upper versus
      lower body saturation difference. The newborn Apgar score and umbilical cord pH will be
      noted.
    
  