
    
      Background: Sarcopenia is defined as an abnormal loss of muscle mass and strength. Declines
      in muscle mass and strength are expected with aging, but physical inactivity and low protein
      intake have been suggested as risk factors of sarcopenia. Recently, Taiwan is known as the
      fastest-aging nation in the world, and the prevalence of sarcopenia has been reported as
      3.9-7.3%; even more 9-64% in Dr. Chen's study. So far, lifestyle interventions, especially
      exercise and nutritional supplementation, prevail as mainstays of treatment for sarcopenia.

      Objective: To explore the effect and benefits of protein supplementation on the improvement
      of muscle mass and physical performance in older people with sarcopenia.

      Study design: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial which will be
      conducted between September and November, 2020.

      Participants: The study will be conducted in Keelung, Taiwan. A total of 9 day-care centers,
      including 180 over 65 years of residents, will be invited to participate the study via
      telephone calls.

      Eligible participants will be invited to attend this randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, 2-parallel-groups trial, and will be randomly assigned to the
      experimental and control groups with 1:1 ratio.

      Intervention: The intervention period will be 12 weeks. The control group will receive 150c.c
      placebo oat drink (1.5g protein, 0.5g fat, 0.1g carbohydrate each pack, Zhan Xuan Co. Ltd.,
      Taiwan) per day, five days per week, while the experimental group will receive 150c.c protein
      supplementation drink (14g protein, 0.6g fat, 7g carbohydrate, 4.4 g BCAA , 2.4g glutamate,
      0.5g arginine and 0.4g taurine each pack, Affix Health, Taiwan Branch) per day, five days per
      week.

      Supplementation in the experimental group contains 90 kcal/d and the placebo oat drink
      contains 8.3kcal/d. Participants in the control group will be asked to maintain participants'
      usual diet and physical activity. There are 3 time-points to measure outcomes and observe
      other required information, at week 0(baseline), 6 and 12.

      Sample size calculation: Referring to the setting in a published paper that gave a sample
      size of 30 participants/group, a sample size of 40 participants in each group is considered
      in the study, by considering potential dropouts.

      Random assignment and blinding: An independent external researcher prepared a computer
      generated cluster random sampling. After random assignment, the external researcher newly
      assigned a subject ID to each participant. All other study personnel and participants
      remained blinded to the identity codes throughout the course of the study. When participants
      withdrew from or completed the study, researchers were provided with the participants'
      identities, and the participants were told what supplement participants had received.

      Ethical approval: The study was approved by Taipei Hospital Human Trial Committee of the
      Ministry of Health and Welfare. All participants were assured that data collected from
      participants would be strictly conﬁdential, and the physical condition and safety were given
      priority. Investigators conducted intervention only after obtaining participants ethical
      approval (registration number: TH-IRB-00190046). Anyone who feel uncomfortable during the
      study will be allowed to quit immediately with no any restriction.

      Study measurement: Kihon Checklist, MNA, GDS-SF, SPPB, IADL, MMSE, handgrip, 6m gait speed,
      (SMI), SF-12 questionnaire and Tw-FROP-Com.

      Statistical methods: Statistical analysis was conducted using the IBM SPSS software (version
      22, IBM Corporation, New York, NY). An intention-to-treat analysis was performed. (1)
      Descriptive statistics: describe the distribution of category variables by number and
      percentage, and the mean and standard deviations describe the distribution of continuous
      variables. (2) Inference statistics: chi-square: to verify whether the pre-measured category
      variants between the experimental group and the control group are homogeneous. ANOVA: Check
      whether the continuous variables measured between the experimental group and the control
      group are homogeneous. Generalized estimating equations (GEE) with interactions of time and
      group in the models will be conducted to evaluate the intervention effect. A two-sided
      p-value < 0.05 is considered statistically signiﬁcant.
    
  