
    
      Consent will be administered by trained study physicians-each subject will be given the
      opportunity to read the IRB approved consent form and ask questions before being enrolled in
      the study. Consenting investigating physicians are all licensed medical doctors in the state
      of California and will be instructed to determine that the subject is competent before
      obtaining consent. After questions and concerns are answered, the patient will sign and date
      the consent form. This process will be witnessed, signed and dated by one of the clinic staff
      as well as the investigator.

      This is a non-blinded study without a placebo group. The investigators will randomize subject
      assignment to two cohorts with opposing intervention order.

      Subject confidentiality will be maintained by all staff. The LLUH Research Protections HIPPA
      form will be utilized to inform and gain consent of the subject. Data will be maintained in a
      locked department, in a locked office and in a locked cabinet. All electronic data will be
      stored on the LLUH network and servers.

      Study Design

      Background/Rationale for Study:

      The trial is designed to investigate the efficacy and safety of a novel personalized oxygen
      delivery device called the "Right Dose System" (RDS) compared to standard prescription of
      oxygen, and current oxygen delivery devices during exercise. As an individual's oxygen needs
      vary according to their level of activity, RDS would provide an individualized tailored pulse
      of oxygen to meet the demand of each individual patient while maintaining the appropriate
      oxygen saturation.

      Objectives:

      To compare RDS to the standard flow of oxygen on current prescription in patients who require
      supplemental oxygen during rest and exercise. This is a non-blinded, cross-over study with
      1:1 randomization to either intervention A then B, or B then A. It will ascertain the
      feasibility of this novel oxygen conservation device in maintaining oxygenation saturations
      during exercise. The goal of the study is to establish proof of concept for this device.

      Research Interventions:

      During exercise the utilization of the right dose system (RDS) will be compared to patient's
      standard oxygen therapy. The study subjects will be enrolled to test 2 different oxygen
      delivery devices (standard oxygen delivery device and RDS with SPO2 measurement).

      Visit 1: Screening & Evaluation Patients will be enrolled in clinic or pulmonary
      rehabilitation. At this time, screening, evaluation and education about the study as well as
      consent and demographics will be performed at: 1) pulmonary clinic at faculty medical offices
      (FMO), 2) Loma Linda University Medical Center pulmonary function testing lab and/or 3) Loma
      Linda University Medical Center pulmonary rehabilitation office.

      Visit 2:

      Two tests evaluating O2 administration with O2 prescription & RDS with active pulse oximetry
      separated by a 30 minute recovery period. Order of intervention will be randomized into 2
      groups: standard O2 therapy followed by RDS, versus RDS followed by standard O2 therapy.

        1. Measuring - exercise time, constant work rate endurance time, SPO2, modified Borg scale
           for perceived exertion and shortness of breath.

        2. The second end point will be how much mean O2 delivered/minute (because patients may be
           able to exercise much longer on the RDS)

      Investigational Device:

        -  Name of device: Right Dose System

        -  Manufacturer: Smart Oxygen

        -  Status with Food & Drug Administration, ID#: Pending Class 2, 5-10K predicate meeting

        -  Review of animal studies & previous human studies: None

        -  Reported adverse effects: None, minimal risk device.

      Data Collection:

      Demographics: Including etiology of hypoxemia, severity of disease process, height, weight,
      age, gender, oxygen prescription, current oxygen delivery device.

      Resting blood pressure Pulse oximetry before, during, and after exercise (using the Masimo
      Radical 7 pulse oximeter, K120657) Comfort level with walking, Perceived Exertion Level
      (modified Borg scale) Resting, exercise and post-exercise Shortness of Breath (modified Borg
      scale) Data Analysis The trial is powered to demonstrate feasibility of RDS in maintaining
      targeted oxygen saturations in hypoxemic patients with exercise.

      Descriptive statistics will be calculated for the baseline variables (demographics,
      objective, and physical measures)-this will include means, SD, and range. Will evaluate the
      differences in oxygenation at the three different levels of activity (rest, low exercise,
      moderate exercise) utilizing the 2 different oxygen delivery systems by repeated measures
      analysis of variance.

      Constant work rate exercise time will be compared between the two groups via paired Student's
      T-Test.

      Will have statistician assistance in providing: 2 variable t-test, ANOVA as will have
      repeated measures.

      Benefits There will be no immediate benefit to subjects.
    
  