
    
      Stroke is a leading cause of serious long-term disability in developed countries, and has an
      enormous emotional and socioeconomic impact on patients, families and, health services.
      Upper-limb impairments and functional problems are, in fact, very common after a stroke.
      Impairments commonly include difficulty moving and co-ordinating the arms, hands and fingers,
      often resulting in difficulty carrying out Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) such as eating,
      dressing and washing. More than half of people with upper-limb impairment after stroke will
      still have difficulties in performing ADLs many months to years after their stroke. Robotic
      rehabilitation systems have the potential to deliver large doses of motor training in a
      cost-effective manner and, although the debate on the efficacy of robotic therapy is still
      open, they are emerging as valid solutions to help stroke survivors in the rehabilitation of
      the upper limb. Recent review of Norouzi-Gheidari shows that the effect of a robotic training
      is comparable to a conventional therapy training of the same length and intensity. A recent
      Cochrane systematic review of Mehrholz included 34 trials (involving 1160 participants)
      showed that electromechanical and robot-assisted arm training improved ADLs scores, arm
      function, and arm muscle strength, but the quality of the evidence was low to very low.
      Unfortunately, the mechanisms leading to impairment reduction following the robotic training
      are still unclear. It is known that neuroplasticity plays an important role in the motor
      recovery process of stroke patients and, further, that the patient should be engaged during
      the treatment in order to foster a process similar to motor learning. To promote engagement
      and maximize neuroplasticity, two main methods have been studied in robotic rehabilitation:
      i) the assist-as-needed training paradigm, and ii) the Detection of Patient Intent (DPI)
      method, also called guided force training. The first one, which consists in providing the
      minimal assistance needed to the subject to complete the task required, has shown promising
      results in enhancing the participation to the treatment, especially in medium-high functional
      patients. The DPI method, instead, is based on triggering the movement of the robot using the
      patient's exerted force or induced velocity. In some cases, the DPI method may even exploit
      biomedical signals like EMG or EEG to initiate the given task.

      Besides the modality of interaction between patient and robot, another important feature that
      can determining the success of the therapy is the type of movement proposed. It is known that
      treatments based on purposeful movements show better results in the recovery of the
      upper-limb function than those based on movements without a goal. Therefore, a proper
      rehabilitation program should include high repetition task-oriented movements.

      Unfortunately, the assist-as-need principle and the DPI method are often of little
      applicability in training against gravity, especially in the case of low functioning patients
      with high strength and coordination impairments. In these cases, when the patient is not able
      to control actively the robot, full assistance, based on a rigidly imposed trajectory (path
      and motion law), is the only remaining option in robotic rehabilitation.

      In this preliminary study, an upper-limb rehabilitation program based on robot fully assisted
      (rigidly imposed) goal-oriented movements is presented.

      Aim of this study is to present a novel robotic approach based on fully assisted functional
      movements and to examine the effect of the intervention in terms of motor function
      improvement in subjects with chronic stroke in the short term and at 6-month follow up. A
      preliminary evaluation of the effectiveness of the intervention in improving activity and
      participation in the short term is also performed. Further, the study aims to verify whether
      some instrumental measures (using kinematics, EMG and EEG) may help gain insight into the
      mechanisms leading to improved motor ability following the robotic intervention and can be
      used to predict functional recovery.

      STUDY POPULATION AND DESIGN In this cohort study, a convenience sample of 20 patients with
      mild-to-severe upper-limb impairment (upper-limb Fugl-Meyer scores at baseline: 11/66 to
      61/66 points) 6 months or more poststroke will be enrolled. The study is in 2 phases. A pilot
      trial, involving 10 patients, will aim to verifying the short-term efficacy of the robotic
      intervention in reducing motor impairment. If results will be positive, the study will be
      continued and the sample size will be calculated on statistical basis from the preliminary
      results. The second trial aims to improving the number of patients and to verifying whether
      functional improvements translate into improved activity and participation.

      INTERVENTION The intervention is administered by a trained research therapist via an
      end-effector robot (Pa10-7, Mitsubishi, Japan), which was customized to assist 3D multi-joint
      functional movements against gravity performed at physiological velocity. The robot enables
      the execution of both reaching movements, which in everyday life are used to interact with
      the environment (e.g. reach, grasp, and manipulate objects) and movements taking place in the
      peripersonal space.

      The intervention protocol, identical in the 2 phases of the study, consists in the execution
      of two functional movements, namely the Reaching Movement (RM) against gravity and the
      Hand-to-Mouth Movement (HtMM):

        1. starting with the robot handle just above the thigh, the assisted RM consists in
           compound movements of shoulder flexion and elbow extension getting as far as 90 degrees
           of shoulder flexion and fully extended elbow are reached;

        2. starting with the robot handle just above the thigh, the assisted HtMM consists in
           flexing the elbow (and the shoulder) to positioning the robot-handle in front of the
           mouth. Importantly, the handle is free to rotate and, therefore, the patient has to
           actively (internal/external wrist rotation) put it in the right position, that is with
           its extremity pointing towards the mouth.

      The robot handle paths and velocities are customized on each patient's anthropometric
      measures and residual functional abilities.

      Each session consists in 20 minutes of robot-assisted RM and 20 minutes of robot-assisted
      HtMM. Movements are fully assisted (the robot handle moved along the path with a predefined
      motion law independently of the forces exerted by the patient on the handle) but the patient
      is explicitly asked to participate by trying to follow (slightly anticipate) the moving
      handle. Recalling that both movements are against gravity, in order not to get fatigued, the
      patient is asked to change the level of engagement every 5 movements by alternately relaxing
      during movement and actively participating.

      Rehabilitation consists in a 1-month intervention, 3 sessions a week performed on Monday,
      Wednesday and Friday, for a total of 12 sessions.

      CLINICAL ASSESSMENT Patients are clinically tested at baseline (T0), just after intervention
      (T1) and at 6 months or more after intervention (T2). One trained physical therapist, the
      same for all patients, performs all outcome assessments (pretreatment as well as
      posttreatment and follow up) with the supervision of the patient's referent physician, who
      can double check the clinical tests results even consulting the videos of the patients. To
      minimize biases during post-treatment evaluation, he cannot have access and view the results
      of previous sessions.

      The primary outcome measure is the upper-limb motor function subdomain (sections A-D) of the
      FMA, which comprised 33 items, each scored on a 0, 1, 2 points ordinal scale. The range of
      this scale score, here forward referred to as Upper-Extremity Fugl-Meyer Assessment (UE-FMA),
      is from 0 (no function) to 66 (normal function).

      The secondary outcome measures are the Wolf Motor Function Test (WMFT) and the (MAL), which
      are administered to patients only in the final trial. The WMFT consists of 15 tasks (timed
      single- or multiple-joint motions and functional tasks). The execution of each task is timed
      (WMFT TIME) and rated using a 6-point functional ability scale (WMFT FAS).

      The MAL is a semi-structured interview, which evaluates the Quality of Movement (QOM) and
      Amount of Use (AOU) the patient makes of the affected limb in 30 activities of daily life.

      The following tests are further carried out: 1) The Medical Research Council scale for muscle
      strength (MRC) is used for evaluating the muscles (joint) strength of three targeted
      movements: shoulder abduction, elbow extension and fingers extension. MRC is a 15 points
      scale (5 points for each item); 2) The Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS) is used to assess
      spasticity. Each tested movement is given a 0 to 5 score (0 no spasticity, 1 slight increase
      in muscle tone at end movement, 2 slight increase in muscle tone up to half of the ROM, 3
      more marked increase in muscle tone through most of the ROM, 4 considerable increase in
      muscle tone, 5 affected part rigid in flexion or extension. The tested movement were: wrist
      extension, elbow extension and shoulder abduction, for a total of 15 (negative) points. 3)
      The Clinical Global Impression Scale of severity and improvement is used to evaluating: (a)
      severity of psychopathology from 1 to 7 and (b) change from the initiation of treatment on a
      similar seven-point scale. 4) The Draw a Person Test to assessing the patient's body
      awareness and, finally, 5) The Nasa-Task Load Index is used to assessing the patient's
      physical and mental load during intervention.

      INSTRUMENTAL ASSESSMENT The instrumental evaluation hereafter listed are performed at
      baseline (T0), just after intervention (T1) and at 6 months or more after intervention (T2).
      Acquisitions are carried out during both robot assisted and no-assisted reaching and
      hand-to-mouth movements performed with the more affected limb and no-assisted movements
      performed with the less affected limb.

        1. upper-limb kinematics (6 TVcs, Smart-D, BTS Bioengineering, Italy) and dynamic surface
           EMG (the upper trapezius, the anterior, middle and posterior deltoids, the triceps
           brachii lateral head, the biceps long head, and the brachioradialisn muscles; FreeEMG
           300, BTS Bioengineering, Italy). Range of movements, velocities, normalized jerk and
           coefficient of periodicity are calculated using the method published by Caimmi in 2008.

        2. EEG signals are recorded using a cap providing 64 electrodes positioned according to the
           International 10/10 System; EMG activity is simultaneously recorded from pairs of
           Ag/AgCl surface electrodes placed bilaterally 2-3 cm apart over the deltoid anterior and
           the triceps muscles during reaching, and biceps and the brachioradialis muscles during
           the hand-to-mouth movement. The EEG and EMG data are acquired using a Neuroscan system
           at a sampling frequency of 512 Hz (band-pass filters: 1-200 Hz). Event Related
           Desynchronization/Synchronization (ERD/ERS) analysis is performed to quantify the
           movement related power change of the EEG oscillatory activity in alpha and beta bands
           over the premotor and primary sensorimotor areas.

      DATA ANALYSIS Based on the primary outcome measure results of the pilot trial, the sample
      size of the study will be computed using the freeware G*Power 3.1.9.2, general statistical
      power analysis program. Comparisons of data between different sessions are performed with the
      Wilcoxon signed-rank test, considering the value of significance at 0.05. Linear regression
      and Pearson's correlation are used to evaluate the relationship between the UE-FMA
      improvement and 1) the age of patients. 2) the time from the stroke, and 3) the calculated
      kinematic quantities. The statistical analysis is performed using WinSTAT® for Microsoft®
      ver.2012.1.0.94.
    
  