
    
      Background:

      Many studies have investigated the epidemiology of asthma in childhood, but most were based
      on data from the general population gathered either in cross-sectional or longitudinal
      surveys in schoolchildren.

      Objectives:

      The Swiss Paediatric Airway Cohort (SPAC) was set up in 2017 as a large, longitudinal
      database that is representative of children and adolescents visiting physicians in
      Switzerland for recurrent wheeze, cough, and exercise- or sleep-related respiratory symptoms.
      It will constitute a national research platform for studying healthcare provision, phenotypes
      and prognosis of these problems, and a sampling frame for conducting nested studies.

      Methods:

      Recruitment and participation:

      The SPAC study recruits patients aged 0-16 that are referred to a paediatric outpatient
      clinic for recurrent respiratory symptoms. Families receive a SPAC information package
      containing an invitation letter, study information leaflet, informed consent form, and
      questionnaire. Physicians introduce the study to them, answer questions, and collect informed
      consent forms. Completed questionnaires are brought by families to the clinics or sent
      directly by families to the SPAC study centre using a prepaid return envelope. Eligible
      patients have consultations in participating clinics regardless of their study participation.
      No tests are performed specifically for SPAC; examinations and tests are done only if
      clinically indicated or ordered by the referring physician. Examinations such as lung
      function, allergy, blood, or bronchial challenge tests are done using respective standard
      procedures in the clinics. SPAC research team members visit participating centres at regular
      intervals to collect data. One year after enrolment in SPAC, caregivers or patients who are
      16 or older will receive a follow-up questionnaire by email, sms, or post.

      Information collected:

      Questionnaires:

      At baseline families complete a detailed questionnaire that includes sections on frequency,
      duration, severity, triggers, and history of upper and lower respiratory symptoms, and
      diagnoses, treatments, health behaviours, environmental factors, family history, and contact
      information.

      The follow-up questionnaires are shorter and focus on symptoms, treatments, and important
      risk factors during the past 12 months. Postal addresses for mailing are obtained from
      hospital records and updated by contacting community registration offices, a procedure used
      successfully for other registries and cohort studies in Switzerland. Questionnaires are
      currently available in German, but will be translated into French and Italian.

      Medical records:

      Information obtained from medical records includes reasons for referral; anthropometric
      measures; results from the physical examination and diagnostic tests including pulmonary
      function, allergy, and blood tests; information about asthma control; and final diagnoses and
      prescribed treatments.

      Linkage to routine data:

      For specific analyses, probabilistic record linkage will be used to merge data from SPAC with
      routine datasets collected by the Swiss Federal Statistical Office.

      Study database:

      The SPAC database is web-based, using the Research Electronic Data Capture (REDCap) platform
      developed at Vanderbilt University. REDCap is widely used in academic research and allows
      data entry and extraction in various formats.

      Current status of the project:

      The first four clinics began recruiting patients in 2017: Lucerne, Bern, Zurich, and Basel.
      Currently, 350 patients are enrolled in the SPAC study.

      Funding:

      Setting up SPAC was funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNF32003B_162820), and
      several local funding bodies including the Lung League of St. Gallen and the Allergiestiftung
      Ulrich Müller-Gierok.
    
  