
    
      Description of Biolight® Therapy and device The therapy works by applying, for each
      indication, a specific combination of pulsating monochromatic light to specific areas of the
      body. The therapy is non-invasive, non-thermal, and based on the effects of pulsed
      monochromatic light in the visible or near-visible spectrum.

      The Biolight® Therapy - mechanism of action Light is a pre-requisite for most living
      organisms, and human being have learnt to use light in many different situations, not least
      in health care, where light is widely used in various therapeutic contexts every day. X-ray
      is used as an investigational tool. In treating skin diseases, such as psoriasis, we use UV
      radiation. Laser has been successful, both in surgery and for pain relief, and white light
      treatment is recommended in seasonal depressions

      Light is in fact electromagnetic radiation using various wavelengths. These wavelengths are
      perceived as different colours. Red and violet light consist of long and shorter wavelength
      respectively. Light consisting of all the wavelengths is perceived as white. There is an
      electromagnetic field in light containing energy, which can be used in different treatment
      situations.

      In the healing process of wounded tissue basal components need access to energy and oxygen.
      If the amount of energy is insufficient, the healing process is retarded. By the use of
      monochromatic light, having a predetermined energy level and a specific wavelength, we can
      contribute to the expected amount of energy demand. Applied at a chosen pulse frequency and
      for a carefully calculated period of time, the wounded cells are provided with energy,
      increasing their activity as well as the oxygen supply in the damaged area. That may promote
      a faster healing.

      The Biolight Therapy is suggested to shorten treatment time and reduce treatment costs and to
      improve quality of life. This non-invasive treatment is thought to be complementary to
      traditional therapies. The method is simple, painless and without known side effects.

      The Biolight Care Device The Biolight® Care Device is a CE-marked medical device certified in
      accordance with the Medical Device Directive (MDD; 93/42/EEC), with the size of the palm of
      the hand.

      The device contains 30 diodes emitting infrared light at 956 nm and also 80 diodes emitting
      red light at 637 nm. Infrared and red pulsed monochromatic light are used in a unique
      triple-stepped sequence. Infrared light, with an irradiance of ~55 W/m2, is combined with red
      light, with an irradiance of ~21 W/m2. Using a duty cycle of 80%, both infrared and red light
      are pulsed at the following frequencies during the first week: infrared/red 78 Hz,
      infrared/red 702 Hz, infrared/red 8572,2Hz and from the second week: infrared/red 15,6 Hz,
      infrared/red 287 Hz, infrared/red124 Hz. The choice of pulse frequencies and wavelengths are
      based on earlier observations in both in-vitro and in-vivo studies. The equipment for both
      monochromatic phototherapy and placebo (no irradiance output from the diodes) is identical in
      appearance.

      Previous studies - light therapy Treatment with pulsed electromagnetic fields for 40 minutes
      improves micro vascular perfusion of the skin (1). In a literature overview from 1965 to 2003
      on low-laser therapy for wound healing, focusing on both in vitro models and in vivo animal
      and human studies, some studies reported increased cell proliferation and collagen
      production; improvements in surgical wound healing were found in a rodent model; and, in
      humans, beneficial effects on superficial wound healing found in small case series have not
      been replicated in larger studies (2). In none of the reviewed studies was the exact
      mechanism of photo thermal, photochemical or photomechanical action, reported.

      The precise mode of action of low-laser therapy on wound healing is still unknown (2). In a
      meta-analytic study of 34 peer-reviewed papers on the efficacy of low-power lasers in tissue
      repair, a positive effect was shown on collagen formation, rate of healing, tensile strength,
      and time needed for wound closure (3). In an experimental study on pressure ulcers in mice, a
      significant positive effect was shown on wound healing after treatment with low-laser therapy
      and this effect was independent of the temperature on the skin surface (4). In a systematic
      review of the effects of low-level laser therapy on wound healing in cell studies and animal
      model experiments by Lucas et al. (5), the 36 included studies contained 49 outcome
      parameters, of which 30 reported the positive effect of laser irradiation and 19 did not. The
      methodological quality of many studies was poor, and in-depth analysis of the studies with
      the highest methodological quality scores showed no significant pooled effect in favour of
      treatment (5).

      A study of 20 spinal cord-injured patients with 22 pressure ulcers showed faster healing with
      a combination of ultrasound/ultraviolet-C and laser treatment, compared with nursing care
      alone (6). In a prospective, observer-blinded, multicenter randomized clinical study on the
      efficacy of low-level laser therapy in 86 patients with stage III decubitus ulcers, no
      evidence was found that justified the use of low-level laser therapy (7).

      Previous studies - Biolight® A double-blind randomized placebo-controlled study on pressure
      ulcer in elderly patients showed a statistically significant difference between patients
      treated with monochromatic pulsating light (Biolight®) or placebo together with standard
      care. This study was conducted on 163 patients as a multi-centre study at 9 centres in Sweden
      and Denmark (8, 9). The mean normalised reduction in pressure ulcer size at week 12 was 0.79
      for the phototherapy group and 0.50 for the placebo group (95 % CI 0.01-0.53; p=0.039). No
      serious side effects were noted. The conclusion was that monochromatic pulsating light
      fastened healing in grade II pressure ulcers in elderly patients.

      A sub group analysis for the patient with diabetic foot ulcer in the above study showed a
      strong tendency to improved healing (diff 71.3%).

      A controlled, randomised, open study on the effect of Biolight® phototherapy in comparison to
      conventional treatment in 74 patients with grade II or III chronic pressure ulcers was
      conducted at Huddinge hospital (10). This study showed a statistically significant decreased
      time to healing, in the phototherapy treated group compared with the control group.

      A clinical study of 26 elderly patients with decubitus ulcers showed that monochromatic
      phototherapy, Biolight®, had an effect on the microcirculation in the edge of the decubitus
      ulcer with an increase of the oxygen supply to the tissue. (12).

      Two in-vitro studies on the growth of skin fibroblast cells, using monochromatic phototherapy
      showed that the two wavelengths and the low and high pulse frequencies used in the Biolight®
      Wound Care program significantly influenced skin fibroblast cell growth (personal
      communication Kratz & Huss Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden).

      In an animal study (exposure 5 times a week during a 2-week period), with similar equipment
      and similar infrared and red light exposure as in the present study, no adverse effect was
      found (11).

      Study population Diabetic patients with foot ulcers will be randomised to active
      phototherapeutic treatment plus standard care treatment or placebo phototherapeutic treatment
      plus standard care for diabetic foot ulcers.
    
  