
    
      Cigarette smoking is a significant public health problem among persons living with HIV
      (PLWH). The prevalence of smoking among PLWH is 40-75%, compared to approximately 15% in the
      general population. In PLWH, smoking confers increased risk of cardiovascular disease,
      respiratory conditions, lung cancer, poor adherence to antiretroviral (ARV) therapy, poor HIV
      treatment outcomes, and all-cause mortality. Approximately 24% of deaths among PWLH on ARV
      are attributable to tobacco use. Moreover, smokers with HIV lose more life years to smoking
      than to HIV itself (13 versus 5 years).

      Smoking cessation is a challenge for smokers with HIV. Smokers with HIV are interested in
      quitting, yet most quit attempts end in relapse. Poor cessation outcomes are likely
      attributable, in part, to poor adherence to smoking cessation medications. Not taking
      varenicline as prescribed significantly limits treatment effectiveness. Adherence to
      varenicline in smokers with HIV is poor, with only 56-62% of individuals in clinical trials
      taking the medication as prescribed. Putatively, real world adherence is expected to be
      lower. Medication adherence is a well-documented issue in HIV: only 62% achieve optimal
      adherence to ARV. Interventions are needed to improve smoking cessation medication adherence
      among smokers with HIV. Such interventions will improve cessation and reduce the burden of
      smoking in this population.

      Mobile phone-delivered interventions show promise for improving cessation outcomes in smokers
      living with HIV. However, an intervention that provided text message medication reminders and
      motivational cessation messages with or without phone-delivered counseling, as compared to a
      control group, yielded no group differences for varenicline adherence. Thus, it is possible
      that more intensive, and multi-component, interventions are required to improve the
      effectiveness of mobile-phone-based interventions.

      This trial will: 1) assess the feasibility and acceptability of a mobile phone app that aims
      to increase medication adherence; 2) whether use of the app and/or contingency management
      increases adherence to varenicline over varenicline treatment as usual; and 3) monitor
      smoking cessation outcomes.
    
  