
    
      Approximately half of the individuals with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) present with
      major depressive disorder (MDD). Compared to PTSD alone, patients with comorbid PTSD-MDD
      demonstrate greater distress and poorer treatment outcome. Functional magnetic resonance
      imaging (fMRI) show that relative to PTSD alone, PTSD-MDD is associated with decreased
      resting state functional connectivity (rs-FC) in both fear- and reward-processing circuits.
      In addition, our data suggest that Prolonged Exposure (PE), first-line PTSD treatment, may
      successfully target impairments in the fear circuits, but not in the reward circuits, which
      may explain the treatment-refractory quality of PTSD-MDD.

      The goal of this pilot study is to test the feasibility, safety and initial efficacy of an
      integrated therapeutic approach targeting both fear and reward impairments in PTSD-MDD
      patients. Specifically, the investigators will examine a combination treatment with PE, shown
      to effectively address fear circuitry deficits, and Pramipexole, a dopamine agonist, shown to
      increase reward circuit function and to have promise in treating depression but not
      previously studied in PTSD. The central hypothesis is that combined PE/Pramipexole will a)
      improve PTSD and depressive symptoms in PTSD-MDD patients, and b) increase functional
      connectivity of fear and reward pathways as measured by fMRI rs-FC. In this pilot study, 15
      adults aged 18-60 years with PTSD-MDD will receive combined 10-week of PE and Pramipexole up
      to the maximum dose of 4mg a day. Clinical assessment will be conducted at baseline, week 5,
      post treatment and at 3-month follow up. Behaviorally assessments including the probabilistic
      reward task (PRT) and attention allocation tasks, and fMRI scans for resting state functional
      connectivity (rs-FC) will be conducted at baseline and end of treatment.
    
  