
    
      Objective

      To evaluate the effects of lowering the dietary nutrient linoleic acid (LA) as a controlled
      variable on: 1) tissue accretion of omega-6 and omega-3 highly unsaturated fatty acids
      (HUFA); 2) bioactive endocannabinoids derived from the omega-6 HUFA arachidonic acid (AA); 3)
      insulin sensitivity; 4) satiety and hunger; and 5) body composition. Modifications in dietary
      LA will be offset with reciprocal changes in the nutrient oleic acid (OA) to maintain
      equivalency of calories and nutrients.

      Study Population

      Up to 180 overweight, but otherwise healthy pre-menopausal women volunteers (aged 18 through
      50) with body mass index (BMI) between 25 and 35 kg/m(2), will be enrolled.

      With the anticipated dropout rates described in Section 7.4, we anticipate that 84 of these
      subjects will be randomized to study diets, and 64 subjects will complete the 12 week diet
      phase.

      Three Group Comparative Analysis

      A total of 84 subjects will be randomized to one of 3 healthy and nutritionally complete
      diets that differ only in the fatty acid composition of added visible oils. All foods will be
      provided through the NIH metabolic kitchen, with subjects visiting the kitchen daily Monday
      through Friday to obtain foods. Each Friday, subjects will carry home foods packed for their
      weekend meals. Baseline testing battery will include: 1) blood composition of omega-6 and
      omega-3 HUFA; 2) endocannabinoid, eicosanoid, and docosanoid derivatives of omega-6 and
      omega-3 HUFA; 3) insulin function assessment; 4) body composition assessment; 4) functional
      satiety assessment; and 5) self-reported measures of satiety, hunger and affective states.
      The full baseline testing battery will be repeated after 84 days of randomized treatment. An
      abbreviated testing battery will be performed after 28 and 56 days of randomized treatment.

      A subset of participants will undergo additional inpatient testing in the 24-hour metabolic
      chamber as described in Section 3.3.2. The remaining subjects will remain ambulatory
      throughout the study. Participants will be advised to continue their usual medical care and
      medications throughout the study.

      24-Hour Metabolic Suite Study

      A subset of 8 participants in each of the 3 groups will undergo the usual testing battery and
      additional metabolic testing in the metabolic suite at 0, 28, and 84 days. The additional
      testing will include pre- and post-prandial endocrine hormone assessment.

      36-Week Continuation (Gradient Dose Replacement) Sub Study

      At completion of the 84 day (12 week) study, participants in the low LA group (Group B) will
      have the option of continuing their study diets for another 252 days (36 weeks). Continuing
      subjects will consume be randomized to either: 1) the same low LA (1 en%) diet.; or 2) the
      same baseline diet with a graded dose escalation of LA, with the addition of 1 en% of LA
      every 6 weeks. In this manner, LA will increase incrementally from 1 en% to 8 en% over the 36
      week period. During the continuation phase, the abbreviated testing battery will be completed
      after 6, 12, 18, 24 and 30 weeks, and the full testing battery will be repeated after 36
      weeks.

      Outcome Measures

      A Primary Dependent Variables

      The primary outcomes will be the proportion of omega-6 HUFA in total HUFA (%omega-6 in HUFA)
      and two endocannabinoids derived from omega-6 AA, 2-Arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and
      N-Arachidonoylethanolamine (Anandamide or AEA).

      Secondary Dependent Variables

      Secondary outcome measures will include blood concentrations of the omega-6 HUFA Arachidonic
      Acid (AA); the omega-3 HUFA Eicosapentaenoic Acid (EPA) and Docosahexaenoic Acid (DHA); the
      rates of change in %omega-6 in HUFA, AA, EPA, DHA, 2-AG and AEA over time; adipose and muscle
      tissue fatty acid composition; endocrine hormones; gene expression profiles; psychometrics;
      functional satiety; 24-hr energy metabolism and substrate utilization; and body composition,
      as follows: Omega-6 and omega-3 HUFA and total fat content will be measured in adipose and
      muscle tissue biopsies. Other endocannabinoid, eicosanoid and docosanoid derivatives of
      omega-6 and omega-3 HUFA will be measured in plasma via mass spectrometry. Endocrine hormones
      will be measured in fasting and postprandial states in the 24-hour metabolic suite.

      Psychometric outcomes will include self-reported measures of satiety and affective states.
      Functional satiety will be assessed via buffet-style food array testing. Body composition
      outcomes will include DEXA, 3T MRI, anthropometric measurements and bioelectrical impedance.
      Genotyping will also be performed to assess for interactions between selected gene variants
      and effects of the intervention.
    
  