
    
      I. Background / Rationale

      For twenty years, as for other surgical disciplines, new minimally invasive techniques have
      been developed with the main goal the reduction of muscle trauma associated with the
      surrounding roads "classic" and reduce morbidity linked to this one.

      More recently, minimally invasive methods dedicated to spinal surgery were established, for
      the treatment of herniated discs initially, then for narrow lumbar canals.

      The canal release on minimally invasive fusion, using a tubular system for muscle retraction
      is a new technique that has proven effective: post operative pain reduction of hospital stay
      and blood loss.

      The objective of the study is to investigate the quality of ductal release in these minimally
      invasive fusions.

      II. objectives

      at. primary objective

      Evaluating the quality of discharge on postoperative scanners minimally invasive fusions.

      b. secondary objectives

      i. Evaluation of the rate and type of early complications in the minimally invasive technique

      ii. Evaluation of early postoperative results (postoperative pain, analgesic consumption,
      length of hospital stay, blood loss)

      iii. Evaluation of clinical outcomes in the short and medium term decompression after
      minimally invasive fusion.

      III. Methodology and duration of the research

      This is a retrospective single-center consecutive series multi-operator regarding the
      evaluation of surgical practice cited in goal.

      Clinical data were collected prospectively by KEOPS database (SAMIO). All patients included
      in our study have spinal MRI scanners and pre-operative and post-operative scans.

      N = (number of patients and over what period) / Time Study?

      The series of patients will be classified into two groups:

        -  Foraminal stenosis

        -  Central stenosis

      The evaluation of the primary objective criterion is comparing the height of the foramen
      measured on CT pre- and post-operative between the lower edge of the overlying pedicle and
      the top edge of the pedicle underlying the sagittal sections.

      For central stenosis, Postoperative MRI will be performed and the volume of the dural sac
      will be compared to preoperative MRI on axial images.
    
  