
    
      The DiLumen™ Endolumenal Interventional Platform is a non-sterile, single-use, close-fitting
      sleeve that fits securely over a standard endoscope to stabilize it in the large intestine,
      and facilitates use of the endoscope for optical visualization, diagnosis, and treatment. It
      was developed by MINT (Minimally Invasive New Technology) at Weill Cornell. The technology
      has been licensed to Lumendi for commercialization.

      The DiLumen Endolumenal Interventional Platform ("DiLumen" or "the device") is an accessory
      to an endoscope. The DiLumen dual balloon accessory is intended for use with any standard
      endoscope that has a distal tip outer diameter of 12.5 - 14.3 mm and a working length of 1680
      mm or greater. The device is indicated to ensure complete positioning of an endoscope in the
      large intestine and assist with optical visualization, diagnosis, and endoscopic treatment.

      The device received 510k clearance on Dec 6, 2016. The device is fully disposable, and
      consists of six major components that form its primary mechanical structure: (1) Fore
      Balloon; (2) Aft Balloon; (3) Sleeve; (4) Base; (5) Push Rod Mechanism; and (6) Inflation
      System.

      The DiLumen utilizes two balloons to position and stabilize the endoscope within a patient's
      large intestine. After the device is installed over the endoscope, the endoscope/DiLumen are
      navigated to the target zone with the balloons deflated. The first balloon, the Aft balloon,
      is attached to the DiLumen sleeve. Once the clinician is at the target site, the Aft Balloon
      will be inflated until it contacts the intestinal wall near the proximal end of the
      articulating section of an endoscope. The second balloon, the Fore Balloon, is also attached
      to the sleeve via two flexible extension Push Rods and is deployed at the distal end of the
      endoscope at a variable distance. Once extended and inflated, the Fore Balloon contacts the
      patient's intestinal wall, and in combination with the Aft Balloon, creates an isolated
      diagnostic or therapeutic zone within a patient's large intestine. Both balloons are inflated
      or deflated with ambient air independently using an Inflation Handle with a squeeze bulb. The
      balloons assist with accessing and visualization of lesions behind folds and turns in the
      intestine, stabilizing the endoscope distal tip and establishing a Therapeutic Zone (TZ).
      Required insufflation within the therapeutic zone is minimized compared to typical colorectal
      endoscopic procedures, because the balloons enclose only a small portion (approximately 23
      cm) of the large intestine.

      The balloons and sleeve are designed to permit the usage of any standard endoscopic tool
      (such as biopsy forceps, snare, needle, etc.) through the endoscope working channel. The
      endoscope flexibility, maneuverability and functionalities (such as visualization, suction,
      insufflations, etc.) are unaffected by the presence of the DiLumen.
    
  