
    
      A large group of non-small cell lung cancer patients is treated with radiotherapy. Delivery
      of very high radiation doses is needed to obtain local control, but due to the large tumor
      and nodal volume this is often impossible without causing unrepairable damage to the normal
      tissue of the mediastinum, spinal cord, esophagus and lung.

      Although every tumor is different with respect to the speed with which it grows and spreads,
      it is obvious that time plays an important role in cancer therapy. Recently it was reported
      that disease progression or increase of tumor volume occurred during the time interval
      between diagnosis and treatment.(1, 2) This could lead to a less optimal radiation treatment
      and consequently have an impact on overall survival. Moreover, the increasing number of
      diagnostic procedures, aimed at obtaining more accurate information about the tumor extension
      and biology, as well as the use of more sophisticated but labor intense radiation techniques
      could prolong the time interval between clinical symptoms and the start of the treatment.
      However, the influence of new diagnostic procedures or the applied radiotherapy techniques on
      waiting times is not yet known. The investigators therefore want to investigate 1) time
      trends in the waiting time for NSCLC patients, 2) the correlation between waiting times and
      the use of more advanced diagnostic or therapeutic procedures, and 3) the correlation between
      waiting times and overall survival.

      The hypotheses of the study:

        1. The diagnostic delay for NSCLC patients has increased during the last 12 years.

        2. The preparation time for radiotherapy of NSCLC patients has increased during the last 12
           years.

        3. Prolonged waiting times are associated with worse overall survival outcome.

      The IKL collected data on waiting times and treatment of NSCLC patients treated in 2001 and
      2004. These data will be used for this project. In addition, the MAASTRO lung database
      contains information of patients treated in 2006 and 2010. Additional information about the
      diagnostic procedure and radiation treatment preparation will be collected by reviewing the
      patient charts. For this study a data request has to be submitted to the IKL and access to
      MAASTRO patient data (charts and EMD) is needed.

      The investigators aim to collect the following variables: Date of consultation pulmonologist;
      Date of multidisciplinary meeting; Date of first consultancy at radiotherapy; Date of start
      radiotherapy; Information about diagnostic procedure (PET/CT/Pathology/EBUS/EUS); Information
      about RT procedure (3Dconventional/IMRT); General patient characteristics; Overall survival
    
  