
    
      Sarcomas are uncommon mesenchymal malignancies that encompass a variety of tumors of soft
      tissue or bone. Included in this study are patients with osteosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma family
      tumors, malignant fibrous histiocytoma, synovial sarcoma, leiomyosarcoma and fibrosarcoma.
      Patients with these lesions presenting with metastatic disease remain largely incurable. In
      all sarcomas, the lungs are by far the most frequent site of metastases.

      There is a need for new therapies that have activity against these types of sarcomas.
      REOLYSIN® is an unmodified oncolytic reovirus which replicates selectively in ras transformed
      cells causing cell lysis. Activating mutations in ras or mutations in oncogenes signaling
      through the ras pathway may occur in as many as 80% of human tumors. Such mutations have been
      described in many of the common sarcomas of childhood and adults. REOLYSIN® demonstrated
      excellent anti-tumor activity in vitro and in vivo in childhood sarcoma cell lines.

      Further supporting the development of REOLYSIN® in the context of sarcomas as detailed in
      this study, is the fact that sarcomas resistant or refractory to conventional chemotherapy
      may remain clinically responsive to viral therapy. Sarcoma patients with pulmonary metastases
      may be especially suitable for studies with REOLYSIN® due to rapid selective uptake of the
      virus by the lungs.

      This Phase 2 study is designed to characterize the efficacy and safety of REOLYSIN® given
      intravenously over 5 days every 4 weeks in patients with bone and soft tissue sarcomas
      metastatic to the lung. Safety data, including laboratory parameters and adverse events, will
      be collected for all patients in order to determine the toxicity and reversibility of
      toxicity of REOLYSIN® therapy. Response will be assessed using radiographic imaging every 2
      cycles of therapy.

      OBJECTIVES:

        1. To measure tumor responses and duration of response, and describe any evidence of
           antitumor activity of intravenous multiple dose REOLYSIN® in patients with bone and soft
           tissue sarcomas metastatic to the lung.

        2. To evaluate safety of intravenous multiple dose REOLYSIN®.
    
  