
    
      Background: Laboratory biomarkers of atherosclerosis can be valuable in decision about
      operative treatment in patients with mild to severe atherosclerotic carotid stenosis (ACAS)
      and high stroke risk. However nowadays there are no established instruments for personalized
      atherothrombotic stroke diagnostics. Aim of the present study was to access atherosclerosis
      biomarkers serum levels in patients with ACAS during the ischemic stroke/ transient ischemic
      attack (TIA) acute phase.

      Main objective of the study To explore informative biomarkers to determine the risk of stroke
      in patients with significant ACAS.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To investigate the association between the degree of neurological and cognitive deficits
           , the features of the disease , the severity of brain lesions according to neuroimaging
           data with the concentration of lipoprotein -associated phospholipase A2 (LP-PL-A2), high
           sensitive C- reactive protein (hsCRP) , pregnancy-associated plasma protein A (PAPP-A),
           asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), lipoprotein (a) in patients with atherothrombotic
           stroke.

        2. To find the most valuable laboratory biomarkers of atherosclerosis , to compare them
           with clinical and objective data to make decision about inclusion of these biomarkers in
           routine practice as a screening test of atherosclerotic plaque instability and for
           stroke risk prediction and in decision about operative treatment in patients with ACAS.

      Design and Methods A single-blind cross-sectional trial was performed to investigate
      laboratory biomarkers of atherosclerosis in patients with atherosclerotic stenosis of the
      internal carotid artery 50-99 % , and in healthy volunteers. Randomizing and blinding
      technique: laboratory scientist and statistician do not have information about the belonging
      of biomaterials patient to any of the groups studied .

      Examination of patients includes history taking, neurological examination, duplex ultrasound,
      mini mental score examination (MMSE), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) performed
      atherosclerosis biomarkers serum level measurement (LP-PL-A2, PAPP-A, ADMA, hsCRP and blood
      lipid profile).
    
  