
    
      In order to meet the optimal nutritional needs of HIV-infected infants, it is critical that
      nutritional intervention begin early. Early nutritional intervention may help reduce the
      susceptibility to or severity of primary HIV and/or opportunistic infections and add to the
      quality of life for children perinatally infected with HIV.

      [AS PER AMENDMENT 08/29/01: This study population will consist of infants from domestic sites
      and international sites.] In this double-blind, controlled study perinatally HIV-exposed
      infants less than 15 days old [AS PER AMENDMENT 08/29/01: "less than 15 days old" has been
      replaced with: less than 17 days old] at time of study entry are randomized to 1 of 2 arms to
      receive either concentrated formula or standard formula for 8 weeks after being stratified by
      gestational age: less than 37 versus greater than 37 completed weeks. At the 8-week visit
      using a previously determined 8:1 random allocation, 89% of singleton infants [AS PER
      AMENDMENT 08/29/01: from international sites] with negative HIV-specific tests are
      discontinued from study treatment and further follow-up. The other 11 percent of these
      singleton infants with negative HIV-specific tests continue study treatment with open-label
      standard formula until Week 28 (control group). Singleton infants with positive HIV-specific
      tests continue on the blinded portion of the study and receive formula as initially assigned
      until Week 28. For a given multiple birth, if any of the infants at the 8-week study visit
      are determined to be infected, all the infants from that birth continue their initial blinded
      treatment assignment until Week 28; if none of the infants are determined to be infected at
      this time, all the infants from that birth continue study treatment with open-label standard
      formula until Week 28. All infants assigned to receive study treatment through Week 28
      continue study follow-up until 12 months of age. A subset of patients at sites with
      appropriate resources will participate in a substudy in which measurements of triceps and
      thigh skinfold thickness and circumference and thigh density DEXA scans are evaluated.
    
  