
    
      Chemotherapy-related nausea and vomiting is a frequent problem among patients with leukemia
      that can lead to further medical problems, such as malnutrition, dehydration, electrolyte
      imbalance, and a lower quality of life. Cytarabine, one of the drugs that is used to treat
      AML and high-risk MDS, is known to cause nausea and/or vomiting, so all patients that receive
      chemotherapy with cytarabine also need to receive medication to prevent these side effects.

      One standard-of-care drug to treat chemotherapy-related nausea and vomiting is called
      Ondansetron. Palonosetron is a new drug similar to Ondansetron that is designed to stay
      longer in the bloodstream. Researchers want to find out if palonosetron can prevent nausea
      and vomiting better than ondansetron.

      Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood or urine pregnancy test before
      starting treatment.

      If you are still eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in
      the roll of the dice) to one of 3 treatment groups. Participants in the first group will be
      given Ondansetron as an intravenous (IV--through a needle in your vein) continuous infusion,
      from 30 minutes before your chemotherapy treatment until 12 hours after chemotherapy ends.
      This is considered the standard of care.

      Participants assigned to the second treatment group will be given palonosetron once a day by
      IV injection for 5 days. Each dose will be given over a period of 30 seconds, 30 minutes
      before your chemotherapy treatment.

      Participants assigned to the third treatment group will be given palonosetron once a day by
      IV injection, on Days 1, 3, and 5 of chemotherapy treatment. Each dose will be given over a
      period of 30 seconds, 30 minutes before your chemotherapy treatment.

      No matter what group you are assigned to, you will receive extra medication for nausea and/or
      vomiting as needed.

      You will be asked to fill out a study diary daily for 7 days, and it should take you no
      longer than 10 minutes to complete. The diary will be used to record the number of episodes
      of nausea and/or vomiting you experience during this study, as well as to record any need for
      extra medications, and to help researchers learn which of the 2 drugs helps the best to
      improve participants' quality of life (such as sleep, daily activities, and your ability to
      think and reason).

      You will be taken off study if intolerable side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved
      palonosetron and Ondansetron for the prevention of chemotherapy-related nausea and vomiting,
      and both drugs are commercially available. Up to 150 participants will take part in this
      study. All will be enrolled at UT MD Anderson Cancer Center.
    
  