
    
      Background Lung disease in cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterized by chronic airway infection
      with periodic exacerbations which are associated with impaired lung function, reduced quality
      of life and increased healthcare costs.1 2 Respiratory viruses are common and are known to be
      associated with exacerbations of other chronic respiratory diseases such as asthma.3 Studies
      in children with CF have shown that respiratory viruses are common during exacerbations. Wat
      and colleages identified respiratory viruses in 46% of patients at the time of pulmonary
      exacerbation of CF.4 Several older studies in children with CF have found an association
      between viral infections and decline in lung function, frequency and duration of hospital
      admission and CF disease progression.5-7 An association between respiratory viruses and
      acquisition of Pseudomonas aeruginosa has been proposed but this remains unproven.8
      Retrospective data in adults has shown an incidence of viral infection in pulmonary
      exacerbations of between 8.7 and 45.8%.9 10 To date, no prospective studies have been
      conducted to investigate the impact of these infections on clinical outcomes in adults with
      CF, or the effects of these infections on respiratory bacterial flora. It is entirely unknown
      how frequently viruses can be identified in adults with CF when they are asymptomatic. This
      study will fill these gaps in current knowledge and improve our management of respiratory
      infections in CF.

      Primary Research Question What is the prevalence of respiratory virus infection in adults
      with CF during a pulmonary exacerbation and when clinically stable?

      Secondary Research Questions

        1. What is the effect of respiratory virus infection on lung function and disease
           progression?

        2. What is the effect of respiratory virus infection on bacterial and fungal colonization
           in CF?

        3. What is the effect of respiratory virus infection on the CF microbiome, specifically the
           rate and diversity of bacterial infection?

        4. Are any specific rhinovirus sub-types (including rhinovirus C) associated with worse
           outcome following viral respiratory infections in adults with CF?

      Methodology This is a prospective observational study looking at the incidence and
      consequences of respiratory virus infection in CF both during exacerbations and during
      periods of clinical stability. Subjects eligible for the study will be all patients with CF
      over the age of 18 years attending the Manchester Adult Cystic Fibrosis Centre (MACFC). We
      aim to recruit 100 patients into the study. Participants will be screened for respiratory
      viruses at baseline and every two months throughout a twelve month follow-up period.
      Screening will also occur at the time of diagnosis of a pulmonary exacerbation or onset of
      new respiratory symptoms. At each visit an oral mouth wash, sputum sample and a nose-swab
      will be taken; the mouth wash and an aliquot of sputum will be stored frozen for later
      microbial diversity analysis. On each occasion, sputum will also be sent for conventional
      bacteriology/mycology to identify any new bacterial or fungal colonization.

      Respiratory viruses in the sputum will then be identified using the polymerase chain reaction
      (PCR) technique. The following viruses will be tested for: adenovirus, human metapneumovirus,
      influenza A, B & C (including influenza A H1N1), parainfluenza 1-3, respiratory syncytial
      virus and rhinovirus. Rhinovirus identifications will be sequenced to determine the frequency
      of infection with individual subtypes.

      After 6 months of the study, 10 CF individuals who provided a stable and viral-linked
      exacerbation samples will be selected and the total bacterial diversity in their sputum
      examined by state-of-the-art, cultivation independent 16S rRNA pyrosequencing analysis.11 To
      account for the potential of oral flora contamination in the sputum samples, the mouth wash
      taken prior to each sputum sample will also be examined. Total DNA will be extracted from the
      selected samples and the V1-3 region of the 16S rRNA gene amplified using tagged primers
      specifically developed for pyrosequencing sequence analysis. The derived bacterial 16S rRNA
      gene sequences (8000-10,000 reads per sample) will be trimmed to 450 bases and compared to
      the Ribosomal Database Project (RDP; http://rdp.cme.msu.edu) to determine the identity of the
      bacteria from which the DNA derived. Correlation between viral-linked exacerbation and the
      load of known pathogens (eg. Pseudomonas aeruginosa), new players (CF anaerobes), and the
      total/unique bacterial flora in the sputum will be made.

      Data Analysis & Statistical Methods The primary outcome measure will be identification of a
      respiratory virus in nose/throat swab or sputum. Statistical analysis will use longitudinal
      regression modeling of the cohort which takes account of the repeated sampling of each
      patient. The study will have over 80% power to detect differences of 20% (e.g. 50% vs. 30%)
      in incidence of viral infection between exacerbation and routine sample periods in patients
      showing at least one-third of the samples with infection (using a McNemar's paired test with
      p=0.05).

      Ethical Approval The study has been reviewed by the North West 9 Research Ethics Committee -
      Greater Manchester West and has received a favourable opinion.

      References

        1. Goss C et al. Exacerbations in cystic fibrosis. 1: Epidemiology and pathogenesis. Thorax
           2007;62:360-7.

        2. Britto M et al. Impact of recent pulmonary exacerbations on quality of life in patients
           with cystic fibrosis. Chest 2002;121:64-72.

        3. Johnston S et al. The relationship between upper respiratory infections and hospital
           admissions for asthma: a time-trend analysis. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 1996;154:654-60.

        4. Wat D et al. The role of respiratory viruses in cystic fibrosis. J Cystic Fibros
           2008;7:320-8.

        5. Smyth A et al. Effect of respiratory virus infections including rhinovirus on clinical
           status in cystic fibrosis. Arch Dis Child 1995;73:117-20.

        6. Wang E et al. Association of respiratory viral infections with pulmonary deterioration
           in patients with cystic fibrosis. N Engl J Med 1984;311:1653-8.

        7. Collinson J et al. Effects of upper respiratory tract infections in patients with cystic
           fibrosis. Thorax 1996;51:1115-22.

        8. Petersen NT et al. Respiratory infections in cystic fibrosis patients caused by virus,
           chlamydia and mycoplasma--possible synergism with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Acta Paed
           Scand 1981;70:623-8.

        9. De Schutter I et al. Detection of viruses in pulmonary exacerbations in CF. J Cystic
           Fibros, 2010:s37.

       10. Naseer R et al. Pulmonary exacerbations in adult patients with cystic fibrosis
           associated with positive viral PCR. J Cystic Fibros 2010;9:S37.

      11 White J et al. Culture-independent analysis of bacterial fuel contamination provides
      insights into the level of concordance with conventional cultivation. Appl Environ Microbiol
      (in review) 2010.
    
  