
    
      Radiotherapy plays an important role in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and concurrent
      chemoradiation is considered to be the standard treatment for locally advanced NSCLC.
      However, due to the patient's physical condition, comorbidities and other reasons, only about
      1/3 of patients can receive concurrent chemoradiation. Radiotherapy alone or sequential
      chemoradiation has become the treatment protocol for most patients. Hypofractionated
      radiotherapy can be used in NSCLC because it can shorten the over treatment time and may
      potentially reduce the effect of accelerated repopulation and obtain higher biological
      effective dose（BED） So far, the vast majority of radiotherapy prescriptions have given a
      uniform dose of radiotherapy to all patients, regardless of individual factors such as tumor
      size, location, and adjacent vital organs, which may cause two consequences: First,
      small-volume tumors may, not receive enough radiation dose, resulting in a decrease in local
      control rates. Second, for large volumes of tumors or tumors adjacent to vital organs, even
      the "so-called standard dose" (60 Gy) may cause serious damage to normal tissues. This
      unified prescription dosage approach is completely inconsistent with the concept of precision
      treatment. The Netherlands MAASTRO put forward the concept of in silico radiotherapy
      prescription, that is: the normal tissue limits are uniform, such as: V20% ≤ 30%, spinal cord
      0> 45Gy, etc., and each patient receives a different dose of radiation therapy. This
      radiation prescription could reach the limits of the normal tissue of every patient; if no
      one tissue limits were reached, the highest dose was set up to 79.2 Gy (1.8 Gy, BID). MAASTRO
      applied this "iso-toxic" radiotherapy prescription and used accelerated hyperfractionation
      technology so that each patient received the maximum individualized radiation dose as .From
      the model study to the long-term survival results, a series of encouraging results were
      achieved. The use of an individualized radiotherapy prescription based on iso-toxicity for
      the treatment of NSCLC in large-segment radiotherapy is expected to achieve: 1. For patients
      with small tumor volumes and no adjacent to vital organs, a higher radiation dose is given
      under safe conditions. 2. For patients with larger volumes of tumors or adjacent to vital
      organs, give safer doses.
    
  