
    
      Background:

      Soldiers returning from Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) and Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF)
      commonly experience symptoms of PTSD, depressive disorders, and interpersonal difficulties.
      Forty-two percent of National Guard (NG) soldiers report symptoms suggesting a need for
      evaluation. Unfortunately, only half with mental health needs initiate treatment in the VA or
      elsewhere. Stigma remains an important barrier. Proactive peer outreach may successfully
      address stigma and facilitate appropriate treatment use. In the recently implemented Michigan
      Guard Buddy*to*Buddy (B2B) program, all returning MIARNG soldiers are assigned a first-tier
      "Buddy" from their unit who systematically telephones them to "check in" regarding key areas
      of functioning and symptoms. Soldiers may also be referred to second-tier Buddies, veterans
      outside the Guard trained in motivational interviewing and supervised by professional staff.
      The goal of the program is to identify soldiers in need of evaluation and connect them to
      care in a timely fashion.

      We will conduct preliminary work that will allow us to assess the need for and the
      feasibility of adding a rigorous evaluation/research component to the B2B program.

      Objectives:

      The goal of this RRP is to assess the need for AND the feasibility of a larger VA study that
      would use a strong quasi-experimental design (time series analysis with comparison groups) to
      examine the impact of the B2B program on returning NG veteran mental health treatment
      initiation, retention, symptoms, and functional outcomes.

      Specific RRP aims are to:

        1. Prepare for and initiate a formative evaluation of the Buddy*to*Buddy program in the
           Michigan Army National Guard (MI ARNG).

        2. Develop and determine the feasibility of a confidential surveys for National Guard
           veterans in Michigan and Indiana that elicit information regarding B2B processes (in MI
           ARNG), VA outreach processes, mental health symptoms, substance use, and treatment
           initiation and retention.

        3. Construct a de-identified linked dataset consisting of PDHA/PDHRA data, Military
           Treatment Facility/TRICARE service provider use, and VA service use for MI ARNG and NG
           soldiers in contiguous states of Indiana and Ohio. Conduct preliminary analyses of these
           data.

      Methods:

      Preliminary work will be completed in two areas. We will begin a formative evaluation of the
      implementation of the B2B program, using an augmented qualitative RE-AIM Plus framework,
      multiple data sources and data collection techniques, and conducting field observations and
      interviews with program stakeholders. Personnel at all levels, including NG leadership,
      Buddies, and soldiers, will be part of this process.

      We will also develop and refine survey items relevant to understanding B2B implementation and
      soldier symptom and functional status. We will test procedures for fielding this survey in
      Michigan and a comparison state, assessing response rates, and using data to inform the
      design of a larger study of soldier outcomes.
    
  