
    
      High blood pressure (BP), principally systolic hypertension, is a common condition in older
      people and is considered a major determinant not only of cardiovascular morbidity and
      mortality, but also of several other age-related diseases, including frailty, cognitive
      decline and loss of autonomy. The Hypertension in the Very Elderly Treatment (HYVET) study
      showed the beneficial effect of antihypertensive treatment in patients ≥ 80 years. More
      recently, the Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial (SPRINT) study showed that even in
      subjects 75 years and older, CVD outcomes and total mortality were reduced with intensive
      treatment as compared to the standard therapeutic strategies. However, both HYVET and SPRINT
      were conducted in selected populations since they excluded the most frail subjects, those
      with clinically significant cognitive decline and dementia, those with several cardiovascular
      and other co-morbidities, as well as patients living in nursing homes.

        -  Interestingly, observational studies in these frail people, have shown no or even an
           inverse relationship between BP and morbidity and mortality. The PARTAGE longitudinal
           study was performed in 1130 subjects ≥ 80 years living in nursing homes (NHs). These
           subjects were receiving at mean 7.1 drugs/day; 2/3 of them were under antihypertensive
           drugs (mean 2.2 drugs/day). The PARTAGE study showed an over-mortality in hypertensive
           subjects with low SBP (<130 mmHg) treated with 2 or more antihypertensive drugs. These
           individuals, who represented 20% of the total studied population, exhibited 80% increase
           in mortality compared to all other groups, even after adjustment for several
           comorbidities.

        -  The recent European guidelines for hypertension indicate that in people ≥ 80 years with
           SBP≥160 mmHg there is evidence to recommend reducing SBP to between 150 and 140 mmHg.
           However, no recommendation exists on which strategy to follow if treatment decreases SBP
           to lower levels (ex: 120 mmHg) especially on the more frail and polymedicated patients
           of that age. Thus, in this case, physicians can either continue the same treatment of
           reduce the number of drugs.

        -  These contrasting results in old hypertensives reflects the enormous functional
           heterogeneity among individual of this age-group and clearly show that functional status
           rather than chronological age should guide therapeutic strategies. Thus, the guidelines
           for robust older individuals cannot be extrapolated to very old, frail individuals, who
           have been completely excluded from the above-mentioned clinical trials.

      The only way is to conduct a controlled clinical trial.
    
  