
    
      When the transcriptomic signature of human endometrial receptivity was reported, Igenomix
      developed the ERA, a molecular tool able to diagnose the endometrial receptivity by NGS and a
      computational predictor. The accuracy of this diagnostic tool has been shown to be superior
      to endometrial histology, and its results are reproducible 29 to 40 months later.

      The ERA test allows to transfer in a personalized manner by synchronizing the embryo with the
      WOI of the patient. Nowadays, it has been published that around 30% of patients present 1 or
      2 days of displacements and about 50% show 12 hours of displacement.

      The ERA has been broadly applied around the world in order to increase the probabilities of
      recurrent implantation failure patients becoming pregnant. Recently, a multicenter
      international open-label randomized controlled trial comparing personalized embryo transfer
      guided by the ERA test versus frozen and fresh embryo transfer was carried out at first
      appointment of infertile patients undergoing IVF. The current project aims to assess in a
      randomized way the potential improvement on the clinical outcome of Chinese infertile
      patients at their first IVF cycle by diagnosing, personalizing and synchronizing the
      endometrial factor with the ERA. To do that, only the outcomes of the first single embryo
      transfers performed after the inclusion of each patient will be considered.

      Considering a 30% of possible drop-outs, a total of 714 patients will be recruited (357
      randomized in each group). They will be allocated on a balanced way (assigned by chance like
      the flip of a coin) in one of the two arms described below. Reproductive outcomes (defined
      following The International Glossary on Infertility and Fertility Care, 2017) will be
      compared between the two groups.

      Data exported from the source documents will be duly codified and treated in order to protect
      the clinical and personal information of participants in accordance with the current local
      legislation.

      All the statistical analysis performed on the data, as well as the procedures, will be
      registered in a detailed Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP) that will be developed during the
      study and before starting data analysis.

      An interim analysis of this data is planned once 50% of the recruitment has been achieved.
      Besides and at that same moment, the study will be overseen by an independent Data Monitoring
      Committee.

      All the statistical procedures will be done systematically by both, intention to treat
      analysis (ITT) and per protocol analysis (PP). The ITT analysis will include all randomized
      patients recruited and assigned to one of two groups after endometrial biopsy collection. The
      PP analysis will be applied to those patients who adequately follow the protocol assigned
      according to their group and arm and in whom the transfer of the good quality blastocyst is
      performed.
    
  