
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rate of complete remission and mortality at 90 days in the entire cohort
      of older patients (>= 60 years) with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who receive
      clinicogenetic risk-stratified therapy allocation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the rate of complete remission and mortality at 90 days in subsets of older
      patients who receive intensive and low-intensity chemotherapy.

      II. To assess the impact of baseline functional status (measured by geriatric assessment) on
      the rate of complete remission and mortality at 90 days in older patients, who receive
      clinicogenetic risk-stratified therapy allocation.

      III. To evaluate the influence of baseline functional status on the quality of life, grades 3
      and 4 toxicities (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [CTCAE] version 4.03 grades)
      and neurocognitive status at baseline and at 90 days in older patients.

      IV. To determine the symptom burden at diagnosis and 10, 30 and 90 days following initiation
      of chemotherapy.

      V. To determine proportion of patients with impairments detected by geriatric assessment.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 or 2 groups based on cytogenetic and geriatric
      assessment-based risk stratification.

      GROUP I:

      INTENSIVE INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive cytarabine intravenously (IV) on days 1-7 and
      idarubicin over 10-15 minutes on days 1-3 (7+3), or liposome-encapsulated
      daunorubicin-cytarabine IV over 90 minutes on days 1, 3 and 5. Gemtuzumab or midostaurin are
      added to 7+3 as per the standard of care. Treatment continues for 1 course in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      INTENSIVE CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients who go into remission, receive cytarabine IV over
      1-3 hours twice daily (BID) on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 2-4
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients treated with
      liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine receive liposome-encapsulated
      daunorubicin-cytarabine IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3. Treatment repeats every 5-8 weeks
      for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      GROUP II:

      LOW-INTENSITY INDUCTION: Patients receive oral venetoclax and azacitidine IV on days 1-7 or
      decitabine IV on days 1-5. Alternate standard of care low-intensity therapies are allowed at
      the discretion of treating physician. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 1-4 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      LOW-INTENSITY CONSOLIDATION: Patients who achieve complete remission, receive oral venetoclax
      and azacitidine IV on days 1-7 or decitabine IV on days 1-5 or other standard of care
      low-intensity chemotherapy. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 3 or more courses in the
      absence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or receipt of allogeneic stem cell
      transplant.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 2 years.
    
  