
    
      With increasing caseloads in some healthcare systems, patients requiring hand surgery may
      wait over two weeks for time in the general operating room schedule. During this time,
      fractures may heal, leading to a need for more extensive and longer procedures such as
      osteotomies in addition to reduction and fixation. It also prolongs time away from work, as
      well as home for rural patients who must relocate while awaiting surgery in major centers.
      Previously, it has been shown that performing closed hand fracture fixation on awake patients
      in a clinic or procedure room setting leads to 60-100% increases in daily case volume
      compared to the main operating room (OR) (Gillis, Steve). Fixation of hand fractures in this
      setting has also been shown to cost over 2000$ less than in the OR, by reducing staffing
      requirements, equipment, and anesthesia costs (Steve).

      Performing hand surgery in awake patients under local anesthesia has been shown by numerous
      studies to be a safe and effective. Wide-awake hand surgery is generally well-tolerated, has
      lower post-operative opioid requirements, and is often preferred by patients (Thompson).
      Furthermore, by preventing the need for general anesthesia, this technique allows hand
      surgery to be performed in patients who may otherwise not be operative candidates. In Canada,
      awake surgery under local anesthesia is commonly done for tendon repairs, carpal tunnel
      release, and percutaneous pinning of fractures without a tourniquet (Gillis, Steve, Peters).
      While tourniquet use improves visualization of the operative field, when only local
      anesthesia is used patients can typically tolerate the tourniquet for less than 20 minutes
      before pain begins.

      For ORIFs, the use of a tourniquet is ideal for exposure of the fracture site. Current
      literature suggests that the maximum pain-free tourniquet time is roughly 20 minutes, which
      is less than the average length of fracture fixation in hand fractures (Gillis). Intravenous
      regional anesthesia (IVRA), i.e. Bier blocks, are well-established means of providing
      anesthesia for hand surgeries requiring tourniquet use, and enable tourniquet times from 20
      minutes to two hours (Dekoninck, Brown). While these blocks prevent the need for general
      anesthesia, they still require an anesthetist to perform and monitor the block. More
      recently, forearm tourniquets with IVRA have been shown to be non-inferior to traditional
      proximal arm tourniquets, with lower doses of post-operative opioids required (Dekoninck,
      Farbood). However, compared to local anesthesia, IVRA for procedures were tourniquets are
      preferred still increases costs, staffing requirements, and resource use as they often take
      place in the OR. However, local anesthetic infiltration by the treating surgeon may not
      provide sufficient pain relief for the amount of tourniquet time required to complete an
      average ORIF of a long bone in the hand. Therefore, although many methods of anesthesia for
      hand ORIFs exist, include local anesthetic infiltration and proximal nerve blocks, there is
      not yet one 'gold standard' approach.

      Ultrasound guided peripheral nerve blocks at the forearm level have previously been shown to
      be a safe, effective method of providing regional anesthesia for minor hand procedures, that
      are tolerated well by patients (Winter). The technique can be quickly taught to even junior
      residents, and does not require any specialized equipment outside of the ultrasound probe
      (Winter). These blocks take roughly five minutes to perform, and anesthesia is achieved after
      an additional five minutes, shorter than typical times for blind forearm nerve blocks
      (Lovely).

      The investigators hypothesize that the pain patients experience after 20 minutes of
      tourniquet application with local anesthetic infiltration is not due to direct pressure on
      the proximal arm, but rather distal digital ischemia pain. Previously, it has been shown that
      ultrasound-guided regional block of the median, radial, and ulnar nerves in the forearm is
      effective analgesia for awake hand surgery (Winter). Currently, there are no randomized
      studies investigating if forearm nerve blocks can prolong pain-free tourniquet time compared
      to local anesthesia infiltration, by blocking this ischemic pain in the distal arm. The
      investigators' objective is therefore to determine if forearm nerve blocks prolong pain-free
      tourniquet time compared to local anesthetic infiltration.

      All patients over 18 years of age, with single meta-carpal or phalangeal fractures will be
      considered for inclusion. These patients will be identified through femergency room consults,
      referrals from outside centers, and attending surgeon clinics at the investigators'
      institution. Currently, if patients require open-reduction internal fixation (ORIF) for these
      injuries, they are then assessed for suitability for having their procedure while awake using
      local anesthesia. Patients who are candidates for awake ORIFs will then be informed of the
      research study by a resident, physician assistant, or attending physician, and have the
      opportunity to consent to participation. This will not be done by a resident/physician
      assistant/attending physician who will be performing or assisting with the procedure.
      Patients who consent to participation will then be randomized to either the control or
      intervention group. The study will be open-label as both the patient and resident/surgeon
      will be aware of the type of block (forearm vs local) performed.

      The risks and benefits associated with forearm and local anesthesia blocks will be explained
      to the patient as part of the informed consent, prior to randomization. Patients will be
      recruited from attending physician clinics, however the staff screening patients for
      eligibility and conducting informed consent will not be the individual who is either a)
      performing the surgery, or b) collecting, analyzing, or interpreting the data. Patients will
      have the remaining length of their clinic appointment to contemplate participation in the
      study.

      If patients in either group begin to experience pain during their procedure the tourniquet
      will be taken down and the time will be recorded. Participants in both groups will receive
      adequate analgesia, as additional local anesthetic will be administered if patients express
      pain during the procedure. Total procedure time will also be recorded.

      The resident/physician performing the procedure will record the site of the fracture, type of
      fixation used (i.e. lag screw, plate), duration of the entire procedure, type and amount of
      local anesthetic used, and duration of pain-free tourniquet time. Any additional local
      anesthetic required during the procedure will be recorded. Any deviations from the expected
      procedure (i.e. need for osteotomy), or other intraoperative complications will also be
      recorded. The Research Ethics Board (REB) will be notified of any harms to patients, as a
      result of the study, occur. Any subsequent recommendations from the REB regarding study
      termination will be followed. If any patients experience local anesthetic toxicity, sustain
      nerve or blood vessel damage, or experience other intra-operative complications as a result
      the study intervention(s), the study will be placed on hold until full review of the data is
      complete, and terminated if appropriate. Patients who were involved of the study to date will
      be contacted explaining the reason for termination of the study.

      After the procedure, the resident involved in the procedure will provide the patient with the
      survey questions. The individuals conducting the surveys will not otherwise be involved in
      the study. This will be a two question survey recording the amount of pain felt during the
      procedure and overall experience with their awake hand ORIF. Both questions will be scored on
      a Numerical analogue scale (NAS) from 1-10. If the patient is unable to physical write due to
      splinting of the dominant hand, the resident will record the answers verbalized by the
      patient.

      Data from the study will be reviewed on a weekly basis. All complications will be noted. Any
      major complication (resulting in harm or near-harm to a patient) will prompt review of the
      study data to date for any further complications, including which group the participant(s)
      experiencing the complication were assigned to.
    
  