
    
      A rapidly growing population of male childhood cancer survivors are at risk for infertility
      and distress. As the number of male cancer survivors rises, it is essential to minimize
      treatment late effects. One of the most prevalent and significant complications among males
      is infertility, which can impair psychosocial development and reduce quality of life.
      National guidelines emphasize offering fertility preservation (FP) prior to initiation of
      cancer therapy, and sperm cryopreservation is an established and generally noninvasive FP
      method for pubertal males. Early research suggested only males receiving high doses of
      alkylating agents should bank sperm. However, variable sperm counts following equivalent
      doses of cyclophosphamide and scenarios in which patients have to move quickly from "low
      risk" treatments (which transiently impair sperm production) to "high risk" treatments,
      support the premise that all males receiving chemotherapy and/or gonadal radiation should
      consider FP at diagnosis. Despite studies showing ~50% of male childhood cancer survivors
      have fertility impairment, reports from many centers show only ~25% of pubertal males bank
      sperm prior to treatment. As survivors enter their reproductive years, many regret missed
      opportunities for FP and experience distress about potential infertility. Thus, interventions
      to improve FP uptake would have great potential for reproductive and psychological benefit.

      Individual and family factors associated with sperm banking decisions remain poorly
      understood. Young age, cost, inadequate knowledge, and urgency to start treatment are common
      barriers to FP among AYA males with newly diagnosed cancer. As a result, most fertility
      counseling and FP interventions have targeted healthcare providers and systems or
      provider-patient interactions. While these are critical factors, less than half of male AYA
      advised about FP in a recent study actually banked sperm, indicating knowledge is not
      sufficient.

      The purpose of this study is to test a decision tool and accompanying guided discussion as a
      method of improving decision making regarding FP, compared to a standard of care fertility
      consult.
    
  