
    
      The investigators propose to undertake a randomised controlled trial (RCT) to compare the
      clinical effectiveness in terms of symptoms and function of a pharmacological treatment (the
      SSRI Sertraline) prescribed at therapeutic doses, with a manualised psychological
      intervention (Cognitive Behavioural Therapy, CBT) delivered by trained psychological
      therapists to patients with persistent generalised anxiety disorder (GAD) which has not
      improved with low intensity psychological interventions as defined by NICE (the National
      Institute for Clinical Effectiveness).

      The investigators will recruit people via the Increasing Access to Psychological Therapies
      (IAPT) service from up to 15 sites in England. People still scoring highly on an anxiety
      measure (GAD-7) despite having received a low intensity psychological intervention will be
      given a brief flyer about the trial. Names of those interested in taking part who have given
      written consent to having their details released will be passed to the research team and the
      IAPT staff will also let the research team know the name of the participant's general
      practice, with their permission.

      The research team will then contact potential participants offering them an appointment for
      an interview/assessment to discuss the study, sending them a patient information sheet to
      reach them at least 48 hours beforehand. The study information will explain that the
      medication being evaluated, Sertraline, although not currently licensed for GAD was
      recommended by NICE on the basis of its effectiveness in clinical trials and that the study
      team will be available to clarify any issues arising from this.

      At the baseline assessment patients will be asked to give informed consent by a member of the
      research team and both medical suitability (as confirmed by fax/secure email from the GP) and
      the meeting of other inclusion/exclusion criteria will be checked. Upon confirmation of
      eligibility, baseline assessments will be carried out by a member of the research team and
      consenting patients randomised to receive either the medication or CBT. The Chief
      Investigator or other medically qualified persons within the research team will review all
      eligibility information and confirm that the patient is eligible.

      Eligible participants will be randomised via an independent web-based computerised system to
      one of two interventions. The research team will provide the relevant contact
      details/instructions to patients in order to initiate treatment. The trial interventions
      consist of: (a) The medication sertraline prescribed by their GP according to a trial
      protocol matching current clinical recommendations and within a dosage between 25 and 150mg
      daily. We will ask GPs to review patients regularly (at least 6 times in 12 months) and
      patients to take the medication for a year unless they have significant adverse effects.
      Side-effects will be regularly monitored. (b) The other intervention is CBT delivered by high
      intensity therapists from local IAPT services. They will provide 14 to 16 sessions of a
      manualised treatment developed for use in GAD and will be trained in its delivery. The
      primary outcome will be the GAD-7 score measured at 12 months. Participants will also be
      asked to complete this outcome measure by postal questionnaire at 3, 6 and 9 months, as well
      as a range of secondary outcomes.
    
  