
    
      High blood pressure immediately following stroke is common and related to poorer stroke
      functional outcome and death. Although treatment of high blood pressure is well established
      for thre prevention of stroke, it is unclear if high blood pressure observed immediately
      after stroke should be lowered.

      Several previous clinical trials have lowered blood pressure in acute stroke but this has not
      resulted in improved stroke outcome. One reason for this may be because treatment was started
      too late after stroke occurred. There is rapid progression of brain injury following stroke
      and any stroke treatment may need to be started very early to have a beneficial effect.
      Previous trials started blood pressure lowering after patients arrived at hospital and this
      was usually a significant time after stroke occurred.

      The earliest time after stroke that blood pressure treatment could be started is during
      contact with the emergency medical services (paramedics). This research study is a pilot
      double blind randomised controlled trial of paramedic initiated blood pressure treatment for
      patients with high blood pressure immediately after stroke.

      Patients with high blood pressure and suspected acute stroke will be identified and offered
      the opportunity to participate in the study by research trained paramedics from the North
      East Ambulance Service NHS Trust. Patients who agree to participate in the study will receive
      either lisinopril (a common blood pressure lowering medication) or 'dummy' (placebo)
      treatments for seven days. The first dose of medication will be given by the paramedic in the
      ambulance. Subsequent tablets will be given in hospital. The effects of treatment will be
      monitored by measuring blood pressure, neurological outcome and adverse events.

      All aspects of study feasibility including recruitment rates and compliance with data
      collection will be recorded. The study will run for one year and recruit 60 patients.
    
  