
    
      Age-Related Macular Degeneration (ARMD) is the most common cause of blindness in the adult
      population of the Western World. It affects the macula - the region of the retina most rich
      in photoreceptors and responsible for central vision.

      Despite this manifest importance, the ethiology of ARMD remains poorly understood.
      Population-based studies have demonstrated a complex ethiology, with contributions from a
      combination of genetic and environmental factors. Genome-wide association studies revealed
      the presence of loci associated with susceptibility in a wide range of genes, including genes
      involved in the complement system, cholesterol homeostasis, growth factor diffusion and
      angiogenesis. Smoking has been identified as a major environmental factor.

      Two major forms of ARMD are clinically distinguishable: the dry and wet form. The latter
      represents the more aggressive clinical subgroup, and is characterized by the abnormal growth
      of new blood vessels (neovascularization) under the macula, thus leading to the accumulation
      of fluid under the retina, bleeding, progression to fibrosis, and finally loss of central
      vision.

      The pathogenesis of this neovascularization is not fully understood, although the VEGF
      pathway is well known to be involved in angiogenesis and was implicated in the development of
      the new vessels under the macula. The VEGFs are the most specific and potent stimulators of
      the angiogenesis. VEGF-A is a 45kD glycoprotein binding to transmembrane tyrosine kinase
      receptors, VEGFRs, which activates a cascade of downstream factors. VEGF-A has the strongest
      pro-angiogenic effect in the retina by promoting proliferation, sprouting and tubing of the
      endothelial cells. It can bind to at least two receptors -VEGFR1 and VEGFR2, although the
      most of the proangiogenic activity appears to be mediated through VEGFR2. Expression of a
      VEGFR2 isoform that lacks both the intracellular signaling domain and the transmembrane
      domain, represents a soluble form of the receptor, inactivating VEGF extracellularly.

      Similarly, molecules that bind and inactivate the VEGF have been developed for the treatment
      of ARMD and they are applied in ARMD clinic through intra vitreal injections. These include
      antibodies, a recombinant receptor fusion protein and a synthetic aptamer. The anti-VEGFA
      antibodies - ranibizumab and bevacizumab, off-label, have been associated with limited
      side-effects and significant therapeutic improvement, and became the standard in the
      treatment of the wet form of ARMD. Indeed, for example in the first clinical trials for
      ranibizumab, monthly injections of ranibizumab demonstrated an average gain in visual acuity
      of 6.6 and 10.7 ETDRS letters after 24 months. However, currently most clinical centres apply
      modified treatment protocols. Commonly used is an initial loading dose of three consecutive
      monthly injections and subsequent follow-up and administration of additional injections
      depending on the evolution of visual acuity, optical coherence tomography and fluorescein
      angiography data . 25% of the ARMD patients show significant improvement of the visual
      acuity, 70% maintain or show slightly increased visual acuity, and the remaining 5 percent of
      the patients fail to respond to the treatment and continue to loose vision.

      The difference seen in response to anti VEGF treatment for ARMD between the patients is
      suggestive for the presence of factors influencing the effect of the drug. Some of these
      could be genetic variants within genes involved in ARMD pathogenesis or VEGF pathway. Few
      associations with markers within genes previously found to be related with the pathogenesis
      of ARMD have been found. It remains unknown whether variants involved in the anti VEGF
      treatment response could influence the therapeutic outcome.

      A study demonstrated that the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in VEGFR1 rs7993418 (TAC
      codon) form is associated to resistance to the anti VEGF therapy in carcinoma patients. This
      specific genotype leads to an increased expression of the VEGFR1 without changing the amino
      acid content of the protein. The increased VEGFR1 protein is most likely due to higher
      efficiency of messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) translation.

      The purpose of this trial is to evaluate the association between a panel of selected
      polymorphic markers in the VEGF pathway and the response to therapy with anti VEGF antibody
      for ARMD. The hypothesis is that the individual genotype influences the response to the anti
      VEGF. This can lead to identification of genetic biomarkers allowing treatment
      individualization and optimization of the visual outcomes.
    
  