
    
      Youth suicide is a serious public health problem and clinical challenge for medical and
      behavioral health providers, yet few preventive interventions have been tested for this
      population. This project addresses this deficit by testing the efficacy of a brief family
      therapy for adolescents presenting with serious risk for suicide in a primary care setting.
      Several innovations characterize the study. First, patients will be identified and treated
      directly in the primary care setting. Integrating behavioral health services into primary
      care may a) reduce burden on physicians by promoting parents as safety monitors, b) increase
      behavioral health treatment adherence, and c) address many underlying family problems
      associated with suicide. Second, to identify seriously at risk adolescents, we will assess
      for severe and persistent suicidal ideation and co-occurring depression. Patients will need
      to score above clinical cutoffs on both ideation (SIQ-JR > 31) and depression (BDI-II >20) at
      two consecutive appointments (generally within 3 days of each other). Third, treatment will
      target two of the most critical suicide risk factors: depression and family conflict.
      Depression is the most consistently associated risk factor for suicide and family conflict is
      the most common precipitant of completed suicide (20%) and non-fatal suicidal episodes (50%).
      Fourth, we will use Attachment Based Family Therapy (ABFT; Diamond et al., 2002) as the
      intervention approach, an efficacious and manualized family therapy model specifically
      designed for adolescent depression. ABFT has been successful in reducing suicidal ideation,
      hopelessness, depression, anxiety, and family conflict. Participants will be recruited from
      the primary care centers at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. Eighty-seven percent of
      patients are African American and 60% are girls. One hundred adolescents will be randomized
      to 6 to 10 weeks of either ABFT or Enhanced Usual Care (EUC). Patients will be evaluated at
      baseline 6, 12, 24, and 52 weeks.
    
  