
    
      This initiative represents development and pilot testing of a 16 week circuit training
      exercise program for persons with spinal cord injury (SCI) to be implemented within a
      rehabilitation centre (Parkwood Institute, London, ON). The primary purpose of this trial is
      one of feasibility - i.e., testing out several aspects of the trial for the purposes of
      determining what features of the exercise intervention and the various outcome measurements
      might be a part of subsequent trials. In addition, a subset of this data will serve as
      preliminary comparison information for Dr. Dany Gagnon's study at the University of Montreal.
      In this way, this is not a true multi-centre trial in that we are not conducting an identical
      protocol to a study he is conducting. Rather, we are using some of the same outcome measures
      and an exercise intervention that has some similar parameters to one that he is implementing
      in Montreal - with a view to providing a preliminary comparison of outcomes of a subset of
      participants in our study so as to inform the development of future studies. For this reason,
      the group of community-dwelling persons with SCI will have more cardio-metabolic outcome
      measurements taken, as they represent the primary group of interest to Dr. Gagnon.

      Overall, the program will integrate members of the community who are > 18 months post-injury
      (n=8) with those currently participating in SCI rehabilitation as inpatients (n=8). Outcomes
      will be collected to test the effects of the program on an array of cardio-metabolic measures
      in those participants with chronic SCI, as well as the feasibility of the program for all
      participants (N=16). Note: although a participant can decline to continue participation at
      any time, it is likely that many inpatient participants will choose to not continue
      participation if this proves logistically difficult (if they move back to their home
      community away from London).
    
  