
    
      Background

      The lack of physical activity and increasing time spent in sedentary behaviours during
      childhood place importance on developing low cost,easy-to-implement school-based
      interventions to increase physical activity among children. The PREVIENE Project will
      evaluate the effectiveness of five innovative, simple, and feasible interventions (active
      commuting to school, Physical Education lessons, active school recess physical activity,
      sleep health promotion, and an integrated program incorporating all 4 interventions) to
      improve physical activity, fitness, anthropometry, sleep health, academic achievement,and
      health-related quality of life in primary school children.

      Methods

      The PREVIENE Project uses a quasi-experimental approach with a convenience sample size of 300
      children (grade 3, 8-9 years old) from six primary schools in Granada (Spain) (2 classes per
      school x 6 schools = 12classesin total). With the average class size of 25 children and the
      expected recruitment rate is 90%, two classes will be selected in each participating school.
      All 79 primary schools in Granada will be invited to participate in this study. The schools
      will initially be contacted by email followed by a phone call. Research team will arrange a
      meeting with the interested schools and their staff (principal, physical education teacher
      and other relevant teachers). At this meeting, the researchers will explain the main
      objective of this study and the inclusion criteria for schools' participation: 1) At least 2
      classes of grade 3 children at school, 2) the average class size has to be 25 or more
      children. Once determined the schools that satisfy the inclusion criteria and express their
      willingness to participate, a total of six schools will be randomly selected.

      The Regional Ministry of Education will endorse the participation of each selected school in
      the study. At the beginning of the study, families of all children in the selected classes
      will receive an invitation to an initial meeting at school to receive information about the
      study. Both children and parents will be encouraged to participate in the study. Parents will
      sign an informed consent which include the participation of them and their child. The study
      protocol has been approved by the University of Granada Human Research EthicsCommittee
      (Reference: 57/CEIH/2015).

      Five schools will be randomly assigned to an intervention schools, four of them will apply a
      single intervention (n=50 children per intervention/school) and one school will implement the
      integrated program (all four interventions simultaneously;n=50 children).The sixth school
      will serve as a control school and will not receive any intervention (n=50 children). In
      schools assigned to the active PE lesson and integrated intervention, standard PE lessons
      will be replaced for the Active Didactics Unit. In all other schools, children will be
      exposed to the usual PE session's structure according to the National Education Program in
      Spain (i.e. 45 min sessions twice per week).

      Interventions

      Active commuting to/from school

      This intervention will include a range of school-, family- and community-based activities.
      These activities will be focused on children and their families following the ecological
      model proposed by Sallis et al., targeting mainly individual factors such as children's
      perceptions (safety perception on the way to school) and attitudes (independence or
      motivation to walk). A total of six 1-hour activities will be conducted at the classroom and
      two activities in the school neighborhood designed based on previous literature. Taken
      together, these activities will emphasize the benefits of active commuting to/from school and
      promote active commuting to/from school using phrases such as "If you rides a bike for 1.200
      km, the medium number of disease days will be reduced by one" for families.Moreover,
      supporting information will be sent to families on four occasions during the intervention to
      encourage families to use active modes of commuting to/from school. The supporting
      information will consist of sending messages by whatsapp and advices (text and images)
      explaining the most important ideas related active commuting and benefits of active commuting
      on academic achievements and children´s mental and physical health.

      Finally, throughout the intervention period, the teacher will ask children their mode of
      transport to school of that day twice a week by raising their hand and encourage possible
      changes in mode of commuting as motivational strategy by using positive reinforcement (as
      reinforce when some children accompanied each other in the way to school). The objective of
      this reinforcement is to remind children to active commute to and from school.

      Active PE lessons

      This intervention has been developed by the Spanish Ministry of Health, Social Services and
      Equality and the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport to increase the amount of
      children's PA during PE lessons in primary schools. At the time of this study, any school in
      Spain could choose to adopt this programme. This intervention includes two sets of eight
      active PE lessons specifically developed for third grade of primary school. These lessons
      will replace the original PE lessons in schools assigned to Active PE lesson intervention and
      integrated intervention. Additionally, this intervention provides some methodological advices
      to increase the PA time during the PE lesson (i.e. different ways to take attendance or
      deciding on the most suitable activity given the availability of resources).

      Active school recess

      This intervention has been designed based on previous research. The teacher will prepare the
      school playground offering adequate space and games to encourage children to be active. A
      sheet placed on the wall as a reminder will help teacher to remind children to participate
      and motivate them. On this sheet, each child will write the activity completed during the
      school recess every day during the intervention period.

      Sleep health promotion

      This intervention will aim to raise the awareness of the importance of having a good quality
      sleep at night and to teach healthy sleep behaviours that will contribute to improving sleep
      hygiene. As a part of this intervention, eight activities will be carried out at home and at
      school. During the first activity, parents and children will attend a general talk about
      sleep and health and will sign a contract for a "healthy sleep at home". Signing "the
      contract" will enable participants to have an active role in the sleep intervention. Also,
      with help of their parents at home, children will complete a diary in which they will keep a
      record of their activities prior to going to bed and after waking up in the morning. The
      objective of this activity is to strengthen the importance of a routine before going to sleep
      and its benefits on the adequate sleep behaviour. Parents will be given a manual to help
      children use an adequate sleep routine and reinforce children's achievements. At school,
      several teachers assisted by the researchers will implement the activities. The first
      classroom-based activity will be based on the educational program "I have a dream" (Spanish
      adaptation of the SimplyHealthy@Schools International Program; Philips Ibérica, S.A., Madrid,
      Spain). The remaining classroom-based activities will include with a group art project with
      questions and answers about sleep, children's calculation of their own sleep parameters from
      the sleep log data, and discussion groups about the sleep diary completed at home and other
      sleep issues, as well as strategies to achieve the commitments included in the "signed
      contract". In addition, the class teacher will introduce the concept of relaxation and its
      benefits at bedtime and will teach an abbreviated version of the Jacobson's progressive
      relaxation technique every morning after the recess.

      School global intervention

      Also, a simultaneous implementation of all four interventions (see the others arms) will be
      examined in one of the intervention schools.

      Data analysis

      Demographic characteristics will be analysed using descriptive statistics. Data will be
      presented using the mean and standard deviation or median and interquartile range, where
      appropriate for continuous variables, and frequency and percentage for categorical variables.
      To assess the effectiveness of the different interventions on objectively measured PA and the
      other outcomes, the generalized linear model will be used with the outcome measures as
      dependent variables in separate models, the intervention as an independent variable and
      controlling for potential confounders (such as gender, body mass index, socioeconomic status,
      and baseline PA). Statistical significance will be set at p<0.05.
    
  