
    
      In a recent study, the combination of IFN-A2a and AZT in the treatment of patients with
      AIDS-associated KS was evaluated and safe doses of both AZT and IFN-A2a were determined. In
      addition, it appeared that there was a substantial reduction in KS lesions with this therapy.
      Potential benefits of this combined therapy include resolution of KS lesions, prolonged
      survival, a decrease in the frequency and severity of opportunistic infections, improvement
      in CD4 cells, and a decrease in serum p24 antigens.

      Following evaluation studies, patients who participate in the study receive IFN-A2a and AZT.
      IFN-A2a is administered as a single subcutaneous injection once a day. AZT is given in a
      single capsule every 4 hours through the day for a total of six capsules. The first phase of
      treatment continues for 8 weeks followed by a 1-week rest period, during which time AZT only
      is given. Subjects who have had an interruption in interferon during the first 8 weeks of the
      study for a toxicity may skip the rest period. Patients experiencing a complete response will
      be placed on maintenance therapy. Patients without progression of their KS can continue on
      the treatment of AZT and IFN-A2a until a complete response is obtained or until study is
      terminated, whichever comes first. Patients with complete anti-tumor response can continue on
      a maintenance phase, in which they receive IFN-A2a as a single injection 3 times a week on
      nonconsecutive days and a single capsule of AZT q4h 6 x /day until the study is terminated on
      February 1, 1992. Patients are required to visit the clinic weekly for the first 12 weeks
      (except during the week 9 rest period), every other week for the next 8 weeks, every month
      for up to 52 weeks of the study and every 3 months thereafter. Throughout the study, frequent
      blood samples will be taken to monitor the effectiveness and safety of the treatment.
    
  