
    
      1. Background

      Chronic cold agglutinin disease (CAD) is mediated by monoclonal cold-reactive autoantibodies
      that bind to erythrocyte surface antigens, causing haemagglutination and complement-mediated
      haemolysis. Anaemia is severe (Hb 8.0 g/dL or lower) in one-third of patients and
      complement-induced exacerbation during febrile illness occurs frequently 1-3. Cold-induced
      circulatory symptoms are present in more than 90% of patients and may be disabling 1. CAD not
      associated with overt lymphoma or other disease has traditionally been classified as primary
      or idiopathic. However, a lymphoproliferative bone marrow disorder can be demonstrated by
      flow cytometry in 90% and by histology in approximately 75% of these patients, characterized
      by clonal proliferation of CD20+,κ+ B-cells 1,4,5. The histological features are those of
      lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma in about 50% of the patients 1.

      Many standard therapies used in other autoimmune diseases or indolent lymphomas are
      inefficient, e.g. corticosteroids, alkylating agents, interferon-α and, probably, purine
      analogue single agent therapy 1,6-8. Treatment with the chimeric monoclonal anti-CD20
      antibody rituximab has been shown in prospective studies to induce remission in more than
      half of patients 9,10. Almost all responses were partial, however, and the median response
      duration was less than one year. Further studies are warranted, therefore, in order to
      explore the possibilities for increasing the response rate and duration.

      The purine analogues, cladribine and fludarabine, are not cyclus dependent, and they have
      yielded partial response rates of 30-75% and complete response rates of 3-10% in
      lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma 11,12. Although probably clinically inefficient as monotherapy in
      most CAD patients, clinical effect of fludarabine has been reported in a single case 13, and
      cladribine has been shown to induce tumour reduction even in this condition 8. In
      lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma, purine analogue and rituximab combination therapy has resulted in
      higher response rates and more prolonged remissions as compared to purine analogue single
      agent therapy 12. The combination has produced favourable results in some patients with the
      related condition cryoglobulinaemia type I 14. Fludarabine has induced autoimmune haemolytic
      anaemia in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, but such events have not been
      reported in CAD patients 13,15. Moreover, there are reasons to assume that rituximab therapy
      will further reduce the risk of this adverse effect of fludarabine 16.

      2 Clinical study

      The clinical study is a prospective, non-randomized multicentre study in order to investigate
      the efficacy and safety of rituximab and fludarabine combination therapy in patients with
      CAD. The protocol has approved by the Regional Medical Research Ethics Committee of Southern
      Norway, Norwegian Medicines Agency (EudraCT nr: 2004-002936-25), and Norwegian Social Science
      Data Services (Privacy Issue Unit).

      2.1 Study objectives

      The major study objective is to assess efficacy of rituximab and fludarabine in combination
      for patients with CAD.

      The second objective is to assess safety of rituximab and fludarabine in combination for
      patients with CAD.

      The third objective is to try to assess whether rituximab and fludarabine in combination are
      superior to rituximab monotherapy comparing patients who have received both therapies for
      CAD.

      2.2 Study design

      A prospective, non-randomized international multicentre study.

      Registration

      Treatment:

      Day 1: Rituximab; 375 mg/m2 Day 1-5: Fludarabine orally; 40 mg/m2

      Day 28: Rituximab; 375 mg/m2 Day 28-33: Fludarabine orally; 40 mg/m2

      Day 56: Rituximab; 375 mg/m2 Day 56-60: Fludarabine orally; 40 mg/m2

      Day 84: Rituximab; 375 mg/m2 Day 84-88: Fludarabine orally; 40 mg/m2

      Evaluation

      2.3 Dose adjustments

      Doses of fludarabine will be adjusted in case of haematological toxicity or renal
      insufficiency. For details, see chapter 4.3.

      2.4 Study population

      2.4.1 Inclusion criteria

        1. CAD diagnosis defined by the combination of -

             1. Chronic haemolysis

             2. Cold agglutinin titre > 64

             3. Positive direct antiglobulin test when performed with polyspecific antiserum,
                negative (or only weakly positive) with anti-IgG, and strongly positive with
                anti-C3d

        2. The presence of a clonal B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder defined by -

             1. Monoclonal IgMκ band by serum electrophoresis and immunofixation, and

             2. Lymphocyte phenotype with κ/λ-ratio > 3.5 and CD20+,κ+ co-expression, using
                flowcytometric immunophenotyping of bone marrow aspirates

        3. Clinical symptoms requiring treatment, such as anaemia or Raynaud-like symptoms

        4. Informed consent

      2.4.2 Exclusion criteria

        1. An aggressive lymphoma

        2. Blood lymphocyte count > 50 . 109/L

        3. Non-lymphatic malignant disease other than basal cell carcinoma

        4. Contra-indications to rituximab or fludarabine therapy

        5. Inability to cooperate

      2.5. Response criteria

      Responses will be assessed using the following, previously published definitions 8,9,17:

      Complete response (CR), Absence of anemia, no signs of hemolysis, no clinical symptoms of
      CAD, undetectable serum monoclonal protein, and no signs of clonal lymphoproliferation by
      bone marrow histology, immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry.

      Partial response (PR), Stable increase in Hb levels by at least 2.0 g/dL or to the normal
      range, combined with a reduction of serum IgM concentrations by at least 50% or to the normal
      range, improvement of clinical symptoms, and transfusion independency.

      Non-response (NR), Patients not meeting the criteria for CR or PR.

      3 Patient examination at inclusion

      3.1 History. Clinical and radiological examination

      Year of first occurrence of clinical symptoms is registered along with data on haemolytic
      anaemia, circulatory symptoms, cold- or fever-induced exacerbation, previous therapies, lymph
      node enlargement, and spleen size (clinical assessment). Chest radiograph and abdominal
      ultrasonography should be done if not performed already during the last four months.

      3.2 Blood tests

      Haemolysis is detected and quantified based on Hb, reticulocyte count (x 109/L), LDH,
      bilirubin and haptoglobin. These measurements should be done twice during the last two months
      before treatment.

      The following haematological, biochemical and immunological assessments should be done once
      at inclusion:

        -  WBC, leukocyte differential count, platelet count

        -  Iron, transferrin (or TIBC), ferritin, cobalamine and folate

        -  CRP

        -  Quantification of IgM, IgG and IgA

        -  Serum electrophoreses with immunofixation (*) (Immunofixation must be performed even if
           visual assessment of agarose electrophoreses does not show any monoclonal band.)

        -  Cold agglutinin titre (*)

        -  Specific direct antiglobulin test (DAT, direct Coombs' test), i.e. using polyspecific
           antiserum, anti-C3d and anti-IgG)

        -  Complement assessments (C3, C4 and CH50) (*, **)

        -  CMV and VZV antibodies

        -  Freezing of 5 ml serum (*, **)

        -  Freezing of 5 ml EDTA-blood for possible later DNA-based studies (**)

      Remarks:See protocol text.

      3.3 Bone marrow examinations

      Centres outside Norway should follow the guidelines listed below. Norwegian centres should
      refer to the Norwegian protocol version.

      I.) Morphologic assessment of bone marrow aspirate is performed according to the routines of
      the participating centre.

      II.) A bone marrow trephine biopsy should be obtained according to the routines of the
      department. Morphological and immunohistochemical assessments are to be done at a university
      pathology laboratory by an experienced haematopathologist. If possible, a fresh biopsy
      specimen should be preferred.

      III.) Flow-cytometric immunophenotyping of bone marrow aspirate should be done at a
      university hospital laboratory. Cells should be washed at 37oC in order to remove cold
      agglutinins, using the previously published procedure 5 (Appendix 1) or an equally
      satisfactory method. The antibody panel should comprise CD19, CD20, CD5, kappa, lambda and
      preferably also IgM and IgG. The kappa/lambda ratio should be calculated. CD20 expression is
      registered semi-quantitatively as 0, + or ++.

      IV.) If possible, 5 ml bone marrow aspirate should be frozen at -70oC for the purpose of
      later DNA-based examinations.

      4 Therapy

      4.1 Treatment schedule

      Day 1: Rituximab; 375 mg/m2 Day 1-5: Fludarabine orally; 40 mg/m2

      Day 28: Rituximab; 375 mg/m2 Day 28-33: Fludarabine orally; 40 mg/m2

      Day 56: Rituximab; 375 mg/m2 Day 56-60: Fludarabine orally; 40 mg/m2

      Day 84: Rituximab; 375 mg/m2 Day 84-88: Fludarabine orally; 40 mg/m2

      4.2 Administration and precautions

      Administration and monitoring of rituximab and fludarabine therapy should be in accordance
      with the manufacturers' recommendations, the official regulations that apply in the
      participating country, and the routine procedures of the participating unit.

      4.3 Dose adjustments

      4.3.1 Haematological toxicity If ANC<1,0x109/L and/or platelets<75x109/L at day 1 of any
      cycle treatment should be delayed for up to 2 weeks and fludarabine dose should be reduced to
      30 mg/m2 in the remaining cycles. Myelosuppression of the same degree in the subsequent
      cycles should result in a reduction of the fludarabine dose to 20 mg/m2.

      Adjustments of the rituximab dose should not be done due to myelosuppression.

      4.3.2 Renal insufficiency In patients with a creatinine clearance between 30-60 ml/min the
      fludarabine dose should be reduced to 20 mg/m2. Patients with a creatinine clearance below 30
      ml/min are not eligible for the study.

      5 Evaluation

      5.1 Follow-up during treatment

      The parameters listed below must be recorded before each therapy cycle:

      Clinical condition, possible adverse effects, need for transfusion, Hb, reticulocytes count,
      WBC including differential count, platelet count, CRP, LDH, ASAT, ALAT, alkaline phosphatase,
      urea, creatinine, bilirubin and haptoglobin.

      Any adverse effects of fludarabine are registered in CRF 2 (Appendix 3). Any adverse effects
      of rituximab are registered in CRF 3 (Appendix 4). In case of death or other serious events,
      these should be reported without delay to S. Berentsen or G. Tjønnfjord as well as the
      relevant national authorities according to regulations that apply in the participating
      country.

      5.2 Follow-up after treatment (first six months)

      A.) The following measurements must be done monthly during the first six months after the
      last cycle of therapy:

      I.) All measurements listed in Paragraph 5.1. II.) Quantification of immunoglobulin classes.
      In case of reduction of a previously elevated IgM level to the normal range, serum
      electrophoresis with immunofixation should be performed at the next visit.

      III.) Number of blood transfusions after the previous registration.

      B.) At the first visit after cessation of therapy, a new bone marrow biopsy is performed in
      those patients where histological or immunohistochemical signs of a lymphoproliferative
      disorder were present at baseline. If a lymphoproliferative bone marrow involvement could be
      detected at baseline by flow cytometry only, flow-cytometric immunophenotyping is also
      repeated at this visit.

      C.) Bone marrow examinations should also be repeated four months after the last therapy cycle
      if the examinations three months before showed signs of lymphoma.

      5.3 Long-term follow-up

      When more than six months have passed since cessation of treatment, patients should be
      followed every third month for three years or until they need treatment again.
    
  