
    
      The study is an experimental observational study in ten healthy volunteers. Volunteers
      fulfilling all of the inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria will be included.
      Enrollment will be continued until the required sample size is achieved (10 subjects).

      The total expected duration of subject participation is 18 days, from screening visit to end
      of follow-up. The active participation is 8h (study procedure 4 hours, observation period 4
      hours).

      The study will include four visits in total, beginning with the written informed consent at
      the screening visit, followed by the study visit. A phone follow-up visit is conducted the
      day after the treatment and after 72h to ensure subject's well-being/ inquire if the subject
      have had any Adverse Event (AE).

      On the treatment day, an arterial catheter for continuous invasive blood pressure
      registration and blood sample collection will be inserted in the radial artery. In addition,
      a catheter for drug administration will be inserted in the brachial vein. After baseline
      registration (blood pressure and pulse), blood sampling and assessment of dyspnea
      (Borg-scale), ticagrelor is administered orally to the subjects. Two hours after
      administration, the registrations and blood sampling (outcome samples) are repeated after
      which an infusion of epinephrine is started at a weight-adjusted rate of 0.01, 0.05, 0.10 and
      0.15 μg kg-1 min-1. Each infusion will be maintained for 15 minutes. At the end of each
      infusion period, registrations and blood sampling are repeated. The blood pressure may
      increase as a result of epinephrine infusion and metoprolol will therefore be administered to
      investigate if it affects platelet function. Hence, after the last measurement with the
      highest dose of epinephrine, 5 mg metoprolol (Abcur, Haelsingborg , Sweden) will be given
      intravenously and thereafter registrations and blood sampling will be repeated. The infusion
      is then stopped and the healthy volunteers are observed for 4 hours.

      All study subjects will be contacted the day after treatment and three days after treatment
      and asked about their wellbeing/ if they have had any AEs.
    
  