
    
      Prevention of oral chronic graft versus host disease (GVHD) by topical agents is an
      attractive strategy because it would potentially avoid the adverse effects associated with
      systemic immunosuppression. Topically administered dexamethasone solution is a commonly used
      agent for the prophylaxis of oral inflammatory conditions including GVHD. However, the
      efficacy and systemic effects of topically administered dexamethasone solution are unknown.
      We therefore propose this trial designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of topical
      dexamethasone solution for prevention of oral chronic GVHD in stem cell transplant
      recipients.

      This pilot phase II study will follow a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled,
      parallel group design. Consenting subjects who have undergone hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation at the NIH Clinical Center and the surrounding transplant clinics will be
      randomized 50/50 to receive dexamethasone 0.01% solution or placebo as an oral rinse for 3
      months starting 90-100 days post-transplant. Subjects will be evaluated monthly after the
      start of intervention. Diagnostic and research evaluations will include a complete oral
      examination, oral mucosal biopsy prior to the beginning of the intervention (day -7) and at
      the time of development of oral chronic GVHD or at the completion of intervention in the
      absence of clinical GVHD. We will measure serum dexamethasone levels and perform short
      cosyntropin (ACTH stimulation) test at the end of the 3 months of intervention or onset of
      clinically significant GVHD.

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of topical
      dexamethasone 0.01% solution used as an oral rinse for prevention of oral chronic GVHD. Our
      primary endpoint will be the proportion of subjects that develop clinically significant
      (severity score 3 or higher) oral chronic GVHD after three months.

      Secondary objectives will include the impact of oral chronic GVHD on the quality of life,
      characterization of the changes in tissue and salivary biomarkers associated with development
      of oral graft versus host disease, and measures of the effects of topical dexamethasone on
      hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis. Secondary outcomes will include oral cavity specific
      quality of life as measured by OHIP-14 questionnaire, oral discomfort levels, improvement in
      general quality of life scores, and severity of oral chronic GVHD as measured by the
      site-specific GVHD scoring system.
    
  