
    
      In this prospective randomized, control clinical trial subjects have a self-reported
      disabling memory deficit within the first two years of their ruptured cerebral aneurysm.
      Subjects will be recruited in the neurosurgery clinic setting, via email and phone screen,
      through social media and phone screen, or during a monthly support group for the patient
      population in question.

      During the screening interview the inclusion and exclusion criteria are assessed and informed
      consent is obtained if needed.

      Those who qualify for the study will undergo a baseline assessment involving Checklist for
      cognitive and emotional consequences following stroke (CLCE-24), Working memory
      questionnaire, Activity of Daily living Questionnaire, and a Lumosity Administered
      assessment.

      After baseline assessments randomization will occur stratified according to duration since
      SAH <12 or >12 months, to either a treatment group, which will include online access to
      structure-oriented activities (Lumosity), or an active control group(online crossword
      puzzles).

      Subjects in the intervention group will undergo twenty training sessions over 10 weeks
      involving cognitive games selected from Lumocity. Games will be customized using an automated
      algorithm supplied by Lumosity, to determine performance in the various targeted skills,
      which include: task switching, logical reasoning, quantitative reasoning, response
      inhibition, numerical calculation, working memory, face-name recall, selective attention,
      spatial recall, spatial orientations, planning, and divided attention. The recommended
      duration of interaction is 2 hours per week for 10 weeks.

      The control group uses a computerized crossword puzzle. the puzzle is offered in three
      different puzzle sizes, levels of complexity, and font sizes. these puzzles do not provide
      progressive challenge to the user by either increased speed, visual field size, number of
      distractors, or degree of difficulty of target stimulus differentiation.
    
  