
    
      The primary objective of this small efficacy study is to collect randomized, controlled pilot
      data estimating clinical effectiveness of this combined, EMG/robotics approach in conjunction
      with RTP. A unique adjunct will be acquisition of biomechanical data as an outcome measure.
      Based on pilot data, the central hypothesis is that Myomo therapy with RTP will exhibit
      significant impairment reductions. We will test the central hypothesis and accomplish the
      objective by pursuing the following specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Compare efficacy of Myomo + RTP with RTP only and Myomo only on affected arm
      impairment. Thirty stroke patients exhibiting moderate affected arm deficits will be randomly
      assigned to receive: (a) Myomo combined with RTP (Myomo + RTP); (b) RTP only (RTP), which
      constitutes the most frequently used regimen in clinical environments;2,3 or (c) Myomo
      therapy only (Myomo). The current study design will determine the additive effect of Myomo
      training to RTP, while also discerning the relative efficacy of RTP only or Myomo use only.
      The intended duration of contact will be equivalent across groups.

      Affected arm impairment, the primary study outcome, will be measured by the upper extremity
      section of the Fugl-Meyer Impairment Scale (FM), the primary outcome measure. The FM will be
      administered by a blinded rater twice before intervention, immediately post-intervention
      (POST), and two months post-intervention (POST-2) with POST serving as the primary study
      endpoint. The primary study hypothesis is that subjects in the Myomo + RTP group will exhibit
      significantly larger FM score changes than Myomo or RTP subjects at POST. It is also
      hypothesized that these changes will be sustained at POST-2.

      Specific Aim 2: Determine the impact of Myomo + RTP on affected arm outcomes. The
      investigators will administer the Arm Motor Ability Test (AMAT), to all subjects before
      intervention, at POST, and at POST-2. When compared to their scores before intervention, it
      is hypothesized that Myomo + RTP subjects will exhibit significantly larger AMAT score
      changes,than subjects in the other groups at POST. These differences will be sustained at
      POST-2.
    
  