
    
      Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a leading cause of death among hospitalized patients, and is
      an important patient safety issue in plastic surgery. Previous work has shown that enoxaparin
      prophylaxis can prevent many post-operative VTE events, and current American Society of
      Plastic Surgeons guidelines support enoxaparin prophylaxis for high-risk patients. However,
      the Plastic Surgery Foundation-funded Venous Thromboembolism Prevention Study showed that 1
      in 25 highest risk patients still had a "breakthrough" VTE event despite receipt of
      guideline-compliant enoxaparin prophylaxis. Highest risk patients often have cancer or trauma
      reconstruction. These surgeries may have surgical injury that is equal in scope to patients
      with traumatic or thermal injury. Previous work in patients with traumatic or thermal injury
      has shown that enoxaparin metabolism, measured by anti-factor Xa (aFXa) level, is
      substantially increased: a higher degree of injury is associated with higher enoxaparin dose
      requirements to achieve prophylactic levels. "Breakthrough" VTE events may occur in plastic
      and reconstructive surgery patients due to inadequate enoxaparin dosing. The investigators
      will examine enoxaparin pharmacokinetics and test whether a clinical protocol for real-time
      enoxaparin dose adjustment can favorably alter the proportion of patients with in-range aFXa
      levels. Primary outcomes include 1) peak and trough steady-state aFXa levels in response to
      standard and escalated doses of enoxaparin and 2) the proportion of patients with appropriate
      aFXa levels pre and post initiation of a clinical protocol for enoxaparin dose adjustment.
      The investigators expect that standard dosing will result in inadequate aFXa peak and trough
      levels, and that the clinical dose adjustment protocol will significantly improve the
      proportion of in-range aFXa levels. The investigators will also develop a linear
      regression-based equation to calculate, based on patient-level factors, the required dose of
      enoxaparin to generate in-range aFXa levels. This research may show that the current "one
      size fits all" approach to enoxaparin prophylaxis is insufficient. In the trauma and
      orthopaedic populations, patients with low initial aFXa levels are significantly more likely
      to develop deep venous thrombosis. Thus, this study has important implications for
      appropriate enoxaparin dose magnitude and frequency, and may ultimately help to decrease the
      substantial morbidity and mortality associated with post-operative VTE.
    
  