
    
      Study design

      The study design was an open (non-blind), non-randomized trial. Senior citizens who got a
      score suggestive of depression were divided into four groups. The first group (n = 60) only
      received peer counseling; the second group (n = 60) joined community activities; the third
      group (n = 60) joined both social engagement and peer counseling, and the last group (n = 60)
      neither took part in any activities and served as the control group. The investigators
      analyzed all the participants and assessed the impact of the inventions after three months.

      Study area

      The study was conducted in Muntinlupa City which is the southernmost city in the National
      Capital Region, the most populated region in the Philippines. Muntinlupa is classified as
      highly urbanized city with a poverty incidence of 1.9% in 2012. The city had one of the
      highest records of senior citizens, which account for 5.63% of its population.

      Participants and selection criteria

      Participants of this study were community-dwelling seniors in the City of Muntinlupa. Those
      aged 60 years old and above are regarded as senior citizens in the Philippines. Therefore,
      the investigators selected Filipino senior citizens who are registered members of the Office
      of Senior Citizen Affairs (OSCA). Participants were recruited purposively by the primary
      investigator and trained BHWs through home visits. Each BHW had their own list of senior
      citizens in their catchment area. The investigators used the list for house-to-house
      recruitment. The primary investigator and BHWs invited the senior citizens to participate in
      the study. All participation by seniors was voluntary and participants gave their informed
      consent prior to participation. Participants must possess a valid senior citizen's
      identification card to be eligible. The investigators excluded those elderly people in
      long-term care, with terminal diseases, or with moderate/ severe cognitive impairment and
      currently suffering from deafness, aphasia or other communication disorders.

      The investigators included senior citizens who got a score suggestive of depression (GDS
      score of 5 and above) in this study. The investigators allocated the senior citizens into
      four groups: (1) peer counseling, (2) social engagement, (3) combination of peer counseling
      and social engagement, and (4) control. For sample size computation, the investigators used
      Open Epi version 3.01 and based the following parameters from a meta-analysis of the effects
      of outreach programs to depressed senior citizens in the community: effect size of 0.77,
      power of 90%, alpha set at 0.05 (two-sided) and expected dropout rate of 25%. At least 40
      senior citizens per group were calculated. Considering the small sample size, the
      investigators decided to increase the sample size to at least 60 senior citizens per group.

      Each senior peer counselor was in charge of two clients. One client was assigned to group A
      (peer counseling) and another client was assigned to group C (social engagement + peer
      counseling). The number of participants for social engagement (n = 60) was decided on the
      basis of location/ space, manageability, and financial resources. There were two batches for
      the social engagement group. Each batch consisted of 30 participants.

      Data collection and study tools

      Peer Counselor - Client Meetings - Peer counselors did home visits to their assigned clients
      for 1-hour every week for three months. The goals of the meetings were to establish a strong
      working alliance, identify a client-defined problem, encourage behavior change, and
      facilitate engagement with the community. At the initial visit, the peer counselor asked what
      the client would like to get out of the meetings in order to establish a client-identified
      goal that both can work on together. Peer counselors accomplished weekly reports for
      documentation purposes. Both the peer counselors and clients completed the Working Alliance
      Inventory-Short Form (WAI-SF) pre- and post-intervention. Clients answered the same set of
      questionnaires for depression and psychosocial risk factors after study completion. Peer
      counselors and clients were interviewed to assess their experiences of the intervention. The
      investigators conducted separate FGDs (5 members per group) with the clients and peer
      counselors using a semi-structured questionnaire.

      Peer Counselor-Health Provider Supervision Meetings - The health providers (psychologist,
      physician, pharmacist, BHWs) met with the peer counselors once a month for an hour for
      supervision and collaboration. During meetings, the peer counselors reported on the client's
      progress and shared impression and insights. The health professionals provided guidance,
      reinforcement, and constructive feedback to continue skills development of the peer
      counselors.

      Social Engagement Activities - The trained senior volunteers and health providers facilitated
      the 3-hour weekly social events for three months. The investigators then collected the same
      set of data for depression and psychosocial risk factors after the intervention. The
      investigators conducted FGDs consisting of five members per group for both senior
      participants and trained senior volunteers. An interview guide was used to explore the
      trained senior volunteers' and senior participants' experience and personal growth after the
      intervention. The investigators explored their acceptability and motivation to continue the
      activities. The investigators encouraged the participants to express their views and opinions
      without confining to the questions being asked.

      Data analysis

      The investigators carried out pre- and post-intervention comparisons followed by an analysis
      of semi-structured interview data. The level of significance was set to 0.05 (two-tailed) and
      statistical analyses were performed using Stata 13.1 (StataCorp, College Station, TX, USA).
      For semi-structured interviews, the investigators transcribed the recorded notes verbatim,
      analyzed, and translated the themes and quotes into English. The investigators analyzed with
      the aid of NVivo using combinations of inductive and analytical approaches. Five
      investigators were involved in this process and every transcribed interview was analyzed by
      at least two investigators to test the reliability of the interpretations. Findings were
      presented as themes that emerged from the analysis of transcripts for peer counseling and
      social engagement activities.

      Ethical considerations

      Ethical approval was sought from the Research Ethics Committee of the University of Tokyo and
      the University of the Philippines Research Ethics Board. The investigators obtained the
      permission of community-dwelling seniors by giving a letter of consent/permission to conduct
      research. All participation by seniors was voluntary, and participants gave their informed
      consent prior to participation. In addition, participants were allowed to withdraw from the
      study at any time without penalty and had the right to obtain the results of the study if
      participants so wish. The investigators were aware not to cause emotional harm to the
      participants by being careful and sensitive during the interviews and activities. Personal
      biases and opinions did not get in the way of the research.
    
  