
    
      All subjects will receive a full physical examination at IND to determine study eligibility.
      Written informed consent will be obtained prior to any study procedures. The screening
      procedures will include: review of medical and psychiatric history, review of medications,
      physical examination including height and body weight, vital sign measurements, review of
      inclusion/exclusion criteria, clinical laboratory testing (serum chemistries, CBC,
      urinalysis, urinary drug screen), urine pregnancy test for females of childbearing potential
      and electrocardiogram in preparation for the imaging study.

      Part A: Four healthy subjects will each receive one injection of 123-I INER. Serial whole
      body planar imaging in the anterior and posterior projection will be performed over the 8-9
      hour period following injection of 5 mCi of 123-I INER and again at 18-24 hours following
      injection. Venous blood data will be acquired at each imaging time point. In addition a 24
      hour urine collection will commence following radiotracer injection. Whole body and source
      organs uptake will be analyzed on anterior and posterior images for calculating the radiation
      absorbed doses to organs. Plasma and urine metabolites will be characterized and safety
      assessments obtained. Serial safety assessments will include vital signs, serum chemistries,
      CBC, urinalysis, and EKGs.

      Part B: Six healthy subjects will each receive one injection of 123-I INER. Following bolus
      intravenous injection of 5 mCi of 123-I INER over 15 seconds, serial dynamic SPECT brain
      acquisitions will be obtained to evaluate the regional brain uptake and washout of activity.
      Venous blood measures will be obtained with each acquisition and characterization of 123-I
      INER and metabolites will be assessed. Safety assessments will include vital signs, serum
      chemistries, CBC, urinalysis, and EKGs.
    
  