
    
      Neuroblastoma is the most common extracranial solid tumor of childhood and accounts for 15%
      of all pediatric cancer related deaths. The majority of patients present with high-risk
      disease that is widely metastatic and aggressive. Historically, less than 30% of these
      patients achieved long-term disease-free survival and the majority of relapses occurred
      within the first 24 months following treatment. Survival rates have modestly improved with
      the addition of high-dose chemotherapy and stem cell rescue, radiotherapy, surgery and
      biologic therapy, yet 50% of patients still succumb to their disease. Current treatment of
      neuroblastoma also carries significant acute toxicities and those patients that are cured
      suffer significant long-term treatment-related morbidities. Therefore, children with
      high-risk neuroblastoma are in need of novel therapeutic strategies that will improve cure
      rates without adding to acute and long-term toxicities.

      Retinoids, derivatives of vitamin A, have been repeatedly shown to arrest cell growth of
      neuroblastoma cells in vitro by causing differentiation. Clinical trials in relapsed
      neuroblastoma patients with bulky tumors failed to show significant responses to retinoid
      therapy. Subsequently, however, a sentinel randomized clinical trial demonstrated that
      isotretinoin(13-cis-retinoic acid), when given to patients with minimal residual disease
      following consolidation chemotherapy, independently improved the overall survival of patients
      with high-risk neuroblastoma. The treatment regimen included isotretinoin for 2 weeks
      followed by a 2 week rest period for 6 treatment cycles. The treatment was very well
      tolerated with minimal side effects. The duration of treatment, 6 months, was arbitrarily
      chosen and currently many institutions implement prolonged retinoic acid treatment in
      patients with relapsed high-risk disease, yet no formal study has been done to statistically
      show improved survival with prolonged biotherapy.

      To improve the progression-free survival in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma this trial
      will prolong therapy with isotretinoin to 24 months, the time window in which most relapses
      occur. The treatment is anticipated to be well tolerated with no increase in adverse side
      effects based on the benign side effect profile of patients who have received the typical 6
      month treatment course. The trial will consist of a single arm of 20 high-risk neuroblastoma
      patients who will receive a total of 24 cycles of isotretinoin (2 weeks on treatment followed
      by 2 weeks of rest) compared to the historical and current COG study treatment of 6 cycles.
      Patients will be accrued over a 3-year period.

      The toxicity and tolerability of a prolonged course of isotretinoin biologic therapy will be
      closely monitored with a focus on neuropsychologic and bone toxicities, and isotretinoin drug
      levels will be measured to determine if there is a correlation between levels and anti-tumor
      efficacy or toxicities. This will provide complementary data to support future national
      cooperative group trials.
    
  