
    
      PROTOCOL - Baton Rouge General Medical Center

      Background

      According to the Institute of Medicine, non-institutionalized high-risk adults may present
      the greatest challenge to adult immunizations. There are a number of barriers to
      implementation of comprehensive strategies for vaccinating adults:

        -  Routine preventive health visits are infrequent and transient

        -  Individuals lack knowledge of the vaccines required during adulthood

        -  Primary care providers may lack time, knowledge, or ability to perform a vaccination
           assessment, or it may not be part of their standard practice pattern

        -  Primary care providers lack the infrastructure (especially time and personnel) to assist
           with adequately assessing and documenting immunization status

      Emergency departments represent ideal settings for vaccination efforts because each year
      millions of adults who have no or limited access to traditional primary care visit hospital
      EDs for medical and surgical problems that are non-life threatening. Such EDs often already
      provide other medical screening and preventive care services in the management of their
      patients. Almost one-quarter of adults aged 65 years and older make one or more visits to an
      emergency department each year. Patients who use EDs as their usual source of care are more
      likely to be members of minority groups and uninsured. These characteristics suggest that
      vaccination programs in EDs could have a significant impact in correcting disparities in
      vaccination coverage among patients in older age groups.

      Combined with the large volume of patient visits each day, these characteristics would seem
      to make EDs ideal settings to implement vaccination services for people who have little
      access to primary care. Furthermore, influenza vaccination in EDs could play a substantial
      role in correcting disparities in vaccination coverage among this cohort of patients. The
      American College of Emergency Physicians recommends that ED personnel consider participating
      in influenza vaccine programs for the elderly if other sources of vaccination are not readily
      available.

      A limited number of studies suggest that about half of patients for whom influenza vaccine is
      indicated (based on age or other high risk conditions) who have not yet received influenza
      vaccination during the current season would accept vaccination if it was offered to them
      during an ED visit. However, since these studies were conducted early in the vaccination
      season and involved the use of convenience samples, the results might not be generalizable to
      all patients seen in an ED throughout the vaccination season. The proportion of persons who
      would not have been vaccinated elsewhere but would accept vaccination in EDs has not been
      demonstrated. Therefore, the true potential of vaccination in EDs to increase vaccination
      coverage is unknown.

      Additional evidence suggests that strong recommendation by a health care professional,
      particularly the patient's primary physician, can further increase the acceptance of
      influenza vaccine. However, there is limited evidence regarding the effectiveness of
      counseling by providers who are previously unknown to the patient, as is usually the case in
      an ED setting, to produce a similar change in patient behavior.

      Goals and Objectives The overall goal is to determine the feasibility, sustainability,
      acceptability, and effectiveness of hospital-based vaccination efforts and to increase
      influenza immunization coverage among persons aged 18 years and older for whom vaccination is
      recommended who would otherwise not have been vaccinated. Inherent in feasibility and
      sustainability are the ability to recoup some income from those vaccinated.

      Objective

      For patients aged 18 years and older who seek medical care in the ED, determine

        1. the number of vaccinations administered to eligible persons

        2. the proportion of patients, among all persons not previously vaccinated, who accept
           vaccines in the emergency department.

        3. the increase in coverage that can be achieved through a four-month emergency
           department-based vaccination program

      Study design and methods

        1. All patients aged 18 years and older will be approached by the PPS after the chief
           complaint is ascertained. The PPS will begin and administer a questionnaire on all
           eligible patients for whom vaccine is recommended. If the patient is eligible, the PPS
           will read the questionnaire to the patient.

        2. If the patient is unsure or states that he or she does not want to receive the flu
           vaccine, the PPS will determine the reason for vaccine refusal.

      If the patient meets criteria for influenza vaccination and/or pneumococcal vaccination, the
      PPS will inform him/her that influenza/pneumococcal vaccine is/are recommended for them and
      that the vaccination will be offered to eligible patients in the ED at no additional charge
      beyond that which is reimbursed by their insurance. Patients will be referred to a physician
      for additional assessment if they have a questionable or possible contraindication. The PPS
      will provide all eligible patients with the appropriate Vaccine Information Statement(s) and
      answer any questions. If the patient agrees to be vaccinated, the PPS will place a preprinted
      order form in the patient's chart, ask the physician to sign the order, and alert the
      patient's nurse. The patient will be offered vaccination by an ED nurse while they are
      undergoing evaluation and treatment in the emergency room. The nurse giving the vaccination
      will document the lot number, expiration date, time and location of the injection(s) on a
      label that will be placed in the patient's chart.

      Documentation of doses received will be faxed to the patient's private care physician, if the
      information is available for doing so.

      How confidentiality will be maintained:

      Personal identifiers will not be retained by investigators beyond the time needed to document
      dose receipt in the patient medical record.

      Exclusion criteria:

      All patients under 18 years of age will be excluded. Any patient with a medically unstable
      condition, altered mental status, or language barrier will also be excluded. Patients who
      present with a contraindication to influenza vaccination (acute febrile illness or a history
      of allergic reaction to eggs) or pneumococcal vaccine will not be eligible for receipt of
      those vaccines.

      Immunization status:

      Previous immunization history will be assessed by patient self-report.

      Data analysis:

      The primary outcome measure will be the number of indicated influenza and pneumococcal
      vaccinations received during the course of the study. Data will be collected and analyzed
      according to demographic information, contraindications, and clinical consent.

      PROTOCOL - Our Lady of the Lake Regional Medical Center

      Goals and Objectives:

      The overall goal is to determine the feasibility, sustainability, acceptability, and
      effectiveness of hospital-based vaccination efforts and to increase influenza immunization
      coverage among persons aged 50 years and older who would otherwise not have been vaccinated.
      Inherent in feasibility and sustainability are the ability to recoup some income from those
      vaccinated.

      Objective

      For patients aged 50 years and older who seek medical care in the ED, determine

        1. the number of vaccinations administered

        2. the proportion of patients, among all persons not previously vaccinated, who accept
           vaccines in the emergency department.

        3. the increase in coverage that can be achieved through a four-month emergency
           department-based vaccination program

        4. information or incentives that might convince initially reluctant patients to accept
           influenza vaccine

      Study design and methods

        1. All patients aged 50 years and older will be approached by the scribe after the chief
           complaint is ascertained. The scribe will begin and administer a questionnaire on all
           age eligible patients. Having already taken a history, the scribe will be able to easily
           determine if the patient is eligible for the study (i.e. does not meet any of the
           exclusion criteria). If the patient is eligible, the scribe will read the questionnaire
           to the patient.

        2. If the patient is unsure or states that he or she does not want to be vaccinated, the
           scribe will determine the reason.

      If the patient meets criteria for vaccination (i.e., has not been previously vaccinated
      against influenza this season and has no known contraindications to influenza vaccination),
      the scribe will inform him/her that influenza vaccine is recommended and that the vaccine
      will be offered to eligible patients in the ED at no additional charge beyond that which is
      reimbursed by their insurance. Patients will be referred to a physician for additional
      assessment if they have a questionable or possible contraindication. The scribe will provide
      all eligible patients with a VIS and answer any questions. If the patient agrees to be
      vaccinated, the scribe will place a preprinted label in the patient's chart, ask the
      physician to sign the order, and alert the patient's nurse. The patient will be offered
      vaccination by an ED nurse while they are undergoing evaluation and treatment in the
      emergency room. The nurse giving the vaccination will document the lot number, expiration
      date, time and location of the injection on a label that will be placed in the patient's
      chart.

      How confidentiality will be maintained:

      Personal identifiers will not be retained by investigators beyond the time needed to document
      dose receipt in the patient medical record.

      Exclusion criteria:

      All patients under 50 years of age will be excluded. Any patient with a medically unstable
      condition, altered mental status, or language barrier will also be excluded. Patients who
      present with a contraindication to influenza vaccination (acute febrile illness or a history
      of allergic reaction to eggs) or previous influenza vaccines will be excluded.

      Immunization status:

      Previous immunization history will be assessed by patient self-report.

      Data analysis:

      The primary outcome measure will be the number of indicated influenza vaccinations received
      during the course of the study. Data will be collected and analyzed according to demographic
      information, contraindications, and clinical consent.

      Secondary analysis will be of the effectiveness of systems changes to deliver vaccine in an
      emergency department setting. If necessary, surveys will be administered to key staff persons
      to assist with data gathering for this analysis.
    
  