
    
      This will be a randomized, double-blind, active- and placebo-controlled, parallel-group study
      in subjects with clinically active RA but who are MTX-naïve. Subjects who meet enrollment
      criteria will be randomized to 1 of 4 groups in a 2:2:2:1 ratio: CF101 1 mg, CF101 2 mg, MTX,
      or matching placebo tablets. CF101 or matching placebo will be administered every 12 hours
      for up to 24 weeks on treatment. MTX or matching placebo will be administered once a week
      Screening examinations will occur within 6 weeks prior to dosing. The following conventional
      drugs for RA treatment must be stable for the respective designated periods prior to the
      Screening Visit and must remain so during protocol participation: nonsteroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), and corticosteroids for >1 month. All subjects will receive
      oral folate (minimum dose 5 mg/week) or oral folinic acid (up to 10 mg/week), based on the
      Investigator's preference.

      Disease activity will be assessed using swollen and tender joint counts, erythrocyte
      sedimentation rate (ESR), and CRP. Efficacy will be assessed by Disease Activity Score 28
      using the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (DAS28-ESR), ACR response criteria and European
      League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) response criteria : swollen and tender joint counts,
      physician global assessment (by visual analog scale, patient global assessment , patient
      reported pain, a Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) Disability Index (DI) , Westergren ESR
      levels, and CRP levels. Assessments will occur at Screening, Baseline (Week 0), and Weeks 4,
      8, 12 16, 20, and 24. At Weeks 12, 16, and 20, any subject who has not experienced at least
      20% improvement in both the number of swollen and number of tender joints will be given
      rescue therapy with open-label oral MTX and followed through Week 24.

      PK will be assessed in a subgroup of approximately 100 subjects at Week 0, Week 8, and Week
      12. All subjects in the PK cohort will have samples collected for PK at time 0, and each
      subject will have additional samples drawn at 2 of the following post-dose time points: 1, 2,
      3, 4, 6, and 8 hours. Whole blood sample for A3AR expression will be assessed in
      approximately 100 subjects at selected sites at Screening and Week 12, or end of dosing, if
      occurring before Week 12.
    
  