
    
      The study intervention, community-based intervention (CBI), will contain multiple components,
      including: 1) Facility Providers. Providers will be trained on study interventions; job aids
      will be provided. Nurses will use a clinical algorithm based on national guidelines for
      intensive case finding and screening of child contacts for TB to assess patients without TB
      symptoms for IPT eligibility; to initiate IPT; and to monitor for side effects, TB symptoms,
      and adherence. If a child contact develops TB symptoms during IPT, national guidelines will
      be followed. HIV testing will be strongly promoted in child contacts. Use of simple available
      clinic IPT registers will be promoted. The PI will establish systems to track IPT use at
      monthly multi-disciplinary team meetings; clinic staff will review IPT monitoring data for
      prior months, identify challenges, and develop solutions. IPT registers will link IPT outcome
      data to TB register data for index cases. 2) Patients and Guardians. Nurses will explain to
      patients and guardians that IPT can prevent TB, promote IPT initiation, assess IPT adherence
      and side effects, and encourage follow-up with village health workers (VHW). Nurses will
      emphasize HIV testing for children. The VHW role will encompass social support, system
      navigation, referrals, and advocacy. VHW will follow up with guardians of children who miss
      appointments or report nonadherence, using scripted, illustrated flipcharts targeting
      children and guardians. VHW will emphasize to guardians the importance of IPT, encourage IPT
      and visit adherence, offer support and empathy, provide referrals, and advocate for patients.
      3) Community Outreach. To investigate household contacts, VHW will visit homes of all adult
      TB cases at facilities assigned to CBI. All HIV-infected children and children under 5,
      regardless of HIV status, will be referred to health facilities. VHW will administer TB
      symptom screening in child contacts in the community, accompany them and their guardians to
      the clinic, and provide education sessions, support groups, and adherence counseling.

      Study assessments include: 1) outcome data via medical records; 2) pre- and post-intervention
      interviews with providers; 3) post-intervention guardian interviews; and 4) program
      characteristics data. Stakeholders and policy makers will be engaged early in the process to
      help ensure successful integration of findings in programmatic contexts. A dissemination
      strategy will be developed in consultation with stakeholders and will help ensure scaling up
      of the intervention, if found effective.

      All clinical care, including implementation of the combination intervention package at sites
      randomized to CIP, will be performed by Lesotho Ministry of Health clinic staff (nurses and
      VHW). All study procedures, including participant interviews, medical record abstraction, and
      program characteristics surveys will be performed by study staff.
    
  