
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the disease-free survival and overall survival of patients with non-Hodgkin's
           or Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
           (PBSCT).

        -  Verify the safety and efficacy of autologous PBSCT in patients with HIV disease and
           relapsed lymphoma.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate immune reconstitution in HIV-positive patients undergoing autologous PBSCT and
           compare to immune reconstitution in HIV-negative patients.

        -  Predict the adequacy of peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) harvest prior to flow analysis
           of a PBSC yield.

        -  Determine the time to engraftment for neutrophils and platelets.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) mobilization with filgrastim (G-CSF) alone: Patients
           not requiring further disease reduction receive G-CSF subcutaneously (SC) once daily on
           days 1-8. Patients undergo PBSC collection by leukapheresis on days 5-8. Patients who do
           not adequately mobilize with G-CSF alone proceed to chemo-mobilization.

        -  Chemo-mobilization: Patients requiring further disease reduction receive 1 of 2
           chemo-mobilization regimens.

             -  Patients with CD20+ non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) or lymphocyte predominant
                Hodgkin's lymphoma: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) over 6-8 hours on
                day 1, ifosfamide IV over 2 hours and etoposide IV over 30 minutes on days 2-4, and
                carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 2. Patients receive G-CSF SC once daily beginning
                on day 5 and continuing until leukapheresis is completed. Patients undergo PBSC
                collection by leukapheresis on days 12-15.

             -  All other patients: Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 2 hours and etoposide IV
                over 30 minutes on days 1-3 and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1. Patients
                receive G-CSF SC once daily beginning on day 4 and continuing until leukapheresis
                is completed. Patients undergo PBSC collection by leukapheresis on days 12-15.

        -  Autologous PBSC transplantation (PBSCT) (Patients with NHL undergoing irradiation):
           Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -7 and -6. Patients undergo
           total body irradiation (TBI) twice daily on days -4 to -1. Patients undergo autologous
           PBSCT on day 0. Patients receive G-CSF SC once daily beginning on day 5 and continuing
           until blood counts recover.

        -  Autologous PBSCT (Patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma or NHL not undergoing irradiation and
           cyclophosphamide): Patients receive camustine IV over 2 hours on days -6, etoposide IV
           over 2 hours twice daily on days -5 to -2, and melphalan over 1 hour on day -1. Patients
           undergo autologous PBSCT on day 0. Patients receive G-CSF SC once daily beginning on day
           5 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Autologous PBSC transplantation (PBSCT) (Patients with HL not undergoing irradiation):
           Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -6 to -3, camustine IV over 2
           hours on day -6, and etoposide IV over 4 hours twice daily on days -6 to -4. Patients
           undergo autologous PBSCT on day 0. Patients receive G-CSF SC once daily beginning on day
           5 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Post-transplant irradiation: Patients undergo post-transplant irradiation beginning on
           day 28. Persisting nodal masses ≥ 2 cm are treated with additional localized external
           beam irradiation.

        -  Post-transplant Rituximab therapy: patients with CD20+ NHL may undergo Rituximab
           maintenance starting between day +45 and +90 and being repeated at day +180 ± 14 days.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 300 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  