
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Many factors may have contributed to the decline in coronary heart disease including revised
      coding of death certificates, behavioral modification of risk factors, improvements in
      emergency and other hospital care, and use of new medications and surgery. The Rochester
      Heart Study contributed trend data covering the time before and during the decline in
      coronary heart disease mortality. At that time, medical care for residents of Rochester and
      Olmsted County was almost exclusively provided by the Mayo Clinic and Olmsted Medical Group.
      Under the Rochester Epidemiology Program Project supported by program project grants from the
      National Institute of General Medical Sciences and the National Institute of Arthritis and
      Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, the medical records of the Olmsted Medical Group and
      Community Hospital were indexed for retrieval by the same system as the Mayo Clinic. Those of
      other outside sources such as the University of Minnesota Hospital, Rochester State Hospital,
      and Veterans Hospitals which pertained to the occasional admission of Olmsted County
      residents were also added to the Mayo Clinic maintained diagnostic index. The resulting
      central diagnostic file gave virtually complete case assignments for diagnosed cases of
      myocardial infarction, sudden unexpected death, angina pectoris, and noncoronary heart
      disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The centralized case index of the Mayo Clinic and the Rochester Epidemiology Program Project
      were used to identify any Rochester resident with a diagnosis between 1950 and 1987 of any
      condition suggesting that coronary heart disease might be present. Included were diagnoses of
      coronary heart disease, myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, coronary insufficiency, or
      arrhythmias. All relevant index codes were specified and a computer generated list was
      provided of the unit record numbers of all candidate cases. The medical histories were then
      retrieved and reviewed for inclusion. The screened histories were assigned to nurse
      abstractors whose duty it was to identify from the screening list those patients who
      satisfied the diagnostic criteria in the protocol as well as the incidence and residence
      requirements. In case finding of coronary heart disease incidence, the following had to be
      true: the diagnosis of angina pectoris, myocardial infarction or sudden unexpected death must
      have satisfied the protocol's diagnostic criteria; the diagnosis must have been a first
      diagnosis; the patient, at the time of first diagnosis, must have been free of diagnoses of
      congestive heart failure and valvular heart disease; the patient must have been a resident of
      Rochester at the time of diagnosis. If all of these criteria were met, the electrocardiograms
      were read by a physician for case verification. A precoded abstract of the history was
      prepared for each incidence case. The abstract included: identification and demographic data;
      information on smoking, hypertension, hypertension therapy, lipids, and use of estrogens;
      diagnostic factors such as ECG, treatment tests, angiography, and selected laboratory test
      results. The first myocardial infarction following the first coronary heart disease diagnosis
      was coded; if the first manifestation of coronary heart disease was a myocardial infarction,
      the second myocardial infarction was coded to provide a basis for determining reinfarction
      rates. In the earlier study done from 1950-1969, little data on treatment were abstracted.
      From 1970 to 1991t, drugs and surgery were abstracted. All death certificates for Rochester
      and Olmsted County residents for the period 1960-1979 were recoded to the 8th revision of the
      ICDA in order to obtain comparability over the study period. All deaths suspected of being
      due to some form of coronary heart disease were reviewed by a group of cardiologists using a
      clinical classification of death. The cardiologists used medical, hospital, and autopsy
      records to determine cause of death. Follow up was 99 percent complete. Date of last
      follow-up and cause of death were recorded.

      The medical records for all Olmsted County residents ages 30 and over coming to autopsy for
      the period 1950-1978 were reviewed. Data abstracted included date of death, age at death,
      sex, weight, heart weight, grade of lesions in the coronary arteries, and evidence of recent
      or old myocardial infarction. All autopsy records for 1980 through 1984 were reviewed for
      coronary heart disease. Beginning in 1986, valvular heart disease data were also collected
      for the period 1950 through 1987.

      The effect of the Diagnostic Related Groups (DRG) on incidence rates for coronary and
      valvular heart disease was ascertained for all cases hospitalized after January 1, 1984. The
      Mayo Medical Center DRG system which captured and retained diagnoses on hospitalized patients
      was compared with the study medical index files.

      Incident cases were also followed for specific diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. This
      was accomplished by record review and by matching lists of case patient numbers with
      identification numbers of patients who underwent the following: radionuclide ejection
      fractions and radionuclide exercise tests beginning in 1980; arteriography, ventriculography,
      valve evaluation, thrombolytic infusion, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or
      balloon angioplasty, and electrophysiologic testing beginning in 1976; coronary artery bypass
      surgery, myocardial resection, and valve repair or replacement beginning in 1978; coronary
      intensive care unit data beginning in 1976. New procedures were monitored as they came into
      use.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  