
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and tolerability of dasatinib 100 mg/day given after intensive
      induction (daunorubicin hydrochloride [daunorubicin]/cytarabine), and consolidation
      chemotherapy (high-dose cytarabine) and as single agent in maintenance therapy to newly
      diagnosed patients with core binding factor acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

      II. 30-day survival rate during induction (the lack of early/hypoplastic death).

      III. The absence of pleural or pericardial effusion, and absence of liver toxicity that
      exceeds grade 2.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess clinical outcomes such as event-free survival (EFS), complete response (CR)
      rate, cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR), cumulative incidence of death (CID),
      disease-free survival (DFS), and overall survival (OS).

      II. To describe the frequency and severity of adverse events of patients treated on this
      study during induction, consolidation, and continuation therapy.

      III. To describe the interaction of pretreatment disease and patient characteristics
      including morphology, cytogenetics, immunophenotype, molecular genetic features, white blood
      cell (WBC) count and hemogram, and performance status on clinical outcomes.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION THERAPY (course 1): Patients receive daunorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV)
      on days 1-3, cytarabine IV continuously over 168 hours on days 1-7, and dasatinib orally (PO)
      once daily (QD) on days 8-21. Patients with responsive disease on day 21 undergo
      consolidation therapy, and patients with non-responsive disease on day 21 (bone marrow
      cellularity >= 20 % and leukemia blasts >= 5%) receive a second course of induction therapy.

      INDUCTION THERAPY (course 2): Patients receive daunorubicin hydrochloride IV on days 1-3,
      cytarabine IV continuously over 120 hours on days 1-5, and dasatinib PO once a day on days
      6-19. Patients achieving complete response receive consolidation therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive high-dose cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1, 3,
      and 5, and dasatinib PO QD on days 6-26 or 7-27. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients in complete
      remission receive continuation therapy.

      CONTINUATION THERAPY: Patients receive dasatinib PO on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28
      days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 2 months for 2 years, every
      3 months for 2 years, and then every year for up to 10 years from study entry.
    
  