
    
      Carotid artery intima media wall thickness (IMT) is one of the most developed biomarkers of
      cardiometabolic risk, with established reliability and predictive validity, and has been
      utilized as a surrogate endpoint for cardiovascular disease progression in FDA-reviewed
      registration studies. This technique has also been used in children and adolescents without
      psychiatric disorders, indicating that changes in IMT are positively correlated with
      metabolic syndrome criteria. Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (1H MRS) to quantify hepatic
      triglyceride content (HTGC) is a promising new marker of cardiometabolic risk, especially
      given the importance of nocturnal circulating free fatty acids in the development of insulin
      resistance leading to type 2 diabetes. Fatty liver, related in part to obesity, is the most
      common liver abnormality found in children ages 2-19, with one in ten children manifesting
      signs of macrovascular steatohepatitis. 1H MRS is a well-established methodology used to
      measure HTGC that correlates well with liver biopsy results. This technique has been studied
      in obese children without psychiatric disorders, and is widely considered to be the optimal
      noninvasive means by which to measure HTGC. Unfortunately, neither of these promising methods
      have been applied to the study of cardiometabolic risk in children with psychiatric
      disorders.

      It is important to now study these biomarkers in psychiatric populations, where individuals
      are subject to treatments that can increase risk. Our group is experienced in the application
      of sophisticated, gold standard techniques for measuring cardiometabolic risk in psychiatric
      populations, and is-to our knowledge-the only group in the US using sensitive methodologies
      like stable isotopomer euglycemic clamps to study the pathophysiology leading to diabetes and
      cardiovascular disease in the mentally ill. An important goal of studying these biomarkers is
      to ultimately determine which of the more commonly available conventional risk measures
      (e.g., lipid profiles, adiposity measures) can be used alone or in combination to accurately
      identify children at highest risk, to aid in the development and targeting of effective
      interventions.
    
  