
    
      The overall goal of this technology development initiative is to greatly advance the clinical
      diagnosis and treatment of musculoskeletal impairments as they relate to joint function. The
      primary focus of this protocol is to initially develop and ultimately validate a combined set
      of tools (virtual functional anatomy - VFA) that will enable the accurate and precise
      measurement, analysis and visualization of three-dimensional (3D) static and dynamic
      musculoskeletal anatomy (i.e., bone shape, skeletal kinematics, tendon and ligament strain,
      muscle force, and joint space) from imaging data. We plan to merge and extend our existing MR
      imaging and analysis capabilities with ultrasound imaging and analysis for the development
      and implementation of a highly accurate, imaging-based measurement and analysis technique for
      the non-invasive quantification of complete joint anatomy and tissue dynamics during
      functional movements. In short, we plan to develop a method for creating 3D digital images of
      loaded and moving joint tissues (bone, cartilage, and connective tissues) that reveal joint
      contact patterns and tissue loads. In conjunction with building this tool, we will evaluate
      the variability of bone shape across individuals, the sensitivity of defined joint posture
      (translation and rotation of one bone relative to another) to osteo-based coordinate system
      definition, and the ability to ultimately use these tools to document and evaluate the
      function of normal and impaired joint structures (e.g., ACL rupture, patella tracking
      syndrome ) under simulated conditions experienced during activities of daily living.

      The principal investigator has previously developed and tested the primary component in the
      VFA package, cine-phase contrast and fast-phase contrast (fast-PC) MRI, demonstrating both to
      be highly accurate and precise in the measurement of normal 3D knee joint kinematics and
      biceps femoris strain. Additional investigators have previously developed techniques for
      imaging musculoskeletal structures using ultrasonography, demonstrating these techniques to
      be, likewise, highly accurate and precise in the measurement of biomechanical properties of
      the soft tissues surrounding the knee and the tendons of the quadriceps femoris. Under this
      protocol we propose to develop additional numerical reconstruction, image analysis, and
      display methods and test the applicability of fast-PC MRI and ultrasound to the study of
      various normal and impaired joints (e.g., ankle, wrist, and knee). This development process
      will require data from human volunteers obtained from both static and dynamic MR and
      ultrasound images.

      This development is being guided by our philosophy that impaired joint function likely occurs
      due to abnormal bone shape, abnormal musculoskeletal movements and forces, or both abnormal
      bone shape and musculoskeletal movements and forces. Thus, our long-term vision is to
      non-invasively quantify the in vivo 3D joint kinematics, bone shapes and tissue loads for
      both the healthy impaired and normal volunteer populations, translate the methods and
      findings into interventional research and ultimately into common clinical practice.
    
  