
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the long-acting
      injectable integrase inhibitor cabotegravir (CAB LA) compared to daily oral tenofovir
      disoproxil fumarate/emtricitabine (TDF/FTC) for pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) in a
      population of sexually active HIV-uninfected women at risk for HIV.

      This study will take place in three steps. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of
      two arms:

      Arm A:

      Step 1: Participants will receive daily oral CAB and TDF/FTC placebo for 5 weeks.

      Step 2: Participants will receive injections of CAB LA at two time points 4 weeks apart and
      every 8 weeks thereafter and daily TDF/FTC placebo beginning at Week 5.

      Arm B:

      Step 1: Participants will receive daily TDF/FTC and oral CAB placebo for 5 weeks.

      Step 2: Participants will receive daily TDF/FTC and intramuscular (IM) placebo injections at
      two time points 4 weeks apart and every 8 weeks thereafter beginning at Week 5.

      Step 2 will continue until the last enrolled participant reaches approximately 76 weeks on
      Step 2 (Week 81 for the last enrolled participant).

      In Step 3, all participants (Arms A and B) will receive daily TDF/FTC for up to 48 weeks,
      starting no later than 8 weeks after the last injection.

      At the end of Step 3, all participants will then transition to locally available HIV
      prevention services, including services for PrEP, if available.

      Study visits will occur at Day 0 and at Weeks 2 and 4 during Step 1. During Step 2,
      participants will attend up to 24 visits, depending on when they enroll in the study. Study
      visits will occur every 12 weeks during Step 3. Study visits may include physical
      examinations; blood, urine, and vaginal swab collection; risk reduction, adherence
      counseling, and contraception counseling.

      HPTN 084-01 is a sub-study of HPTN 084. The purpose of this study is to examine the safety,
      tolerability, and acceptability of CAB LA for the prevention of HIV among adolescent females.
      Participants will receive oral CAB for 5 weeks, followed by 34 weeks on CAB LA, then
      quarterly visits for 48 weeks after final injection. All participants who have received at
      least one injection will be followed for 48 weeks after their last injection. Total study
      duration per participant will be approximately 21 months.
    
  