
    
      State of the art and preliminary data

      Patients with structural heart disease (SHD) are at increased risk of VAs that can promote
      life-threatening events, for whom a proper treatment has a pivotal role. The use of
      antiarrhythmic drugs is limited due to their ineffectiveness in reducing related mortality or
      their common side effects. Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) can improve survival
      in a certain group of patients with SHD, but recurrent ventricular tachycardia (VT) needing
      ICD shocks reduce quality of life and probably patients survival. Moreover, ICD implant is
      affected by a noticeable risk of acute and chronic complications, that can reduce the
      survival of ICD recipient. Catheter ablation is an effective technique especially for the
      management of post-myocardial infarction ventricular tachycardia (post-myocardial infarction
      VT) and the recent VANISH trial showed that ablation reduced the composite primary outcome of
      death, VT storm or appropriate ICD shocks compared to patients with an escalation of
      amiodarone.

      The introduction of a catheter in the ventricular chambers through a vascular access, allows
      to map the VT circuit that is usually inside the scar, and perform an ablation of the tissue
      responsible of the VAs substrate. The signals recorded by the catheter and the fluoroscopy
      images have been used to localize the target since 90s, but in the last decade the emergence
      of technological innovations, such as three-dimensional electroanatomic mapping (3D-EAM), has
      enhanced our ability to identify ablation targets. Three-dimensional electroanatomic mapping
      enables to generate a 3D reconstruction of any part of the heart without needing fluoroscopic
      navigation. Integration between anatomic and electrocardiographic (ECG) data it is very
      useful in choosing an optimal location for VA ablation, and the use of mapping systems
      contributed to reduce procedural, fluoroscopy and radiofrequency time. However, the efficacy
      of 3D-EAM can be suboptimal when we decide to follow a strategy of substrate ablation.
      Substrate ablation is characterized by an ablation of abnormal electrograms (EGMs) identified
      during sinus rhythm or ventricular pacing. In a recent meta-analysis, the combined risk of
      ventricular arrhythmia recurrence and all-cause mortality during long-term follow-up was
      lower when using a substrate-based approach compared to standard ablation of stable VT.
      However, efficacy was greatly reduced if the homogenization of the arrhythmic substrate was
      incomplete.

      Real-time integration of anatomical VT substrate from data coming from cardiac image such as
      cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) and multidetector computed tomography (CT) with EAM seems to
      improve efficacy of VA radiofrequency ablations and use of scar integration from imaging was
      an independent predictors of VT-free survival after catheter ablation in post-MI VT in recent
      papers. However, integration of CMR and CT images in the EAM system hasn't allowed to avoid,
      until now, an EAM that is time consuming, often imprecise and allowing only an incomplete
      substrate modification. Based on this consideration, we thought that an image integration
      taking into account not only the location of scar, but also its quantification and
      characterization could increase the efficiency of the ablation procedure, with an improvement
      of acute and chronic outcome. For this purpose, CMR has a pivotal role, allowing at
      characterizing the scar tissue via color-coded pixel signal intensity (PSI) maps that have a
      high correlation with the electroanatomic maps obtained during the ablation procedures.
      Particularly, the VT isthmuses found with the EAM correlated with the presence of
      heterogeneous tissue channels (HTCs) depicted in the PSI maps. Previous experiences
      demonstrated that these PSI maps can be imported in the navigation system to help substrate
      ablation, but only if they are obtained from high spatial resolution late gadolinium
      enhancement (LGE)-CMR images. One recent publication showed that CMR-aided scar dechanneling
      was associated with a lower need for ablation delivery, higher non-inducibility rates after
      substrate ablation, and reduced VT recurrences in the follow-up. In brief, in this experience
      the target ablation sites were the conducting channels (CC) entrances (i.e. entrances of VT
      isthmuses) identified in the substrate EAM, but PSI maps integrated into the navigation
      system were used to focus on specific regions of the scar. The authors found 23% of false
      negative (CCs evidence outside the HTCs entrances) and 16% of false positives (HTCs only
      identified in PSI maps). The HTCs identified only in the PSI maps, without matching with a CC
      on the EAM, were not targeted for ablation. Very recently, the same group presented results
      about a possible improvement of the outcome (particularly the efficiency, but probably with
      extension to efficacy and safety) using a CMR guided ablation, targeting only the HCTs (all
      of them). However, both experiences with CMR aided and guided ablation had been performed
      with a retrospective design and in a single-centre high volume laboratory, and for this
      reason we don't know the potential application of this technique in the real world of
      clinical electrophysiology.

      We sought to evaluate the feasibility, efficacy, safety and efficiency of a VT ablation
      guided or aided by CMR in comparison with VT ablation guided only by EAM (standard approach
      nowadays).

      General goal of the Project

      The project aims at developing a network between Tuscany centres for scar-related VT
      ablation, based on an accurate patients' selection, an anatomic substrate definition with
      radiomics, a qualitative analysis of the radiomic data via an artificial intelligence with a
      cardiac shell reconstruction that will be used in the electrophysiological laboratory to
      tailor a specific and personalized ablation procedure. To test whether this tailored approach
      could improve our clinical approach we built the following experimental design. Briefly,
      patients with VT arriving at each hospital of the consortium from either emergency room,
      outpatient clinic, or other hospitals, will be evaluated for SHD. Patients with confirmed
      diagnosis of SHD can be enrolled in the study and will be further evaluated to determine
      whether there are no contraindications to CMR. If they have contraindications to CMR or CMR
      images are suboptimal the patients will undergo EAM-guided VT ablation, vice versa they will
      be randomized to a CMR-guided or -aided ablation. Data obtained from LGE-CMR will be
      processed with the ADAS-VT software (Galgo Medical, Barcelona, Spain), an artificial
      intelligence suite used to create a 3D multi-layer map of the ventricular wall.

      At the end, we will have 3 groups for study:

        -  Group 1: patients undergoing CMR guided VT ablation (ablation focused only on HTCs)

        -  Group 2: patients undergoing CMR aided VT ablation (ablation focused only on CCs on EAM,
           but with integration of CMR derived shell in the map and with scar projection (with HTCs
           on the EAM)

        -  Group 3 (control): patients with contraindication to CMR (or poor-quality images deemed
           unsuitable for further analysis) undergoing EAM-guided VT ablation without any CMR data
           about scar (core and border zone)

      Aim of the study

      Evaluating the feasibility and possible benefit of CMR-guided ablative approach (group 1:
      ablation of the "anatomical" channels of heterogeneous tissue within the scar) compared to
      CMR-aided approach (group 2: ablation of the "electrical" conduction channels within the
      scar) and standard approach (group 3: ablation guided by an electro-anatomical system without
      the aid of CMR) in a multi-centre Tuscan study.

      Primary objective (see after)

      Secondary objective (see after)

      Study design (see after)

      Population of the study

      103 patients with VT in patients with SHD will be recruited in 7 Tuscan hospitals
      participating in the project.

      Study setting

      Regional network of hospitals including tertiary centres with an electrophysiology team of
      qualified investigators/physicians with proven experience in performing ventricular
      tachycardia ablation.

      Inclusion Criteria (see after)

      Exclusion Criteria (see after)

      Withdrawal from the study

        -  Informed consent withdrawal

        -  Patients enrolled without satisfied inclusion criteria or in presence of exclusion
           criteria

      Acute Procedure endpoints Acute success will be defined as non-inducibility of any sustained
      monomorphic VT at the end of the procedure. Partial success will be considered with the
      clinical VT successfully ablated with other monomorphic VTs remaining inducible. Pre-ablation
      inducibility is not be required.

      Device programming

      All patients involved in the study, regardless of Group allocation, will have their ICD
      programmed following 2019 HRS/EHRA/APHRS/LAHRS expert consensus statement on optimal ICD
      programming, following the manufacturer specific recommendations about therapy and detection
      in patients where VT cycle is known, alongside any anti-bradycardia setting necessary for
      therapeutic needs. Particularly, the VT zone with lower rate detection should be set at 10-20
      ipm slower than the clinical VT to guarantee a good sensitivity in recurrences diagnosis and
      therapy should be programmed in order to reduce unnecessary shocks. 26

      Medical therapy

      Patients involved in the study will be treated with antiarrhythmic drugs and any other
      medical therapy considered standard of care for the SHD and VT. Particularly, use of
      amiodarone is allowed at enrollment but is strongly suggested to stop it at 1 month
      follow-up, if not contraindicated, to avoid drug-related toxicity and not to confound trial
      results about primary objective.

      Potential risks

      No extra risks appear to be related to study participation. Risks are related to the
      procedure itself, which is explained on the informed consent sheet.

      Potential benefits

      Thanks to preprocedural CMR imaging, patients assigned to both interventional groups (1 and
      2) could benefit from potentially shorter procedures and lower radiological exposure with
      shorter fluoroscopy time. Patients assigned to Group 2 will benefit from an overall shorter
      EAM acquisition phase, given the fact that the area of interest will be determined by CMR-LGE
      data. Due to the complete absence of EAM, patients assigned to Group 1 could benefit from
      even smaller procedural time and radiological exposure.

      Moreover, patients assigned to CMR-guided ablation (group 1) and CMR-aided ablation (group 2)
      could benefit from improved VT substrate identification. CMR-derived PSI maps could improve
      CC entrance localization compared to the standard technique based on the voltage map obtained
      from EAM. We anticipate that improved scar definition and CC entrance localization could lead
      to a significant improvement in substrate elimination, and, ultimately, to better acute and
      long-term outcomes. The ablation at HTCs entrance in group 1 could improve acute efficacy
      compared to the other groups, as showed by recent unpublished data (Soto Iglesias et al. JACC
      EP 2020).

      Study conclusion

      The study will conclude with the 12-months follow-up of the last enrolled patients (see
      sample size), and each patient with 12-months follow-up will exit from the study. Patients
      will have the possibility to exit from the study at any time they decide without any
      explanation about it. Principal investigator will have the ultimate authority to stop the
      trial at any time of enrollment if any harms emerge during trial conduction. Once the study
      is completed, principal investigator or delegate will notify the site of closeout and a study
      closeout visit will be performed.

      Study endpoint (see after)

      Procedural evaluation

      Any variables evaluated as study endpoint (see above) will be collected.

      Quality of life assessment

      To evaluate potential differences between different interventional approaches in
      health-related quality of life changes, the 36-Item Short Form Survey (SF-36) will be
      administered at baseline (before ablation) and at the 12-months follow up visit.

      Follow-up

      Clinical follow-up (FU) will include outpatient clinic visits at 1, 6 and 12 months after the
      ablation procedure. If no contraindications, amiodarone (if used) should be stopped at the
      1-month FU visit.

      At all follow up visits, the following parameters and information will be taken:

        -  Physical examination

        -  12 lead surface ECG

        -  Transthoracic echocardiography (at 6 and 12 months)

        -  ICD interrogation, analyzing any event marked as VT or VF by the device.

      VT recurrence will be defined as any documented sustained VT (more than 30 s) or appropriate
      ICD therapy at ICD check.

      To assess changes in health-related quality of life, the 36-Item Short Form Survey (SF-36)
      will be administered at the 12-months follow up visit.

      Sample size To test the primary hypothesis, 103 patients will be necessary with 80% power and
      5% type 1 error, considering 50% of group 1-2 (low risk), 50% of group 3 (high risk), 16% of
      likelihood of VT recurrences at 12 months in low risk patients and 44% of likelihood in high
      risk patients with HR (high risk/low risk of recurrences ) of 2,75 (Cox PH, 2 sided
      equality).

      Screening phase

      All patients referred to or directly evaluated at one of the participating centres for VT
      will be screened for ablation and for study participation. The presence of structural heart
      disease will be evaluated on the basis of past medical history and available imaging carried
      out during patient evaluation, such as echocardiography, cardiac CT, or previous CMR.

      Enrollment procedure - Recruitment and agenda

      All participant centres are referral centres for VT ablation within their health care
      network. All patients who give informed consent for participation and fulfill the inclusion
      eligibility criteria will be consecutively enrolled. We expect to include all the patients
      within a 2-years period. The 12-month follow-up information of the last included patient
      should be available approximately 3 years after the first inclusion. A monthly assessment of
      screening database will be performed in order to increase the enrollment procedure.

      Group allocation

      Patients deemed suitable for CMR according to comorbidities, device MRI-compatibility and
      willingness to undergo the examination, will be randomly allocated to groups 1 and 2.
      Patients eligible to join the study but unsuitable for CMR or with poor CMR images will be
      assigned to Group 3.

      Randomization

      Randomization will be performed in patients undergoing CMR (Groups 1 and 2) in 1:1 fashion
      using the app "Randomizer for Clinical Trial Lite" or equivalent web-based platform. The
      scientific coordinator of the study or a delegate should be the unique responsible of
      randomization and will be contacted upon all new recruitments.

      Blindness

      Blindness of patients is not required.

      Study procedures

      Routine baseline analysis, clinical visit, 12 lead ECG, transthoracic echocardiography,
      transoesophageal echocardiography, cardiac CT, CMR (if possible), VT ablation. Patients will
      be hospitalized for the ablation procedure and may undergo any clinical, imaging or lab
      examination considered necessary for clinical management during their stay.

      Data collection

      The principal investigator or delegate is responsible of the data collection on the
      electronic Case Report Forms (eCRFs). The principal investigator or delegate will review all
      the data on the eCRFs and will sign to verify he has reviewed the data collected. Original
      anonymized paper support forms will be stored in a secure place and manner at each
      participating centre. Anonymization codes will be stored in a safely manner by the local
      principal investigator. Access to the online study data (eCRFs) will be restricted through
      passwords. In addition, centre coordinators will only have access to their own centre's data.
      Paper files will be physically stored until 5 years after the completion of the study

      Data management

      Source documents shall be created and maintained by the investigation site team throughout
      the clinical investigation. The data reported on the eCRFs shall be derived from, and be
      consistent with, these source documents, and any discrepancies shall be explained in writing.
      The eCRFs shall be signed and dated by the principal investigator or a delegated
      investigator. Any change or correction to data reported on a paper CRF shall be dated,
      initialed and explained if necessary, and shall not obscure the original entry.

      Traceability of documents and data

      The investigator shall ensure accuracy, completeness, legibility and timeliness of the data
      reported to the principal investigator on the eCRFs and in all required reports. When copies
      of the original source document as well as print outs of original electronic source documents
      are retained, these shall be signed and dated by a member of the investigational site team
      with a statement that it is a true reproduction of the original source document.

      Protocol deviation

      A protocol deviation is defined as a situation in which there is a non-compliance with the
      protocol. The following situations are considered protocol deviations and must be
      appropriately documented:

        1. Patient assigned to Group 1 or 2 and with a good quality CMR is not treated in his
           predefined group.

        2. Patient assigned to control group undergo good quality CMR, which is used to plan
           ablation strategy.

        3. Patient assigned to control group undergo good quality CMR and eventually a CMR-guided
           or aided ablation.

        4. Amiodarone is not discontinued at 1 month Follow-up.

        5. ICD is not programmed following guidelines, as previously stated.

        6. Patient without SHD, or in presence of other exclusion criteria, is enrolled in the
           study.

      Investigators will be required to adhere to the investigational plan, signed investigator's
      agreement, applicable national or local, laws and regulations, and any conditions required by
      the appropriate Ethics Committees or applicable regulatory authorities. The reporting of all
      the deviations will be performed through the electronic case report form (e-CRF) application.
      In the event of repeated protocol deviation as determined by the principal investigator, a
      clinical research associate or clinical representative will attempt to secure compliance by
      one or more of the following actions: 1) contacting the investigator by telephone, or 2)
      contacting the investigator in writing.

      Statistics

      All applicable statistical tests will be 2-sided and will be performed using a 5%
      significance level. Continuous variables will be reported as mean ± standard deviation, or
      median (range or interquartile range if data are skewed) if not normally distributed; these
      variables will be compared using Student's t-test if normally distributed, Aspin-Welch test
      if normally distributed with unequal variance demonstrated using Variance-ratio F-test, or
      Mann-Whitney U test if not normally distributed. Categorical variables will be expressed as
      total number (percentage) and will be compared by chi-squared test. As far as the primary
      endpoint, data will be analyzed according to the intention-to-treat principle. Survival free
      from ventricular arrhythmia, will be evaluated using a time-to-first-event analysis with the
      Logrank test and the Kaplan-Meier cumulative event rate. A multivariable Cox proportional
      hazards model will be performed to investigate the effects of baseline characteristics in
      predicting ablation results.

      Event definitions

      Adverse event: any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical trial participant that does not
      necessarily have a causal relationship with the treatment.

      Adverse reaction: any untoward or unintended response to an investigational therapy.

      Serious adverse event: any untoward medical occurrence that

        -  Results in death

        -  Is life-threatening

        -  Requires inpatient hospitalization or causes prolongation of existing hospitalization

        -  Results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity,

        -  May have caused a congenital anomaly/birth defect, or

        -  Requires intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damage.

      Event registration and causal relationship

      All adverse events judged by an investigator as having a reasonal possibility of a causal
      relationship to an investigational therapy would qualify as an adverse reaction. The
      expression "reasonable causal relationship" means to convey, in general, that there is
      evidence or argument to suggest a causal relationship.

      Event reporting

      Any adverse event will be stored in the eCRF and reported to the principal investigator, the
      local Institution Review Board and the Ethics Committee according to the ICH Guideline for
      Clinical Safety Data Management and the 2016 EMA/CHMP/ICH/135/1995 Guideline for good
      clinical practice E6(R2).

      Funding

      The project will receive government funding from the only sponsor Regione Toscana according
      to the "Bando Ricerca Salute 2018 - D.D n.975, 16/1/2020".

      Role of the sponsor (Tuscan region)

      According to Regional Law 20/2009 the research project has already undergone initial
      evaluation and approval by the sponsor and will undergo further scrutiny during the
      preliminary phase, during enrollment and after study completion. Technical financial reports
      will be filed to the sponsor mid-enrollment and upon study completion.

      The sponsor will not play any role in patient selection and trial management.

      Insurance

      A Trials insurance will provide protection for the sponsors/organisers of clinical trials,
      covering their legal liability to pay compensation in the event of an injury to a trial
      participant. The coverage of insurance cost is included in the budget of the funding received
      from the sponsor.

      Review of data

      The clinical investigation will be monitored by reviewing the e-CRF submitted by the
      investigators. The following activities will occur:

        -  All e-CRFs will be reviewed for completeness and accuracy upon receipt by the principal
           investigator or delegate.

        -  The investigator (co-investigator) and/or delegate will be contacted by the principal
           investigator regarding any missing or unclear data.

      An interim analysis will be conducted after 12 month since the first patient enrollment to
      evaluate the enrollment rate, the initial results and other factors which reflect the overall
      progress and integrity of the study.

      Clinical committee for Data Monitoring

      The monitoring of data accuracy will be performed by principal investigator or delegate as
      previously stated (see review of data). No external clinical committee are considered for
      this task.

      Protocol amendments

      Any modifications to the protocol which may impact on the conduct of the study, potential
      benefit of the patient or may affect patient safety, including changes of study objectives,
      study design, patient population, sample sizes, study procedures, or significant
      administrative aspects will require a formal amendment to the protocol. Any amendment to the
      protocol will be notified to the Ethical Committee, to the sponsor and to all participating
      centres.

      Ethics and Disseminations

      This protocol is in line with the standard ethic principles for clinic research and good
      clinical practice according to the ICH Guideline for Clinical Safety Data Management and the
      2016 EMA/CHMP/ICH/135/1995 Guideline for good clinical practice E6(R2), and must be reviewed
      and approved by the local institutional review board (IRB) of each centre.

      Informed consent form

      Any subject admitted as outpatient or inpatient at one the participating centres diagnosed
      with VT will be scrutinized for study participation. Patients deemed suitable to join the
      trial according to eligibility criteria will be asked informed consent for study enrolment.
      Patients willing to participate and diagnosed with SHD will be assigned to a Group according
      to protocol. Patients under 18 will not be screened according to eligibility criteria.
      Patients permanently or temporarily lacking legal capacity will not be screened. Patients
      eligible to join an interventional Group (1 and 2) will be randomized within 1 month since
      study enrolment.

      Confidentiality

      All study-related information will be stored securely at the study site up to 7 years after
      the end of the study. All participant information will be stored in locked file cabinets in
      areas with limited access. All laboratory specimens, reports, data collection, process, and
      administrative forms will be identified by a coded ID number only to maintain participant
      confidentiality. All records that contain names or other personal identifiers, such as
      locator forms and informed consent forms, will be stored separately from study records
      identified by code number. All local databases will be secured with password-protected access
      systems.

      Conflicts of interest

      Dr. Berruezo is a stockholder in Galgo Medical SL and has received financial support from
      Siemens Healthcare. The other authors have no other relevant affiliations or financial
      involvement with any organization or entity with a financial interest in or financial
      conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed in the study apart from those
      disclosed.

      After beginning of the project and financial coverage by the Tuscany region, other
      investigators will be defined (personnel with fixed-term employment relationships
      specifically hired for the project) for data management, study monitoring and Core Lab
      institution.

      Data property

      Project Principal Investigators will have direct access to their own site's data sets and may
      access to other sites' data only by request. To ensure confidentiality, data dispersed to
      project team members will be blinded of any identifying participant information.

      Dissemination policy

      The study results will be released to the participating physicians, referring physicians,
      patients and the general medical community during medical congresses or through publication,
      expected after the end of follow-up. The principal investigator of the coordinating centre of
      the study will take the decision to submit the report for publication and will have ultimate
      authority over all the activities.
    
  