
    
      Patients will complete the 11 App based and clinically based assessments in one visit. These
      will be repeated 3-7 times to eliminate learning variation. The assessments and the
      instructions to complete these assessments are on the App and listed below.

        1. Timed Up and Go (TUG). The primary endpoint of this study is to compare the App-based
           TUG with the clinically derived TUG results. The hypothesis is that the App based result
           and the clinically derived result are equivalent. The TUG is a validated assessment of
           functional mobility (2). For the TUG, the Subject is seated in a regular chair with no
           chair arm-rests. At the start of the test designated by a vocal cue, the Subject will
           stand walk to a mark three meters from where there feet are placed when sitting, turn
           180 degrees, walk back to the chair and sit to finish. The test result is recorded as
           the time from start to finish. Normative data have been established for the TUG and the
           test has been validated in MS (2). For the App-based assessment the Subject will hold
           their mobile devise in their hand, they will select on the test and then perform the
           test without external cue. For the traditional TUG, the subject will be instructed to
           start by a research coordinator who will also start a timer. The research coordinator
           will stop the timer when the Subject has seated. During the traditional TUG test the
           Subject will also be holding their mobile phone in their hand as they had done for the
           App-based test. Three comparisons will be made: App-based result when the Subject
           self-initiates versus the traditional result; App-based result when the patient self
           initiates versus the App-based result when the patient is instructed to start; ands
           App-based result when the patient is instructed to start versus the traditional result.
           A students t-test or a Welch's t-test will be performed with a Bonferroni correction
           when indicated.

        2. Fine motor function/rapid finger movements (FMF) is a secondary endpoints. FMF is
           assessed by having the patient tap the interphalangeal crease of their thumb with the
           ipsilateral index finger tip. This movement is typically impacted with upper motor
           neuron dysfunction, cerebellar dysfunction, and possibly with severe loss of position
           sense and is a sensitive indicator of dysfunction. However, this test is never
           quantitatively reported in the neurologic exam. For the traditional test, patients will
           be asked to tap their finger on their thumb crease as rapidly as possible for 10
           seconds. The test will be reported as normal, slowed, or severely impaired. The normal
           variation between dominant and non-dominant hands will be noted. For the App based test
           the Subject will be presented with a game on their mobile phone that requires them to
           tap a designated spot as frequently as possible for 10 seconds. The phone will record
           the number of taps, the regularity of their spacing and any consistent change over time
           (fatigue). The test will be repeated 3 times and results presented as the mean +/- SD
           for each measurement. The change in frequency over time will be reported. A students
           t-test or a Welch's t-test will be performed with a Bonferroni correction when
           indicated.

        3. Upper extremity coordination (secondary endpoint). Upper extremity cerebellar function
           is typically measured doing a finger-nose-finger test where the subject touches the
           examiners finger, then their own nose, then the examiners finger again. Typically, the
           movement is repeated several times. In the clinical setting, the test is commonly
           reported as normal, impaired (mild dysmetria) or severely impaired (marked dysmetria).
           For the App based test, the Subject will be asked to move an object with their index
           finger such that it stays within the boundaries of a moving path. The App will measure
           deviations outside the path as well as circumstances in which these deviations occur.
           The test will be repeated 3 times on each side and results presented as the mean for
           each deviation greater than 2 standard deviations in difference from the control
           population. The change in frequency over time will be reported as the XXXX. A students
           t-test or a Welch's t-test will be performed with a Bonferroni correction when
           indicated.

        4. Auditory-Comprehension-Typing (ACT) test (secondary endpoint). In this test the subject
           is given a short auditory phrase and then must type that phrase using a virtual
           keyboard. The time to complete typing the phrase as well as the time interval and time
           variance between keystrokes is compiled and compared to healthy age-matched controls. To
           control for fine motor function the virtual keyboard records the time and variance for
           tapping a series of keys that spontaneously change color (white background to green for
           example), which is termed the maximal keystroke velocity (strokes/second). [should the
           maximal keystroke velocity be subtracted or used as a denominator?] Comparisons are made
           between Subjects and Healthy controls for the absolute time to type the phrase, and for
           the key-stroke variance. Harmonic and conjugate harmonic functions will be determined by
           the Milne - Thompson method and expressed in a two-dimensional surface.

        5. Timed 25-foot walk (secondary endpoint). At the start of the test the subject is
           standing at a mark (typically taped on the floor) and is prepared to walk to the
           destination mark 25 feet away. Timing begins with a vocal cue and the Subject walks as
           quickly as possible while remaining safe, to the 25 foot mark. The test result is
           recorded as the time from start to finish. Normative data have been established for the
           Timed 25 foot walk and the test has been validated in MS (3). For the App-based
           assessment the Subject will hold their mobile devise in their hand, they will select the
           test and then perform the test without external cue. For the traditional Timed 25 foot
           walk, the subject will be instructed to start by a research coordinator who will also
           start a timer. The research coordinator will stop the timer when the Subject has reached
           the 25-foot mark. Three comparisons will be made: App-based result when the Subject
           self-initiates versus the traditional result; App-based result when the patient self
           initiates versus the App-based result when the patient is instructed to start; and the
           App-based result when the patient is instructed to start versus the traditional result.
           A students t-test or a Welch's t-test will be performed with a Bonferroni correction
           when indicated.

        6. Coded Message Cognitive Test (secondary endpoint). For this test the subject is asked to
           decode a message using decoding key. A series of symbols are paired with letters or
           words to be used as the key. The coded message is provided in symbols. The Subject self
           starts the test by pressing a "begin button" and the test stops when the Subject
           completes the decoded message. For the standard test, subjects will perform the symbol
           digit modality test. Normative data for the Coded Message Cognitive test will be
           generated. Comparisons will be maded between MS Subjects and the normative data for the
           Coded Message Test, as well as between the Coded Message Test and the Symbol Digit
           Modality test.

        7. Six minute walk (secondary endpoint). For this test we will measure the distance covered
           by the Subject while walking at a comfortable and safe pace for 6 minutes. The App will
           record distance using GPS and will record the number of steps taken using the mobile
           devises accelerometer. This test will be performed once with the observation of a
           research coordinator and then three additional times within three days time by the
           subject. Mean times and mean step numbers will be determined and compared to normative
           data.

        8. Contrast Sensitivity (secondary endpoint). For this test the subject is asked to discern
           or read letters/numerals off a screen with varying contrast sensitivity (grey on grey).
           Next to each letter/number is a box for them to enter the character/numeral using a
           virtual keyboard. The number of correct assignments are recorded and reported as a
           fraction of the total number tested. For the standard test, subjects are asked to report
           the numbers or letters of a standard Snellen chart as well as low contrast Snellen
           charts (2.5, 1.25). Comparisons will be made between the subject and the normative data
           for each test. Comparisons will also be made between normalized values for each test for
           each Subject. A third test will be performed in which the subject "rolls" a ball through
           a maze of ever decreasing contrast sensitivity. The size of the maze path will be
           adjusted based on their cerebellar and fine motor function determined above. The time to
           first error and the time to repeated errors is determined.

        9. Arm Swing Test (secondary endpoint). For this test the subject is asked to hold their
           mobile device in their dominant hand and then raise their arms to pass the devise to
           their other hand over the top of their head. This is repeated as fast as possible for 30
           seconds. For the standard test, upper extremity strength is recorded on the neurologic 5
           point scale (5 = normal, 4 = active resistance, 3 = antigravity, 2 = movement in the
           absence of gravity, 1 = movement of a muscle but no movement of the limb, 0 = no
           movement at all. Comparisons will be made between each subject and normative data, and
           between the two test groups.

       10. Birds in a box working memory test (secondary). For this test the subject is presented
           with 5 boxes in a row, each with a different colored bird in them and told to memorize
           the bird color for each box. After 8 seconds, the boxes are closed and above one box
           five bird color choices will appear at which time the subject must place a new bird in
           that box without violating the rule that the original 5 boxes in a row can not have more
           than two birds of the same color at any one time. The appearance of birds to drop into
           the box will be mathematically determined to pose the same risk/difficulty for each
           subject. The number of errors are recorded and the number of correct choices are
           recorded over 90 seconds. For the standard test, subjects will perform the Paced Serial
           Addition Test (PASAT). PASAT and Birds in a box results will be normalized and compared
           for each subject. If the subject has difficulty with fine motor function, a
           normalization factor will be provided to increase the time to complete the task.

       11. Balance Test (secondary). The subject is asked to stand with feet together and then
           raise their non-dominant leg such that their knee is at waist level. The time is
           recorded until the patient looses balance and touches the ground with the raised foot.
           The test is repeated for a total of three times for each side alternating for side to
           side. Test results are compared to healthy controls to achieve normative data.
    
  