
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of three different doses of citalopram hydrobromide on hot flash
           scores in postmenopausal women with a history of breast cancer or in postmenopausal
           women who do not wish to take estrogen replacement therapy for fear of increased risk of
           breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the side effect profile of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the effects of these regimens on the secondary outcome of mood and interference
           with activities from hot flashes.

        -  Determine if CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 polymorphisms predict efficacy of various doses of
           citalopram hydrobromide.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to age (18-49 years vs ≥ 50 years), tamoxifen (yes vs no), selective
      estrogen-receptor modulators (SERMs) (yes vs no), aromatase inhibitors (yes vs no), duration
      of hot flashes (< 9 months vs ≥ 9 months), and frequency of hot flashes per day (< 4 vs 4-9
      vs ≥ 10). Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (low-dose citalopram hydrobromide): Patients receive 1 tablet of oral citalopram
           once daily in weeks 2-7.

        -  Arm II (medium-dose citalopram hydrobromide): Patients receive 1 tablet of oral
           citalopram once daily in week 2 and 2 tablets once daily in weeks 3-7.

        -  Arm III (high-dose citalopram hydrobromide): Patients receive 1 tablet of oral
           citalopram once daily in week 2, 2 tablets once daily in week 3, and 3 tablets once
           daily in weeks 4-7.

        -  Arm IV (placebo): Patients receive 1-3 placebo tablets once daily in weeks 2-7. All
           patients complete a diary of hot flash incidence in weeks 1-7 and undergo blood
           collection periodically during study treatment for translational research studies.

      A Symptom Experience diary is completed weekly and Profile of Mood States and Hot
      Flash-Related Interference Scale questionnaires are completed at baseline and in week 7.
    
  