
    
      Foregut cancers such as pancreatic cancer cause significant side effects and poorer
      health-related quality of life (QOL), as well as a 5-year survival rate of only 6%.
      Importantly, the reduction in physical functioning caused by this cancer and its therapies is
      associated with higher mortality risk. Although multiple studies in more prevalent cancer
      types support exercise benefits (e.g., improved physical functioning), data cannot be
      generalized from one cancer type to another. Little is known about exercise feasibility and
      benefits in pancreatic (& other foregut) cancer patients, and no data regarding potential
      mechanistic outcomes that may explain the link between poor physical performance status and
      cancer survival have been reported. We will enroll 20 patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma
      (or other foregut cancer) who are expected to undergo surgical resection or who are within 3
      years of surgical resection, in a pilot project involving a 6-month home-based lifestyle
      intervention (diet along versus diet+exercise). Research assessments will be done pre-surgery
      (if applicable), post-surgery (and prior to starting the intervention), 3 months, and 6
      months post-surgery. Intervention counseling will be delivered using visual communication
      (e.g., Skype). Participants will be provided a computer tablet for the intervention with
      participants randomized to receive exercise counseling also receiving a fitness bracelet to
      facilitate counseling by the certified Cancer Exercise Trainer. Our primary study aim is to
      determine feasibility of a randomized controlled trial (RCT) in pancreatic cancer patients
      comparing the effects of diet alone with diet+exercise on pancreatic cancer-related
      functional and disease outcomes; feasibility measures include recruitment, retention,
      intervention adherence, assessment completion, adverse events, and participant satisfaction.
      Our secondary study aim is to determine the effect of diet+exercise compared with diet alone
      on physical functioning and QOL. Also, we will draw and store blood samples so that
      additional funds can be requested to test intervention effects on biomarkers of cancer risk
      (e.g., tumor immunity, inflammatory cytokines, etc.). The goal of the study is to advance the
      exercise oncology field into an understudied cancer type and develop an intervention that
      will improve the survivorship care of pancreatic cancer patients through distance-delivered
      counseling methods.
    
  