
    
      This is a double-blind, randomized , placebo-controlled Phase 2b study of the safety,
      tolerability, and efficacy of 100, 200 and 300 mg BID dextofisopam in female patients
      suffering from diarrhea-predominant or alternating-Irritable Bowel Syndrome. (d-IBS or
      a-IBS.) Approximately 120 patients will be enrolled in each of the 4 arms of the study which
      will be conducted in up to 70 clinical sites in the USA. The patients will; be stratified by
      diagnosis.

      Outpatient females, 18 to 65 years old will be enrolled in the study if diagnosed with d-IBS
      or a-IBS after having been screened during up to 17 days prior to enrollment (including
      colonoscopy if not done within the last 5 years) and found to have no organic disease that
      might have caused their complaints of abdominal pain or discomfort which when started was
      associated with a change in stool frequency or form and/or improves with defecation.

      Patients will be instructed to take 3 capsules of the blinded study drug twice a day by mouth
      and to record by an interactive voice response system (IVRS ) any change in their symptoms.
      Patients who meet all the Inclusion and Exclusion criteria will be evaluated at baseline (one
      day prior to taking study drug ) including laboratory determinations including a pregnancy
      test for women of childbearing potential, vital signs, electrocardiogram ( ECG), recording of
      adverse events(AE's) and filling out the IBS Quality of Life Questionnaire( IBSQOL ), the
      Work Productivity and Activity Impairment Questionnaire-IBS Version ( WPAI:IBS )and the
      Hospital l Anxiety and Depression Questionnaire ( HAD).

      Enrolled patients will have 12 weeks of double-blind treatment followed by a 28 day post
      treatment period.

      Symptoms will be recorded daily

      . Patients will visit the investigating site at weeks 4, 8 and 12 after the baseline visit
      and the procedures performed at baseline will be repeated A post treatment visit will occur
      28 days after discontinuing study drug. Vital signs, AE's, concomitant medications and daily
      and weekly symptom assessment via IVRS will be recorded.
    
  