
    
      The majority of people in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) in South and Southeast
      Asia live in rural areas. These people are some of the poorest in the region and the exact
      health issues which concern them, in that they have not been fully studied, have not been
      well defined. Despite this lack of data, there are indications that disease of an infectious
      aetiology, 'febrile illness,' in particular in the tropics, still accounts for significant
      morbidity and mortality. This is in contrast to higher-income countries.

      The South and Southeast Asian Community-based Trials Network in Rural Febrile Illness project
      (SEACTN RFI) aims to better understand and quantify the burden of febrile illness, the
      aetiological causes and the manner in which it affects the people of the area, all on a scale
      which has not been attempted before. It will collect information to help better understand
      and predict these outcomes based on a multitude of factors, which will form the basis for
      interventions within the network in the future. The initial study will be observational, as
      the current understanding of the local health issues and the health systems in these areas is
      insufficient to know how best to intervene.

      In a separate work package, Work Package A (WP-A), will be collecting data from within the
      participating SEACTN communities through village health workers (VHWs) and local health
      facilities on the incidence, causes and outcomes of febrile illness in these areas.

      In Work Package B (WP-B) will recruit patients seeking care at higher level facilities than
      the WP-A VHWs and health centres. These patients are likely to be more severely ill,
      therefore in order to obtain a more thorough understanding of the causes and burden of
      febrile illness in these areas. A broader range of specimens, including venous blood samples
      and respiratory specimens, and conduct in-depth diagnostic testing including blood cultures,
      serological assays, PCR and validation of 'pathogen blind' next generation sequencing
      approaches will be collected. The data from WP-A gathered in the community complemented by
      the WP-B data from higher level health facilities in the same regions will provide a rich
      understanding of the causes, incidence and outcomes of febrile illness in these areas. These
      data will be analysed using advanced statistical methodology to create electronic
      decision-support tools (eDSTs) to aid VHWs in their assessment, triage and treatment of
      patients. These and other relevant interventions will later be trialled across the SEACTN
      villages.
    
  