
    
      A major difficulty hindering progress in our understanding of dystonia is the fact that
      accurate descriptions of the motor signs associated with different forms of the disease are
      presently lacking. Indeed, different forms of the disease yield symptoms that cannot be
      distinguished on the basis of current clinical evaluations. We hypothesize that the multiple
      pathophysiological mechanisms that appear to underlie the motor symptoms of dystonia should
      induce somewhat different behavioural expressions of the disease, and should also respond
      differently to deep brain stimulation. As proximal muscles are involved in postural limb
      stabilisation, we propose to not only study distal, but also proximal and contra-lateral
      diffusion of the motor command. Our hypothesis is that movement and EMG patterns should
      diverge depending on the aetiology of the disease and task conditions. In other words, we
      expect to identify kinematics and EMG signatures specific to different forms of dystonia.

      One first step towards improving our knowledge of dystonia is thus to scrutinize the motor
      output at the behavioural level, relating abnormal movement patterns to specific aetiologies
      of the disease. Thus, three groups of patients presenting a dystonia of known aetiology (ON
      and OFF dystonia of Parkinson Disease, Primary dystonia, Secondary dystonia) will be included
      in the study, as well as two groups of age-matched control subjects.

      The first step of our experimental approach will consist in studying the kinematics and EMG
      patterns of movements performed by the different groups of patients. For studying motor
      control of the upper limb, we will ask the patients to perform both wrist movements in
      isolation, or in association with a superimposed motor, cognitive or emotional task. The
      organisation and abnormalities of movements of the lower limb will be studied following the
      same rationale, whenever possible. Because of the occurrence of involuntary movements in many
      patients with dystonia, all behavioural recordings will be performed using telemetric
      equipment. This will guarantee that patients will not pull off the captors, nor run any risk
      of getting hurt during the recording sessions.

      The measures will include reaction and movement times, as well as the angular displacements
      of the relevant joints and the bilateral EMG activity of the distal and proximal muscles of
      the limbs. The spatio-temporal characteristics of the patients' movements will be analyzed
      using the recorded chronometric, kinematics and EMG data, and compared to those of
      age-matched control subjects. Muscle activity and movement will be recorded at the different
      levels of the moving and contralateral limbs to thoroughly monitor of the overflow
      characteristics of dystonia.

      Dystonic bradykinesia is thought to be related to a loss of the selectivity of the motor
      command, and in particular its diffusion to antagonist groups. If this hypothesis is correct,
      we expect to observe abnormal co-activation of antagonist groups at the distal level. Because
      of the postural component of dystonia, we also expect to see an undue diffusion of the motor
      command to proximal muscles. Finally, we will look for signs of mirror movements indicating
      perturbations of inter-hemispheric motor inhibition.

      The abnormal co-activation of antagonists and proximal muscles should increase under double
      motor task conditions, where the patient will be asked to perform symmetrical or different
      movements simultaneously with the two limbs. Based on the hypothesis that symmetrical
      coupling of motor effectors is easier to control than asymmetrical patterns, which require
      inter-hemispheric inhibition of the irrelevant movement, motor performance should be more
      difficult and diffusion of the motor command should be increased in the asymmetrical motor
      tasks.

      Under each condition of movement, the consistency of the recorded patterns of kinematics and
      EMG data will be compared between the three groups of patients. Regarding secondary dystonia,
      whenever relevant, we will also correlate the observed patterns with existing cerebral
      lesions. We will attempt to find further connections between the clinical phenotype of the
      patients and the measured movement parameters. For example, the kinematics and EMG data will
      be put into relation to the main types of symptoms displayed by the patients (mobile vs.
      fixed dystonia), and the distribution of the symptoms.

      The hypothesis that dystonia is a pure motor disease will be tested using double task
      experimental protocols. Patients will be requested to perform the same arm movement, while 1)
      performing a simultaneous cognitive task, such as counting backwards or detecting a specific
      visual stimulus, diverting some of the attentional resources.
    
  