
    
      There are many types of muscular dystrophies, all of which are progressive, degenerative
      genetic disorders. One type is Becker's muscular dystrophy, which involves slowly worsening
      muscle weakness of the legs and pelvis and which can lead to cardiomyopathy, deformities,
      respiratory failure, and permanent disability. Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, another type,
      is also characterized by progressive muscle weakness, first affecting the muscles around the
      shoulder girdle and hips and possibly affecting other muscles as the disorder progresses.
      Complications of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy can include abnormal heart rhythms, joint
      contractures, difficulties with activities of daily living, significant loss of mobility, and
      permanent disability. There is no cure for muscular dystrophies. Current treatments, such as
      steroids, mobility aids, physical therapy, and respiratory care, can decrease some of the
      complications, but there is a clear need for a curative therapy.

      The genetic basis of muscular dystrophies is well understood, which makes gene therapy a
      potential treatment option in the future. A key step in developing gene therapy involves
      first ensuring safe delivery of genetic material into a single limb of a patient before using
      active treatment in the patient's entire body. High-pressure, high-volume transvenous limb
      perfusion, in which fluid is forced under high pressure into arm and leg muscles through the
      veins, has shown the greatest potential as a delivery method. The purpose of this study is to
      determine the safety and feasibility of this method with normal saline in people who have
      Becker's muscular dystrophy or limb-girdle muscular dystrophy.

      Participation in this study will last up to 4 weeks. At an initial baseline visit,
      participants will undergo water emersion measurements of their arm and leg, nerve testing,
      and muscle strength testing. About 1 to 2 weeks later, participants will enter the pediatric
      intensive care unit for up to 36 hours. During the inpatient stay, participants will undergo
      the high-pressure, high-volume transvenous limb perfusion procedure with normal saline in one
      of their arms or legs. Throughout the hospital stay, breathing, heart rate, and blood
      pressure will be monitored. Medication will be available to control any discomfort or pain
      experienced by participants. Each subsequent participant will receive more fluid pumped at a
      higher pressure and with a tighter tourniquet than the previous participant, as long as no
      problems or adverse effects are detected. Some of the participants will undergo an MRI
      immediately after the perfusion procedure. About 1 to 2 weeks after the inpatient stay,
      participants will attend a follow-up visit that will include repeat nerve and muscle strength
      testing, a blood draw, photos of limbs, and an ultrasound of the leg blood vessels if the
      participant's leg was used during the perfusion procedure.
    
  