
    
      Background: VCUGs are genitourinary diagnostic scans that provide valuable medical
      information for pediatric patients with urological issues. However, these scans require
      catheterization, which can be anxiety-provoking, painful, and in some cases traumatic.
      Previous studies have assessed the use of pharmacological agents to address pain and anxiety
      during these procedures, but few studies exist examining non-pharmacological interventions in
      a methodologically rigorous way. As pharmacological interventions are associated with
      numerous side effects, and may not be appropriate for all pediatric patients, effective
      non-pharmacological interventions are needed for patients undergoing VCUGs.

      Aims: This study aims to determine the effectiveness of virtual reality (VR) in reducing pain
      and anxiety among children undergoing VCUGs at CHLA. This study will also assess patient,
      parent, and provider satisfaction with VR, and ease of completing VCUGs using VR vs. the
      standard of care.

      Study Population: CHLA patients aged 5-21 years receiving VCUGs at CHLA. Methods: A
      stratified randomization scheme will be used to assign patients aged 5-21 undergoing VCUG
      scans to receive the standard of care (i.e. caregiver presence in the room and Child Life
      Specialists in the room if desired), or the standard of care plus VR. Individuals assigned to
      the VR arm will be fitted with a Samsung head-tracking system, and will play an AppliedVR
      game prior to and during catheterization. Standardized questionnaires will be administered to
      patients and caregivers before and after the procedure to measure pain and anxiety.
      Satisfaction questionnaires will be administered post-procedure.

      Significance: VR is a non-invasive intervention that, if effective, could become part of a
      standard protocol to reduce pain and anxiety among children undergoing VCUGs. As there is a
      dearth of knowledge regarding non-pharmacologic interventions for children receiving VCUGs,
      this study will provide a foundation to inform future research on VR use among pediatric
      urology patients.

      See 'References' for Brief Summary References
    
  