
    
      WGTA provides an opportunity to improve health outcomes for patients by tailoring treatments
      to each individual's genomic profile. The BC POG Program is a single arm research study
      integrating WGTA information into clinical decision-making for patients with advanced stage,
      incurable cancers.The clinical effectiveness of POG's approach is unknown. This retrospective
      quasi-experimental observational study will estimate the real-world effectiveness of WGTA for
      guiding advanced cancer care. To identify a counterfactual for POG's single-arm approach,
      matching methods combined with administrative healthcare data will be used. The survival
      impacts of POG's approach compared to usual care in matched controls will then be estimated.

      Specific Aims and Hypotheses

      This study aims to estimate the overall survival effects of POG's approach versus usual care
      for patients with advanced cancers.

      Hypothesis (null): there is no difference in survival across POG and usual care patients

      Hypothesis (alternative): POG patients who initiated WGTA live longer, on average, than usual
      care patients

      Study Design

      This study will apply a retrospective cohort design. Cohorts will include patients who
      consented to POG and underwent a biopsy for WGTA between July 2014 and December 2017 and
      matched usual care controls. POG patients who enrolled prior to July 2014 will be excluded
      from our study because during this feasibility period, referring clinicians employed a high
      level of case-by-case recruitment selection. Usual care patients will be matched to POG
      patients using supervised learning techniques. The study period will range from patient's
      time of metastatic cancer diagnosis to December 31 2018.

      Data Sources

      De-identified linked population-based administrative datasets will be obtained from BC Cancer
      for all adult patients (>18 years) diagnosed with cancers in BC prior to December 2017. POG
      patients will be identified from the BC Cancer Outcomes and Surveillance Integration System
      (OaSIS) POG Module Database. Eligible control patients will be identified from the BC Cancer
      Registry, a population-based provincial cancer registry. These data will be linked with data
      from the BC Cancer Pharmacy Database, Radiotherapy Database, and Cancer Agency Information
      System (CAIS) using agency-specific identifiers.

      Statistical Approach

      The investigators will match POG patients and usual care patients based on their date of
      metastatic disease diagnosis. They will apply 1:1 genetic algorithm-based matching (1:2 in
      sensitivity analysis) and match patients on propensity scores and baseline covariates,
      including patient demographics, clinical characteristics, treatment histories, and healthcare
      utilization prior to metastatic disease diagnosis. When necessary, matching analyses will be
      stratified to account for variation across cancer types.

      To estimate overall survival in POG patients and matched controls, non-parametric and
      parametric survival analyses will be used. These analyses will be adjusted for censoring. The
      investigators will explore heterogeneity in clinical effectiveness across cancer subtypes
      through subgroup analysis and use scenario analysis to determine the impact of future changes
      in the application of WGTA on clinical effectiveness.
    
  