
    
      This study is a research project initiated by the graduate research student (Mikaela I.
      Poling) and assisted by the clinical genetics fellow and graduate student (Andrés Morales) in
      partial fulfilment the requirements for their Masters degrees in Clinical and Applied
      Physiology, under approval, direction, and supervision of the study PI (Rodger J. McCormick).

      Importance of Present Study:

      FSS is a rare human neuromusculoskeletal disorder present before birth, involving primarily
      limb and craniofacial deformities. There are no prospective studies addressing physiological
      parameters, which are necessary to enable understanding of the underlying pathology and
      pathophysiology of Freeman-Sheldon syndrome. Elucidating any deviations in baseline and
      stress physiological parameters in FSS patients versus standard normal values and normal
      control subjects is of critical importance in tailoring therapeutic interventions to this
      challenging patient population.

      Background:

      Vanek et al. (1986) purposed FSS spectrum is a non-progressive congenital myopathy, giving
      pathological and electromyographical (EMG) evidence. They found white fibrose tissue within
      histologically normal muscle fibres, resulting in abnormal EMGs.

      Toydemir et al. (2006) showed that mutations in embryonic myosin heavy chain 3 (MYH3), caused
      classic FSS phenotype, in which they screened 28 probands. In 20 patients, new missense
      mutations caused substitution of arginine at position 672 (arg672) by histidine or cytosine;
      arg672 is found in all myosin proteins post-embryonically. Of the remaining six patients in
      whom mutations were found, three had new missense or familial mutations; three other patients
      with sporadic expression had new, which were also found in Sheldon-Hall syndrome (SHS); two
      patients had no recognized mutations. They postulated these allelic variations at arg672
      could affect adenosine triphosphate (ATP) binding. It is unknown how these mutations might
      correlate to the phenotypes observed. Their laboratory, including Stevenson et al. (2006)
      also presented strong evidence that FSS and SHS and similar distal arthrogryposes (DA) were
      distinct entities based on phenotype, natural history, and genotype.

      Portillo et al. (unpublished data), in study of biopsies from their patient, found no
      evidence of muscle in the superior orbicularis oculi and found highly variable fibre size as
      a single pathological feature in a single vastus lateralis biopsy. Clinically, their patient,
      who had to-date the most severe expression of FSS, exhibited no function of the superior
      eyelid and reasonable muscle tone, bulk, and strength in the thigh. These findings suggested
      variable syndromic affectation by body region. They reported exertional dyspnea and resting
      tachycardia, without pathological features, in their patient and anecdotal information
      concerning exertional dyspnea in two other adult FSS patients. They also documented the
      occurrence of unexplained, seemingly stress-induced, episodic fever in their patient that
      resembled the malignant hyperthermia (MH) clinical triad of hyperthermia, tachycardia, and
      muscle rigidity.

      In addition to age, gender, physical activity status, and concomitant disease and disability,
      maximal oxygen uptake, a function of exercise capacity, is genetically-controlled, and as
      already documented in other muscle disorders, the idiopathic febrile episodes reported by
      Portillo et al. may share physiological and biochemical similarities to the well-defined
      congenital muscle anomaly MH, which classically occurs when susceptible individuals receive
      inhaled anaesthetics, such as ether and halothane, or depolarizing muscle relaxants during
      surgery. Together, these clinical observations suggested there may be some syndromic
      relationship to exercise capacity and development of MH-like febrile syndrome, and it will be
      important to demonstrate these findings in a controlled experimental setting.

      Significant differences among the similar distal arthrogryposes (DAs) may exist, with respect
      to the above, and this will be important to define experimentally, as well. Data concerning
      baseline and stress physiology in FSS and similar DAs could help to further define the
      distinct DA phenotypes clinically similar to FSS, contributing to nosological classification
      of FSS and related entities. This study will include FSS, Sheldon-Hall syndrome, DA type 1,
      and DA type 3.
    
  