
    
      Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the skin, both of which are
      keratinocyte carcinomas (KCs), account for a half of all cancers in the United States, and
      over 100,000 diagnoses per year in the VA. The standard treatment for these KCs is excision
      of the lesion, and they cost the US health care system some $2.5 billion annually and about
      $100 million annually in the VA. There is no proven means to prevent KCs (except perhaps for
      a modest benefit of intensive daily sunscreen use). An effective prevention strategy would
      dramatically change the way high-risk patients are managed and could substantially reduce the
      costs of care. The investigators' preliminary analysis indicates that the savings will be
      $116 per high-risk patient and will account for a total national savings of over $11 million.
      These findings imply that the study would pay for itself by the end of 4 years. The
      investigators hypothesize that topical 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) chemoprevention will prevent
      skin cancer surgeries and will be cost-saving. To test this the investigators propose a
      randomized controlled trial of 5-FU compared to a vehicle control to the face and ears in a
      high-risk population.

      In the study, 1000 Veterans at high-risk of skin cancer defined as at least 2 KCs in the
      prior 5 years, at least one of which was on the face or ears, will be randomized to 5-FU or a
      vehicle control cream, and followed for 2 to 4 years. The primary endpoint will be surgery
      for any KC on the face and ears. The investigators will also assess the cost of care, quality
      of life, the side effects associated with treatment, and the prevalence and number of actinic
      keratoses, a skin cancer precursor and itself a cause of morbidity and cost. By targeting
      patients at high-risk, the study focuses on high-cost patients for whom this treatment could
      both improve outcomes (cancers and quality of life) and reduce costs.
    
  