
    
      Background:

        -  Multiple Myeloma (MM) is a hematologic neoplasm of the plasma cells defined by an M-
           protein greater than or equal to 3.0 g/dL or bone marrow plasma cells greater than or
           equal to 10% and presence of end-organ disease.

        -  Although significant advances in treatment have been made in the past decade, MM remains
           incurable with median survivals of 5-8 years.

        -  While therapeutic strides have been made with approvals of immunomodulatory drugs
           (IMiDs), proteasome inhibitors, and monoclonal antibodies, treatment of relapsed
           refractory MM (RRMM) remains an unmet need for patients who have exhausted available
           therapies.

        -  Extramedullary plasmacytomas arising either from focal bone involvement or from
           hematogenous spread occur in 7-18% of newly diagnosed MM (NDMM) with an additional 6-20%
           in RRMM.

        -  Immune checkpoint inhibitors are being evaluated in combination regimens and evidence
           exists that radiation therapy (XRT) may synergize with immune checkpoint inhibitors.

      Objectives:

      - To assess the response rate of avelumab in combination with XRT (BavXRT) in RRMM patients
      with plasmacytomas or lytic lesions

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have previously treated RRMM refractory to, ineligible for, or intolerant
           of available therapeutic regimens known to provide clinical benefit (e.g,
           immunomodulatory [IMiD], proteasome inhibitor, and anti-cluster of differentiation
           (CD)38 monoclonal antibody-based treatments).

        -  Presence of greater than or equal to 1 extramedullary plasmacytoma and/or lytic lesion
           amenable to XRT

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

        -  Adequate organ function, and without serious comorbidity or disease (e.g., autoimmune
           disease), that would preclude concurrent systemic treatment or radiotherapy.

      Design:

        -  Treatment will consist of a 4-week lead-in with avelumab, followed by concurrent XRT 5
           gray (Gy) x 5 days). Monotherapy avelumab will continue indefinitely until progressive
           disease (PD) or unacceptable toxicity; 28-day cycles.

        -  Routine safety and MM-specific clinical labs will be assessed. Additional research
           bloods will be collected for evaluating immune-subsets, endosomes, and peripheral blood
           T cell repertoire prior to and following treatment (lead-in and prior to XRT, at disease
           re- evaluations at at time of response [i.e., complete remission (CR)/progressive
           disease (PD)]).

        -  Bone marrow biopsies will be evaluated for Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-1)/ligand 1
           (L1) expression, and B and T cell subsets using immunohistochemistry (IHC). Flow
           cytometry will also be used to evaluate stimulatory and inhibitory immune subsets along
           with endosomes. Standard clinical histopathology and flow cytometry will also be
           evaluated.

        -  Single arm, Simon minimax two-stage phase II trial design. The first stage will enroll
           13 patients; if futility is not met, second stage will enroll another 14 patients to
           define the response rate to BavXRT in this population. Early stopping rules for safety
           will also be applied.
    
  