
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial with a two group parallel design that will compare the
      initial success rate of peripheral intravenous line (PIV) placement between the traditional,
      landmark approach versus ultrasound guided. Emergency department (ED) patients who are in a
      treatment room and require a PIV line are eligible for the study. For those who are eligible,
      the ED technician and an ED nurse will each complete a clinical data sheet that documents the
      degree of IV access difficulty.

      For those who enroll, the research assistant (RA) will randomize the subject to one of two
      treatment groups: (1) ultrasound guided or; (2) landmark approach. The ED technician will
      perform the PIV placement based on the treatment group assigned through the randomization
      process. The RA will be present during the PIV placement and will ask the patient prior to
      the procedure about factors that may influence IV access (i.e. self-reported weight and
      height, presence of chronic conditions). The RA will also document the ED outcomes of the
      procedure (i.e. duration of procedure, success or failure, complications of procedure) and
      query the patient on the extent of discomfort associated with the procedure. Finally, for
      those subjects who are admitted to the hospital, a RA will conduct follow-up on the PIV line
      to determine how long it is used on the ward and the reason for taking it out (i.e. no longer
      needed, infection, infiltration, fell out, etc). It is hospital policy that PIV lines be
      changed every 72 hours to prevent infection so we anticipate that the maximum follow-up of
      each ED PIV line placed will be 72 hours.

      There are two treatment groups, the ultrasound guided treatment group and the traditional,
      landmark group. For both treatment groups, a tourniquet will be placed above the upper
      extremity vein chosen for cannulation. For the landmark approach, the ED technician will use
      standard anatomical landmarks and palpation to puncture the skin and insert the IV line. If
      the patient is randomized to the ultrasound group, the operator will use ultrasound to help
      visualize the vein and direct line placement. When using ultrasound, the ED technicians will
      employ a one-person technique. For both treatment groups, if the first attempt fails, we will
      randomize the subject again to one of the two treatment arms. We are randomizing a second
      time because failure at first attempt is a good marker of the difficulty of the procedure. By
      randomizing a second time, we will be able to determine whether either method is superior
      after one failed attempt. After the second failed attempt, the ED technician can use whatever
      method he/she chooses to place the line.

      Because of the nature of the intervention, this RCT is unblinded.
    
  