
    
      Participants will receive weekly group sessions of lifestyle counseling for the first 20
      weeks, followed by every other week sessions in weeks 22 and 24, for a total of 6 months of
      intervention. These group sessions, with 6 participants per group, will be delivered
      virtually via a HIPAA Compliant Teleconference Platform. The expected number of participants
      is at least 2 and no more than 6 in this 90-min group sessions which will be provided by a
      counselor from Penn Center for Weight and Eating Disorders.

      The content of the sessions addresses the domains associated with behavioral weight
      management, including nutrition, exercise, stress and emotion management, and lifestyle
      modification strategies (to improve adherence to the diet and activity plan). Participants
      will monitor energy intake and physical activity daily to help them achieve recommended
      calorie and activity goals. Self-monitoring will be encouraged online with MyFitnessPal.com,
      which will be shared with the study staff to increase accountability and provide opportunity
      for feedback to participants.

      Each participant will also be mailed a digital scale so they can weigh themselves each week
      and report their weight to the group leader. Participants will be encouraged to start with at
      least 10 minutes of moderately vigorous physical activity (e.g., brisk walking, swimming), at
      least five days per week, building up to at least 30 minutes per day (150 minutes per week)
      by week 6.

      The primary objective is to assess feasibility and acceptance of telehealth weight loss
      intervention by the participants. The participants will be asked to complete the following
      surveys at two time points: baseline (pre-) and treatment end (at week 24). The participants
      will complete the following psychosocial measures.

        1. City of Hope Quality of Life (COH-QOL) Instrument - Breast Cancer Patient (QOL-BC)

        2. The International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) Short Form - that assess the
           types and intensity of physical activity and sitting time in which people routinely
           engage. It provides an estimate of total physical activity in MET-min/week and time
           spent sitting.

        3. Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) (Depression)

        4. Acceptability of Intervention Measure

      Finally, investigators will conduct an exit interview with each participant to assess the
      acceptability of the intervention, the delivery of the intervention via telehealth, and the
      patients' satisfaction with their treatment outcomes. Investigators will also solicit
      suggestions for improvements to the program for future interventions.

      The secondary objectives are to measure changes from pre- to post weight-loss intervention
      for 1) body mass and 2) mammographic breast density.

      To assess body mass changes, weight will be reported at baseline and after week 24 of the
      intervention. The scale will be mailed to participants at the beginning of the study.
      Participants' height from the electronic medical record will be used. Percent weight loss
      will be calculated to assess weight change across participants.

      To assess mammographic breast density changes, investigators will measure mammographic
      density of annual mammogram pre- and post weight-loss program. Annual mammograms are
      routinely performed for breast cancer survivors except for those who have had bilateral
      mastectomy. Two annual mammograms will be used to measure mammographic density. The annual
      mammogram performed between 1 month - 12 months prior to weight loss program initiation will
      be used as baseline (pre-intervention). The post-intervention mammogram will be the first
      annual mammogram performed after weight loss program. If routine annual mammogram occurs
      during the 20-week weight loss program, then the next annual mammogram will be used for
      breast density assessment.

      Therefore, study duration for each participant from enrollment to completion (mammographic
      density) is estimated to be up to 24 months.
    
  