
    
      The target population will include English- and Spanish-speaking families residing in
      Baltimore City households (N=238,427). The sample size goal is 1,386 households (0.44% of
      households) or 3,000 individual household members. Households will be sampled using a
      multi-stage approach with 1) selection of 105 of 653 census block groups (CBGs) with
      probabilities proportional to the estimated number of occupied households selected from 9
      strata of CBGs defined by socioeconomic status and race/ethnicity with oversampling of CBGs
      with harder-to-reach populations (e.g., Latinos/x, low-income whites); 2) selection of
      residential addresses within each of the strata via non-linear optimization; and finally, 3)
      screening of individuals selected for eligibility (e.g., household occupied vs. not,
      English/Spanish speaking).

      After completion of brief surveys, individuals will be asked to enroll other willing
      household members. One adult member of the household will be randomized 1:1:1 using a
      stratified, blocked approach with varying block sizes of 3, to one of three testing
      modalities: 1) fixed site standard of care testing; 2) community-based mobile van testing; or
      3) self-collected home, based testing. Randomization will be stratified by geography (n=12
      zones) and race/ethnicity (non-hispanic white/other, non-hispanic black and hispanic/latinx).

      Arm 1 includes all three Johns Hopkins (JHMI) ambulatory outdoor testing sites across
      Baltimore City. Each site represents a traditional appointment-based scheduling system.

      Arm 2 includes a convenient, accessible mobile van option which will be located in the center
      of each of 12 geographic zones.

      Arm 3 includes a home-based testing kit which will be delivered by courier service.

      Outcomes related to testing will be measured within 30 days of the initial randomization.
      Participants will be followed with weekly symptom pulses and monthly follow-up visits to
      ascertain subsequent testing need/COVID-19 symptoms. Testing during follow-up will be
      on-demand and participants can use either the fixed site or the home-based testing kits. The
      investigators will measure the impact of the time to receipt of SARS CoV-2 testing results.
    
  