
    
      Bronchiectasis is a chronic condition characterized by an abnormal widened airways, mucus
      retention, cough, daily sputum, and frequent respiratory infections. The management of
      bronchiectasis includes prevention of exacerbations and lung infections along with airway
      clearance techniques.

      Mucus composition and hydration are crucial to allow mucus transport along airways during
      respiratory physiotherapy.

      Previous studies showed that long term humidification therapy increased airway clearance
      (Hasani et al. 2008) and reduced the number of exacerbations in patients with both
      bronchiectasis and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) (Rea et al. 2010). myAIRVO2
      system can deliver high-flow warm and humidified gases through a nasal cannula.

      The aim of the present study to assess the effect of long-term use over-night of myAIRVO2
      warm humidification in adults with bronchiectasis who experience at least 3
      exacerbations/year still with optimized clinical and respiratory therapies.

      In addition to their usual therapy, the treatment group will receive a myAIRVO2 humidifier at
      home deliver every day for one year over-night.

      The gas flow setting will be set between 20 and 30 l/min based on patient preference,
      temperature will be 37°C and, for patients already in long-term oxygen therapy, FiO2 will be
      regulated according to patient's prescription.

      The control group will continue to receive standard therapy for bronchiectasis according to
      international guidelines.

      Patients will be screened during outpatient visits and, if they meet study criteria, they
      will be enrolled in the study. Once enrolled in the study, patients will be followed up every
      3 months with 4 consecutive outpatient visits. The following endpoints will be assessed:
      exacerbations frequency, quality of life, pulmonary function and, for patients enrolled in
      the treatment group, myAIRVO2 use, and comfort.

      Statistical analysis will be performed by Prof. Giovanni Sotgiu (University of Sassari -
      Italy).
    
  