
    
      In all cases where surgery is a possibility, tumor removal is usually indicated as the first
      step of therapy for glioblastomas. The goals of such surgery include removal of as much tumor
      mass as possible and preparation of the tumor bed for adjuvant therapy. Except for deaths
      arising from adverse surgical events (about 1-2% of surgeries), tumor removal enhances
      survival times. Unfortunately, without additional therapies, most GBM will recur at or near
      the original tumor site within several months. Addition of radiotherapy to surgery as part of
      the treatment regimen enhances survival in most patients compared to surgery alone.

      The use and benefits of adjuvant chemotherapy for GBM is controversial. Some studies suggest
      an enhancement of survival from the use of agents such as carmustine (BCNU) and cisplatin,
      but generally only about 10-20% of the patient population shows such responses (Stewart
      2002). The blood-brain barrier presents a major obstacle to traditional uses of chemotherapy
      in GBM, and, therefore, some clinical trials are focused on delivery of such agents directly
      to the brain/tumor mass via catheters with pressure-driven infusion.

      At present, only two pharmacologic therapies are approved for the treatment of GBM, Gliadel®
      and Temodar®. Implantation of BCNU-impregnated wafers (Gliadel Wafer, Guilford
      Pharmaceuticals, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1996) after
      surgery and radiotherapy was the first pharmacologic-chemotherapeutic therapy for GBM. It has
      shown very modest enhancements in overall survival (11.6 vs. 13.9 months) when added to a
      regimen of surgery and radiotherapy (Westphal et al. 2006). In this patient population, these
      agents demonstrate the typical side effects associated with antineoplastic chemotherapies,
      and are, therefore, often contraindicated. Nevertheless, despite FDA approval and
      availability of Gliadel for nearly a decade, its utility remains controversial and it is not
      routinely used in daily clinical practice. In 2005, the FDA approved the use of temozolomide
      (Temodar ®, Schering-Plough) given concurrently during and subsequent to radiotherapy for the
      treatment of newly diagnosed GBM. In a multicenter Phase III trial of 573 GBM patients,
      radiation alone gave a median survival rate of 12.1 months; the addition of temozolomide led
      to a median survival of 14.6 months (Stupp et al. NEJM 2005). More importantly, the 2-year
      survival rate increased from 10% with initial radiation alone to 27% with combined chemo- and
      radiotherapy. This regimen is considered the standard of care for all patients with newly
      diagnosed glioblastoma. Ongoing clinical trials are exploring alternative temozolomide
      administration schedules or combination of this regimen with novel chemotherapy or targeted
      anti-tumor agents assessing the efficacy of temozolomide alone or in various chemotherapeutic
      combinations are underway (Herrlinger et al. 2006, Mirimanoff et al. 2006, Stupp et al. 2006,
      Hau et. al. 2007).

      The current study will investigate whether the addition of Neuradiab to surgery, radiation
      and adjuvant chemotherapy (temozolomide) will improve the survival of patients with
      glioblastoma and whether the drug regimen is safe. Earlier trials have demonstrated that
      patient-specific dosimetry yields the best combination of safety and efficacy and will be
      employed in the current trial. The anti-tenascin monoclonal antibody will bind to tenascin
      glycoprotein associated with residual neuroblastoma cells, causing the associated radioactive
      iodine to be fixed in close proximity to the tumor delivering cytocidal local radiotherapy.
      In this way, it is anticipated that residual tumor cells, which represent the primary reason
      for treatment failure using conventional therapy, will be destroyed, thus prolonging patient
      survival. The surgery, radiotherapy, and adjuvant chemotherapy will be administered to the
      patients in the control arm and represents appropriate therapy for this disorder. In
      addition, tumor samples will be analyzed for methyl guanine methyl transferase (MGMT)
      activity to see whether the previously observed and reported correlation with outcome is once
      again observed (Hegi et. al. 2005).
    
  