
    
      Approximately 50% of pregnancies in the United States are unintended and about 50% of these
      end in an induced abortion. In 2000, approximately 1.31 million abortions were performed in
      the United States, approximately 88% of which were less than 12 weeks gestational age. There
      has been a movement toward performing elective abortions in the ambulatory care setting;
      however this can provide a dilemma in terms of the procedural anesthesia. In fact, general
      anesthesia for induced abortions has been associated with an increased incidence of
      complications and death.5

      The paracervical block (PCB) alone has been shown to reduce pain from cervical dilation and
      tenaculum placement. Slower injection and greater volume have been associated with greater
      pain control, possibly related to an effect on tissue distension as well as to nerve
      blockade.6,7,8 However, women's perception of pain continues to be significant with PCB
      alone.

      A majority of high-volume first trimester providers (abortion clinics) offer intravenous
      moderate sedation. However, many individual practitioners are limited in their ability to
      provide outpatient moderate sedation, and research has shown mixed results about its
      efficacy. There continues to be a dilemma in terms of what constitutes optimal anesthesia for
      first trimester abortions to maximize pain control and minimize side effects and duration of
      hospital/clinic stay for the patients. A randomized, double blind, placebo controlled trial
      of intravenous fentanyl (50-100 mcg) with local anesthesia versus placebo and local
      anesthesia alone in 368 participants found that fentanyl, when compared with placebo, reduced
      the pain of first trimester abortion by 1.0 point on an 11-point verbal numerical scale. The
      investigators concluded that this pain reduction was of questionable clinical significance
      and less than what study participants desired (2.0 points). Another randomized, double blind,
      placebo controlled study in 100 participants compared local anesthesia alone to local
      anesthesia with intravenous fentanyl (25mcg) and midazolam (2mg) for first trimester suction
      curettage. There was no statistically significant difference in pain scores between the
      groups. However, patients who received intravenous sedation reported increased satisfaction
      with their abortion procedure.11

      There is some evidence of good pain control with oral and sublingual analgesia. Preliminary
      data from a study performed at the UCSF Mt. Zion Women's Options Clinic between 11/04 and
      12/05 (Meckstroth H10873-25519) of 120 women undergoing first trimester abortions who
      received sublingual lorazepam, ibuprofen, and cervical block revealed that 84.5% of patients
      reported their pain as acceptable during the procedure with 4.8% considering their pain level
      unacceptable and 10.7% unsure.

      Considering barriers to abortion access, developing an adequate medication regimen that does
      not require the monitoring and expense of moderate sedation could be very helpful in
      encouraging more providers to offer abortion. . Given that many patients pay directly for
      abortions, increasing the cost of services can be prohibitive for many women. Oral
      medications may also be more appealing to patients seeking sedation but who are fearful of
      needles. We hope to demonstrate that pain will be adequately controlled with sublingual
      lorazepam and oral ibuprofen- ideal medications for the clinic setting.

      Currently, the standard of care in the SFGH Women's Option Center is moderate sedation with
      IV fentanyl and midazolam. We will conduct a randomized control trial to evaluate moderate
      sedation vs. sublingual lorazepam, oral ibuprofen, and hydrocodone/acetaminophen to assess
      pain control and satisfaction in patients undergoing first trimester abortions. Both groups
      will receive local cervical block analgesia.

      The proposed study is a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial to be conducted at the San
      Francisco General Hospital (SFGH) Women's Options Center evaluating the equivalency of
      intravenous moderate sedation (fentanyl 100 mcg plus midazolam 2 mg) vs oral
      analgesia/anxiolysis (lorazepam 2 mg sublingual, hydrocodone/acetominophen 5/500 mg, and
      ibuprofen 800 mg) for first trimester surgical abortions.

      The study participants will be derived from the SFGH Women's Options Center. On average, the
      SFGH Women's Options Center performs about 2200 abortions per year, of which 50% are in the
      first trimester, and intravenous moderate sedation is currently the standard pain control
      regimen, utilized in nearly 100% of procedures. In the SFGH's sister clinic at Mt. Zion and
      at Planned Parenthood Golden Gate and its affiliates, various regimes of oral
      analgesia/anxiolysis are utilized instead. Both are considered standard of care for early
      abortion both locally and nationally.
    
  