
    
      Background:

      Currently, there are no convincing early detection approaches for endometrial and ovarian
      cancers. Although it is well established that some endometrial and ovarian tumors shed
      cytologically recognizable cells in routinely prepared Pap tests, it is clear that this
      approach rarely detects occult tumors. Accordingly, efforts to develop means of collecting
      biological samples that have high patient acceptability, good sensitivity for detecting early
      disease, and excellent specificity are needed.

      Objectives:

      In this project, we want to assess the feasibility of using alternative sampling techniques
      in combination with molecular assays to detect endometrial and ovarian cancers. We will
      compare sampling using a Tampon and a sheathed endometrial brush, the Tao brush. We want to
      assess the quality of DNA extracted from the different samplers. We will assess the
      correlations between methylation of somatic DNA for a selected marker panel and cancer
      status.

      Eligibility:

      We wish to include 117 women age 45 years and older with suspected endometrial cancer, or
      ovarian cancer, and 53 age-matched (plus/minus 5 years) controls without malignancy, all of
      whom are referred to surgery at the Mayo clinic.

      Design:

      We plan to conduct a pilot study of women with confirmed or suspected endometrial cancer, or
      ovarian cancer, and women treated for benign conditions. DNA will be extracted from samples
      collected using a vaginal Tampon and an endometrial brushing using an FDA approved device
      (Tao brush) prior to surgery. A panel of methylation markers will be analyzed from samples
      yielding sufficient DNA. The results of the methylation analysis will be compared to the
      final histology for all patients in the study. We will set the detection of methylation at
      one or more loci in 50% of women in each arm as a technical success.
    
  