
    
      This is a single-centre, non-interventional, prospective observational cohort study
      collecting data from patients presenting to the ED of a large teaching hospital in the
      Northwest of England. The study is designed to gather information about the number of
      patients receiving life-saving intervention within 48 hours of presentation and the best of
      five proposed ways of identifying these patients when they present to the ED. This study is
      non-interventional and there will be no interference with treatment decisions or alteration
      in clinical practice.

      A prospective observational approach is chosen as it will allow direct access to information
      and better capture of the systems being assessed in the ED. Information about each patient's
      perceived risk at presentation (in terms of the five proposed systems) will be collected at
      the time of presentation. Information will include rating on the five proposed systems and a
      number of outcome variables, all of which are recorded as part of routine clinical practice.
      All information will be captured directly into a specially designed database including a
      study number to preclude the need to record any personal identifiable information for the
      study.

      Data will be collected for each patient on an anonymised database. Demographic details (age,
      gender, presenting condition) will be collected to identify if the sample is representative
      of a general ED population. Each patient's Manchester Triage category, NEWS at presentation
      and the novel score calculated from NEWS data will be included, as will the impression
      (yes/no) of the triaging nurse and the treating clinician as to whether the patient will need
      a lifesaving intervention. A number of outcome measures (death, admission to high dependency
      or intensive care, admission directly to the cardiac catheter laboratory or coronary care,
      emergency endoscopy, thrombolysis, life-saving surgery, intubation, emergency intravenous
      medication, CPR, DC cardioversion/external or internal cardiac pacing, massive transfusion
      for ongoing haemorrhage and non-invasive ventilatory support) will be extracted, having been
      defined a priori as being potentially life-saving. The demographic details and variables
      chosen are all recorded or calculated for each patient as part of routine practice on
      critical care. No additional tests or measurements will be required for this study.

      Data will be anonymised by allocation of a study number and this figure will be
      cross-referenced to an electronic masterlist which will contain the patient name and hospital
      number. In this way the database can be linked back to the patient to continue data
      collection and entry. The masterlist will be an electronic spreadsheet which will be stored
      on a secure server at the hospital and accessed via password protected computers within the
      ED. The masterlist will be destroyed on completion of the study.

      Patient information will be collected in a spreadsheet designed to collate the information
      and allow statistical analysis. No identifiable patient information will be inputted onto the
      spreadsheet
    
  