
    
      Hemangiomas affect 5-10% of all children born in the United States and up to 20% of premature
      infants, with a higher incidence in girls. Most infantile hemangiomas (IHs) appear within a
      few weeks of birth, grow rapidly for months to years and eventually involute. "Benign
      neglect" (no treatment) is therefore recommended by most pediatricians. However, about 1/3 of
      cases (2-3% of all children born in the US) eventually require medical or surgical
      interventions for hemangiomas due to blocked vision, problems with breathing, feeding, pain,
      ulceration, infection, profuse bleeding or disfigurement. None of the interventions are
      benign. Occasionally, hemangiomas may be fatal.

      The broad objective of this study is to prevent injury and disfigurement of millions of
      children per year by developing a very safe, effective, and non-invasive treatment that
      inhibits the growth of cutaneous hemangiomas in newborns. Historically, pulsed dye laser has
      been known to bea very effective and safe treatment for hemangiomas; however, this treatment
      modality has not been studied for the treatment of very early hemangiomas. Recently, systemic
      beta-blockade with propanolol has also shown remarkable results in treating threatening
      hemangiomas. However, systemic propanolol is not benign and requires inpatient monitoring for
      cardiac side effects. Topical beta-blocker has been demonstrated in a case report to prevent
      the growth of infantile eyelid hemangioma. We propose a prospective, single blinded,
      randomized study of pulsed dye laser (PDL) and topical beta-blocker solution (timolol maleate
      ophthalmic gel forming solution) in the treatment of very early hemangiomas. Specifically the
      efficacy, side effects and outcome of PDL and timolol will be compared with no treatment, the
      present standard of care for early stage hemangiomas. The extent to which early laser
      treatment or topical timolol treatment prevents tumor growth and the need for future medical
      or surgical treatments will be determined. Infants will be recruited from the pediatric and
      neonatal practices at Massachusetts General Hospital, and randomized to receive either: (1) a
      series of weekly to semi-weekly laser treatments, (2) twice daily topical application of
      timolol ophthalmic gel-forming solution for six weeks, or (3) no treatment. Hemangiomas will
      be assessed clinically and with digital photography for serial repeated measures of
      hemangioma size at each study visit. A panel of blinded evaluators will also provide
      assessment from photographs. Response, side effects and need for additional treatments will
      be recorded for up to 2 years after PDL and topical timolol treatment. This clinical trial
      fills a large gap in evidence-based medical therapy for IHs. If indeed early laser treatment
      of hemangiomas with PDL or topical timolol, both relatively harmless treatments, can
      eliminate the potential for complications by treating hemangiomas prior to the growth phase,
      then this trial would present an attractive solution for the problem of when and how to
      treat.
    
  