
    
      This prospective, open-label, controlled, not randomized Performance Assessment will be
      conducted as a multicenter Performance Assessment in Germany.

      The trial investigates the sensitivity and specificity of a POCT for DOAC, i.e., the rate of
      correct positive, false positive, correct negative and false negative results in the
      point-of-care setting. The IVD is a test to determine absence or presence of DOAC in urine -
      Test A tests for oral direct factor Xa inhibitors (rivaroxaban, apixaban, and edoxaban), Test
      B for oral thrombin inhibitors (dabigatran).

      Two groups of patients will be included:

        -  Test group A: Patients under therapy with oral direct factor Xa inhibitor (rivaroxaban,
           apixaban, and edoxaban) (n=440)

        -  Test group B: Patients under therapy with oral thrombin inhibitors (dabigatran) (n=440)
           No control group of patients not treated with a DOAC is required, as patients take
           either oral direct factor Xa inhibitors (Test group A) or oral thrombin inhibitors (Test
           group B), never both. Thus, patients in Test group A are negative for oral thrombin
           inhibitors and can serve as negative control for Test group B, and vice versa.

      The point-of-care test (POCT) is a color-indicator diagnostic medical urine dipstick test for
      assessing the presence of oral direct factor Xa inhibitor (rivaroxaban, apixaban, and
      edoxaban) and thrombin inhibitors (dabigatran). The principle of the diagnostic test is based
      on the development of different colors on the indicator part of the dipstick in the presence
      or absence of oral direct factor Xa (rivaroxaban, apixaban, and edoxaban) and thrombin
      inhibitors (dabigatran). The colors for the test were chosen so that they could easily be
      read by the naked eye, with little possibility of incorrect identification of colors. The
      results for presence or absence will be compared with the concentration of DOAC analyzed by
      LC-MS/MS.

      Two groups of medications (thrombin inhibitors, factor Xa inhibitors) will be tested with the
      IVD and test results compared to bioanalytical results in urine.

      The objective of the investigation is to show that the proportion of false negative and false
      positive tests with the IVD is below 5%.

      The required sample size to show that the assumed rate of 2.5% false-negative/false-positive
      tests is statistically significant lower than 5% would require 384 patients per each test
      group, with α=0.05 and β=0.20 (80% power). Accounting for a potential drop-out rate of 12%, a
      sample size of n=440 patients per test group was considered adequate to demonstrate adequate
      performance of the IVD. This sample size has been assessed with the SAS procedure PROC POWER
      (SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA, release 9.3) using the ONESAMPLEFREQ statement under the
      assumption that the test will be conducted as a 1-sided test with a null proportion of 0.05.

      For each diagnostic test the proportions of false negative and false positive results will be
      assessed together with confidence intervals. The urine concentration serves as a gold
      standard. Furthermore, McNemar tests will be conducted in order to compare the sensitivity,
      the specificity, accuracy, negative predictive value, positive predictive value and
      likelihood probability of the two different medications. Kappa coefficients will be
      calculated in order to quantify the strength of agreement between two diagnostic test
      methods.

      As the study design is not randomized the two groups will be compared according to biographic
      data (i.e. age, gender, concentration in urine) by common statistical tests (Chi2 test,
      t-test) in order to investigate their equality. In the case of differences between groups
      statistical adjustment will be done (i.e. propensity score) in order to avoid the influence
      of a bias.

      The Performance Assessment will be conducted at the patient's family doctor or medical
      practice/outpatient care unit (referred to as "investigational site" in the following).

      The Performance Assessment will consist of a single visit, which is performed during a
      routine visit at the investigational site.

      The Performance Assessment starts with first patient signing informed consent (FPFV) and ends
      with the last patient providing the last sample (last patient last visit, LPLV).
    
  