
    
      Hypertension is the most common cardiovascular disease, affecting approximately 1 billion1
      people worldwide. Hypertension is a major public health concern, because of its complications
      (coronary artery disease, heart failure, renal disease, stroke). Early blood pressure control
      in hypertensive patients guarantees the best prevention of cardiovascular events on the long
      term (2007 ESH-ESC Guidelines on the Management of Hypertension; VALUE study). However, in
      spite of education efforts and antihypertensive drugs, blood pressure control rates remain
      low. The most common cause of uncontrolled BP is inadequate pharmacological treatment,
      because the selection of antihypertensive agents is often done independently of the
      hemodynamic status of the patient (volemic status, peripheral resistance, cardiac inotropy).

      The sympatho-renal axis describes the dual role of the kidney as originator of some central
      nervous system afferent signals and recipient of efferent sympathetic signals. Both the
      contribution of the kidney to central sympathetic drive and the consequences of sympathetic
      efferent drive to the kidney contribute to the development and sustenance of hypertension.
      Poly-pharmacy strategies for the treatment of elevated blood pressure have identified
      populations of patients with treatment resistant hypertension.

      Treatment Resistant Hypertension(TRH) is a blood pressure that remains above goal in spite of
      the concomitant use of antihypertensive medications from more than 3 drug classes. Patients
      who require more than 4 drug classes to have their blood pressure controlled are also
      considered to have resistant hypertension. Preferably, the regimen should include a diuretic
      and all doses should be optimal2 .The true prevalence of treatment resistant hypertension is
      unknown. In clinical trials from 20 to 40% of randomized patients did not reach blood
      pressure targets3. In the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey in USA
      (2003-2008), non-pregnant adults with hypertension were classified as resistant if their
      blood pressure was 140/90 mmHg or higher and if they reported using antihypertensive
      medications from 3 different drug classes or drugs from 4 antihypertensive drug classes
      regardless of blood pressure. The prevalence was 12.8% of the drug-treated hypertensive
      population. Risk factors for treatment-resistant hypertension include older age and obesity .

      Treatment-resistant patients are more likely to have albuminuria, reduced renal function, and
      a history of diabetes mellitus, coronary heart disease, stroke or heart failure. They are at
      increased risk of cardiovascular complications although the true incidence of death and
      morbidity remains currently unknown.

      In the Spanish Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring Registry5, 8295 of 68045 treated patients
      (12.2%) had treatment resistant hypertension, defined as an office blood pressure equal to or
      exceeding 140 mm Hg systolic and/or 90 mm Hg diastolic.

      RDN is a novel procedure which has been approved safe and gives a remarkable reduction of BP
      in treatment-resistant hypertensive patients. The HOTMAN® System is a novel impedance
      cardiographic device, measuring and calculating hemodynamic parameters. The HOTMAN® System
      may help the physician to control blood pressure in patients with resistance hypertension.

      * Our pilot study(Renal sympathetic denervation in patients with treatment-resistant
      hypertension after witnessed intake of medication before qualifying ambulatory blood
      pressure.Fadl Elmula FE, Hoffmann P, Fossum E, Brekke M, Gjønnæss E, Hjørnholm U, Kjær VN,
      Rostrup M, Kjeldsen SE, Os I, Stenehjem AE, Høieggen A.Hypertension. 2013
      Sep;62(3):526-32)has showed that The mean office and ambulatory BPs remained unchanged at 1,
      3, and 6 months in the 6 patients, whereas there was no known change in antihypertensive
      medication. Two patients, however, had a fall in both office and ambulatory BPs. Our findings
      question whether BP falls in response to RDN in patients with true treatment-resistant
      hypertension.That is why we intended to do an intrim analysis after inclusion of around 30%
      of the total number planned to be included in the study.
    
  