
    
      A total of 50 patients with psoriasis vulgaris who showed an unsatisfactory response to
      etanercept 50 mg twice a week followed by 50 mg once a week and a total of 50 patients who
      showed an unsatisfactory response to etanercept 50 mg twice a week without dose reduction
      will be recruited. All patients will receive adalimumab 40 mg every other week (EOW) for 12
      weeks. Patients who fail to reach a physician's global assessment (PGA) of clear or almost
      clear at week 12 will have an increase in adalimumab to 40 mg every week (EW) for an
      additional 12 weeks. Patients who reach a PGA of clear or almost clear at week 12 will
      continue to receive adalimumab at 40 mg EOW for an additional 12 weeks. Patients will be
      evaluated for safety and efficacy every 4 weeks for a total of 24 weeks. PASI, BSA and PGA
      will be performed at each visit. Routine chemistry, hematology and urinalysis will be
      performed every 4 weeks.

      The percentage of patients achieving a physician's global assessment (PGA) of clear or almost
      clear after at least 12 weeks of adalimumab will be calculated for patients who had shown an
      unsatisfactory response to 3 months of etanercept at 50 mg twice a week without dose
      reduction as well as for patients who had shown an unsatisfactory response to 3 months of
      etanercept at 50 mg twice a week followed by 50 mg once a week.

      A physician's global assessment (PGA) of clear is defined by no plaque elevation over normal
      skin. There is no scale. Erythema is perceptible as hyperpigmentation, pigmented macules,
      diffuse faint pink or red coloration.

      A physician's global assessment (PGA) of almost clear is defined as follows: It is possible
      but difficilt to ascertain whether there is a slight elevation above normal skin. There is
      scaling in the form of surface dryness with some white coloration. Erythema is up to a
      definite red coloration.
    
  