
    
      Patients and clinical features. The study will be carried out at National Taiwan University
      hospital, a tertiary medical center in Taipei. The Medical Genetics Department at National
      Taiwan University Hospital receives referral and conducts genetic testing for hospitals all
      around Taiwan. We will review the medical chart of all patients with documented mitochondrial
      DNA nt3243 point mutation. Demographic data, age at onset of symptoms, clinical features
      (including stroke, seizure-like episode, lactic level, diabetes mellitus, hearing impairment,
      myopathy, electrocardiogram abnormality, chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia),
      relevant family history, treatment, and outcome will be recorded. Full MELAS phenotype was
      defined as the presence of focal central nervous system events, either seizures, strokes, or
      both.

      Genetic analysis. Genomic DNA was extracted from peripheral blood leukocytes using the
      Puregene DNA purification kit (Gentra Systems, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA). Polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR) for mitochondrial DNA nt3243 point mutation was carried out by left primer
      5'-cggagtaatccaggtcggtt-3' and right primer 5'-ggaattgaacctctgactgt-3'. Presence of
      mitochondrial DNA nt3243 A>G mutation was detected after Hae III restriction enzyme
      digestion.

      Heteroplasmy of mitochondrial nt3243A>G mutation was detected by real-time amplification
      refractory mutation system quantitative PCR (ARMS-qPCR) assay as previously reported [19]. In
      brief, wild-type and mutant-target primers, each 500 nM, were added into a 10-ml PCR reaction
      containing 1X KAPA SYBR® FAST ABI Prism® qPCR Master Mix (KAPABIOSYSTEMS, Cat No. KK4603) and
      4 ng of genomic DNA. Real-time PCR conditions were 2 min at 50°C, 20 seconds at 95°C,
      followed by 40 cycles of 15 seconds of denaturation at 95°C and 30 seconds of
      annealing/extension at 62°C. Data of cross point and concentration fluorescent signal
      intensity of PCR products was recorded and analyzed by ABI StepOnePlusTM Real-Time PCR System
      (Applied Biosystems) and StepOne software v2.1 (Applied Biosystems). The threshold cycle ( CT
      value) within the linear exponential phase was used to construct the standard curve and to
      measure the original copy number of DNA template. The percentage of the mutant mtDNA was
      calculated using formula as below: Heteroplasmy %= 1/(1+ 1/2△CT).

      Statistical analysis. SPSS 17.0 (SPSS, Chicago, IL, USA) was used for statistical analysis.
      Results were given as median and range, or mean ± 1 SD, when appropriate. Student 's t-test
      was used to compare unpaired groups. Fisher's exact test was used to determine associations
      between two categorical variables. Cox-regression model was used to analyze possible
      prognostic factors. Inter-group differences at outcome were compared by Kaplan-Meier estimate
      and log-rank test. Pearson's correlation was used to correlate heteroplasmy to age of
      diagnosis. A p value < 0.05 was considered statistically significant.
    
  