
    
      The success of the esthetic outcome for the anterior teeth restorations and periodontal
      surgeries depends on several factors such as the gingival biotype, teeth alignment and
      architecture of the gingiva.

      The first who introduced the term biotype are Seibert and Lindhe 1989, they categorized the
      gingiva to ''thick-flat'' and ''thin-scalloped'' biotypes . Thick biotype is associated with
      broad tissue and flat gingiva which is also supported by thick bony plate. Thin biotype is
      associated with thin band of keratinized tissue and scalloped gingiva which is supported by
      thin bony plate.

      A gingival thickness of more or equal to 2 mm is defined as thick biotype and a gingival
      thickness of less than 1.5 mm as thin biotype. Different gingival biotypes response in
      different ways to inflammation, restorative and periodontal surgery .

      The gingival thickness may predict the outcome of periodontal and restorative treatments. For
      implant surgery, implant in thin biotype will lead to future peri-implant mucosal recession .
      The gingival thickness affects the treatment outcome possibly because of the difference in
      the amount of blood supply of the underlying bone and susceptibility to resorption .

      Multiple techniques were proposed to measure the tissue thickness , such as direct
      measurement ultrasonic devices probe transparency method and cone-beam computed tomography
      scan

      In the direct method, the tissue thickness is measured using a periodontal probe. This method
      has limitations, such as the angulation of the probe during probing and distortion of tissue
      during probing

      Transgingival method is a simple method to discriminate thin gingival based on the
      transparency of the periodontal probe through the gingival margin This method was found to be
      highly reproducible with 85% intra examiner repeatability in a clinical trial of 100
      periodontally healthy area . However, this method immeasurable and when presence of pigmented
      gingiva sometimes hampers the correct identification of gingival biotype .

      Another method that was introduced as one of the gingival biotype diagnostic methods is
      Cone-beam computerized tomography (CBCT), which is widely used to analyze the maxillofacial
      region . The first who presented commercial CBCT system was Mozzo et al., 1998 . The CBCT
      offers high-quality diagnostic method and it has become essential in dental practice.

      Lascala et al., 2004 have shown the reliability and accuracy when measuring anatomical
      structures from CBCT images and compared them with measurements of real distances of dry
      skulls . It was previously reported that CBCT is not indicated for evaluating soft tissue
      appearance and thickness, and it was considered as a tool for exclusively evaluating hard
      tissues of the maxillofacial complex . However, recently it has been reported that CBCT can
      be applied for visualizing and measuring soft tissues of the dento-gingival unit ). Fu et
      al., 2010 also stated that CBCT provides accurate measurements of both bone and labial soft
      tissue thickness when compared to caliper method .

      A new simple probe is specially designed in an attempt to overcome the angulation problem of
      the direct method, the complexity and high cost of CBCT and the limitation of the
      transgingival method.

      Aim of Study:

      The aim of the study is the evaluation of the use of specially designed probe versus cone-
      beam computerized tomography in measurement of gingival thickness.
    
  