
    
      This cross sectional observational study will take place in Medical Unit-II Ruth KM Pfau
      Civil Hospital Karachi, Pakistan. All newly diagnosed patients of celiac disease between the
      ages of 8 & 60 years and patients who are currently not on gluten free diet will be included.

      Patients having intestinal obstruction, strictures, fistulae, dysphagia, pregnant females
      will be excluded. Patients having cardiac pacemakers or other implanted electromedical
      devices and those who are unable to swallow the capsule will also be excluded.

      All patients meeting inclusion criteria will be included. Informed consent will be taken from
      ethics committee. Patients will be provided proper brief information of procedure and
      confidentiality of the patients will be ensured. Patients will be advised to start clear
      liquid diet for 24 hours before the procedure. They will be advised to drink Movcol powder 10
      sachet in 500ml of water within 20 mins, 12 hours before the procedure. They will be kept nil
      orally for 08 hours before the procedure. Syrup Infacol (simethicone) 15ml diluted in 50 ml
      of water will be given 30 mins before the procedure. Patients will be asked to swallow the
      capsule with 200 ml of water. Patients will be allowed to take food 4 after ingestion of
      capsule. All patients will be provided with capsule retrieval kit from stool. Patients will
      be explained to pass any stool after ingestion of capsule till it passed in stool or up to 7
      days whichever is earlier. Capsule retrieved will be brought back to investigators for data
      retrieval from capsule. Reporting will be done by person trained to interpret capsule
      endoscopy. This will include presence of any pathology, its severity, approximate length and
      segment of small intestine involved and quality of bowel preparation.

      Categorical data will be presented as frequency and percentage, e.g., gender, findings of
      capsule endoscopy like, bowel preparation, mosaic pattern,ulcers, erythema, telangiectasia
      etc. Quantitative data will be presented as mean with standard deviation, e.g., age.
      Involvement of different segments of small intestine (duodenum, jejunum and Ileum) will be
      documented. Categorical data will be compared on gender by Chi-square test and quantitative
      data will be analyzed by student's t-test. Significance level will be set at ≤0.05.
    
  