
    
      Although efficacious psychological and pharmacological treatments for adolescent depression
      have been demonstrated, any single approach only helps about 50-75% of those treated.
      Furthermore, adolescents have low rates of care seeking, and many primary care patients find
      group therapy to be the least acceptable treatment for depression. Limited supply of mental
      health specialists make face-to-face counseling difficult to implement, hence the internet is
      a promising modality for the delivery of preventive interventions. Therefore, prevention of
      depression in at-risk adolescents may be more cost-effective and less distressing than
      allowing for the depressive symptoms to become more severe.

      Key issues - international level:

      As proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO) and National Institute of Mental Health
      (NIMH), prevention of mental disorders has become a major health need (9), and a primary care
      internet-based depression prevention intervention strategy should be developed. Such care has
      already been provided for depression in the U.S. by Dr. Van Voorhees, suggesting the
      intervention must:

        1. have broad reach into at-risk populations;

        2. work outside of traditional mental health systems;

        3. use new technologies;

        4. build on previous clinical trials;

        5. reduce identified disorders/enhance functional outcomes;

        6. include families; and

        7. be personalized

      Key issues - local level Developing new interventions that incorporate the diverse needs and
      circumstances of Hong Kong adolescents with depressive symptoms in community settings is our
      key strategic objective. While it is ideal to have a series of primary care physician
      consultations for at-risk adolescents, this is not available and too expensive for the lower
      socioeconomic class. This lack is apparent in both the East and the West. The U.S. has built
      up a new cost-effective prevention strategy for depression in primary care system; however,
      such a strategy may not be able to be incorporated into the public health sector. Hence, the
      collaboration between physicians and social workers will be used for this study.

      Inclusion criteria:

      138 adolescent participants (ages 13 to 21) who experience a moderately elevated level of
      depressive symptoms on the CES-D scale (score 16-34) will be recruited to join the study.
      Participants may or may not have had a past history of depression, anxiety and/or substance
      abuse.

      Outcome measures to compare between 2 groups:

      i) depressive episodes and symptoms Assessment of adolescent depression by the Centre of
      Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) and Depression Anxiety Stress Scale (DASS)
      are a standard diagnostic test for assessment of adolescent's depression. The scores of both
      groups would be measured and compared in 3 follow-ups to study the effect and its
      sustainability of the website intervention.

      ii) use of alcohol and drugs Assessment of drinking and drug use behavior of adolescents by
      CRAFFT Screening Test, which includes questions regarding alcohol and drug use situations in
      the past 12 months, and additional assessment for those who show a significant problem. There
      are 6 questions covering road safety, drug-use habits, and influences of using drugs or
      alcohol.
    
  