
    
      Text messaging has been shown to be effective for weight-loss in very limited testing. DH has
      experience with both text message based intervention and weight management intervention. This
      study aims to enhance Denver Health's (DH) existing Patient Relationship Management (PRM)
      text message (SMS) infrastructure to include culturally-appropriate outreach to promote
      weight loss.

      Subjects will be randomized into one of two arms:

        -  Usual care: Patients randomized to this arm will not receive text messages or any other
           weight-loss support besides usual care provided at DH. They will receive a weight loss
           educational packet and be asked to follow up with their primary care provider to further
           discuss their efforts at weight loss with additional follow-up as directed by their
           provider. They will be contacted periodically to be weighed. Providers will not be made
           aware that their patients are participating in the study's control arm.

        -  Text Message-based weight loss support. Patients will receive the same weight loss
           educational packet as those randomized to usual care. Patients will be assisted in
           choosing a self-management goal related to exercise and to eating behaviors. They will
           receive text messages at a frequency up to 1x daily; input from focus groups will guide
           text message frequency.

      SMS content is similar to the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) curriculum and will fall into
      the following categories:

        -  Outgoing "tips of the day"

        -  Interactive messages that solicit a simple response for the day from the participant

        -  Outgoing reminders to inform participant about events in the community and about clinic
           appointments with their primary care provider.

      Basic descriptive statistics for categorical variables will be generated to describe the
      baseline demographic and clinical characteristics. Univariate analyses will be performed to
      determine whether there are differences between patients in the three arms of the
      intervention. For clinical outcomes, general linear mixed effects models will be used with
      intervention and time (and their interactions) specified as fixed effects to determine
      whether change over time in outcomes differs significantly for the three groups. A random
      subject effect will be specified to model the correlation of observations taken on an
      individual. Contrasts will be constructed to test the difference in interventions at six
      months and 12 months. If the data do not follow an approximate normal distribution or cannot
      be normalized using log transformation the ranks of the outcomes will be analyzed in the
      mixed effects model. All statistical analyses will be performed using Statistical Analysis
      Software (SAS) version 9.2.

      The study is powered to detect a difference at six months between the text message group and
      the usual care group. Previous research suggests that, with 60 participants per group,
      researchers would have 89% power to detect a difference between groups of 1.7 kg. The
      investigators think that this is a reasonable estimate, as subjects in the control group in
      this study lost 0.4 kg, and it is believed that subjects in the control group will be weight
      stable. While investigators anticipate that patients who participate in the DPP program will
      lose weight, it is believed participation across the usual care and SMS groups will be
      comparable as i) randomization is stratified to the two groups by past participation in the
      DPP and ii) relatively equal participation in the two groups is anticipated throughout the
      intervention period. This stratification is intended to equalize the effects of
      class-attendance heterogeneity across the two study groups. The study aims to have 90
      participants per group to improve the power for sub-group analyses.
    
  