
    
      Study Rationale

      Crizotinib is a selective ATP-competitive small-molecule inhibitor of the c-Met/HGFR and ALK
      receptor tyrosine kinases and their oncogenic variants (eg. c-Met/HGFR mutations or NPM-ALK
      fusion protein). Consistent with this mechanism of action, Crizotinib inhibited
      phosphorylation of c-Met/HGFR and NPM-ALK and their kinase target dependent functions in
      tumour cells both in vitro and in vivo. This compound will be clinically evaluated in
      oncology indications in which c-Met/HGFR or NPM-ALK are dysregulated including, but not
      limited to renal, lung, gastric, brain, prostate, head, and neck cancers, multiple myeloma,
      and selected lymphomas. Crizotinib demonstrated preclinical antitumour activity, including
      marked cytoreduction, in several tumour models that expressed activated c-Met/HGFR or
      NPM-ALK, supporting the rationale for study in clinical trials. Collective PK/PD modelling
      and efficacy data demonstrated that:

        1. near complete inhibition (free plasma IC90) of c-Met/HGFR activity during the entire
           dosing interval was necessary to achieve robust antitumour effect, as it was
           demonstrated several years ago for imatinib;

        2. the target efficacious free plasma concentration range was determined to be 8.1 to 12.8
           nM (3.7 to 5.8 ng/mL). The projected efficacious dose in humans is estimated to be 70 to
           100 mg once daily.

      Additional safety and efficacy data presented at the 2010 ASCO meeting (Tan et al., Bang et
      al.) confirmed these data: plasma concentrations exceeding efficacious levels were obtained
      in patients receiving at least 100 mg/day of crizotinib; in addition objective tumour
      regressions were observed in >50% of 82 advanced lung cancer patients whose tumours were
      positive for the EML4/ALK fusion. Therefore the treatment of ALK+ lymphomas with crizotinib
      represents a rational attempt at treating a human cancer through the inactivation of its
      oncogenic mechanism.

      When administered to 11 patients affected by relapsed resistant ALK+ lymphomas, crizotinib
      obtained an Overall Response Rate (ORR) of 10/11 (91%) which included 9 Complete Responses
      (CR, 82%) and 1 Partial Response. Disease status at the latest follow-up (June 2013) is as
      follows: 4 CR (months 17+, 26+, 31+, 36+) and 3 deaths due to progression; 1 patient in CR
      after crizotinib who received alloBMT and 2 patients (treated post alloBMT) are still in CR
      but they stopped crizotinib; 1 patient is in CR under brentuximab. Progression Free Survival
      (PSF) and Overall Survival rates at 3 years are 63.6% and 72.7%. Crizotinib exerted a potent
      antitumor activity in advanced ALK+ lymphoma and produced durable responses in this
      population of heavily pre-treated patients. In addition this study demonstrated that
      PCR-based detection of the NPM-ALK fusion in the peripheral blood may be an effective method
      to monitor disease response and progression.

      Although crizotinib shows activity, relapses occur typically within 5 months after starting
      treatment and were supported by mutations like I1171N.

      Objectives Primary Define the objective response rates (ORR) and duration of it in subjects
      with ALK+ lymphomas resistant or refractory to standard cytotoxic treatment, according to
      RECIST 1.1 criteria.

      Secondary

        -  Define progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in ALK+ lymphoma
           patients treated with crizotinib, that are resistant or refractory to standard cytotoxic
           treatment. Determine the toxicity profile of crizotinib in ALK+ lymphoma patients
           resistant or refractory to standard cytotoxic treatment.

        -  Determine the Quality of Life (QoL) in this population of patients using the the EORTC -
           C30 Quality of Life questionnaire.

        -  Study the molecular mechanism of resistance to crizotinib.

      Study design This is a phase II study open to 12 eligible patients with anaplastic large cell
      lymphoma with a confirmed ALK rearrangement. Enrollment will start in February 2015 and it
      will last 24 months.

      All patients must have been pretreated with at least one line of standard cytotoxic
      chemotherapy and they must have demonstrated progression (regardless of initial response) on
      the last treatment.

      Subject selection Before any clinical procedure, patients will sign the Informed Consent.
      Every patients included in this protocols will have to respect all inclusion/exclusion
      criteria.

      Study procedure The study begins with a screening period to assess eligibility, up to and
      including 28 days prior to the first dose of crizotinib. The treatment period begins on Day 1
      of Cycle 1. Assessments of tumor response will be performed after 1 month, 2 months (only
      Q-RT-PCR for NPM/ALK), 3 months and then every 12 weeks, starting from the first day of
      treatment with crizotinib. After 1 year of treatment, assessments will be collected every six
      months. From the beginning of the third year, assessments will be performed yearly till the
      end of the study. Clinical, laboratory assessments, Quantitative Real-Time PCR (Q-RT-PCR) and
      tumor imaging will be performed as described in Appendix 1.

      Treatment will continue until patient experiences unacceptable toxicity or progressive
      disease (PD), starts a new anti-cancer therapy or dies.

      When the patient discontinues from study treatment an EOT visit must be performed within 7
      days of the last dose of crizotinib. Patients will be contacted for the safety with a
      follow-up 30 days after their last dose of crizotinib.

      During the follow up phase, patients will be contacted once a year to obtain information
      pertaining to survival status until death, loss to follow-up, withdrawal of consent to
      survival follow-up, or the end of the study. Patients do not need to visit the clinic during
      the survival follow-up.

      Study Treatment Patients will receive crizotinib at the dose of 250 mg BID administered
      orally. Crizotinib will be taken at approximately the same time each day.

      In case of toxicity, it is possible to proceed to a dose reduction or a temporary
      interruption of crizotinib according with the attached table (Appendix 2).

      No dose escalation is scheduled. The metabolism of crizotinib is predominantly mediated by
      the CYP3A isozymes in human liver microsomes and hepatocytes. Co-administration with drugs
      that are CYP3A inhibitors and inducers may change plasma concentration of crizotinib in
      humans. Concomitant use of potent CYP3A inhibitors or inducers are not allowed.
    
  