
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Thiotepa and busulfan are designed to bind to DNA (genetic material of cells), which may
      cause cancer cells to die. They are commonly used in stem cell transplants.

      Clofarabine is designed to interfere with the growth and development of cancer cells.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will begin receiving the
      study drugs before you receive the stem cell transplant.

      The days before you receive your stem cells are called minus days, such as Day -2 and Day -1.
      The day you receive the stem cells is called Day 0. The days after you receive the stem cells
      are called plus days, such as Day +1 and Day +2.

      On Day -8 (8 days before you receive the stem cell transplant), you will receive thiotepa
      through a central venous catheter (CVC) over 2 hours. A CVC is a sterile, flexible tube that
      will be placed into a large vein while you are under local anesthesia. Your doctor will
      explain this procedure to you in more detail, and you will be required to sign a separate
      consent form for this procedure.

      On Day -7, you will receive busulfan through a CVC. This dose of busulfan is a low level
      "test" dose to check how your blood levels change over time. This information will be used to
      decide the next dose level of busulfan.

      Blood (about 1 teaspoon each time) will be drawn 6-11 times total over Days -7 and -5 for
      pharmacokinetic (PK) testing. PK testing measures the amount of busulfan in the body at
      different time points. This PK testing will be done to find the dose of busulfan needed for
      your body size on the other days that you receive busulfan. A heparin lock line will be
      placed in a vein to lower the number of needed sticks performed for draws. If you cannot have
      the blood level tests performed for any reason, you will receive the standard busulfan dose.

      On Days -6, -5, -4, and -3, you will receive clofarabine through a CVC over 1 hour.

      On Days -5, -4, and -3, you will receive busulfan through a CVC over 3 hours.

      If you will receive stem cells from a donor whose cells do not match your own cells closely,
      on Days -4 and -3 you will also receive antithymocyte globulin (ATG) by vein over 4 hours.
      This will help to reduce the risk of your body rejecting the transplant. If your transplant
      will involve haploidentical stem cells, you will not receive ATG on Days -4 and -3.

      On Days -2 and -1, you will "rest," which means you will not be given any drugs, but your CVC
      will remain in place.

      If thiotepa is not available:

      If thiotepa is not available, or if you doctor thinks it is in your best interest, you will
      receive the following study drugs and total body irradiation (TBI) before you receive the
      stem cell transplant. TBI involves the delivery of high doses of radiation designed to
      destroy cancer cells and/or lower the immune system in order to lower the risk of the body
      rejecting the new stem cells.

      Between Days -16 and -7, you will receive a low-level "test" dose of busulfan by vein over
      about 45 minutes to 1 hour. Test doses are used to study how your body breaks down busulfan
      and decide the dose of busulfan that you will receive. You may receive the test dose before
      Day -6 as an outpatient in the clinic, or on Day -6 as an inpatient in the hospital.

      Blood (about 1 teaspoon each time) will then be drawn for PK testing up to 11 times over the
      11 hours after the busulfan test dose and on Day -4. PK testing measures the amount of study
      drug in the body at different time points. The study staff will tell you more about the PK
      testing schedule.

      A heparin lock line will be placed in your vein before the PK testing to lower the number of
      needle sticks needed for these draws. If for any reason it is not possible for the PK tests
      to be performed, you will receive the standard dose of busulfan.

      On Day -7 or Day -6, you will be admitted to the hospital and given fluids through a CVC to
      hydrate you.

      On Days -5, -4, -3, and -2, you will receive clofarabine through a CVC over 1 hour.

      On Days -4, -3, and -2, you will receive busulfan through a CVC over 3 hours.

      If you will receive stem cells from a donor whose cells do not match your own cells closely,
      on Days -3 and -2 you will also receive antithymocyte globulin (ATG) by vein over 4 hours.
      This will help to reduce the risk of your body rejecting the transplant. If your transplant
      will involve haploidentical stem cells, you will not receive ATG on Days -3 and -2.

      On Day -1, you will receive TBI one time.

      Stem Cell Transplant:

      On Day 0, you will have an allogeneic or haploidentical stem cell transplant through the CVC.
      Allogeneic stem cells come from a donor whose cells closely match your own cells.
      Haploidentical stem cells come from a donor whose cells do not match your own cells as
      closely, but they are specially processed to help prevent graft versus host disease (GVHD).

      Receiving stem cells is similar to receiving a blood transfusion. The time required to
      receive the stem cells will depend on the type of cells you are receiving. Receiving cord
      blood stem cells can take several minutes. Receiving bone marrow and blood stem cells may
      take several hours.

      You will receive G-CSF (filgrastim) (which helps to produce white blood cells) as an
      injection under the skin once a day, starting 1 week after the transplant, until your blood
      cell levels return to normal.

      You will receive drugs (mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), tacrolimus and/or methotrexate) to help
      prevent side effects, such as GVHD. You will receive methylprednisolone if you develop GVHD.

      You will stay in the hospital for about 4 weeks after the stem cell transplantation.

      If you had a haploidentical stem cell transplant, on Days 3 and 4 after your stem cell
      transplant, you will receive cyclophosphamide through a CVC over 3 hours. Mesna will be given
      by vein at the same time you are given each dose of cyclophosphamide, to help protect your
      bladder from bleeding.

      Study Visits:

      Beginning on Day -9, once a day while you are in the hospital:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurements of your vital signs.

        -  You will be asked if you have had any side effects.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn to test your blood cell counts. Two (2) times
           a week, this blood will be also be used for routine tests.

      After you are out of the hospital, 2 times a month until it has been 100 days after the
      transplant:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurements of your vital signs and weight.

        -  You will be asked if you have had any side effects.

        -  Blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      About 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after the transplant, blood (about 4 tablespoons) will be drawn
      to check the status of the disease. You will also have bone marrow aspirations to check the
      status of the disease. You will also have a physical exam.

      If the doctor thinks it is necessary, you may have extra tests and procedures.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on study for about 1 year. You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse
      or needs further treatment.

      Follow-Up:

      If you live close to M. D. Anderson, you will return to the clinical once every several
      months for a physical exam. At these visits, blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for
      routine tests.

      You and/or your local doctor will be called every several months and asked about your health
      status and if the leukemia or MDS has come back.
    
  