
    
      Emergency departments (ED) are becoming increasingly over-crowded, with patients facing
      prolonged waiting times. This is further aggravated by the shortage of available hospital
      space. Therefore, a safe and rapid triaging of patients is essential in improving the
      workflow within the ED, maximizing patient safety and comfort, and alleviating any
      unnecessary financial burden from the healthcare provider.

      Adrenomedullin (ADM), a 52 amino acid peptide, is a member of the calcitonin peptide family
      and is widely expressed in many tissues and organs. It has been shown to have a variety of
      physiological functions, including immune-modulating, direct bactericidal, diuretic and
      potent vasodilatory activity. In healthy subjects, ADM circulates at low picomolar
      concentrations. In many pathological states such as hypertension, renal failure, lower
      respiratory diseases and septic shock, plasma levels of adrenomedulin are significantly
      up-regulated in proportion to disease severity. These unique properties makes it a
      potentially useful marker in determination of the patients most at risk of developing
      complications on admission to the ED, in order to rapidly triage and administer the most
      effective treatment in the shortest possible time.

      However, reliable measurement of ADM is challenging due to a number of issues, such as: a
      short half time of 22 minutes; rapid degradation by proteases; and binding to complement
      factor H. Therefore, the increased stability of its precursor molecule,
      Mid-Regional(MR)-proADM, allows it to be reliably measured as a surrogate biomarker for the
      unstable ADM in a 1:1 ratio. The aim of this study is the assessment of MR-proADM as a novel
      biomarker that can provide accurate short-, mid- and long term prognostic information in the
      triage and multi-dimensional risk assessment of patients in the ED setting.

      ADM, present mainly in endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cells, can act as both a
      hormone and cytokine (often termed a "hormokine) in an autocrine and paracrine manner. Its
      potent vasodilatory and hypotensive response is elicited through an initial increase in
      cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels, and a subsequent production of nitric oxide. The
      importance of ADM in homeostasis is illustrated by its central role in the up- and down-
      regulation of cytokines and other mediators, as well as its own stimulatory and inhibitory
      effect on cytokine production. Indeed, interleukin (IL)-1β and tumor necrosis factor-alpha
      (TNFα) are two of the most potent triggers for ADM production. It is also up-regulated by
      hypoxia, bacterial products, such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and shear stress. Moreover,
      ADM has potent antimicrobial actions through membrane channel formation and lysis, and
      anti-apoptotic properties, it enhances renal excretion of sodium, decreases aldosterone
      synthesis and increases renal blood flow and urine volume. The ubiquitous and important
      functional role of ADM results in its clinical use in many diverse indications. Its precursor
      molecule, MR-proADM, has been shown to be a powerful risk assessment marker in sepsis and
      lower respiratory tract infections with the ability to predict 30 day mortality regardless of
      the underlying diagnosis. Plasma concentrations of MR-proADM have been also shown to be
      elevated in myocardial infarction, and to correlate with the severity of acute and chronic
      heart failure. Furthermore, it has been shown that it outperforms BNP and NT-BNP in
      predicting mortality in ED patients with dyspnea after 30 days8-12. MR-proADM is also
      elevated in various types of glomerulonephritis and progressively increased in patients with
      chronic renal failure (CKD) and has greater predictive accuracy in determining risk of CKD
      progression, compared to standard GFR measurements.

      MR-proADM is determined in plasma EDTA samples by an automated immunofluorescent assay
      (Thermo ScientificTM BRAHMSTM MR-proADM KRYPTORTM). Healthy individuals have detectable
      levels of MR-proADM of approximately 0.4nmol/L. The functional assay sensitivity has been
      assessed as being 0.25 nmol/L. Levels of MR-proADM are not influenced by food or water intake
      and there are no significant gender-related differences, which optimize its use in risk
      assessment. Furthermore, it remains stable up to 72 hours in EDTA plasma at room temperature
      and over four freeze/ thaw cycles.

      In a previous study, an algorithm has been validated using MR-proADM cut-off values together
      with clinical risk assessment by the ED physician. The application of this model could
      potentially lead to an increase of patients safely discharged from the hospital falling into
      the low risk category. It has been shown that the prognostic information of this model could
      enhance the appropriateness of disposition decisions of patients presenting to the ED with
      non-specific complaints (NSC).
    
  