
    
      Distal radius fracture is a prevalent injury, affecting 15.000 cases in Norway every year.
      About 5% of these patients suffer from longlasting pain and some develop a serious and
      chronic CRPS. Patients subjected to hand surgery frequently report pain one month after cast
      removal, and further examinations have revealed vascular and trophic changes, and increased
      sensitivity to pressure and cold as well as elevated skin levels of proinflammatory
      mediators.

      Long term immobilization seems to increase the risk of developing CRPS symptoms. In a Danish
      study healthy volunteers demonstrated increased hyperalgesia to cold and mechanical stimuli
      even after 4-week immobilization which may indicate an early change in the nerve function.

      In CRPS patients skin biopsies have demonstrated reduced epidermal nerve fiber density, but
      such data are lacking after radius fracture and during early stage of CRPS.

      The purpose of this explorative, observational, pilot study is to investigate whether radius
      fracture followed by 5-week of immobilization, leads to functional and structural changes of
      the sensory system which are reversed after remobilization and whether the sensory changes
      are associated with persistent pain.

      Our hypotheses are: 1) Patients with an immobilised arm following a radius fracture develops
      a) early cutaneous hypersensitivity (hyperalgesia and allodynia) for mechanical og thermal
      stimuli and b) reduced epidermal nerve fiber density.

      2) The changes of the sensory system are reversed after 2-month remobilization. 3) The
      functional and structural changes are correlated with patient reported outcome measures
      (PROM) such as disability of arm, shoulder and hand (DASH), with pain intensity (NRS),
      duration of the pain and HRQOL .

      Eligible patients will be included throughout 2015, and results will be analyzed within
      December 2015.

      Measurements:

      Self reported: Demographics (age, gender, civil state, education, working status, social
      security benefits) and clinical data of comorbidity, pain characteristics (DN4) and intensity
      (NRS), blood pressure, smoking /other kind of nicotine use, pain medication, and assessment
      scales for mental distress (HSCL 25), pain catastrophizing (PCS), hand function (DASH), and
      HRQOL (EQ5D).

      Examinations: Quantitative sensory testing (tactile and thermal stimuli) and skin biopsies
      are carried out 10 cm proximal to fracture line on the dorsum of the affected arm.
      Measurements for predictor analyses will only be performed at baseline while outcome
      measurements will be performed prior to and just after removal of the cast as well as two
      months later.

      Statistical analyses:

      Regression analyses will be performed to identify other predictors for the changes in sensory
      nervous system including blood pressure, smoking /other kind of nicotine use, medication,
      age, gender, and comorbidity. Longitudinal analyses of numerical outcome (ANOVA repeated
      measurement) will be carried out for outcome measurements such as pain intensity,hand
      function, HRQOL, sensory thresholds and epidermal nerve fiber density.
    
  