
    
      SAFO trial is a multicentre, superiority, open-label, randomized, phase IV-III, two-armed
      parallel (1:1) groups clinical trial comparing combination treatment with fosfomycin and
      cloxacillin with standard therapy with cloxacillin in adult patients with MSSA bacteremia.

      Patients will be randomized to:

        -  Standard treatment group: patients will receive intravenous cloxacillin 2g/4h for the
           duration of 7 days IV treatment. If creatinine clearance is <30 mL/min cloxacillin will
           be administrated at dose of 2g every 6 hours.

        -  Combination therapy group: patients will receive intravenous cloxacillin as explained
           above and fosfomycin 3 g/6h for the duration of 7 days treatment. In case of renal
           failure, fosfomycin will be administrated as follow:

      Creatinine clearance (mL/min) Fosfomycin dosage >40 3 g every 6 hours 20-40 3 g every 12
      hours 10-20 3g every 24 hours <10 3 g every 48 hours Haemodialysis 3 g after haemodialysis
      Continuous renal replacement therapy 3 g every 24h hours

      The duration of overall antibiotic treatment and the duration of intravenous treatment will
      be determined according to clinical criteria depending on status (complicated or
      uncomplicated bacteremia, source of infection) by responsible clinician according with
      current guidelines. Patient with complicated bacteremia will receive at least 4-6 week of
      antibiotic treatment.

      Primary endpoint

      Treatment success at day 7 is a composite outcome defined by all of the following criteria
      met after randomization:

        -  Patient alive at day 7 AND

        -  Clinical improvement measured by stable or improved quick SOFA score (compared with
           baseline) at day 7 AND

        -  Fever resolved at day 7 AND

        -  Negative blood cultures for S. aureus at day 7.

      In case of statistical differences observed between groups in the primary endpoint,
      investigators will perform a hierarchical testing analyzing the treatment success at Test of
      Cure (TOC visit, 12 weeks after randomization).

      Treatment success at TOC visit is defined by presence of all of the following:

        -  Patient alive at TOC;

        -  No isolation of MSSA in blood culture or in another sterile site from day 8 until Test
           of Cure visit (TOC, 12 weeks after randomisation). In case of patients with prolonged
           course of antibiotic treatment (more than 10 weeks), TOC visit will be performed two
           weeks after the end of treatment (EOT).

      Treatment failure is defined by the presence of one of the following condition: all-cause
      mortality at TOC, positive blood cultures at day 7 or later, withdraw of the study because of
      adverse events related to study treatment, requirement of an additional MSSA-active
      antibiotic until day 7, lacking of clinical improvement at day 7.

      Secondary endpoint

      Clinical secondary endpoints:

        -  To compare all-cause mortality at days 7, 14, EOT and 90 after randomization in
           cloxacillin treatment group versus cloxacillin and fosfomycin treatment group.

        -  To evaluate persistent bacteremia (at least one positive blood culture) at day 3 and
           persistent bacteremia at day 7 after randomization in the two arms of treatment.

        -  To determine the microbiological relapse as defined by at least one positive blood
           culture for MSSA at least 72 hours after a preceding negative culture in the two arms of
           treatment.

        -  To evaluate microbiological treatment failure as defined by positive sterile site
           culture for MSSA at least 14 days after randomisation in the two arms.

        -  To determine the number of patients with persistent and relapsing bacteremia in the two
           arms of treatment.

        -  To evaluate the number of patients with complicated bacteremia, defined by persistent
           bacteremia, endocarditis or metastatic emboli, prosthetic devices) in the two arms of
           treatment.

        -  To determine the length of stay in intensive care unit and in hospital in both arms of
           treatment.

        -  Duration of intravenous antibiotic treatment. Sub group analysis for patients at high
           risk (persistent bacteraemia, metastatic infection, unknown focus of bacteraemia,
           endocarditis, pneumonia).

      Microbiological secondary endpoints:

        -  To determine emergency of fosfomycin-resistant strains during therapy in the arm of
           combination treatment.

        -  To evaluate operon agr functionality and its relationship with Minimum Inhibitory
           Concentration (MIC) changes to vancomycin (VAN) and daptomycin (DAP) and with biofilm
           production.

        -  To analyze VAN and DAP MIC as markers of complications during bacteraemia.

        -  To determine the "in vitro" cloxacillin plus fosfomycin combination synergy.

        -  To realize whole genome sequencing and its changes in patients with treatment failure.

      Pharmacological secondary endpoints:

        -  To determine minimum and maximum concentration in steady state of fosfomycin and
           cloxacillin.

        -  To evaluate pharmacokinetic variability of these concentration.

        -  To study the association between PK parameters and efficacy.

      Security secondary endpoints:

      To evaluate the security of cloxacillin and fosfomycin combination compared with cloxacillin
      monotherapy.
    
  