
    
      Improved childhood cancer survival rates call for novel strategies to reduce acute and
      long-term physical complications of anti-cancer treatment.

      Children with cancer have markedly impaired muscle strength, cardiorespiratory fitness, and
      physical function occurring few days after diagnosis - further declining because of
      anti-cancer treatment and physical inactivity during the treatment trajectory. Moreover,
      these impairments persist years after ended treatment. Further, the children become
      physically illiterate, which include a lack of confidence, competence and motivation to
      engage in physical activities. The combination of persistent physical complications and
      physical illiteracy predispose for metabolic- as well as musculoskeletal dysfunction that
      lead to severe medical conditions such as metabolic syndrome, diabetes and cardiovascular
      disease with reduced life-expectancy.

      Studies indicate that structured exercise aimed to optimize both muscle and neuronal
      functions ('integrative neuromuscular training'), should be explored further to effectively
      counteract the impairment in physical function caused by childhood cancer and its treatment
      and found a more healthy lifestyle after ended treatment. This age-adjusted, strength-based
      exercise concept, based on games and play, is hypothesized to improve physical function in
      children and adolescents diagnosed with cancer.

      The primary objective of this study is to investigate the effects of a 6-months integrative
      neuromuscular training intervention on knee extension strength in children and adolescents,
      ages 6-18 years, with cancer during anti-cancer treatment, compared with an active control
      group. Our secondary objectives are to investigate the effects of the intervention on markers
      of metabolic syndrome, hospitalized days, health-related quality of life, upper body muscle
      strength, cardiorespiratory fitness, physical function, physical activity behavior and body
      composition.

      All outcomes, except hospitalized days, will be measured within 2 weeks of treatment
      initiation, 3-months after inclusion, after 6-months after inclusion, one month after ended
      treatment and 1 year after ended treatment.

      The primary endpoint for the primary objective and secondary objectives, besides metabolic
      syndrome, are 6 months after treatment initiation. The primary endpoint for markers of
      metabolic syndrome will be 1 year after cessation of treatment

      The INTERACT study is a national multicenter, two arm parallel group, randomized controlled
      superiority trial with 12 months follow-up after ended treatment, based in all national
      centers for pediatric oncology: University Hospital of Copenhagen (Rigshospitalet), Aarhus
      University Hospital and Odense University Hospital.

      The study will include 127 children aged 6-18 years with any type of cancer that will be
      randomized (2:2) to either the intervention group (integrative neuromuscular training +
      motivational-counseling sessions + usual care) or active control group (home-based training
      program + motivational-counseling sessions + usual care) and stratified by sex, pubertal
      stage and diagnosis as 1) treatment for extracranial solid tumors and CNS-tumors; 2)
      treatment for hematologic malignancy 3) stem cell transplantation, within each hospital.

      This intervention, integrative neuromuscular training (INT), contains a multifaceted range of
      developmentally appropriate activities that incorporate general and specific strength and
      conditioning elements such as strength, power, motor skill training, dynamic stability,
      core-focused strength, plyometric and agility. INT can be camouflaged as games and play or
      performed as structured strength and conditioning program, depending on the participant's
      age, motor skill level and diagnosis. The intervention is designed to enhance health- and
      skill-related components of physical fitness.

      The integrative neuromuscular training group will in addition to usual care receive the
      intervention for six months.

      All participants are recommended to participate in a minimum of 2 training session per week
      the first 7 weeks, and a minimum of three session per week from week 8-24. During the intense
      phase of treatment (first six months of treatment), all participants indifferent of cancer
      type will receive combinations of treatment requiring either hospitalization or visits to the
      outpatient clinic at least once per week. The participants, therefore, receives supervised
      training at least once per week. All other training session is conducted as home-based
      training. If there are weeks, without any visits to the hospital or outpatient clinic, all
      training session will be conducted at home. In this case, the participants will receive a
      phone call from the intervention physiotherapist concerning questions, exercise choice and
      intensity of exercises.

      Parents or guardians will receive education in conducting INT at home, alongside an
      exercise-kit consisting of training equipment corresponding to the child's age and fitness
      level (fitness ropes, medicine ball, dumbbells).

      The active control group is, in addition to usual care, offered a home-based training program
      consisting of combined aerobic, strength and stretching exercises.

      Participants in both groups will receive a monthly 30-minute motivational-counseling session
      to adjust the intervention and training program according to the child's physical capacity
      and preferences. Further, the session will determine potential barriers towards performing
      physical exercise using the Self-efficacy for Exercise Scale.

      Both groups receive standardized hospital care, usual care, including physiotherapy if needed

      Sample size:

      A difference of 10 % as a result of physical exercise is regarded as a clinically relevant
      change (1). Based on a mean 41.4 +/- 7.6 (2) and a 10% increase, an alpha level of 0.05 and
      power of 80%, 106 children are needed. Approximately, 60 children with cancer at the age of
      6-18 years will be diagnosed pr. year at Copenhagen University Hospital, Rigshospitalet
      Aarhus University Hospital and Odense University Hospital. Assuming a 20 % dropout rate, a
      total of 2.2 years is needed to include the required number of children with cancer (n=127).

      A blinded statistician will randomize participants to either intervention or active control
      group using a computer-generated concealed allocation procedure, to secure a proportionate
      stratified random sample.

      Due to the nature of the intervention, neither participants, nor assessors, will be blinded
      to the allocation.
    
  