
    
      PwPD often fail to retain training effects via the process of motor memory consolidation, by
      which newly acquired skills transform intro robust and long-lasting motor memories without
      further practice. Compromised consolidation leads to an inevitable deterioration of daily
      functioning while hindering the prolonged effects of rehabilitation even in the early stages
      of the disease (Nieuwboer et al. 2008). Intriguingly, post-training sleep facilitates
      consolidation in healthy adults (King et al. 2017a) and this effect may be preserved in pwPD
      (Terpening, 2013). Targeted Memory Reactivation (TMR) is a technique tested in young adults,
      whereby auditory stimuli are added during motor learning. The learning-related sounds are
      then replayed during post-training non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep to reinforce the
      recently formed neural connections (Diekelmann et al. 2012). The overarching hypothesis of
      this project is that bouts of sleep and TMR will improve the consolidation of motor memories
      and markers of neuroplasticity in pwPD and older adults.

      To test this, the investigators will employ a 'napping' protocol that accounts for circadian
      effects while allowing performance after diurnal sleep to be directly compared to that of a
      wake control group (King et al. 2017a). Consolidation will be defined as the change in Motor
      Sequence Learning (MSL) of finger tapping after a post-training period of either napping or
      wakefulness compared to the end of initial training. To further indicate robust
      consolidation, changes in performance will be assessed after a 24h retention period without
      further practice as well as during a dual-task as a measure of motor automaticity. A parallel
      group design will allow within group comparison (nap/wake) as well as between pwPD and
      controls. In a second study, the effects of TMR on consolidation will be compared across
      groups using a serial reaction time task (SRT).

      The first objective (Experiment 1) is to determine whether a 2-hour nap improves the
      immediate consolidation, 24h retention and dual task interference of an MSL task as compared
      to a similar period of diurnal wakefulness in people with pwPD and healthy age-matched
      controls and whether the degree of performance change is different between these groups.
      Hypothesis 1: The investigators expect to find improved consolidation, 24h retention and
      reduced dual-task interference of MSL performance following a post-training nap compared to
      wakefulness in both groups. Possibly, improvements are less apparent in pwPD compared to
      controls due to their cortico-striatal impairments.

      The second objective (Experiment 2) is to determine whether TMR improves immediate
      consolidation, 24h retention and dual task interference in pwPD and healthy older adults by
      comparing performance on two learned motor sequences before and after a 2-hour nap period,
      during which one of the two sequences is replayed using auditory TMR. Hypothesis 3: TMR
      during napping will improve immediate consolidation, 24h retention and dual task interference
      of the SRT in both healthy elderly and PD.

      Participants first undergo screening, during which demographics, cognitive capacity and
      disease severity indexes (including dexterity tests) will be obtained prior to undergoing a
      diagnostic screening night with polysomnography (PSG) to assess for sleep disorder features.
      Participants will also complete a test battery on sleep quality scales and mood and wear an
      Actigraphy watch at home for at least five days and nights prior to the first experiment.

      During experiment 1, participants learn the MSL by self-initiating a 5-element finger
      sequence that is presented on screen. After learning, participants will be equipped with PSG,
      which includes EEG. Based on blinded randomization, they will nap for 2 hours or lie on the
      bed but remain awake for a similar duration. The wake PSG will ensure that no participant in
      the wake group falls asleep. Participants will then enjoy a 30-45min break to counter sleep
      inertia effects, prior to being re-tested on the MSL (Retest 1). The next day, participants
      will be re-assessed on the MSL for 24h retention testing (Retest 2).

      During experiment 2, similar procedures will be followed as described above except that
      participants will learn two new finger sequences that are auditory cued, by means of a serial
      reaction time task (SRT). For the SRT, participants view a row of empty squares presented in
      the middle of the screen and each time a square is highlighted the participant is instructed
      to tap the finger that is spatially associated to that square as quickly and accurately as
      possible, i.e. a serial reaction time task. The difference between the MSL task of experiment
      1 and the SRT task of experiment 2 is therefore that during experiment 1 participants
      self-initiate a sequence that is explicitly shown to them, whereas in experiment 2 the
      sequence is cued. The order of sequence blocks during learning and retest as well as the
      sequence selected for TMR will be randomized across participants. Performance on both
      sequences will be re-assessed after the break, and again at 24h retention without auditory
      cues.

      The MSL and SRT tests in both experiments will be preceded by a psychomotor vigilance test as
      an objective measure of the participants' vigilance on the day and include a single- and
      dual-task condition.
    
  