
    
      Physical urticarias, such as delayed pressure, cholinergic, dermatographism and cold
      urticaria, are highly disabling conditions[1]. Cholinergic urticaria occurs due to an active
      (e.g. exercise) or passive (e.g. hot bath) increase in core body temperature, causing itching
      and small hives with flare reaction on the trunk and limps that fade away upon cooling of the
      body[2].

      As it is the case of chronic urticaria, physical urticarias have a great impact on patients'
      quality of life[3, 4]. However, these types of urticarias cause even more alteration on
      quality of life because of the limitations they cause in daily life activities, sports
      practicing[5] or work performance.

      In spite of the high morbidity of this disease and the impact on quality of life, there is no
      available treatment. Antihistamines that usually control other types of urticaria could only
      partially alleviate cholinergic urticaria. There is only one paper[6] that shows efficacy
      doubling the dose of cetirizine above the recommended dosage on the Summary of Product
      Characteristics (off-label dosage). The poor response to antihistamine is justified by the
      minimal role of histamine in its physiopathology and only after employing very high doses[7].

      The etiology and pathogenesis of hive formation remains unknown, though it is recognized that
      mast cells are clearly involved[8]. On the other hand, it seems that desensitization or
      tolerance could be induced in cholinergic urticaria[9]. Thus as it is the case of drug
      desensitization, Immunoglobulin E (IgE) receptor must also play a role in the development of
      this physical urticaria[10].

      In the past years, the monoclonal humanized anti-IgE antibody (Omalizumab) was shown to be
      effective in control cholinergic urticaria[11] not respondent to conventional therapies at
      maximum or off-label doses. A negative response was also reported for cholinergic
      urticaria[12].

      Our rationale for this approach in this type of urticaria is that Omalizumab exerts an
      inhibitory action on mast cell activation, as is the case of desensitization.

      For that purpose, we will perform a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      parallel clinical trial. We will include 24 patients including both female and male patients
      (age 14 years or older), non-respondent to antihistamines.

      Efficacy will be evaluated through the negativization of the European Academy of Allergy and
      Clinical Immunology (EAACI), European Dermatology Forum (EDF) and urticaria network e.V
      (UNEV) standardized exercise challenge test, Visual Analog Scale (VAS), Chronic Urticaria
      Quality of Life validated questionnaire[13], patients' card of symptoms and use of rescue
      medication. Additional measures of efficacy will also be: the number of dropouts in each
      treatment group; the leave days due of urticaria and Emergency Department visits. Finally,
      safety will be assessed by means of recording and evaluation of adverse reactions during
      treatment.

      As we previously stated, Omalizumab is not indicated for physical or other types of
      urticaria. The only indication is for treatment of moderate-to-severe allergic asthma. The
      hypothesis we are working on is that the monoclonal anti-IgE antibody Omalizumab could be as
      well effective in controlling physical urticaria symptoms in patients non-respondent to
      conventional therapy. We hypothesize that Omalizumab is able to revert the basophil or mast
      cell activation present in those urticaria types.
    
  