
    
      Design: Retrospective cohort study that will review the data of patients seen in
      participating centers with a confirmed or probable diagnosis of COVID-19 between March and
      April 2020. Those patients who test positive for nasopharyngeal exudate for SARS-CoV-2 will
      be considered a confirmed case using the real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain
      reaction (RT-PCR) technique. A patient with a severe acute respiratory infection (with fever
      and who needs to be hospitalized), and without another etiology that fully explains the
      clinical manifestations, and who has traveled to or resided in China in the 14 days prior to
      the onset of symptoms, or a patient with any acute respiratory illness and in whom at least
      one of the following conditions is met in the last 14 days prior to the onset of symptoms:
      having contact with a confirmed or probable case of infection with the COVID-19 virus, or
      having worked or been in a health care facility where patients with confirmed or probable
      infection with the COVID-19 virus were being treated, according to WHO criteria. Cases with
      nasopharyngeal exudate for SARS-CoV-2 negative are excluded from the study.

      Ambit: Emergency, hospitalization and intensive care services at participating centers.

      Subjects to study: Patients older than 18 years with a confirmed or suspected diagnosis of
      COVID-19 that required admission at participating centers.

      Study variables:

        -  Demographic variables: Age, Sex, Personal history (hypertension, diabetes, previous
           cardiovascular disease, previous chronic lung disease, active smoking, obesity, etc.).

        -  Clinical variables: previous contact with a confirmed or suspected COVID-19 patient,
           days of onset of symptoms until the first consultation, symptoms (fever, asthenia /
           deterioration of general condition, cough, dyspnea, anosmia, ageusia, diarrhea, nausea,
           headache), signs present in the first recorded physical examination (blood pressure,
           saturation, temperature, heart rate, respiratory rate, auscultation, edema, weight and
           height).

        -  Laboratory variables: blood count, C-reactive protein (PCR), procalcitonin (PCT),
           lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), D-dimer, Ferritin, AST, ALT, GGT, Alkaline phosphatase,
           coagulation times, creatinine, urea, sodium, potassium . Arterial blood gas when
           available.

        -  Radiological variables: findings on plain radiography and chest computed tomography
           (CT).

        -  Microbiological variables: nasopharyngeal exudate for SARS-CoV-2, sputum culture,
           bronchoalveolar lavage, blood cultures, urine culture.

        -  Prognostic variables: need for hospitalization, length of hospital stay, need for
           admission to the Intensive Surveillance Unit (LVU), length of stay at LVU, need for
           invasive or non-invasive mechanical ventilation (MV), development of respiratory
           distress syndrome (ARDS), pneumonia, severity of pneumonia (CURB-65), sepsis (qSOFA),
           renal failure, electrolytic disturbances, stroke, ischemic heart disease, pulmonary
           embolism (PE) or deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and death.

        -  Therapeutic variables: treatment administered (Hydroxychloroquine, Chloroquine,
           Azithromycin, Lopinavir / Ritonavir, Oseltamivir, Tocilizumab, Corticosteroids,
           Ivermectin, Nitaxozanide, Enoxaparin or other low molecular weight heparin), dose
           administered, drug combination, time of administration, (counting the days from the
           onset of symptoms), registered adverse effects.

      Definitions: Fever is defined as axillary temperature greater than 37.5ºC. Lymphopenia is
      defined as the presence of <1500 cells / mm3. Thrombocytopenia is defined as the presence of
      <150,000 platelets / mm3. ARDS will be defined according to the Berlin criteria, CID
      according to the ISTH criteria, Pneumonia will be defined according to SEPAR criteria and its
      severity will be based on the CURB-65 scale. The rest of the variables that require a
      definition will be defined according to standard clinical practice.

      Statistic analysis: The data will be collected in a Microsoft Excel database, and will be
      exported to the SPSS statistical package for mathematical analysis. The mean and standard
      deviation (SD) will be used as measures of centralization and dispersion, respectively, in
      the case of quantitative variables with normal distribution. In case of variables that do not
      present normal distribution, the median and the interquartile range (RIQ) will be used. The
      study of the normality of the distributions will be carried out using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov
      test. Qualitative variables will be expressed as percentages.

      -Inferential: The independent means will be compared using the Student's t test for variables
      that follow a normal distribution, otherwise the Mann-Whitney U test will be used. The
      Wilcoxon test will be used for paired data. The association between qualitative variables
      will be evaluated by means of the Chi square test (χ2) (or Fisher's test, if applicable). In
      the hypothesis test it will require an error α less than 0.05 to reject the null hypothesis.

      Ethical aspects: In the process and development of the present study, patients will not be
      contacted and only the information collected in the medical records will be accessed. These
      medical records will be used solely and exclusively for the purposes of the study.

      The study presented here will follow the standards of Good Clinical Practice, the principles
      of the Declaration of Helsinki (Seoul 2013), and the Oviedo Convention (1997). No identifying
      or clinical data of the patients will be provided and the investigators will work on an
      anonymized and password protected file that does not allow traceability of the people
      included in the registry. Likewise, the handling of data will be carried out in accordance
      with the provisions of the Law on data protection and the Law on the rights and protection of
      the patient.

      Informed consent: The investigators will request exemption from informed consent as it is
      considered disproportionate measures to call or make appointments for each of the patients or
      their families, taking into account that this is a retrospective study based on the review of
      medical records. The database will be anonymized in compliance with current legal
      regulations.
    
  