
    
      Visual impairment and blindness due to chronic progressive optic neuropathy developing from
      glaucoma are major health problems worldwide.

      Glaucoma is a progressive, potentially blinding disease, in which the only modifiable risk
      factor in intraocular pressure. In a significant proportion of patients, the disease
      progresses despite apparent IOP control(1-3).

      One factor which may explain some of this discrepancy is a fluctuation of the IOP during the
      day, which may be missed in a single visit to the ophthalmologist(4). Although this
      fluctuation depends to some degree on daily biologic rhythms and the specific type of
      glaucoma, a constant significant factor responsible for this effect is the IOP-dependent
      changes of body posture, from sitting or standing to lying down(5). Older studies have shown
      IOP postural changes in the range of 4-6 mmHg(6-8). Seeing how a typical patient may spend as
      much as a third of his life in the supine position, knowledge of IOP in this position, and
      its control, are of great importance in decreasing the chance for irreversible optic nerve
      damage.

      Several studies of Liu JH(9-11) have investigated the effect of hypotensive drops on
      nocturnal IOP. While prostaglandin analogues (PGA) and carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (CAI)
      seemed to have a significant nocturnal IOP lowering effect, the effect seen with beta
      blockers and alpha agonists was minimal. Mansouri et al.(12) recently showed that PGA seem to
      ﬂatten the IOP-related increase when moving from the sitting to the supine position at
      nocturnal period, without effecting other circadian IOP-related patterns.

      Hirooka Kazuyuki investigated the effect of trabeculectomy on the IOP fluctuations caused by
      postural changes(13-14). He showed that successful trabeculectomy, which didn't require
      needling, have significantly decreased the posture-induced IOP changes to less than 3 mmHg.

      To the best of our knowledge there is no data regarding the effect of glaucoma drainage
      devices and cyclophotocoagulation on supine IOP.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of different IOP lowering methods,
      including trabeculectomy, glaucoma drainage devices, cyclophotocoagulation and ocular
      hypotensive eye-drops on IOP with postural change from the sitting to supine positions in
      eyes with open-angle glaucoma.
    
  