
    
      Background. Cognitive bias modification (CBM) is an intervention aiming to systematically
      change the biases in cognitive processing using experimental paradigms. CBM was found
      effective with a variety of disorders and transdiagnostic variables. Although there are few
      studies focusing on transdiagnostic variables like perfectionism and intolerance to
      uncertainty, further research needs to be done for the generalizability of these results. It
      was aimed in this study to test the effectiveness of CBM for perfectionism and intolerance to
      uncertainty with a sample of undergraduate students in Turkey.

      Sample size was determined using G*power for a medium to large effect size based on previous
      studies and it was planned to include 28 undergraduate students who have a score of >70.5 in
      the Brief Symptom Measure in the study. Participants will get either 3-course credits or a
      100 TL bookstore gift card for their full participation. After getting informed consent from
      participants, they will be randomized to either active or control condition. Participants
      will be blind to their intervention condition. Following randomization, baseline measurements
      will be collected. After the baseline measures were collected, links for interventions will
      be e-mailed to the participants according to their assigned group. Participants will get an
      email including the link for the study every week. Interpretation bias scores of participants
      for perfectionism and intolerance to uncertainty will be collected before the first
      intervention session and after the last intervention session. These sessions will last
      approximately 25 min. Participants will attend the session without an assessment in the
      second and third week and these sessions will last approximately 15 min. After four sessions,
      post-tests will be sent to the participants. Questionnaires will also be collected one month
      after the intervention was done.
    
  