
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether the addition of bortezomib (RBV) to an induction regimen of
           rituximab-bendamustine hydrochloride (RB) improves progression-free survival (PFS)
           compared to RB alone in patients ≥ 60 years of age with previously untreated mantle cell
           lymphoma.

        -  To determine whether the addition of lenalidomide to a consolidation regimen of
           rituximab following an induction regimen of RB or RBV improves PFS compared to
           consolidation rituximab alone in this patient population.

      Secondary

        -  To determine whether the addition of bortezomib to induction therapy improves the
           positron emission tomography (PET)-documented complete response (CR) rate compared to RB
           alone.

        -  To determine the objective response rate (ORR) for RB and RBV.

        -  Among patients who do not have PET-documented CR at the end of induction, to determine
           whether the addition of lenalidomide to consolidation therapy improves CR and ORR
           compared with rituximab alone.

        -  To determine overall survival (OS) in the treatment arms.

        -  To determine safety, with attention to the addition of bortezomib in the induction
           regimen and lenalidomide-rituximab (LR) as consolidation therapy.

        -  To collect paraffin-embedded tissue for creation of tissue microarray.

        -  To collect and bank serum and blood mononuclear cells for future studies.

        -  To collect formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue to analyze potential
           prognostic factors (Ki-67 proliferation index by immunohistochemistry and correlation
           with proposed 5-gene set of proliferation markers analyzed by RNA PCR; SOX 11 expression
           by immunohistochemistry; and Micro-RNA levels by microarray).

        -  Using patient-reported outcomes data, to determine the extent and severity of neuropathy
           associated with the addition of bortezomib to induction treatment.

        -  Using patient-reported outcomes data, to determine the extent and severity of fatigue
           associated with the addition of lenalidomide to consolidation treatment.

        -  To evaluate the effects of the addition of bortezomib and lenalidomide on
           patient-reported health-related quality of life.

        -  To evaluate the effects of bortezomib-related neuropathy on patient-reported
           health-related quality of life.

        -  To evaluate the response of lymphoma-specific symptoms to treatment.

        -  Using longitudinal patient-reported outcomes data, to describe the trajectory of
           lymphoma symptoms, neuropathy, fatigue, and overall health-related quality of life prior
           to, during, and following treatment among older adults with MCL.

      Tertiary

        -  To assess the proportion of patients up and down staging when fludeoxyglucose F 18-
           (FDG) PET/CT is added to standard Ann Arbor staging.

        -  To assess the ability of pre-treatment FDG-PET/CT (SUVmax) to predict response rate and
           PFS.

        -  Among patients with interim (post-cycle 3) FDG-PET/CT imaging, to assess the correlation
           of interim FDG-PET/CT imaging with response rate and PFS both during induction and
           consolidation therapy.

        -  To assess standard FDG-PET/CT metrics including SUVmax, tumor metabolic burden, total
           tumor burden, and association with pathology features (blastoid variant vs other, and
           Ki67) in the setting of MCL.

        -  To assess differences in overall and CR rates when using Deauville vs International
           Harmonization Project FDG-PET/CT interpretation criteria.

        -  To determine whether there is a correlation between FDG-PET/CT response and residual
           disease assessment by molecular and/or flow cytometric techniques.

        -  To determine whether the number of malignant cells in circulation predict the number of
           cells in marrow.

        -  To determine whether the number of malignant cells in circulation/in marrow at the end
           of induction correlate with CR and 2-year PFS.

        -  To determine whether there is a higher rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity
           among patients randomized to RBV as compared with RB, and among patients treated with LR
           maintenance compared with rituximab.

        -  To compare the two methods of MRD detection - molecular techniques and flow cytometry -
           as prognostic markers for outcome.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to mantle cell
      lymphoma International Prognostic Index risk score (low vs intermediate vs high). Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

        -  Arm A: Patients receive induction therapy comprising rituximab IV on day 1 and
           bendamustine hydrochloride IV over 60 minutes on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 4
           weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm E: Patients receive consolidation therapy comprising rituximab IV on day 1.
                Courses repeat every 8 weeks for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm B: Patients receive induction therapy comprising bortezomib IV or subcutaneously
           (SC) on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 and rituximab and bendamustine hydrochloride as patients in
           arm A. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm F: Patients receive consolidation therapy comprising rituximab IV on day 1.
                Courses repeat every 8 weeks for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm C: Patients receive induction therapy comprising rituximab and bendamustine
           hydrochloride as patients in arm A. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm G: Patients receive consolidation therapy comprising lenalidomide orally (PO)
                daily on days 1-21 every 4 weeks and rituximab IV every 8 weeks for 2 years in the
                absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm D: Patients receive bortezomib, rituximab, and bendamustine hydrochloride as
           patients in arm B. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm H: Patients receive consolidation therapy comprising lenalidomide PO daily on
                days 1-21 every 4 weeks and rituximab IV every 8 weeks for 2 years in the absence
                of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients may undergo blood and bone marrow sample collection at baseline and during treatment
      for correlative studies.

      Patients complete the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lymphoma (FACT-Lym), the
      FACT/GOG-Neurotoxicity scale (FACT/GOG-Ntx), FACT-Fatigue, and FACT-General questionnaires at
      baseline and periodically during study and follow up.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 10 years.
    
  