
    
      Potential study participants are all adult, male survivors of community violence treated at
      the study site.

      After a potential study participant is screened and deemed eligible for participation in the
      study consent will be obtained to participate in the study. At stage one a participant can
      either accept or refuse services and at stage two can consent or refuse to consent in the
      study.

      If a patient consents to both receive services and participate in the study, the participant
      will be randomly assigned to either the "Treatment as Usual" (TAU) intervention, which
      receives the referral card for services, or the "Enhanced Treatment" (ET) intervention prior
      to assessment so that the results of the assessment do not influence program staff which
      group the potential study participant is assigned. At the beginning of the study, 400
      identical envelopes will be created, 200 with a slip of paper labeled "Treatment as Usual"
      and 200 with a slip of paper labeled "Enhanced Treatment." These will be shuffled and will be
      used to assign the random group of those patients that consent to participate.

      Those who refuse services and refuse the study will not be included in the study. Finally,
      those who accept services but refuse to be in the study will not be in the study.

      Participation in the study will take place in five stages. At stage one, after consenting to
      the study and being randomly assigned to TAU or ET care groups, the patient will undergo an
      interview. The interview will take place at bedside granted that privacy can be guaranteed or
      in an office if the patient is mobile. In some cases it may be appropriate to set up an
      appointment after discharge to conduct the interview. Patients that agree to participate in
      the study will be entered into a secure Excel Database on a MedStar password protected
      server. Only study personnel will have access to this database, which will contain a key with
      patient name and a unique identifier. This database will also be used to assess study quality
      measures of approaches to eligible participants and percent uptake. This database and the
      signed consents will have identifiable patient information. An additional SpreadSheet Web
      tool, provided by the DC Department of Health Office of Victims Services and Justice Grants
      will be used to track outcomes and follow-up of participants. This will include only
      de-identified information. The internal secure Excel database will have a link between
      patient name and unique identifier.

      At stage two, the participant engages the project depending on which group they are in. Those
      in the ET group will receive a case manager whereas those in the TAU group will receive a
      referral card. Those in the ET will receive case management services and receive information
      and other counseling services whereas those who receive the referral card will be expected to
      engage the services on the referral cards provided.

      At stage three, the study participants will be asked to conduct a smaller interview at month
      6 after entry into the program to determine subsequent injury. The results of this interview
      will be recorded in the DC DOH-OVSJG SpreadSheet Web tool. In addition, partnership with
      CRISP (Chesapeake Regional Information System for our Patients) will be used to actively
      query whether or not participants have been seen in regional hospitals, EDs, or outpatient
      settings for repeat violent injury.

      CRISP is a regional health information system and is entirely HIPAA compliant and has health
      information level security. It has been designated as Maryland's statewide health information
      exchange. Under a contract with CRISP, each site will be able to securely submit the names of
      patients that have agreed to participate in research. CRISP will then send notifications of
      patient care and each site will be able to have accurate follow-up of the main outcome
      (recidivism). This will allow validation of answers from telephone interviews at 6 and 12
      months as well as gain accurate information on those participants that may be lost to
      follow-up. Patient information is relayed securely using specially designed HIPAA and
      confidentiality compliant email addresses, created for this purpose. All participants will
      specifically be asked for their permission to access CRISP for this purpose.

      At stage four, approximately twelve months after entry into the study, the study participants
      will be engaged in the post-interview. Answers to this post-interview will be recorded and
      tracked in the DC DOH OVSJG SpreadSheet Web de-identified database.

      Stage five will entail an invitation to a focus group. Four focus groups will be conducted
      after the quantitative data collection. Two of the focus groups will focus on those who have
      not successfully completed the program and two more will randomly sample among those who have
      successfully completed the program. The four focus groups will have no more than seven
      individuals. Focus groups will be conducted in a private, unlabeled conference room at the
      hospital.
    
  