
    
      An interruption of the equilibrium between proangiogenic and antiangiogenic factors in the
      usually nonvascularized cornea causes new corneal vessels to sprout, interfering with the
      corneal clarity that is essential for maintaining normal vision. Treating the neovascularized
      and often scarred cornea remains highly challenging because the loss of immunologic privilege
      in the avascular cornea makes it a poor candidate for corneal transplantation.

      Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a key cytokine in the development of both normal
      blood vessels and vessels in tumors and other tissues undergoing abnormal angiogenesis. In
      the cornea, VEGF is one of several known mediators of neovascularization. In recent years,
      anti-VEGF compounds have been extensively investigated for use in the prevention and
      treatment of neovascularization in many tissues, including the cornea. Experimental models
      and clinical studies have reported promising results for such anti-VEGF compounds as
      bevacizumab (Avastin速) and ranibizumab (Lucentis速). Aflibercept is a VEGF-Trap molecule. It
      has the highest affinity of all VEGF blockers studied to date. Aflibercept has been approved
      in the United States and Europe for the treatment of macular degeneration under the trade
      name Eylea速 and the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer under the trade name Zaltrap速.
      It has been found to offer a more prolonged and potentially more potent anti-VEGF effect in
      wet age-related macular degeneration than both bevacizumab and ranibizumab. Aflibercept's
      safety has been proven for this indication.

      A preliminary study in a rat model recently conducted by our group demonstrated that
      subconjunctival (SC) injection and topical administration of aflibercept efficiently
      prevented corneal neovascularization compared to bevacizumab. The aim of this present study
      is to determine aflibercept's efficacy in the treatment of corneal neovascularization in
      humans.

      Goal:

      To prospectively evaluate the influence of a single subconjunctival aflibercept injection on
      the regression of corneal neovascularization.

      Design and Clinical Follow-up:

      A prospective study, including patients with various corneal pathologies complicated by
      corneal neovascularization.

      Twenty patients with corneal neovascularization who are candidates for anti VEGF treatment
      (by the discretion of a corneal specialist) will be included in this study. The patients will
      be treated with a single subconjunctival injection of 0.08 ml aflibercept (25 mg/ml) in a
      single quarter of the conjunctiva, near the limbus in a proximity to the area of pathological
      neovascularization.

      During follow-up period, previous medical and ophthalmic history will be documented. On the
      first visit, a thorough eye examination will be performed (including: Best Corrected Visual
      Acuity (BCVA), slit lamp examination of anterior segment including fluorescein staining of
      cornea for the assessment of epithelial integrity, intraocular pressure (IOP) measurements
      with Goldman tonometry, and a specular microscopy examination). Follow-up examinations will
      occur on days 7, 14, 30, 60, 90 following injection. Each follow-up meeting will include
      documentation of BCVA, IOP, a slit lamp exam and specular microscopy exam. Investigators will
      also perform anterior segment color photography before injection and at the last visit to
      document regression of neovascularization.

      If no improvement or partial improvement is noted on the 30th day follow-up, the cornea
      specialist will consider a repeat subconjunctival aflibercept injection.
    
  