
    
      In the year 2000, there were over 37, 000 new acceptors of family planning in the Lusaka
      District Clinics. A variety of methods were prescribed, including combined oral contraceptive
      pills, injectable progestins, the intrauterine copper device, condoms, and others. The most
      recent sentinel survey of reproductive age women estimated that approximately 30% of
      reproductive age women in Lusaka are HIV-infected. Since voluntary HIV counseling and testing
      is not yet universally available in many of the district clinics, women receive all different
      types of contraception regardless of their HIV status.

      There is some observational data published recently that suggests hormonal contraception may
      increase HIV viral load in the female genital tract and potentially increase HIV transmission
      to the male partner. By contrast, barrier methods have historically been very unpopular in
      stable couples and are not used consistently in many cases despite intensive counseling. The
      IUCD represents one of the most inexpensive and effective methods of birth control available
      in Lusaka. However, it has not been studied adequately to make policy recommendations
      regarding its use in HIV infected women. The purpose of this study will be to evaluate safety
      and acceptability of the IUCD versus hormonal methods of contraception in HIV-infected and
      uninfected women in Lusaka. Specifically, we will 1) compare the contraceptive effectiveness
      of the IUCD to the standard practices of user-chosen hormonal contraception, 2) compare the
      rates of pelvic infection between IUD and hormonal contraceptive users, and 3) compare rates
      of method discontinuation.

      Patients who have a continuing second trimester pregnancy, serologically confirmed HIV
      infection, a desire for 24 months of contraception, and a willingness to be randomly assigned
      either an IUCD or hormonal contraception postpartum will be screened at 32 weeks in their
      pregnancies to receive either an IUCD or user chosen hormonal contraception postpartum. Women
      will then be seen at postpartum weeks 4-6 for method randomization and then at months 6, 12,
      18 and 24 to monitor pregnancy, continuation of method, side effects and any other problems.
      Women will be encouraged to return for problems at any time. At least once yearly, women will
      have a complete physical exam. CD4 and HIV clinical status will be monitored regularly.
    
  