
    
      DAPT or Dual Antiplatelet Therapy is a combination of two medications given after a
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with a drug eluting stent. DAPT is used to help make
      the platelets in your blood slick so they don't clump or stick together. If the platelets
      stick together and form a blood clot in the stent it is called a stent thrombosis and will
      cause an immediate heart attack or MI.

      The medications used for DAPT are low dose Aspirin (81mg) and one of three (3) antiplatelet
      medications: ticagrelor (Brilinta), clopidogrel (Plavix) or prasugrel (Effient) . The
      standard length of time to take DAPT after a stent placement is 6 months to 1 year. Dapt is
      associated with an increased risk of bleeding. Because you are considered to be at a high
      risk for bleeding due to one or a combination of reasons this study is trying to determine if
      a shorter use of DAPT in combination with the Synergy® stent and an imaging tool called IVUS
      used during your PCI procedure is safe and effective to reduce the potential for serious
      bleeding events and early stent thrombosis.

      The Synergy® stent was chosen because of its enhanced method of healing and reduced
      inflammation of the artery after placement. Because of this the Synergy stent may be a better
      choice for patients who are at high risk for bleeding and could benefit from a shortened
      period of DAPT.

      Intravascular ultrasound or IVUS provides a visual image of the inside of the coronary
      artery. It is used in patients undergoing PCI or stent placement for a few reasons; prior to
      placing the stent it is used to measure the artery's width to select the proper size diameter
      of a stent, also the length of the blockage to select the appropriate length of the stent and
      to visualize the amount of narrowing or blockage. After the stent is placed IVUS is used to
      make sure the stent itself is fully expanded and sits up against the wall of the artery. This
      is called apposition. If stents are not fully expanded and sit up against the wall of the
      artery early reblockage may occur. In short the IVUS aids in the ideal placement of the
      stent.

      By using the combination of the Synergy® Stent with the IVUS the expectation is to safely
      decrease the length of time you take DAPT from 6-12 months to 1 month. With the benefit of
      decreasing the risk of bleeding events.
    
  