
    
      Secondary teachers are under great stress and have prevalent mental/emotional health problems
      with limited coping resources and treatment. Selective intervention with an ISSS program is
      potentially useful as it is effective in preventing clinical/severe mental disorders and
      enhancing cost-effectiveness in health promotion.

      Objective: This randomized controlled trial (RCT) develops an Internet-based guided self-help
      intervention for secondary school teachers. The primary objective is to evaluate the relative
      efficacy of an Internet-based self-help skill strengthening (ISSS) program in reducing levels
      of depression and/or anxiety among secondary school teachers that have depressive symptoms
      and anxiety symptoms versus a wait-list control (WLC) group at post-treatment time and the
      6-month follow-up.

      Subjects and methods: The study design is two-armed RCT. The participants are secondary
      school teachers (n=427) with at least mild levels of depression ( Patient Health
      Questionnaire score >=15) and/or anxiety(Generalized Anxiety Disorder score>=20) identified
      through screening. Evaluation involves surveys at baseline, end of intervention, and 6 months
      afterwards. In addition to information received by the wait-list control group, the
      intervention group receives a carefully designed ISSS program with 5 sessions. The control
      group will participate in the ISSS program after the 6-month follow-up. Trained e-Coaches
      with a master degree in psychology or counseling will support and provide feedback to the
      participants.

      Outcomes and measures: The primary outcomes are depression and anxiety. Secondary outcomes
      include perceived stress, self-efficacy, job performance and well-being. Measures of
      potential mediators (problem-solving and time management) include: the General Self-Efficacy
      Scale (GSE),the Performance Maintenance Scale (PMS), the World Health Organization Well-Being
      Index (WHO-5), theProblem Solving Inventory (PSI), and the Time Management Behavior Scale
      (TMBS).

      Data analysis: Intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis will be performed. ANOVA and Chi-square
      tests will be conducted to test between-group differences in baseline characteristics.
      Pearson's correlation analyses will be used to test inter-correlations among all outcome
      variables and mediators. ANCOVA will be used to test changes in outcome variables at
      post-test or follow-up with pre-scores controlled. Mean improvement scores will be computed
      by calculating Cohen's d for ISSS as compared to WLC. Remission rates will be calculated
      (based on percentage of individuals dropping below PHQ-9 and/or GAD-7 cut-offs). Binary
      logistic regression will be used for odds ratios between the remission rates in ISSS with
      WLC. PHQ and GAD will be compared in two groups using ANCOVA. Post-test/follow-up score will
      be compared among two conditions, with pre-scores as covariates, to examine the group effect.
      The potential mediation effects of problem solving and time management between intervention
      conditions and emotional problems will be tested by using Structural Equation Modeling (SEM)
      and bootstrapping analysis.

      Implications: The findings may lead to an evidence-based selective intervention online
      program for the improvement of secondary teachers' mental/emotional health, a problem with
      scare coping resources and treatment. Enhancement of teachers' mental/emotional health,
      related knowledge and coping ability (problem solving, time management) would also benefit
      students.
    
  