
    
      In Aim 1, following the study pilot, community selection, and preparation the investigators
      will conduct a census/BMU registry verification in study communities to identify the
      population of men eligible for the study. The study will screen, recruit and enroll eligible
      men who give their informed consent to participate, then measure their close social networks
      identify network-central, highly-connected men ("promoters") and randomize their close social
      network (a cluster) to 1:1 intervention and control groups. Investigators will then conduct a
      baseline survey to collect socio demographic and baseline sexual behavior data among men in
      the close social networks. Following this baseline data collection, all promoters will be
      provided a training. Promoters in the intervention group will receive HIVST training,
      multiple HIVST for distribution to other men, and a small amount of remuneration. Promoters
      in the control group will receive basic HIV education and training about the study, and will
      be given vouchers that can be exchanged for HIV tests (standard or free HIVST kits) at nearby
      health facilities. Using follow-up survey data, investigators will test the hypothesis that a
      higher rate of HIV testing will be observed after 3 months among men in networks that receive
      the intervention compared to control.

      In Aim 2, investigators will test whether network-central promoters can enhance linkage to
      ART and PrEP after HIV testing among men in their close social networks. Promoters in the Aim
      1 intervention group will be asked to distribute information and transport vouchers for ART
      or PrEP when distributing HIV self-tests to men in their close social networks. Investigators
      will use clinic data to test the primary hypothesis that the intervention will result in
      higher rates of linkage to ART or PrEP (confirmatory testing and ART referral for positives,
      and PrEP screening for negatives). Investigators also will test the hypothesis that higher
      ART and PrEP uptake will be observed within 3 months (+ about one month) in the intervention
      group.

      In Aim 3, investigators will measure 6 and 12-month VL and 6 and 12 month tenofovir levels
      using viral load testing and a novel point of care PrEP adherence assay (an antibody-based
      assay permitting measurement of tenofovir levels in urine) in study sites, and test the
      hypothesis that higher rates of virologic suppression will be observed in HIV-infected men,
      and PrEP adherence in un-infected men, in the intervention group. Viral load measurements
      will be conducted by drawing additional venous blood during routine blood draws scheduled for
      MOH viral load monitoring (as well as additional draws during scheduled appointments for
      those occurring outside of the annual VL testing standard of care window). PrEP adherence
      will be measured utilizing the study urine assay.

      Across all aims, investigators will assess the pathways of intervention action using
      qualitative and mixed methods. Investigators will identify the mechanisms of action, and
      barriers and facilitators of the social network and incentives intervention implementation,
      using qualitative and mixed methods quantitative and qualitative assessments embedded in Aims
      1, 2 and 3. The data collection approach will include in-depth interviews with participants
      in both groups, key informant interviews with network-central promoters, and focus group
      discussions with study participants stratified by HIV status and study group. Data will be
      collected at baseline and three follow-up periods corresponding to the timing of quantitative
      outcome measurements in Aims 1 through 3.
    
  