
    
      A very promising approach to reversal or stabilization of the post-infarct remodeling process
      is the direct injection of regenerative cells into the myocardial infarct scar. Such
      cell-based therapy for cardiac repair is called "cellular cardiomyoplasty".

      The MyoCell™ implantation using the MyoCath™ delivery catheter system may have the potential
      to add a new dimension to the management of post-infarct deterioration of cardiac function in
      subjects with congestive heart failure. MyoCath™ is Bioheart's proprietary catheter delivery
      system being developed by Bioheart to facilitate MyoCell™ delivery into the myocardium via
      the retrograde catheterization of the left ventricular cavity. Based on pre-clinical studies,
      implantation of autologous skeletal myoblasts may lead to replacement of non-functioning
      myocardial scar with functioning muscle and improvement in myocardial performance.
      Preliminary data in human subjects suggest skeletal myoblast implantation at the time of CABG
      or via the endoventricular approach may lead to the same effects. In principle, myoblast
      implantation by catheter delivery may offer the same therapeutic benefit.

      The present clinical study is to be conducted primarily to:

        1. Assess the safety and effect on myocardial function of MyoCell™ (autologous skeletal
           myoblast) using a dose escalation methodology following implantation into myocardial
           scar tissue of subjects with congestive heart failure who have experienced previous
           myocardial infarction(s) and have had an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD)
           previously implanted. Safety endpoints will be the evaluation of the nature and
           frequency of Adverse Events during the 12-month period following MyoCell™ treatment.

        2. To assess the safety and feasibility of using the transendocardial injection catheter
           (MyoCath™) as a system for delivering MyoCell™ into myocardial scar tissue of subjects
           with congestive heart failure who have experienced previous myocardial infarction(s) and
           have an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) previously implanted. Catheter
           performance will be assessed at the time of the implantation using clinical evaluation
           questionnaires. Safety endpoints will be the evaluation of the nature and frequency of
           Adverse Events from the time of implantation to the Day 14 follow-up visit.

      If a patient meets the baseline enrollment criteria, approximately 5-10 grams of skeletal
      muscle is obtained from the subject's leg muscle for myoblast isolation and expansion in
      vitro (MyoCell™) at a specified off site cGMP culture laboratory. The expanded myoblast
      cells, MyoCell™ will be implanted into the akinetic myocardial scar in the region of a
      previous infarct utilizing Bioheart's MyoCath™ transendocardial delivery catheter system. The
      MyoCath™ endoventricular device is expected to deliver the MyoCell™ autologous skeletal
      myoblast cells into the scarred myocardial region by steering a catheter which contains a
      retractable hypodermic needle to the targeted sites for implantation.

      This will be a dose escalation study with 4 cohort groups consisting of 5 patients each. A
      report of the 1 month safety data from each cohort will be presented to the Data Safety
      Monitoring Board for permission to go to the next higher dosage. In the first cohort of this
      dose escalation study, 2 injections will be performed; for the second cohort, 6 injections;
      for the third cohort, 18 injections; and for the fourth cohort, 27 injections, depending on
      the size of the infarct scar, so as to inject the entire myocardial infarct scar akinetic
      area.

      The entire study is expected to be completed during the first half of 2007, including
      completed enrollment as well as 12-month follow-up of the last subject.
    
  