
    
      Combination therapy, the new strategy for malaria treatment, is based on the hypothesis that
      two (or more) components of different mechanisms of action protect each other from
      development of resistance. Artemisinin as well as its two derivatives, e.g. artemether and
      artesunate, constitute a family of compounds with several attractive features for such a
      combination, due mainly to their rapid onset of effective action against multidrug-resistant
      P. falciparum and their gametocytocidal effect, which potentially reduces transmission of
      resistant alleles. There also appears to be no cross-resistance with other known
      anti-malarials. Because of the short half-life of this family of compounds, their use as
      mono-therapy requires multiple daily doses over a period of 7 days. Combining them with
      longer acting partner -drugs allows for a reduction in treatment duration while
      simultaneously enhancing the efficacy and reducing the likelihood of resistance development.

      As of October 2001 the following anti-malarial drugs were recommended for malaria treatment
      in Zanzibar:

        1. Artesunate (AS)+ Amodiaquine (AQ) - "first line" (AA)

        2. Lumefantrine-artemether (Co-artem®) (CO) - "second line"

        3. Quinine, if failure or contra indication of 1 & 2, or for treatment of severe malaria

        4. Sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) for Intermittent Presumptive Treatment in pregnancy (IPT)

      The move that the Zanzibar Ministry of Health has taken with this new treatment
      policy/strategy provided a unique opportunity to investigate the potential value of
      combination therapy when introduced on a large scale. Using artemisinine derivatives in
      combination with anti-malarials with longer half-lives is thought to be highly effective and
      considerably prevent the development of parasite resistance to the individual drugs. This
      study therefore provided baseline data on the efficacy of the new treatment policy and also
      for future monitoring of the policy in Zanzibar.

      All children presenting with clinical signs of malaria at the study site were considered
      possible study subjects. The guardians of these children were informed about the study orally
      in Swahili for providing informed consent. Those who were willing to participate in the study
      were treated according to local standard procedure. The patient was tested for parasites
      using light microscopy on Giemsa stained blood films. A detailed clinical history, a clinical
      examination including an axillary temperature, was assessed. Haemoglobin was assessed and
      blood samples were collected on filter paper for each child for genotyping of the parasites
      as well as for determining blood levels of different antimalarial drugs.

      The children included in the study were assigned to one of the two treatment options
      according to randomisation schedule, except children <9 months weighing <9 kg who were
      assigned AA because AL was registered for treatment of children <9 months weighing <9 kg. The
      drugs were given in standard doses according to bodyweight: artesunate 4 mg/kg bodyweight +
      amodiaquine 10 mg/kg bodyweight, once daily for 3 days, Coartem: 9 to <15 kg: 1 tablet; 15-25
      kg: 2 tablets, twice daily for 3 days. All drugs were administrated under direct supervision
      of a study nurse. Full drug doses were re-administered if a patient spits out or vomits
      within 30 minutes. Drug treatment was provided free of charge.

      The guardian was asked to bring their child back to the study site on day 1, 2, 3, 7, 14, 21,
      28, 35 and 42. If they failed to do so they were visited in their homes to assure proper
      follow-up. At each follow-up the investigator asked about concomitant medication and adverse
      events, carefully filling out the clinical report form (CRF). If, during the follow-up
      between day 14 and 42, a child presented with fever, all tests and examinations were run as
      on day 0. If the child was clinically and parasitologically diagnosed with malaria again, he
      was treated as a new infection as of the national recommended guidelines. If diagnosed with
      severe malaria during the follow-up period the patient was given rescue treatment (oral or
      intravenous Quinine) and taken out of the study. Each time an enrolled child presented at the
      site the CRF was completed with regards to clinical and laboratory status, treatment given
      and possible adverse events.

      The study drugs were obtained from the respective companies with the assistance of WHO/TDR
      and RBM.
    
  