
    
      1. STUDY

           Primary, clinical, prospective, randomized, double blind with, controlled, two parallel
           groups interventional and analytical.

        2. MATERIAL

      A-CALCULATION OF SAMPLE SIZE

      Were used to calculate the size of the sample study data Antalon et al. (2001), who also
      compared the two techniques of caesarean section, and the Student's t-test was used bi flow.
      Considering a standard deviation of 1.5 points in the Visual Analog Pain Scale, and
      significant a difference of two points, the calculated number of patients per group was 15,
      with a significance level of 5% and power of 95 test %.

      C RANDOMIZATION AND CONFIDENTIALITY OF ALLOCATION

      The allocation will be determined by random sequence generated by computer (BioStat 5.0
      software, Mamiraua Institute, Brazil). The sequence had been held by the researcher who will
      make allocation of patients to groups in caesarean Pfannenstiel or Misgav-Ladach, 15 in each
      group.

      D-PROCEDURES

      ANESTHESIA:

      In both groups will be performed spinal anesthesia at L2-L4 with heavy bupivacaine 13 mg and
      morphine 0.1 mg% standardized by the Anesthesiology Service of HCSL.

      SURGICAL PROCEDURE:

      Surgical procedure (classical technique)

      Once displayed, according to the behavior of the service, this will be performed according to
      the following surgical technique:

        -  Traditional Preparation: pubic shaving, prior bladder emptying.

        -  Asepsis with degerminate clorhexidine and alcoholic

        -  The transverse abdominal incision approximately 10 cm, 3-4 cm above the pubic symphysis.

        -  Cross Opening subcutaneous tissue.

        -  Opening Aponeurosis transversely, hemostasis of bleeding vessels.

        -  Separation by dissection of the anterior rectus sheath muscles of the abdomen to the
           umbilicus.

        -  Separation of the muscles of the median raphe manually, exposure, clamping and opening
           the parietal peritoneum with scissors longitudinally.

        -  Opening of the visceral peritoneum transversely with scissors, taking off the bladder
           from the uterus.

        -  Hysterotomy segment transverse, arcuate, superior concavity, made a small incision with
           a scalpel and that is complete with Kelly forceps to reach the uterine cavity and then
           enlarging it with fingers without taking off the bladder from the uterus.

        -  Disposal of amniotic fluid. fetal extraction, using the leverage if necessary.

        -  Clamping of the umbilical cord and immediate care to the newborn.

        -  Administration of cefazolin 2g IV and 10 IU oxytocin.

        -  Afterbirth and revision of the uterine cavity.

        -  Hysterorrhaphy with Catgut chrome one in a continuous suture not anchored.

        -  Visceral peritonization simple catgut and 2-0 suture in simple running suture.

        -  Revision of the abdominal cavity.

        -  Closure of the parietal peritoneum and with simple catgut 2-0 suture in simple running
           suture.

        -  Closing the muscular plane is separated into "U", with simple catgut fioa 2-0 points.

        -  Closing the aponeurosis chrome catgut sutures in one not anchored.

        -  Approximation of the subcutaneous tissue with 2-0 catgut simple in separate points.

        -  Skin closure is made with nylon suture with 4-0 points Donati modified.

        -  Dressing kept simple in the early hours.

      Surgery (minimally invasive technique)

      Once displayed, according to the behavior of the service, this will be performed according to
      the following surgical technique:

        -  Traditional Preparation: pubic shaving, prior bladder emptying.

        -  Asepsis and degermante with alcoholic chlorhexidine.

        -  The transverse abdominal incision approximately 10 cm, 3-4 cm above the pubic symphysis.

        -  Cross Opening subcutaneous tissue with electrocautery used in clotting.

        -  Opening Aponeurosis transversely, hemostasis of bleeding vessels.

        -  Separation of the Muscles of the median raphe manually, exposure, clamping the parietal
           peritoneum, small opening with scissors. Through digital dilatation peritoneum is opened
           across the entire length of the incision.

        -  Hysterotomies Segment transverse, arcuate, superior concavity, made a small incision
           with a scalpel and that is complete with Kelly forceps to reach the uterine cavity and
           then enlarging it with fingers without taking off the bladder from the uterus.

        -  Disposal of amniotic fluid. Fetal extraction, using the leverage if necessary.

        -  Clamping of the umbilical cord and immediate care to the newborn.

        -  Administration of cefazolin 1 g IV and 10 IU oxytocin.

        -  And revision of the uterine cavity.

        -  Hysterorrhaphy with Catgut chrome one in a continuous suture not anchored.

        -  Revision of the abdominal cavity.

        -  Closing the aponeurosis chrome catgut sutures in one not anchored.

        -  Approximation of the subcutaneous tissue with 2-0 catgut simple in separate points.

        -  Skin closure is made with nylon suture with 4-0 points Donati modified.

        -  Dressing kept simple in the early hours]. Postoperative medication

        -  Intravenous hydration with 1000 ml of glucose 5% and 500 ml of 0.9% saline solution in
           drip 60 drops / minute.

        -  Use (dimethicone) every 8 hours the first dose at 12 hours postoperatively.

        -  Use of analgesic and anti-spasmodic every 6 hours if needed (Buscopan composts®
           (scopolamine butylbromide 20mg and dipyrone 2.5 mg).

      F-STATISTICAL METHOD The data will be tabulated and subjected to statistical analysis. The
      level of rejection of the null hypothesis will be set at 5% (α <0.05).

      For numeric variables will be used descriptive statistics, with calculations of median, mean
      and deviation padrão.O Mann-Whitney test is used to compare two independent groups with
      nonparametric behavior and the chi-square test for categorical variables.
    
  