
    
      There has been emerging interest in research to help older adults maintain cognitive and
      physical function in old age. There has been evidence that cognitive training can help
      improve targeted cognitive domains in both typically and atypically aging older people.
      Cognitive training typically involves structured, frequent and repeated engagement in
      standardized cognitively demanding tasks targeting specific cognitive domains. There are
      several potential mechanisms underlying cognitive benefits of cognitive training. As the
      brain has neural plasticity (which is the lifelong ability for physical and functional change
      in response to sensing, perceiving and learning), engaging in mentally stimulating activities
      may stimulate neuroplasticity and thereby increase cognitive reserve. In fact, animal studies
      have shown that cognitive stimulation can result in molecular, synaptic and neural
      alterations in the brain. Studies in humans also showed that intervention studies
      incorporating brain training have reported increased serum levels of brain derived
      neurotropic factor, a factor that plays an important role in memory processing. Brain imaging
      studies showed changes in activity in certain brain regions while performing specific tasks,
      along with long-term global changes following cognitive training. Over the last five years,
      there has been an increase in research about the effectiveness of CCT. According to a
      systematic review of the clinical significance of commercially available CCT in preventing
      cognitive decline in 2016, there have been 18 commercial brain training programs for older
      people. According to a meta-analysis of 52 studies using commercial CCT programs in 4885
      participants, CCT is modestly effective at improving cognitive performance in cognitively
      healthy older adults, but efficacy varies across cognitive domains and is largely determined
      by design choices. Unsupervised at-home training and training more than three times per week
      are specifically ineffective. Small to moderate effect sizes were found for nonverbal memory,
      g = 0.24 (95% CI 0.09 to 0.38), verbal memory, g = 0.08 (95% CI 0.01 to 0.15), working memory
      (WM), g = 0.22 (95% CI 0.09 to 0.35), processing speed, g =0.31 (95% CI 0.11 to 0.50),
      visuospatial skills, g = 0.30 (95% CI 0.07 to 0.54), and no significant effect was found for
      executive function and attention. In Singapore, two previous randomized control trials also
      reported the benefits of CCT on improved overall RBANS score in healthy older adults, but the
      efficacy on targeted cognitive domains (memory, visuospatial, attention) was not consistent
      among these two studies.

      Cognition has a close association with gait and balance. Cognitive impairments, specifically
      deficits in executive function, have been associated with increased risk of falls, abnormal
      gait, and other mobility tasks. Gait variability in older people is associated with atrophy
      in brain regions related to attention function. Global cognitive function, verbal memory, and
      executive function can predict longitudinal gait speed decline. There has been evidence that
      cognitive intervention may not only improve various cognitive domains but also improve
      physical function. As there has been no previously published review on the topic, the
      researchers conduct a literature search via MEDLINE (to May 2017). Keywords used for
      searching included "computerized cognitive training", "gait" and "balance". The articles
      attained by this search method were screened by title and three relevant original studies
      were retrieved. All of these studies were conducted in the United States. These studies
      suggested that CCT may improve gait speed and balance in American older people, especially in
      those with sedentary lifestyle. One such CCT programme in Singapore was developed by Neeuro
      together with A*STAR and was made commercially available since 2016. Since then, it has been
      showcased at various events, such as the Silver IT Fest and NextStop Seminar organised by the
      Future Ready Committee. To date, there has been no assessment on the effectiveness of CCT in
      cognition, gait and function in the older people in Singapore hence this study will focus on
      evaluating these parameters. Results from this study may contribute to evidence in the local
      context.
    
  