
    
      The purpose of the TiPP study is to correlate atrial myopathy with biometric findings from
      wearable devices (Samsung Smart watch and Electrocardiogram (ECG) patches from Preventice) in
      Atrial Fibrillation (AF) patients and in individuals with moderate to high-risk factors for
      Cardiovascular Diseases (CVD) and via cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR).

      A total of 300 participants will be enrolled who either have AF or have moderate-high risk
      factors for CVD as defined by the Atherosclerotic Vascular Disease (ASCVD) Risk Estimator
      Score. Enrolled participants will be between the ages of 18 to 79 years of age.

      At the first study visit, each participant will undergo a baseline CMR scan. At this visit, a
      study coordinator will provide them with a Samsung Galaxy Watch Active 2, Samsung Galaxy
      phone S9 and patches. Application set-up on their mobile device and compatibility will be
      assessed.

      Participants will be followed for their daily biometric data for one year via Samsung's
      Galaxy Watch Active 2 and will be asked to wear an ECG wearable patch, every 3 months for
      30-days for arrhythmia detection and assessment. (Baseline, 6, 9 and 12 months)

      Phone call visits will occur at 6 and 9 months to monitor for watch and patch compliance as
      well as to assess that all devices are working accordingly. Monitoring participants and
      reviewing their medical history for any AF recurrences will also be recorded during this
      visit.

      At the 12-month follow-up visit, the final CMR will be repeated to assess for changes in LA
      fibrosis/shape/function and will be compared and contrasted to the daily biometric data.

      In addition, the PPG waveform recordings (Samsung's Galaxy Watch Active 2) will also be
      compared and contrasted to collected ECG strips to evaluate for the capability of a
      continuous PPG tachogram to detect AF+/recurrences.

      The study will help identify modifiable risk factors by accurately assessing daily biometric
      data and its correlation with cardiac structural and fibrotic changes as well as
      cardiovascular outcomes. These new predictors will allow for better anticipation of future
      heart disease incidence and/ or progression. In addition, daily biometric health data will be
      used to train a machine learning concept, by means of a continuous tachogram which will
      predict atrial myopathy and major cardiovascular outcomes, leading to earlier preventive
      interventions.
    
  