
    
      CT-on-Rails is a system that places the radiation treatment machine in the same room as the
      CT scanner so that the CT scanner can help deliver radiation more precisely.

      You will have a MRI of the spine within 1 month before registration on this study. You will
      also fill out a health survey, a symptom inventory, and a Brief Pain Inventory within 1 week
      before registration. Each of these surveys should take about 5 minutes to complete. You will
      have a CT-simulation. The simulation is like a CT scan where a special body frame is used to
      keep you from moving during scanning and later radiation treatment. However, no radiation is
      delivered during the simulation. You will be asked questions about your medical history and
      have a complete neurological exam during your first consultation, before registration. The
      neurological exam involves testing upper and lower motor strength, sensation to light touch,
      reflexes, a mental exam, and an evaluation of the way you walk.

      Radiation treatment will last between 2 and 2 1/2 hours and will be given on 1 day about 1 to
      1 1/2 weeks after you had the simulation. You will have a device (similar to plastic wrap)
      placed around you that will hold you still during the treatment. You will be checked for
      level of pain and/or discomfort before starting each session of radiation, and you may take
      pain medications before starting each session. All participants will be treated with
      radiation therapy that is guided by the CT-on-Rails procedure. On the day of radiation, you
      will also receive a CT scan using CT-on-Rails in the same treatment room, immediately before
      the radiation treatment.

      During treatment, a physician will be monitoring you for any side effects. If you experience
      severe side effects, radiation treatment will be stopped, and you will be taken off study.
      After treatment on this study ends, you will have telephone, mail, or facsimile (Fax)
      follow-ups scheduled at 1, 2, 3, 4, and 8 weeks after radiation. You will be asked questions
      about any side effects or pain you are experiencing and any other therapies you may have
      started.

      You will have follow-up visits scheduled at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months and then every 6
      months for the rest of your life. At all follow-up visits, you will be asked questions about
      your medical history, have a neurological exam, and your neurologic function will be
      evaluated. Any pain medication you are taking will be noted. You will be asked to have a MRI
      of the spine at 3, 6, 9, 12,18, and 24 months, then once a year for the rest of your life.
      You will also be asked to complete 3 questionnaires to evaluate your symptoms, pain, and
      quality of life at each follow-up visit. Each questionnaire should take around 5 minutes to
      complete.

      This is an investigational study. The equipment used in this study are FDA-approved medical
      devices and are commercially available. However, the way the devices are being used in this
      study is experimental. Up to 60 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled
      at M. D. Anderson.
    
  