
    
      Nutritional therapy has been a matter of debate for several decades. Patient selection, time
      point of intervention, dosing of calories, protein, vitamins and trace elements and route of
      artificial nutrition have been the subject of research initiatives, and although consensus
      exist on several matters, some questions remain unanswered.

      At the same time length of ICU stay is shortening, and ICU survivors know an extended
      hospital stay in the ward. The window of opportunity for adequate nutritional therapy is
      thereby divided between the critically ill department and the ward. Little is known on the
      metabolic evolution of ICU survivors, and some data support an increased protein and calorie
      need post resuscitation to attenuate lean body mass and promote recovery. Adequate protein
      and calorie delivery is required to facilitate recovery. Nevertheless, adherence to nutrition
      guidelines seems to be difficult in the resource-dens environment of ICU, as proven by data
      from the 'Nutritionday' project. Adequacy of nutritional therapy management for ICU patients
      that are discharged to the ward is unknown. Fair nutritional therapy could be discovered by
      this trial, but the possibility exists that crude iatrogenic malnutrition is discovered. This
      information would act as baseline data to build nutritional quality improvement programs,
      using different forms of artificial nutrition, from oral supplements over enteral and
      parenteral nutrition.

      Secondly, metabolic information on ICU survivors is scarce. Body weight is often poorly
      followed-up, body composition evolution, including phase angle, is unknown, and metabolic
      monitoring by indirect calorimetry could reveal changed metabolic state and substrate use
      defined by the respiratory quotient.

      Thirdly, relevant barriers to the use of an intravenous access have been reported: patients
      who are agitated or confused or where the placement and/or maintenance of an (central) IV
      line would cause suffering or pain. These patients show to be low in numbers, but nutrition
      could possibly be restrained . This raises an interesting question on the access issue. The
      enteral route has to be focused on, as information on patients' experience is available in
      home enteral nutrition, but data in post critical illness patients is non-existing. Clinical
      practices in the field of nutrition can be influenced by behavioral patterns of health care
      practitioners and patients. A questionnaire will be used to evaluate opinions of health care
      practitioners and patients. This information could be of value for the way we look at
      nutritional management.

      This project targets the evaluation of nutritional adequacy on ICU and in the ward, and the
      observation of metabolic evolution of ICU survivors. Nutritional adequacy and metabolic
      profile will be investigated in correlation to patient centered outcomes (physical function,
      quality of life, performance in activities of daily living).

      A substudy of included COVID-19 positive patients will be analysed and compared to non
      COVID-19 patients.
    
  