
    
      The use of various inotropes in the care of critically ill cardiac patients has become
      increasingly widespread: while predominantly used in decompensated heart failure, they have
      also been used in cardiogenic shock complicating acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and septic
      shock. Purported mechanisms of efficacy include improved cardiac output, improved end-organ
      perfusion, and vasodilation of both pulmonary and systemic circulations. Two of the most
      commonly used agents are Milrinone, a phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitor, and Dobutamine, a
      synthetic catecholamine with affinity for both beta-1 and 2 receptors. Both the American
      College of Cardiology (ACC) and the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) support inotropes
      for acute and chronic heart failure management with low cardiac output states. Furthermore,
      the ACC recommends consideration of inotropic therapy within the STEMI guidelines when ACS is
      complicated by cardiogenic shock, heart failure or for hemodynamic support in isolated right
      ventricle infarctions. Beyond primarily cardiac etiologies, inotropes have been identified as
      first-line additive therapy for cardiac augmentation to Norepinephrine in patients with
      septic shock complicated by myocardial dysfunction. Despite the lack of convincing data
      supporting a morbidity or mortality benefit with the use of inotropes in severe,
      decompensated heart failure, cardiogenic or septic shock, or in ACS, inotropic therapy is
      still widely used across various critical care settings. Furthermore, to date, there has been
      no head to head comparison of the two more commonly used positive inotropes: Dobutamine and
      Milrinone. Selection of one inotrope over another is often guided by physician and center
      preference, and consideration of and purported avoidance of possible adverse effects. In this
      pilot study, the investigators aim to describe that characteristics of patients receiving
      inotropic support in the CCU setting and identify possible differences in morbidity and
      mortality between Dobutamine and Milrinone among a heterogeneous population of patients
      admitted to the CCU at UOHI, which may help to inform a larger clinical trial in the future.

      The purpose of this pilot study is to: (a) describe the characteristics of patients receiving
      inotropic support in the coronary care unit (CCU) setting (hemodynamics prior to inotrope
      initiation, etiology of cardiogenic shock state, use of PA catheter and values if deemed
      necessary by medical team) and (b) identify possible differences in morbidity [atrial and
      ventricular arrhythmias, hepatic and renal function, markers of end-organ perfusion (lactate,
      urine output, mentation status), use of vasopressors, sustained hypotension of systolic blood
      pressure less than or equal to 90 mmHg for greater than 30 minutes, need for mechanical
      support, cardiac transplant, total length of CCU stay, length of CCU stay greater than 14
      days] and mortality between patients in cardiogenic shock treated with Dobutamine versus
      Milrinone.
    
  