
    
      Uveitis is a term used to describe a group of inflammatory disorders involving the uveal
      tract (iris, ciliary body and choroid). It is amongst the most common causes in the list of
      preventable cause of blindness in the developed world.

      H.P. Acthar Gel is a highly purified sterile preparation of the adrenocorticotropic hormone
      (ACTH) gelatin to provide a prolonged release after intramuscular or subcutaneous (SC)
      injection.

      ACTH is part of a group of molecules called melanocortins (MC) (ACTH, α, β, γ-MSH) that are
      produced, in human bodies, by breakdown of a common larger precursor called
      proopiomelanocortin (POMC). A very well-known anti-inflammatory mechanism of action of ACTH
      is the production glucocorticoids by stimulating the adrenal glands. ACTH has also been shown
      to bind with all five melanocortin receptors (MCRs). MCRs have a variety of roles including
      cortisol production and regulation of immune modulation by ACTH.

      ACTHAR is an open-label, multi-center, randomized, phase II study to evaluate the effect of
      two dose regimens of repeated SC injections of ACTH gel in patients with active
      non-infectious intermediate, posterior, or pan-uveitis followed over a period of 12 months.

      ACTHAR study will be conducted at up to 7 clinical sites in USA. The study will be
      coordinated by the Ocular Imaging Research and Reading Center (OIRRC), which will serve as
      the coordinating and reading center for the ACTHAR Study.

      The primary endpoint of the study will be at month 6, with an active, as-needed treatment
      extension phase from month 6 to month 12.

      Thirty-six (36) patients with non-infectious intermediate, posterior, or pan-uveitis will be
      enrolled and randomized (1:1) to one of the two treatment arms:

        1. Mandatory twice a week (Mondays and Thursdays) treatment with SC ACTH gel 80 U/day
           starting at BL until month 6. Starting at month 6, the treatment will be administered on
           as needed basis, based on the retreatment criteria.

        2. Mandatory thrice a week (Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays) treatment with SC ACTH gel 80
           U/day starting at BL until month 6. Starting at month 6, the treatment will be
           administered on as needed basis, based on the retreatment criteria.

      Starting at month 6, retreatment will be offered to study subjects who have demonstrated any
      level of response during the first 6 months and who meet any of these Retreatment Criteria
      listed below. Patients receiving retreatment will receive the dose that was assigned to them
      at randomization.
    
  