
    
      The Global Action Plan for Universal Eye Health emphasizes the importance of providing basic
      eyecare to all individuals, & the communities they constitute, at affordable rates. In India,
      PEC is delivered through two main mechanisms. Transient screening camps and permanent
      facilities- vision centers (VCs) with catchment areas of roughly 50,000 people, located in
      rural areas & urban slums & accessible by public transport. They refract, diagnose & treat
      minor eye conditions & refer cases needing further care to their nearest base hospital. The
      literature on barriers to PEC in India is limited but points to lack of knowledge about eye
      diseases, detrimental social stigmas, low priority being accorded to eye problems, gender
      discrimination, unaffordability, lack of perceived need as well as immobility & dependence on
      escorts. These barriers potentially affect the operational sustainability of VCs-in large
      part by the number of walk-in patients. Our organization is a network of eye care delivery
      mechanisms based on the pyramidal model; spread across north India. 36 VCs (9 urban & 27
      rural) are under operation; raising awareness, providing refraction, recognition & referral
      services to their catchment population & increasing contact of those in need of services. For
      the majority of people, these are the first point of contact when accessing or attempting to
      access eye care services. Developing trust & high referrals to these VCs, from the entire
      catchment population they service, is essential for the overall sustainability of these
      centers & to increase the ambit of PEC delivery. This protocol aims to study the effect of an
      intervention combining door-to-door screening with regular awareness activities in the
      catchment population on the service utilization at VCs.

      Study Design & Process: Randomized experimental intervention, in which four VCs are selected:
      two each in the intervention & control arms (one each from a particular operational area).
      Our organization has 6 secondary centers (SCs), of which 4 are located in the state of Uttar
      Pradesh, namely, Meerut, Mathura, Saharanpur & Kheri. These regions have a total of 23 VCs
      operating in rural & semi-urban areas, together serving around 1 million people. Of these 4
      SCs, 2 were selected (Vrindavan in Mathura district & Mohammadi in Kheri district) for this
      study based on feasibility & the demographic profile of their catchment population. The
      Vrindavan region has 8 VCs delivering eyecare services in its' semi-urban areas while the
      Mohammadi region has 6 VCs (5 rural & 1 semi-urban). Most of these VCs have been operational
      for over 3 years. However, the previous year's data indicated that 80% of VCs as sub-optimal
      in performance. The sub-optimal VCs were listed. From a total of 10 VCs (5 in each region,
      meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria), 2 were randomly selected from each: one each for
      the control & intervention arms. The VCs in the 2 blocks of the Mathura district were located
      at Chhata & Raya, respectively, while the 2 VCs from 2 blocks of Kheri district were located
      at Mitauli & Pashgaon. Due to the nature of the study, it was impossible to mask the field
      staff to the intervention.

      Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria: The regional team gathered detailed information regarding all
      VCs operating in the Vrindavan & Mohammadi region. VCs were included based on the following
      criteria:

      Low performance (walk-in OPD ≤ 10/day) Duration of operation >1 year Presence of 1 VC in each
      arm from selected VCs VCs with a walk-in OPD greater than 10 per day & those in operation for
      less than one year were excluded.

      Study Setting: Mathura district has a population of about 2.5 million, 70% resident in rural
      areas. Kheri district has a population of 4 million- 88% residents in rural areas. Chhata
      block, in Mathura, has 81 villages with 30 within 10km of the VC. These 30 have a combined
      population of 70,000. On the other hand, Raya block has 124 villages with 90 within 10km of
      the VC, having a combined population of 130,000. In Kheri, the Mitauli block has 138 villages
      with 75 within 10km of the VC. The combined population is around 111,000. Pashgaon block has
      230 villages with 85 within 10km of the VC, a population of around 110,000.

      Sample Size: Average OPD attendance at the intervention VCs is 7/day, at present. The
      investigators expect to achieve 14 after the intervention, failing which, the intervention
      will not be considered a success. Therefore, the primary objective of the statistical
      analysis should be to estimate the average attendance, post-intervention, with extreme
      precision which leads us to assess if the investigators have been able to achieve the target
      (14 per day on average). The investigators set the confidence interval ±1 for the
      post-intervention sample mean (the narrowest possible confidence interval in this case). To
      check if at least 20 per day on average has been achieved, the investigators expect a sample
      mean of at least 21 (i.e. the confidence interval will be 20-22). The investigators assume
      that the probability of the confidence interval is 95%, & the daily OPD attendance has a
      Poisson distribution. Thus, the investigators expect that the post-intervention daily
      attendance has a Poisson distribution with a mean of at least 21. It implies that the
      variance of the distribution also equals 21 (or more), & the investigators want to estimate
      the mean with a 95% confidence interval of ±1. It requires a minimum sample size of 81 days.

      The investigators have used the following formula to calculate the sample size:

      Sample Size= 〖1.96〗^2/d^2 x variance of the distribution Where 1.96 is the 97.5 percentile
      point of the standard normal distribution, d is the length of the confidence interval (on one
      side of the estimate). d=1 & variance=21 give sample size=81. The investigators had put a
      target of 20 in the pre-COVID time but due to the pandemic, the investigators have revised
      our desired target to 14 per day to consider the intervention a success. The investigators
      have persisted with the additional days in the sample size (instead of 58 days for a target
      of 14) to be able to estimate up to 14 per day OPD with precision.

      Intervention arm: The intervention will include door-to-door screening & awareness generation
      in 8-12 villages surrounding the intervention VC. The VC team will be trained in using the
      PEEK acuity20 application for measuring visual acuity & using the data collection software
      (Taraka) on android platforms. A list of surrounding villages (within 10km) will be prepared
      by the Vision Centre Coordinator & the VC attendant. The Vision Centre Coordinator will meet
      the village leader to take permission for the door-to-door intervention survey to be carried
      out in the village. After having received the necessary permissions, a priority list of
      survey villages would be prepared to initiate the intervention. In the intervention villages,
      the VC attendant will go from door to door. During the screening, if any house is locked or
      family members are not available, the attendant will attempt to contact those missing at
      least 3 times. The attendant will explain the intervention & obtain consent for participation
      in the survey. Household or family members, who are unwilling or not interested to
      participate in the survey, will also be recorded separately. After obtaining consent, the
      attendant will communicate regarding the need for eye care in general & share the IEC
      material. For each family member above 5 years of age, the visual acuity of each eye will be
      taken & recorded using the PEEK application on a smartphone. Demographic data, ocular
      complaints & information regarding any previous eye check-up would be also be recorded in the
      android application. Any person with a visual acuity <6/12 (cut-off) or other eye issues
      would be counseled & referred for a comprehensive examination to the vision center. A
      referral slip will be provided to referred patients along with a reason for referral.
      Referred patients' records will be available to the Vision Technician (optometrist) through
      the software. Patients reporting to the VC for a comprehensive check-up & treatment, due to
      the door-to-door intervention will be recorded in the vision center management software
      (VCMS). Any patient requiring surgical treatment or further care will be referred to the
      respective secondary center.

      Control Arm: The control arm VC will continue its routine awareness activities & health talk
      sessions in the community. The VC attendant will prepare a monthly activity plan & organize
      activities in the surrounding 8-10 villages. Persons with eye issues will be recorded &
      referred to the VC for further evaluation & treatment. Patients reporting to the VC will be
      registered in the VCMS. For surgical interventions or further care, patients will be referred
      to the respective SC. The activities will be the same in both the arms & will also be
      standardized in the same manner. Only their mode & reach will be different.

      Project Timelines: The study period will be 12 months. Two months will be spent preparing the
      study intervention & obtaining approvals, three months will be needed for pre-intervention
      work i.e. training the team, field preparation, finalizing a data collection format & IEC
      development, four months for the intervention & data collection. After data collection, the
      remaining three months will be used for data analysis & writing.

      Data Collection & Variables: Both electronic & manual data collection for both arms.
      Intervention arm-field level data (door-to-door survey) through software; Control arm-field
      level activity in the activity register manually. VC level data would be extracted from the
      VCMS, for both control & intervention VCs. In both arms, programmatic data will be collected,
      which includes data regarding the villages screened, door-to-door screening, walk-in OPD,
      those reporting after referrals from the field, spectacles advised & their uptake, as well as
      referral for cataract, specialty & surgical follow-up. Cost data will be collected for
      direct, indirect & opportunity costs like rent, human resources, overheads & community
      activities. Also, data for revenue from OPD, spectacles & surgery done.

      Quality Assurance: Three sources of data: door-to-door screening data will be collected
      through the customized android application, data of patients visiting VCs will be captured
      through VCMS & additional data pertaining to activities from the control VCs & staff visits
      would be collected on the registers. The software has checks & balances ensuring complete
      data collection. Manual data collection will be standardized through a checklist. Random
      monitoring visits will be made periodically to the field. Data collected during the day will
      be uploaded on the cloud server at least once at the end of the day for review. Data quality
      will be ensured by clearly defined roles, appropriate resource allocation & regular meetings
      with the team members. A regular review process will be followed to ensure quality data
      collected & at least 10% of it will be verified by field supervisors. Surgery-related data of
      SC referrals would be extracted from the SC EMRs. Data would be collated monthly as a part of
      routine program monitoring.

      Data Analysis: Collected data would be tabulated & analyzed by arm: distance of village; age;
      gender; eye issues; visual acuity; compliance with treatment- medicine, surgery, glasses &
      revenue & expenditure of VC. The difference from baseline in the number of walk-in patients,
      referrals, uptake of services & costs involved in intervention would be analyzed. Z-test will
      be used to compare the change in walk-in patients between the two arms. A P-value of less
      than 0.05 would be considered significant.

      Cost-Effectiveness Analysis: Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) & Incremental CEA will be
      performed. The incremental cost for every additional beneficiary attending the VC will be
      calculated. To calculate the increase in patients, the average number visiting per day during
      the same months last year would be subtracted from the average in the study period. Change in
      control VC, if any, would also be deducted before using this as the denominator for
      calculation.
    
  