
    
      Pulmonary Disorders, including both COPD & Restrictive Lung Disease (RLD) are often treated
      by limiting exposure to poor air quality, but there is no cure at this time. Most commonly,
      the patients are treated upon exacerbations, usually with some combination of inhalers,
      steroids, and medications which have proven to be ineffective other than addressing symptoms
      and trying to return to baseline symptom help. In addition, many attempted efforts are aimed
      at environmental changes, therapy include smoking cessation, vaccinations, respiratory
      rehabilitation, and attempts of use of bronchodilators and topical and systemic steroids.
      Many must resort to supplemental oxygen therapy, lung transplantation, and antibiotic
      supportive therapy during exacerbations.

      As of 2013, COPD involve approximately 5% of the global populations (approximately 330
      million). Most commonly it occurs approximately equally between men/women and result in about
      3 million deaths per year. Estimates of economic costs are estimated to be more than 2.1
      trillion dollars in 2010.

      This study includes microcannula harvesting of subdermal adipose tissues, incubation,
      digestion and isolation of AD-cSVF. This stromal cellular pellet (without actual
      extracellular matrix or stromal elements) is then suspended in 500 cc sterile Normal Saline
      (NS) and deployed via peripheral intravenous route. Evaluations of safety issues are measured
      at intervals (both severe and non-severe categories) and by repeated pulmonary function
      studies.

      Most pulmonary function tests are, at best some help, but there is now a remarkable testing
      that is substantially more informative than standard flow measurements, as they include
      extensive anatomical and functional insights using High Resolution Computerized Tomography
      (HRCT) Lung. This protocol allows for direct evidence of the air trapping, lung volume
      capabilities, and three dimensional imaging of the airways and lungs themselves. This
      modality will be the primary comparative between baseline and 6 month post-therapy in
      determination of the status and changes than can be demonstrated following use of cellular
      stromal vascular fraction (cSVF). After isolation and concentration of the stem/stromal cells
      via digestive processing, deployment of such cellular elements are believed to engraft within
      the lung capillary tissues. Engraftment is not currently believed to be the primary elements
      following parenteral (IV) placement. Rather, it is believed to represent the paracrine
      secretory and communication between cell-to-cell or cell-to-matrix which communicates via
      exosomal and microvesicular contents that are released to influence the local niche
      (microenvironment). Via transfer of microRNA (mRNA) or mitoRNA (miRNA), stem cells are able
      to help other pulmonary cells replace or repair damaged elements associated with lung
      disorders. Further, these secretions and growth factor/cytokines availability have a positive
      influence on the small capillaries within the lung parenchyma, thereby likely to improve the
      gas exchange function within the lungs.

      Tracking of oxygen saturation (at rest and activity), use of inhalers or other rescue effort
      reduction, reduction of oxygen supplement, and improved respiratory efforts will be
      performed.
    
  