
    
      Nasopharyngeal Swabs (NPS) are used to test for Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus
      2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection. For this, a swab is inserted deep into the back of the nose to
      collect a sample. It can cause discomfort for most people. It also increases the risk of
      transmission and other challenges. The present study aims to develop a more convenient method
      of collecting samples for COVID-19 testing. The study is based on the hypothesis that saliva
      collection using the proprietary flavour-stimulated 'Lollipop' swab (LPS) can be a more
      viable alternative to NPS.

      The study aims to establish the comparative efficacy of SARS-Cov-2 infection assessment using
      Test At Home's proprietary "lollipop" buccal cavity swab (LPS) that simulates oral fluid
      collection via flavouring and mastication (self-collection) using the contemporary nasal swab
      collection (by health worker) as standard.

      For the present study, 300 pairs of matched nasopharyngeal swab (NPS) (health care worker
      collected) and simulated oral fluid specimens (self-collected) will be obtained from 150
      Coronavirus Disease -19 (COVID-19) positive patients and 150 COVID 19 negative individuals.

      Test Method 1: Self-collected Test At Home's proprietary "lollipop" buccal cavity swab with
      Viral Transport Medium (VTM) will be evaluated using the Standard 'TaqPath™' COVID-19
      Conformité Européenne - In Vitro Diagnostic (CE-IVD) Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain
      Reaction (RT-PCR) which is approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)

      Test Method 2: Self-collected Test At Home's proprietary "lollipop" buccal cavity swab with
      VTM will be evaluated using National University of Singapore (NUS) developed Enzyme Linked
      Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) Method.

      Active Comparator : Health worker collected Nasopharyngeal Swab (NPS) with VTM which will be
      evaluated using the Standard TaqPath™ COVID-19 CE-IVD RT-PCR which is approved by the Indian
      Council of Medical Research (ICMR).

      The diagnostic performance of using NPS and Oral fluids will be statistically compared to
      determine concordance of positive and negative findings and establish the performance
      characteristics of the Test Methods.
    
  