
    
      The loss of upright mobility has a profound effect on the health and quality of life for
      individuals with a spinal cord injury (SCI). The ReWalk exoskeleton is an FDA-cleared,
      wearable, computer-controlled exoskeleton robot that enables subjects with SCI to stand and
      walk using crutches to keep balance. China Medical University Hospital is the second hospital
      in Taiwan to acquire this relatively new rehabilitation robot. ReWalk exoskeleton not only
      helps the patients with paraplegia regain their ability to walk, previous studies also
      suggest that restoration of upright mobility may help mitigate the physical and psychological
      decline routinely experienced by individuals with SCI.

      The present study aims to investigate the effects of ReWalk exoskeleton robot training on
      various physiological and psychological parameters among subjects with spinal cord injury,
      including body composition and bone mineral mass, balance ability, bowel and bladder
      symptoms, severity of pain, psychological well-being, and quality of life. Ten patients with
      paraplegia caused by spinal cord injury will be recruited from the out-patient clinic of
      Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at the China Medical University hospital.
      All participants will undergo dual X-ray absorptiometry to evaluate the baseline bone mineral
      density. Eligible participants will then take ReWalk training sessions comprises of 3 x
      1-hour sessions per week for 40 sessions. The first 20 or so hours of training sessions focus
      on basic ReWalk skills, and the following training sessions focus on advanced ReWalk skills.
      A comprehensive battery of outcome measures, including body composition and bone mineral
      mass, balance ability, bowel and bladder symptoms, severity of pain, psychological
      well-being, and quality of life, will be utilized to obtain an in-depth overview and
      comparison of the treatment efficacy after 40 sessions of ReWalk ambulation training. The
      measures include: muscle strength measurements, Berg Balance Scale, modified Functional Reach
      Test, 10-Meters Walking Test, Timed Up and Go test, the Short Form-36 and Spinal Cord
      Injury-Quality Of Life questionnaires for health-related quality of life measurement. Dual
      X-ray absorptiometry will be used to measure the bone mineral density of the lumbar spine,
      the proximal femoral region and the distal forearms. It will also be used to estimate fat
      mass and lean body mass of the participants. All the outcome assessments, except for the
      Timed Up and Go and the 10-Metersr Walking Test, will be performed prior to the first
      training session and again at the end of the ReWalk ambulation training sessions. Descriptive
      data will be provided for all demographic parameters and with a mix-design ANOVA analysis
      employed to compare pre- and post-training conditions for all repeated outcome measures.
    
  