
    
      1. Introduction and Purpose: The goal of this project is to improve linear growth and
           weight gain in children with short bowel syndrome by changing their intestinal
           microbiota and ultimately intestinal bacterial metabolism.

        2. Background: Short bowel syndrome (SBS) occurs when there is insufficient intestinal mass
           to support normal growth and development. Approximately 35 babies out of every 100,000
           live birth are affected by SBS in North America, and these infants remain dependent on
           intravenous, parenteral nutrition (PN) for a prolonged period of time. One of the major
           challenges these children face is achieving sufficient linear growth and weight gain
           despite receiving calories in excess of that required by age matched healthy children.
           Problems with poor intestinal absorption and motility and increased inflammation all
           contribute to poor growth in these patients. An important factor in the healthy function
           of the remaining small bowel is the intestinal microbial community. It is known that
           depletion of certain groups of beneficial gut bacteria, and their metabolic by-products,
           specifically short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) can lead to intestinal inflammation,
           malabsorption, and less efficient use of consumed calories.

           The long-term objective of the study is to determine how to effectively change the gut
           microbiota in children with SBS to restore a healthy balance and maximize growth and
           development. Although children with SBS have known disturbances to their intestinal
           microbiota, it is unclear whether providing an oral probiotic is an effective approach
           to correct these disturbances.

           Aim 1: To determine if probiotic supplementation can significantly modulate gut
           microbiota and improve growth in SBS patients.

           Aim 2: To determine levels of fecal SCFAs in children with SBS, including those
           receiving probiotics.

        3. Study description: All eligible children will be consented at the time of an outpatient
           clinic visit or during an inpatient stay. Enrolled participants will then be randomized
           to "placebo" where they will receive the standard of care medical and nutritional
           treatment for short bowel syndrome in addition to 1mL of pure MCT (medium chain
           triglyceride) oil daily for 3 months, or "probiotic therapy" where they will receive a
           combination of Lactobacillus rhamnosus (5 billion colony-forming units per day) and
           Lactobacillus johnsonii,(200 million colony-forming units per day) daily for 3 months in
           addition to the standard of care. Randomization will not be blinded. The probiotics were
           chosen because they have been well studied in infants and children and both of these
           species have been found to be deficient in children with SBS and poor growth. The
           placebo was chosen because it is the only inactive ingredient included in the suspension
           of the probiotic, it is odorless and tasteless, and has no known side effects. The
           probiotic and MCT oil will be given daily either orally or through an existing
           gastrostomy tube. Patients who drop out of the study, or who are withdrawn will not be
           replaced, and the data from these subjects will be included as part of the analysis in
           an intention-to-treat manner.

      Stool (approximately 200mg per sample) will be collected at 3 separate time points for each
      patient (at the beginning, middle and end of the study). Stool will be collected either
      during an inpatient stay or at an outpatient clinic visit. If a patient is unable to provide
      a stool sample, the family can collect one at home and it can be frozen and brought in at the
      time of the next clinic visit. A frozen sample can be used for 16S rRNA sequencing and
      metabolomics analysis, but not for SCFA concentration. Microbial gDNA can be recovered from
      stool that has been frozen for up to 6 months, with similar sequencing results compared to
      freshly processed stool. If a fresh sample is provided, a portion will be used to determine
      the concentration of SCFAs. Stool used for 16S rRNA sequencing and metabolomics will be kept
      frozen until analysis is performed. A one-time stool collection will also be obtained from 10
      control patients with short bowel syndrome who are growing well and will be used for 16S rRNA
      and metabolomics analysis.

      Stool used for 16S rRNA sequencing will be kept frozen until the time of analysis. Bacterial
      gDNA will then be extracted from fecal contents. Amplicons of the bacterial 16S rRNA genes
      will be generated and sequenced using the Illumina Hi-Seq 2000 (UTSW Genomics Core).
      Sequencing reads will be filtered and quality trimmed and analyzed using the QIIME software
      package.59 Microbial diversity will be estimated by calculating the Shannon diversity index
      and Bray-Curtis dissimilarity index.

      Bacterial abundance will be determined using standard curves constructed with reference to
      cloned bacterial DNA corresponding to a short segment of the 16S rRNA gene that was amplified
      from bacterial reference strains.63 Dr. Koh has also validated qPCR protocols for 6 specific
      bacterial groups: 1) Eubacteria (all bacteria); 2)Lactobacillus (a subset of firmicutes); 3)
      Bacteroides (a subset of Bacteroidetes); 4) Enterobacteriaceae (ENTERO; pro-inflammatory
      gram-negatives such as E.coli, Klebsiella spp, etc); 5) CLEPT (a subset of Firmicutes;
      butyrate producing anti-inflammatory Clostridia); 6)EREC (a subset of Firmicutes; butyrate
      producing anti-inflammatory Clostridia). Bacterial group specific qPCR provides
      quantification of overall abundance of specific groups of bacteria

      Concentrations of SCFAs in the stool will be measured at all time points that a fresh sample
      can be provided. Briefly, fresh fecal samples will be weighed, suspended in water with 0.5%
      phosphoric acid and then flash frozen immediately with liquid nitrogen. Given the volatility
      of SCFAs, flash freezing will provide more accurate measurements. Fecal suspensions will then
      be thawed, homogenized, and extracted with ethyl acetate. Organic extracts will be spiked
      with carbon-labeled SCFA standards (in order to accurately quantify SCFA levels) and run on
      the GC-MS.

      Randomization: Enrolled patients will be randomized using a centralized process based on a
      random table. Randomization will be determined by calling a central project phone number
      answered by the research nurse and requesting a subject ID and an allocation to either
      standard treatment or conditional surgery. This is an open-label trial and patients will be
      randomized in a 1:1 manner to one of two treatment arms.

      Treatment Phase:

      Placebo patients will receive the standard of care medical and nutritional treatment for
      short bowel syndrome in addition to daily MCT oil. All enrolled patients will have detailed
      growth assessment during the study. The primary anthropometric measures of growth will
      include weight, height, head circumference (for children <2 years) and mid-arm circumference,
      which will be documented upon enrollment, and monthly during the study. Body mass index and
      z-scores for growth variables will be calculated at each time point. Expected and median
      values for anthropometric parameters will be obtained from the World Health Organization
      growth chart for patients <2 years and the Centers for Disease Control growth charts for
      patients ≥2 years.

      Clinical information will also be collected from the medical records for all enrolled
      patients including information about age, gender, ethnicity, etiology of SBS, quality and
      frequency of daily bowel movements, antibiotic usage in the 4 weeks prior to enrollment and
      during the study, infections during the study, surgical history, including any
      bowel-lengthening procedures, length and anatomy of small bowel and colon remaining, the
      presence of a stoma and/or gastrostomy tube, medical history, medications, detailed nutrition
      information (caloric intake from parenteral and enteral nutrition), and routine nutritional
      blood work. Stepwise logistical regression analysis of these clinical characteristics will be
      performed to model the independent predictors of poor growth, using a significance level of
      p<.05. A Fischer's exact test will be performed to assess the overall distribution of
      discrete clinical variables among patient analyses.

      Probiotic Group - where they will receive a combination of Lactobacillus rhamnosus ( 5
      billion colony-forming units per day) and Lactobacillus johnsonii (200 million colony-forming
      units per day) daily for 3 months in addition to the standard of care.

      Stool samples will be collected by both groups at 3 separate time points for each patient,
      upon initial enrollment, the midpoint and end of the study). The samples will be collected at
      a standard of care clinic visit, during an inpatient stay, or at home by the caregiver and
      frozen. Caregivers will be provided with instructions and stool collection kits.
    
  