
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) affects 1-6% among children and has negative influence on
      day-time school performance and quality of sleep. It also cause failure to
      thrive，cardiovascular disease，and metabolic disease, which need early intervention. About 6%
      allergic rhinitis (AR) children would combine with OSA and refractory to treatment and need
      long-term intra-nasal corticosteroid or surgery if have moderate-severe OSA with
      adenoid-tonsillar hypertrophy. Some parents considering the side effect of steroid and risk
      of surgery will search Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) for help.

      TCM is one kind of preventive medicine by educating people how to keep health by diet and
      massage. The breathing technique and "Teeth-Buckling and Salivary-Swallowing motion" noted in
      Inner Canon of the Yellow Emperor, one of the most important ancient Chinese medical text are
      compatible with myofunctional therapy for OSA. There are several studies revealed improve
      immune response in allergic rhinitis by TCM and severity of OSA by acupuncture.

      In this project, the investigators aim to establish a Collaborative Care Model of TCM and
      Western Medicine to improve the quality of life and symptoms of AR with OSA children and
      educate care-givers diet and massage information to improve self-care ability and alleviate
      anxiety for parents. In addition, the investigators will use portable oxymeter to detect the
      change of SpO2 and respiratory arousal index daily at home and evaluate sensitivity and
      specificity of portable oxymeter device applied in OSA. The investigators want to give
      holistic health care for patients and care-givers by this project. In addition, the
      investigators will build a training environment to provide medical education and training
      opportunity to teach medical students and clinician the knowledge of pediatric allergic
      rhinitis and obstructive sleep apnea by caring patients and learning from clinical cases.
    
  