
    
      Background: The health condition of individuals with chronic mental illness (MI) is usually
      poorer than the general population. This health disparity may be related to their lower
      physical activity level. One of the critical issues in psychiatric rehabilitation is to
      develop a health promotion program which utilizes less clinical resources and results in
      long-term effectiveness. Compared with structure exercise, lifestyle physical activity might
      be one of the solutions. With the mobile technology and wearable technology becoming popular,
      mobile health (mHealth) emerges and has showed some preliminary effects on other population.
      The mHealth may be an innovative health promotion program for people with MI and deserves
      more research to examine the effectiveness.

      Purpose: This study is (1) to examine the accuracy and acceptability of wearable technology
      in persons with MI; (2) to develop a physical activity promotion program by applying social
      cognitive theory and wearable technology and evaluate its feasibility in people with MI ; (3)
      to examine the effectiveness of the program on physical activity level and health outcomes ;
      and (4) to examine the moderators of the program's effectiveness.

      Methods:

      Stage I: completed (Accuracy, Acceptability, Feasibility) Stage II: (RCT) The investigators
      will conduct a single-blinded, randomized controlled study. 90 participants will be randomly
      assigned to experimental group or control group. The intervention for both groups will last
      for 12 weeks, with a 12-week of follow-up. The measurements include physical activity level,
      physical fitness, cognitive function and sleep quality, as well as the moderators of the
      effectiveness of program.

      Contributions: The results of study will be one of the evidence-based health promotion
      programs for individuals with MI. With wearable technology and telecommunication technology,
      it makes possible to expand the health care services from traditional clinical settings to
      client's natural milieu, and to serve more people with MI by using less resources. The
      results of study may also form a much appreciated basis for future studies of mHealth on
      other heath behavior (e.g., healthy diet) or in other disability groups (e.g., stroke).
    
  