
    
      The study aims to investigate whether Vitamin D supplementation with diet, or diet alone
      combined with CRP (standard clinical care) can reduce recurrence of BPPV and if there is any
      improvement in the patient's functional ability, postural stability and prevalence of falls.

        -  Group A will be prescribed Vitamin D supplementation in the form of daily 2000 IU
           cholecalciferol (two tablets) for 13 weeks, and daily 1000 IU cholecalciferol(1 tablet)
           for another 13 weeks and then treatment will be discontinued but dietary interventions
           will continue.

        -  Group B will be prescribed placebo of Vitamin D with two tablets daily for 13 weeks then
           1 tablet daily for 13 weeks then no treatment for 26 weeks but dietary interventions
           will continue.

        -  Group C will not receive any Vitamin D intervention for the entire 12- month study
           period but will receive dietary interventions.

      The same day, patients will be grouped according to their Vitamin D status. Patients who are
      Vitamin D deplete (<30ng/ml) will be randomised into groups A or B.

      Randomisation will be undertaken by the unblinded team, who will allocate randomly generated
      treatment using sealed opaque envelopes. The unblinded team will open the sealed envelope and
      the patient will be allocated to a group. The patient will not be informed of the treatment
      regime. Patients with replete Vitamin D levels (≥30ng/ml) will be serving as a control in
      group C. All clinical investigators will be blinded to the group assignments.

      Unblinding can be undertaken for urgent clinical need, for example, fall with hip fracture
      requiring surgical intervention and high dose replacement of Vitamin D prior to initiation of
      bisphosphonate or other osteoporosis treatment.

      All request for unblinding will be made to the unblinded team investigator to determine the
      need for unblinding prior to release of unblinded information. However, the dosing chosen for
      the study would permit the patient to have treatment with clinically needed high doses of
      vitamin D and continue on the study treatment without risk of hypervitaminosis D. The
      anonymous google survey undertaken indicated that some clinicians will use high dose
      replacement at the same time as maintenance dosing. Any cases that require unblinding will be
      discussed with the unblinded Investigator before the unblinding takes place but the outcome
      of the unblinding will not be communicated to the clinical team to allow the study
      assessments to continue.

      All Groups (A, B, C) will receive dietary interventions across the 12- month study period and
      will be scheduled dietitian clinics to attend. Before their clinics, all patients will be
      issued instructions by the dietitian to record their dietary habits via a 3-day food record
      (3DFR- Appendix 4) and to send their 3DFR to the dietitian through mail or email, at least 5
      days prior to their scheduled dietitian review. Patients will be provided a unique patient
      identification number in the study and will be asked to use this number in place of personal
      particulars when sending in their 3DFR. In the event that patients are unable to send in
      their 3DFR before their appointment, they will be asked to bring it on the day of the review
      itself.

      1-2 weeks appointment All Groups (A, B, C) will be scheduled an ENT review in 1-2 weeks as
      routine clinical care for patients following CRP. Alongside this ENT review, they will also
      receive a referral to the dietitian clinic at this routine clinical visit for assessment of
      their dietary habits. ENT clinic will test all patients for efficacy of CRP treatment.
      Dietitian's clinic will provide assessment of patients' dietary habits from their 3DFR,
      provide counselling on dietary habits as well as take anthropometric measurements such as
      height, weight and BMI.

      3rd month tele- consult All Groups (A, B, C) will receive a call from the audiologist who
      will check on BPPV recurrence with specific questions from the Shortened Dizziness Handicap
      Inventory Questionnaire (SDHIQ).

      6th month appointment All Groups (A, B, C) will return for an audiologist review and
      dietitian review. At the audiologist review, patients will answer questions relating to BPPV
      recurrence, undergo Dix Hallpike test to check for recurrence of BPPV and balance and
      functional assessment in the form of Gans SOP, SPPB, BI and CFS. Patients from Group A and B
      will also be required to bring in their prescribed medications for a final pill count in
      order to check for compliance (performed by unblinded team). At the dietitian review, there
      will be assessment of the patient's dietary habits from their 3DFR (which is to be submitted
      5 days prior to visit), counselling on dietary habits and taking of anthropometric
      measurements such as height, weight and BMI.

      9th month tele- consult All Groups (A, B, C) will receive a call from the audiologist who
      will check on BPPV recurrence with specific questions from the SDHIQ.

      12th month appointment All Groups (A, B, C) will return for the final audiologist review and
      dietician review. At the audiologist review, all patients will answer questions relating to
      BPPV recurrence and undertake a Dix Hallpike test to check for recurrence of BPPV. The
      audiologist will also administer balance and functional assessment in the form of Gans SOP,
      SPPB, BI and CFS for comparison with start of study. All groups will undertake a final serum
      vitamin D3 test and corrected calcium measurements. At the dietitian review, there will be
      assessment of the patient's dietary habits from their 3DFR (which is to be submitted 5 days
      prior to visit), counselling on dietary habits and taking of anthropometric measurements such
      as height, weight and BMI.
    
  