
    
      The study will enroll patients with ages between 18 and 80 years old, diagnosed with breast
      cancer but without proof of disease dissemination on medical imaging. After obtaining an
      informed consent the patients will be computer randomized to 4 groups. Each group will
      benefit from a certain type of anesthesia. The first group will be assigned general
      anesthesia using Sevoflurane for maintenance of hypnosis, the second group will be assigned
      general anesthesia with Sevoflurane and a continuous infusion of lidocaine 1%. The thrid
      group will be assigned total intravenous anesthesia using propofol for maintenance of
      hypnosis and the fourth group will be assigned to total intravenous anesthesia with propofol
      and a continuous infusion of lidocaine 1%. Before the surgical procedure a blood sample will
      be drawn from each patient for the measurement of serum vascular endothelial growth factor A
      ( VEGF-A). All the patients will receive pre-medication a night before the intervention with
      low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and midazolam 5mg the morning of the intervention. For
      the first two groups the anesthetic induction will be conducted using propofol 1,5-2 mg/kg,
      fentanyl 1-3 microg/kg, atracurium 0,5 mg/kg.For the maintenance of anesthesia Sevoflurane
      will be used at a alveolar concentration of 1-1,5 MAC, as to maintain a BIS between 45-55.
      Intraoperative anesthesia will be ensured by using fentanyl boluses of 100 microg and the
      muscular relaxation needed for mechanical ventilation will be maintained using boluses of 10
      mg of atracurium. At the end of the surgery the neuromuscular blockade will be antagonized
      with neostigmine 0.05 mg/kg and atropine 0.2 mg/kg. For the second group at the induction of
      anesthesia the patient will be administered a bolus of lidocaine 1% of 1.5 mg/kg and a
      continuous infusion of lidocaine 1% 2 mg/kg/h will be associated throughout the procedure and
      1mg/kg/h,24 h postoperative. The postoperative analgesia will be assured by administering
      acetaminophen 1 g each 8 h and tramadol 25-50 mg each 4-6 h as needed. For the third and
      fourth groups the induction of aneshesia will be made using propofol administered by target
      controlled infusion (TCI) technique with a target plasma concentration of 4 microg/ml .
      Throughout the intervention the plasma concentration of propofol will be adjusted with
      increments of 0.2 microg/ml as to maintain a BIS between 45-55. To attenuate the response to
      laryngoscopy the patient will receive a bolus of fentanyl 1-3 microg/ml. During the
      intervention fentanyl will be administered in boluses of 100microg as needed. Muscular
      relaxation necessary for intubation will be provided using atracurium 0.5 mg/kg at induction
      of anesthesia and 10 mg boluses during the surgery as needed. At the end of the surgery the
      neuromuscular blockade will be antagonized with neostigmine 0.05 mg/kg and atropine 0.2
      mg/kg. For the fourth group at the induction of anesthesia the patient will be administered a
      bolus of lidocaine 1% of 1.5 mg/kg and a continuous infusion of lidocaine 1% 2 mg/kg/h will
      be associated throughout the procedure and 1mg/kg/h, 24 h postoperative.Postoperative
      analgesia will be assured by administering acetaminophen 1 g each 8 h and tramadol 25-50 mg
      each 4-6 h as needed. Throughout the surgical intervention the patients will be monitored
      accordingly to the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) standards
      (electrocardiogram-ECG, heart rate- HR, peripheral capillary oxygen saturation- SpO2,
      non-invasive blood pressure- NIBP, capnography and for the 3rd and 4th groups the bispectral
      index - BIS will be monitored). In the postoperative period non-invasive blood pressure
      -NIBP, heart rate- HR,peripheral capillary oxygen saturation SpO2, intensity of pain at 24
      and 48 h will be monitored.Vascular endothelial growth factor- VEGF levels will be monitored
      at 24 h postoperative using ELISA technique. Vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1
      and 2 (VEGFR1 and VEGFR2) will be determined using immunohistochemical staining.
    
  