
    
      The primary goal of this phase I/II, single center, open label study is to obtain additional
      safety and immunogenicity data on two 90 µg doses of H5N1. It is anticipated that this dose
      level will result in an acceptable proportion of subjects achieving a potentially protective
      postvaccination antibody titer combined with an acceptable safety profile. The purpose of the
      current study is to induce maximal anti-H5N1 titers as quickly as possible in order to
      protect at-risk personnel manufacturing a commercial-scale H5N1 vaccine under contract to the
      United States government. The study will be performed under the direction of investigators at
      the University of Maryland School of Medicine's Center for Vaccine Development. Volunteers
      will be enrolled, vaccinated, and followed at Sanofi Pasteur, in Swiftwater, PA. Up to 300
      healthy vaccine production worker volunteers, aged 18 years and older, will receive 90 mcg of
      the influenza A/H5N1 vaccine by intramuscular injection. Volunteers will receive 2 doses of
      the vaccine separated by approximately 28 days. Serum HAI and neutralizing antibody titers
      will be assessed approximately 1 month after the second vaccine dose. Volunteers will be
      observed in the clinic for at least 15 minutes after each vaccination, and they will maintain
      a memory aid to record oral temperature and systemic and local adverse events (AEs) for seven
      days after each immunization. Volunteers will return to the clinic on Day 7 for AE and
      concomitant medication assessment, a targeted physical examination (if indicated), and review
      of the memory aid. Serum for immunogenicity evaluations will be obtained prior to the first
      vaccination (Day 0) and on Day 56. Primary study objectives are to: (1) determine the safety
      of subvirion inactivated A/H5N1 vaccine in healthy vaccine production workers adults; and (2)
      determine the immunogenicity of subvirion inactivated H5N1 vaccine in healthy adults
      approximately 1 month following receipt of two 90 mcg doses of vaccine. Primary study
      endpoints are: (1) adverse event (AE) or serious adverse event information (solicited
      in-clinic and via memory aids, concomitant medications, and periodic targeted physical
      assessment); (2) geometric mean titer (GMT) and frequency of 4-fold or greater increases in
      neutralizing antibody titers at two months after receipt of the first dose of vaccine; (3)
      GMT and frequency of 4-fold or greater increases in serum hemagglutination inhibition (HAI)
      antibody titers at 2 months after receipt of the first dose of vaccine; and (4) proportion of
      subjects achieving a serum neutralizing antibody titer of 1:40 against the influenza A/H5N1
      virus 28 days after receipt of the second dose of vaccine (approximately Day 56).
    
  