
    
      Growth failure and GH/IgF-1 deficiency has been described in patients diagnosed with Ataxia
      telangiectasia (AT) [Boder et al.,1958]. This condition is a fatal inherited disease caused
      by a mutation of the ATM gene on chromosome 11 leading to chromosomal instability,
      immunodeficiency, cancer susceptibility and and endocrinological abnormalities. In this
      regard, several groups demonstrated a cross-linking of ATM with growth factor pathways.
      Participation of the ATM protein in insulin signaling through phosphorylation of
      eIF-4E-binding protein 1 has been postulated [Yang et al.,2000]. Peretz et al.[2001]
      described that expression of the insulin-like growth factor-I receptor is (IGF-I R) ATM
      dependent in a pathway regulating radiation response. In addition, Shahrabani-Gargir et
      al.[2004] found that the ATM gene controls IGF-I R gene expression in a DNA damage response
      pathway. Suzuki et al.[2004] described that IGF-I phosphorylates AMPK-alpha, a key regulator
      of cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis, acts in an ATM-dependent manner . We have recently
      demonstrated reduced levels of circulating Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) and its main
      binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3) in AT patients accompanied with decreased body mass index
      [Schubert et al.,2005]. Furthermore, apart from regulating somatic growth and metabolism,
      evidence suggests that the GH/IGF-I axis is involved in the regulation of brain growth,
      development and myelination. Moreover, GH and particularly IGF-1 have potential
      neuroprotective effects in different in vitro and in vivo experimental models. In addition we
      have recently shown that extracerebellar MRI-lesions in AT go along with deficiency of the
      GH/IGF-1 Axis, markedly reduced body weight, high ataxia scores and advanced age [Kieslich et
      al.,2009]. Supplementation with these growth hormones might overcome the progressive
      dystrophy and may have clinical benefits against the progression of neurodegeneration and
      immunodeficiency.

      We found that supplementation with GH significantly increased longevity of Atm-deficient mice
      and improve T-cell immunity and locomotor behaviour [Schubert et al.,2009]. Surprisingly
      IGF-1 was not generated in the ATM deficient mice, indicating that the GH/IGF-1 signalling is
      impaired. Taken this into account a accurate diagnostic approach of the GH/IGF-1 axis is
      mandatory including a IGF-1 generation test before long term treatment either with GH or
      IGF-1 is justified in humans.
    
  