
    
      Background: Troop deployment for OIF/OEF has been extensive for the past five years Among
      returning veterans, up to 18.5% are diagnosed with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). In
      addition to its positive symptoms (intrusive thoughts, reexperiencing, hyperarousal, and
      avoidance), PTSD is associated with social maladjustment, poor quality of life, medical
      comorbidity, and general symptom severity. Social and emotional problems include social
      avoidance, guilt, anger, and unemployment, impulsive or violent behavior, and family discord.
      A majority (> 90%) of veterans seeking treatment for PTSD also seek disability compensation
      for debilitating occupational impairment and there are virtually no administrative or
      research data to indicate veterans are recovering from PTSD. Exposure therapy, which operates
      on long-established and fundamental principles of behavior therapy, offers hope for acute
      symptom alleviation, but may not address severe social impairment.

      Objectives/Hypothesis: To test the hypothesis that Trauma Management Therapy (TMT), which
      combines individual virtual reality (VR) assisted exposure therapy with group social and
      emotional rehabilitation skills training (will be superior to a treatment consisting of the
      same VR- exposure and group psychoeducational group therapy. Outcome will be assessed using
      relevant clinical, process, and cost outcomes. Additionally, we will assess the potential of
      olfactory stimulation as a trigger for PTSD symptoms of intrusive thoughts and
      re-experiencing. Therefore, this proposal will integrate clinical and neurobiological
      assessment studies designed to understand the role of these factors in the etiology,
      maintenance, and treatment of PTSD.

      Specific Aims: There are three specific aims: First, we will evaluate the efficacy of Trauma
      Management Therapy (TMT) for the treatment of PTSD in OIF/OEF and determine if TMT (which
      combines exposure and social/emotional rehabilitation) improves social/emotional functioning
      compared to our comparison group (exposure plus psychoeducational group therapy). Second, we
      will explore olfactory activation patterns that may aid understanding of brain mechanisms in
      PTSD. Third, we will determine TMT's cost efficacy using treatment expenses and resource
      utilization measures.

      Study Design: In a prospective randomized clinical trial we will test the superiority of TMT
      for OIF/OEF veterans with PTSD compared to exposure therapy plus psychoeducational group
      therapy. TMT combines VR assisted exposure therapy (VR-EXP) with social and emotional
      rehabilitation (SER). In addition to clinical, process, and cost outcomes relevant to PTSD
      for this population, we will include fMRI assessment of the central olfactory system in order
      to document its hypothesized role in fear acquisition and maintenance. Relevant outcome
      domains will be reassessed at mid-treatment, post-treatment, and 3- and 6-month follow-up.
    
  