
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the experimental arm (increased doses of survivorship care planning [SCP])
      has more patients who saw a primary care provider and had blood glucose and cholesterol
      checked in year 2 (13-24 months) after finishing radiation therapy (RT) as compared to the
      control arm.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if patients who receive increased doses of SCP have lower cardiovascular
      disease (CVD) risk score at 2 years as compared to patients who receive a one-time SCP.

      II. To determine if patients who receive increased doses of SCP have improved patient
      reported coordination and satisfaction with care with respect to their primary care provider
      (PCP) or cardiologist as compared to patients who receive a one-time SCP and whether health
      literacy modifies the effect of SCP use on patient-reported coordination of care and
      satisfaction with care with respect to their PCP or cardiologist.

      III. To determine the number of patients eligible, but without a PCP/cardiologist.

      IV. To describe the current practice related to SCP delivery and prostate cancer survivor
      monitoring in participating National Cancer Institute (NCI) Community Oncology Research
      Program (NCORP) practices.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if patients who receive increased doses of SCP have improved patient reported
      coordination and satisfaction with care with respect to their cancer specialist as compared
      to patients who receive a one-time SCP and whether health literacy modifies the effect of SCP
      use on patient-reported coordination of care and satisfaction with care with respect to their
      cancer specialist.

      OUTLINE: Practices are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A (STANDARD): Practices review a SCP with patients and send it to the PCP during the last
      week of RT.

      ARM B (ENHANCED SCP): Practices review a treatment plan with patient and send it to the PCP
      at the beginning of RT. Practices also review a SCP as arm A.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  