
    
      Background

      Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a common cause of chronic ill-health among young people
      in the UK (prevalence estimated at 1 in 200 for adults and 1 in 2000 for children, with a
      peak incidence in the second and third decades of life)1-2. The major forms of IBD, namely
      Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), all too often confer a lifetime of
      unpleasant, intrusive and potentially dangerous burden of intestinal inflammation on
      individuals. Typical symptoms include abdominal pain, diarrhoea, weight loss, and lethargy.
      These adversely affect schooling, work attainment, psycho-social well-being and sexual health
      3-4. IBD costs the NHS £720 million per year, based on an average per patient cost of £3,000;
      of which half of the costs are directly attributable to relapsing patients 5. Healthcare
      expenditure focus in IBD is shifting from hospitalisation and surgery to medical therapy 6.
      However, existing treatment modalities remain limited by lack of efficacy, unacceptable
      toxicity and poor patient acceptability. Major surgical intervention is frequently required
      (>50% in CD; ~20% in UC), with a high risk of disease recurrence, and there is an increased
      risk of cancer (in CD), with the highest incidence of colon cancer observed in those patients
      with poorly controlled disease 7. Nevertheless, there is a wide spectrum of disease severity.
      Around one third of patients will follow a relatively quiescent disease course 8.
      Understanding who gets severe, progressive disease and why, is an urgent research priority.
      Accurate prediction of these patients will enable precise, tailored intervention early in the
      disease course. This should reduce the substantial morbidity and costs associated with IBD.

      Genetics, Environment and the Microbiota and Disease Natural History.

      Genetic factors play a modest role in defining disease location and extent but not disease
      behaviour 9-12. There is very limited evidence about the gut microbiota in disease
      progression, although emerging data support a potential role in treatment response. We cannot
      alter our genes and, despite intense interest in modifying the gut microbiota (e.g. faecal
      transplantation) there is only limited clinically data to support this 13-14. However, it is
      within our control to change what we eat and to therefore potentially modify our gut
      microbiota to a more favourable phenotype. Patients suspect this should be part of the
      answer: one of the commonest questions in the clinic is, "What should I eat?" Established
      clinical strategies include the use of exclusive enteral nutrition (EEN) to induce remission
      in CD, and a low fibre diet to alleviate obstructive symptoms in stricturing disease 15.
      However, beyond this there is presently very limited data to support any on-going specific
      dietary strategy for the vast majority of patients with IBD 16. Multiple lines of emerging
      evidence in animal models suggest that diets high in natural plant fibres favour an
      anti-inflammatory gut milieu, via alterations in the gut microbiota, measurable by
      short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) concentrations in stool 17. Dietary fibre may protect against
      the development of IBD, through several mechanisms, through its conversion to acetate,
      butyrate and propionate (the major SCFAs). Firstly, butyrate is the main energy source for
      colonocytes and is associated with the maintenance of the intestinal epithelium 18. Secondly,
      SCFAs have immunomodulatory roles including inhibition of the transcription factor NF-KB and
      are the only known ligands of G-protein-coupled receptor, GPR43, which limits the
      inflammatory response 19-20. Interestingly, the fermentation of fibre is dependent on gut
      microbiota, such as Bacteroidetes species, which are deficient in patients with IBD 21. The
      individual source of fibre may also be important. In the US Nurses' Health Study of 170,776
      women with 3,317,425 person-years of follow-up over 26 years there were 269 incident cases of
      Crohn's disease diagnosed and 338 cases of ulcerative colitis 22. For the latter illness,
      there were no associations with either total dietary fibre intake or fibre from any specific
      food groups. However, for Crohn's disease the highest quintile of energy-adjusted cumulative
      average dietary fibre intake, namely 24.3 g/day, was associated with a 41% reduction in risk
      compared with the lowest quintile (hazard ratio (HR) =0.59, 95% confidence interval
      (CI=)=0.39-0.90). This reduction was associated with the fibre content from fruits (highest
      vs. lowest quintile HR=0.57, 95% CI=0.38-0.85) with no associations detected between fibre
      from vegetables, cereals or legumes.

      These are important issues; the lack of data means patients may resort to untested and
      potentially harmful 'fad' diets 16. More pressingly, this is potentially a novel therapeutic
      approach to both induce and maintain prolonged remission. Interventional studies in cases and
      controls will be necessary, but first further data are required from observational
      epidemiological studies to inform which 'interventions' are indicated and/or justified.

      Rationale for the Study

      It is presently very hard to predict which IBD patients in remission will flare and when.
      Scant data are available to advise patients on any substantial lifestyle measure they can
      adopt to help prevent or retard future disease from flaring. Potential areas of direct
      relevance to patients are aspects of habitual diet, regular exercise, sleep and stress,
      including that from major life events. It is hypothesised that there are multiple factors in
      habitual diet that are associated with increased risk of disease flare, including reduced
      levels of dietary fibre, high levels of n-6 PUFAs, low levels of n-3 PUFAs and dietary
      emulsifiers. High levels of regular physical activity are also hypothesised to reduce the
      rates of disease flare. These dietary aspects and facets in concert with other lifestyle
      factors may contribute in part to the intestinal dysbiosis associated with flare, where the
      investigators anticipate seeing a reduction in microbial diversity.

      The major aim of this study is to identify the environmental and gut microbiota factors that
      predispose to disease flare and influence disease outcomes in IBD. Further, the investigators
      aim to build intelligent predictive models of disease behaviour and prognosis combining
      phenotypic, environmental and biological data inputs of direct clinical utility.
    
  