
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Wound infection is a very common complication in patients who undergo femoral artery
      exposure. It can lead to prolonged hospital stays, increased healthcare expenditures,
      admission times, graft failure, and limb loss and is recognized as a significant cause of
      postoperative morbidity and mortality.

      Negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) has been developped as a method for reducing the risk
      of wound complications and is the wound dressing of choice in many vascular procedures during
      the arterial exposure.

      The idea of NPWT is a therapeutic technique wherein subatmospheric pressure is applied to a
      wound using a sealed wound dressing that is connected to a vacuum pump, which can be
      continuously or intermittently applied.

      The mechanism of NPWT, is that it facilitates wound healing by decreasing the bacterial
      burden; promoting granulation tissue formation, capillary blood flow, endothelial
      proliferation, and angiogenesis; and restoring the integrity of the capillary basement
      membrane.

      The clinical efficacy of NPWT for closed incisions has been extensively studied in surgical
      disciplines such as orthopedics, cardiothoracic, and plastic surgery, and its use in
      promoting wound healing and improving patient outcomes has been validated. The use of
      vacuum-assisted closure dressings (PICO system) is currently no evidenced that supports the
      use PICO system of for lower limb femoral incisions. Therefore, we aimed to evaluate the
      outcomes of PICO system in preventing wound complication in patients with femoral artery
      exposure.

      Aim of the work Evaluate negative pressure wound closure therapy by PICO system in Prevention
      of complications of femoral artery exposure.

      Outcome

      Primary outcomes:

      Infection Hematoma seroma

      Secondary outcomes:

      Wound Dehiscence. Patients and methods Study location: The study will be conducted at the
      department of vascular surgery in Mansoura university hospitals Type of study: Randomized
      controlled Prospective study Study duration: 2 years: 2019-2021 Sample size: 250 patients
      n=(Z^2 p(1-p))/d^2 Where: Z= 1.96 at 95% confidence level, P= expected prevalence, d=
      precision (margin of error)

      Study population: The study will be conducted in all patients suspected to femoral artery
      exposure whatever the type of surgery Inclusion criteria: all patients suspected to femoral
      artery exposure whatever the type of surgery Exclusion criteria who can't give consent
      (unconscious)? Those with mental or behavioral disorders will be excluded. Consent: Patients
      after signing informed consent that possible complication from the procedure ought to happen
      and what are the alternatives.

      Data collection: The demographics, Symptoms and preoperative clinical data will be collected
      History Data: included patient's demographics, underlying medical conditions, any previous
      associated morbidity.

      Examination: Arterial assessments. Laboratory: Blood picture, Blood sugar level, Kidney
      functions, Liver functions and Coagulation profile.

      Imaging: Duplex US and CTA Method of Randomization: Block randomization: Two elements A for
      Application of the device, B for conventional dressing A A B B A B A B A B B A B B A A B A B
      A B A A B Technique After closure of Femoral wound the PICO system is applied for up to 5-7
      days. PICO® is a disposable, single-use pump without a canister that generates an effective,
      non-adjustable, negative pressure of -80 mmHg and that can be used for up to 7 days.(-1113)
      It incorporates leak detection and low battery indicators and is connected to a 4-layer
      absorbent dressing that primarily removes wound exudates through evaporative loss. The
      mechanism of action has been postulated to occur because of the combined effects of a
      reduction in the frequency of dressing changes, a reduction in stress concentration in the
      tissue surrounding the incision, and an enhancement in the appositional strength of the
      incision line, thus reducing dead space and minimizing the risk of wound contamination.(14)
      PICO® has also been demonstrated to enhance lymphatic clearance and decrease the risk of
      hematomas or seromas(15) Follow up Every patient will be followed every week till first
      month, then every 3 months till 1 years.

      Hemodynamic improvement was assessed by ankle brachial pressure index (ABI), performed before
      and after the procedure and every 3 months.

      Evaluation made to determine wound complications (Infection, Hematoma, seroma and wound
      dehiscence)

      Statistical analysis The data will be analyzed using Statistical Package for the Social
      Sciences. The numerical outcomes e.g. age is calculated as mean. Gender will be recorded as
      frequency and percentage. Chi Square test is applied to assess the association of various
      parameters. The results will be considered statistically significant if the p-value is found
      to be less than or equal to 0.05.
    
  