
    
      The trial will evaluate whether reducing treatment for low risk HB patients maintains their
      excellent event free survival (EFS) and decreases acute and long-term toxicity.
      Intensification of therapy with the use of novel agents will be evaluated in the high risk
      group. The trial will also compare three different regimens in intermediate risk HB.

      Patients with HCC will be divided into groups based on whether the tumour is resectable or
      unresectable and/or metastatic.

      Evaluation of the biology of HB and HCC, using the identification/validation of novel and
      already reported prognostic biomarkers as well as toxicity biomarkers is a key strand of this
      trial, so patients in all risk groups can be registered. The trial is also designed to
      optimise the collection of clinically annotated biologic specimens and establish the world's
      largest repository of blood and tissue samples from paediatric patients with HB and HCC.

      The trial includes 4 randomised comparisons addressing therapeutic questions. For low risk HB
      patients, outcome with a total of 4 cycles of treatment is not inferior to those receiving a
      total of 6 cycles of treatment.

      For intermediate risk patients, 3 regimens will be compared for outcome and toxicity.

      For high risk patients, 2 post induction regimens will be compared for outcome. For resected
      HCC patients, the addition of GEMOX to PLADO regimen will be compared.

      In addition the following will be assessed:

        -  To validate a new global risk stratification, defined by Children's Hepatic Tumours
           International Collaboration (CHIC)

        -  To evaluate clinically relevant factors, including the following:

             -  Provide a comprehensive and highly-validated panel of diagnostic and prognostic
                biomarkers

             -  Determine if paediatric HCC is a biologically different entity to adult HCC

             -  Develop genomic and/or biomarker analysis to predict children who may have an
                increased risk of developing toxicity with chemotherapy.

        -  To establish a collection of clinically and pathologically-annotated biological samples.

        -  Evaluate a surgical planning tool for an impact on decision making processes in
           POST-TEXT III and IV HB
    
  