
    
      Infertility is a common complication of endometriosis; while IVF successfully treats
      endometriosis-associated infertility, pregnancy rates are diminished compared to other
      etiologies of infertility. The study's long- term objectives are to better identify and treat
      endometriosis related infertility. The investigators' central hypothesis is that in infertile
      woman with endometriosis undergoing in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET), live
      birth rates will improve in those pretreated with GnRH antagonist compared to placebo. The
      use of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist prior to IVF has been suggested to
      improve success, however studies have been small and rarely reported live birth rates.
      Further, use of this approach is limited by the long treatment time required. Recent approval
      of an oral GnRH antagonist for endometriosis provides a novel option for women with
      endometriosis who are undergoing IVF. This agent avoids parenteral administration and the
      prolonged delay in initiation of action as was seen with GnRH agonists. There have been no
      studies on the efficacy of GnRH antagonists for the treatment of endometriosis-related
      infertility. The investigators propose a randomized clinical trial of oral GnRH antagonist
      pre-treatment for women with endometriosis who are undergoing IVF, with a primary outcome of
      live birth rate. The investigators have also recently demonstrated aberrant microRNAs in the
      circulation of women with endometriosis, a panel of which investigators have subsequently
      validated as a biomarker with high sensitivity and specificity for the detection of active
      disease. It is secondarily proposed that disease biomarkers will identify women who will
      benefit from GnRH antagonist pre-treatment, allowing a precision medicine approach to
      endometriosis-related infertility. The proposed study is significant due to the common
      occurrence of both infertility and endometrioses as well as the lack of precision in both
      diagnosis and therapy. The investigators use an innovative approach to identify endometriosis
      as well as a novel intervention designed to improve the prognosis of women with endometriosis
      undergoing IVF.
    
  