
    
      Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis (UC) are both chronic idiopathic inflammatory
      conditions of the gastrointestinal tract that result in a considerably decreased quality of
      life. Long term experience with standard therapies for inflammatory bowel disease patients up
      to the late 1990s demonstrated diverse limitations. Corticosteroids have good short term
      efficacy, but are not suitable for maintaining remission, while treatment with
      immunomodulators are associated with an important risk of side effects. The introduction of
      monoclonal antibody to tumor necrosis factor a (TNFa) therapy has offered new treatment
      options originally in patients with Crohn's disease and more recently in those with
      ulcerative colitis as well. Several clinicians based on the results of clinical trials, now
      advocate the early use of intensive therapy (immunosuppressants and/or biologics) to maintain
      a good quality of life from the first flare up and prevent any irreversible consequence of
      the disease.

      Meanwhile, the assessment of tissue healing has become of paramount importance in patients
      treated for inflammatory bowel disease. Simple clinical assessment does not reflect real
      activity and inflammation at the tissue level. Moreover, cumulative tissue damage generated
      by the persisting tissue inflammation leads to non reversible anatomic and functional
      consequences. Therefore, in order to evaluate both the natural history and impact of
      treatment in inflammatory bowel disease standardized assessment of tissue healing must be
      available. Endoscopic and histological healing has been shown to be associated with a reduced
      risk of recurrence of the disease, in addition to reduced hospitalization and surgery.
      Furthermore, in patients treated with costly and highly immunosuppressive TNF-a antagonists,
      achievement of an objective treatment response is essential. Consequently, endoscopic healing
      should be regarded as the primary approach in the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.

      Although several clinical trials have identified, at diagnosis, factors predictive of a
      subsequent disabling course of the disease, therefore identifying patients that would mostly
      benefit from early aggressive therapy with anti-TNF, factors predictive of mucosal healing
      have not yet been identified.

      Endoscopy (ileocolonoscopy) will be performed at baseline (i.e. before anti-TNF
      administration) for all patients included in the study. The outcome of anti-TNF therapy will
      be evaluated by two follow up endoscopies, at 3 months and at 12 months after the start of
      therapy. At the same time periods the disease activity will be documented as well.

      For Crohn's disease patients, the simplified endoscopic severity index will be recorded
      (SES-CD), table 1. According to current guidelines, mucosal healing will be defined as an
      SES-CD of lower than 5 points. For all CD patients, the CD activity index (CDAI) will also be
      determined.

      For ulcerative colitis, the Mayo endoscopic subscore will be recorded (0: normal mucosa, 1:
      faded vascular pattern, mild friability, 2: loss of vascular pattern, erosions, friability,
      3: ulcers of spontaneous bleeding). According to recent recommendation of the Food and Drug
      Administration, mucosal healing will be defined as a Mayo score of 0. Disease activity will
      be graded according to the Clinical Activity Index (Lichtiger's CAI), with a highest possible
      score of 21. For all ulcerative colitis patients the Montreal classification of the extent of
      the disease will also be assessed.

      Laboratory data on blood hemoglobin, hematocrit, white blood cells, plasma or serum albumin
      and C-reactive protein (CRP) will be collected for all patients at baseline. Use of
      concurrent medication will be recorded, especially the dosage data of corticosteroids and
      those of other immunosuppressant medications.

      Infliximab will be administered at 5 mg/Kg body weight at 0, 2 and 6 weeks and thereafter,
      every 2 months for the follow up period of 1 year. Adalimumab will be administered at a dose
      of 160mg at week 0, 80 mg at week 2, 40 mg at week 4 and 40 mg every other week thereafter.

      The primary goal of this study is to identify predictors, at baseline, for mucosal healing in
      patients with ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease that will receive infliximab or
      adalimumab for control of their disease. For this reason at the end of the follow up period
      (12 months), the following variables will be tested by univariate analysis:

      Patient characteristics at baseline

        -  age

        -  gender

        -  age at onset of disease

        -  duration of disease

        -  concomitant corticosteroid use at start of anti_TNF therapy

        -  concomitant immunosuppressant use at start of anti-TNF therapy

        -  Blood hemoglobin

        -  Hematocrit

        -  White blood cells

        -  Serum albumin

        -  C-reactive protein

        -  Fecal calprotectin level

        -  CDAI at baseline for CD patients

        -  Lichtiger score at baseline for UC patients

        -  Previous major abdominal surgery

        -  Tobacco use

        -  Indication for anti-TNF therapy in CD patients (luminal CD, luminal and fistulizing CD,
           luminal CD with extra-intestinal manifestations)

        -  Location of disease for CD patients (ileitis, colitis, ileocolitis)

        -  Location of disease for UC patients (Montreal classification)

        -  Prior appendectomy

      In addition, immunological markers with predictive value for mucosal healing at 1 year will
      be sought at the intestinal as well the systemic level. Investigators will test these markers
      both at baseline but also at week 12. In this way, investigators will try to identify
      pre-treatment predictors of mucosal healing but also early predictors of response to anti-TNF
      agents.

      For the determination of mucosal markers, at endoscopy investigators will collect 2 biopsy
      samples in RNA-later. These samples will be stored at -80 C, and used for the quantitative
      messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression of various immunological markers, mainly
      cytokines and their receptors, adhesion molecules and other inflammatory proteins by
      real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). A third biopsy specimen will be immersed in
      formalin and maintained for protein expression studies by immunohistochemistry. Biopsies will
      be collected both from overtly inflamed and normal-looking mucosa and from various locations
      when feasible.

      For the determination of systemic markers, blood will be collected from the patients and
      serum separated and stored at -26 C. These samples will be used for the measurement of
      soluble inflammatory markers that may demonstrate predictive value for the achievement of
      mucosal healing. Inflammatory markers may be measured by Multiplex assays of by individual
      ELISAs.
    
  