
    
      A Phase II, Open-Label Safety and Efficacy Study of an Autologous Neo-Kidney Augment (NKA) in
      Patients With Type 2 Diabetes and Chronic Kidney Disease (RMTX-CL001). This is a
      Multi-center, prospective, open-label, single-group study. NKA is made from expanded
      autologous selected renal cells (SRC) obtained from the patient's kidney biopsy. To
      manufacture NKA, kidney biopsy tissue from each enrolled patient will be sent to RegenMedTX,
      LLC, where renal cells will be expanded and SRC selected. SRC will be formulated in a gelatin
      based hydrogel at a concentration of 100 x 106 cells/mL, packaged in a 10 mL syringe, and
      shipped to the clinical site for use. All enrolled subjects will be treated with up to two
      injections of NKA at least 6 months apart. Up to 30 subjects undergoing NKA injection will be
      enrolled into the study. Patients who have received a single injection of NKA under previous
      research protocols may enroll in this clinical trial to receive a single additional
      implantation. Patients who have never received an NKA injection may enroll in this clinical
      trial for up to a total of two (2) NKA injections, temporally spaced at least 6 months apart.
      All biopsies are to be taken from a single kidney, and all NKA injections are to be given
      into the kidney that was biopsied.

      Patients who complete screening procedures satisfying all I/E criteria will be enrolled into
      the study immediately prior to the injection. Patients who do not meet all criteria before
      injection will be considered screen failures. Once a patient has been injected, the patient
      will have completed treatment and every effort should be made to ensure the patient completes
      all follow-up visits. Injection dates for the first 3 patients receiving their second NKA
      injection will be staggered by a minimum of 3 week intervals to allow for assessment of acute
      adverse events and other safety parameters by a Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB). At the
      completion of the follow-up visits, patients will continue in a long-term observational
      follow-up period. Patients will be followed for a total of 36 months following the last NKA
      injection under this protocol, whether the first or second injection.
    
  