
    
      Background: It is common for people with multiple sclerosis (MS) to have depression and
      chronic pain. Individuals with MS who have depression and/or pain often use more health care
      services, benefit less from treatment, and have poorer quality of life. While evidence-based
      medical and behavioral treatments for depression and pain exist, they are often not offered
      or accessible to persons with MS. As a result, chronic pain and depression are under-treated
      in people with MS. One way to better treat these problems is through a "Collaborative Care"
      approach. In this approach a care manager (nurse supervised by expert physicians,
      psychiatrists, and psychologists) helps coordinate and provide high-quality, evidence-based
      treatments for depression and pain. The care manager also makes sure that the care is focused
      on the patient's goals and preferences. The care is provided by phone or in person based on
      the patient's preference. Although this approach has been used successfully with patients
      with many different conditions, it has never been tested in patients with MS, pain, and
      depression.

      Objectives: The investigators' objectives are to (1) test the benefits of the
      patient-centered collaborative care treatment approach for persons with MS who also have
      depression and/or pain; and also (2) test whether this approach improves quality of life,
      patient satisfaction, adherence to other treatments, and quality of care in the MS care
      system.

      Methods: Participants were 195 outpatients with MS from a specialty MS Center who had
      depression and/or chronic pain. Half of the participants received the treatment that was
      typical for patients in the MS Center ("usual care"), while the other half received treatment
      using the Collaborative Care approach. Participants in the collaborative care group met
      regularly in-person or by telephone with a social worker who coordinated their depression and
      pain treatments and provided strategies for better managing their symptoms. The treatment
      phase of the study lasted for 16 weeks and began within 2 weeks of study enrollment.
      Participants completed telephone interviews within 2 weeks of enrollment, approximately 4
      months after study enrollment, and approximately 10 months after study enrollment. During
      these interviews participants were asked questions about their pain, depression, satisfaction
      with care, and quality of life to compare the two care approaches.

      Projected Patient Outcomes: The investigators anticipate that those in the collaborative care
      approach will have better controlled pain and depression and better quality of life,
      satisfaction with care, adherence to other MS treatments, and quality of care compared to
      those in the usual care approach. The results of this study may help patients, clinicians,
      healthcare system leaders, and policy makers make decisions about the benefits of this type
      of coordinated care approach for depression and pain in MS care.
    
  