
    
      Background:

      Management of lung cancer varies according to the clinical and pathological stage. For stage
      I lung adenocarcinoma, radical surgery is the preferred initial treatment and adjuvant
      chemotherapy is usually not recommended due to a fine prognosis and relatively low
      post-operative recurrence rate. Still, a number of stage pI patients will suffer a relapse
      after surgery, among which are highly associated with solid subtype, micropapillary subtype,
      vascular involvement, pleural involvement and low differentiation. Recently, some
      retrospective researches have shown a significant survival benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy
      for such stage pI high-recurrent-risk patients, but there lacks evidence from prospective
      randomized clinical trails.

      Objective:

        1. Major: to compare disease free survival and over all survival of fully resected stage pI
           high-recurrent-risk patients from both arms (adjuvant chemotherapy vs. observation)

        2. To assess the safety and efficacy of chemotherapy regimen cisplatin plus pemetrexed to
           fully resected stage pI high-recurrent-risk patients.

        3. To collect clinical pathological characteristics and prognosis information of stage pI
           patients with solid subtype, micropapillary subtype, vascular involvement, pleural
           involvement and low differentiation.

        4. To determine the association among age, gender, smoking history, pathological subtypes,
           histological differentiation, pleural involvement, vascular involvement and driving
           mutations.

      Randomization:

      Each of the patients enrolled will be recorded in the computer system. Blank randomization
      will be done using a digital randomization software, at least 1 week before the first time of
      chemotherapy or observation.

      Prechemotherapy assessment: For all the patients enrolled, the postoperative physical or
      laboratory examination should be equally qualified no matter which group they will be in. For
      Group Adjuvant Chemotherapy patients, they will receive laboratory examinations before
      chemotherapy to test blood cells and liver function in consideration of safety as routine.

      Follow up:

      Patients will be followed up per 4 months for the first three years and each six months for
      the forth to fifth years during the research. Lung multi-detector row computed tomography
      (MDCT) and abdominal ultrasonography tests will be done twice a year; bone SPECT scan and
      enhanced brain MRI scan will be conducted per year routinely. Patients will be suggested to
      continue the annual follow-up after the research.

      Main research variables:

      Primary end point: Disease free survival in the two arms

      Secondary endpoints:

        1. Overall survival

        2. Recurrence pattern: Locoregional recurrence, metastatic recurrence, or both

        3. Quality of life: assessed with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group- quality of life
           questionnaire(EORTC QLQ-C30/- LC13) scale.
    
  