
    
      Through a research-based intervention program, the overall goal of this project is to promote
      immigrant health by improving, evolving and adapting a preventive healthcare in the
      municipality. There is social inequalities and geographical differences in health in Norway.
      Immigrant women struggle more with overweight and obesity than ethnic Norwegian women, and
      immigrant women have an increased susceptibility for diabetes and other lifestyle related
      diseases. In this study, we will measure the effect of a culturally tailored intervention
      package (physical activity and nutrition) on weight reduction, and cardio-metabolic outcomes,
      among overweight and obese Somali women. The study will include women (aged 20-67 years)
      recruited from two boroughs in Oslo with the highest population of Somali origin.

      The intervention program composes a 12-month controlled trial. The core component of the
      program is to counsel and empower women through individual counseling and group education
      sessions with emphasis on physical activities and the creation of an enabling environment.
      The goal is that the participants become more physically active, less sedentary, eat healthy,
      and maintain these changes long term.

      All main analysis will be done at data collected at the one-year follow up. In addition, the
      control group in intervention phase will after the completion of the one-year follow up be
      given the same intervention as the intervention group.

      User involvement is included in the development, planning, implementation and dissemination
      of the program results. The program will produce evidence, relevant for policy-makers and
      stakeholders locally and globally, of how to improve health and nutrition strategies towards
      immigrants and minorities. The program represents a collaboration between Oslo municipality,
      the University of Oslo and the Norwegian School of Sport Sciences.
    
  