
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Liposomal doxorubicin is designed to cause cancer cells to be fragile, which may cause the
      cancer cells to die.

      Bevacizumab is designed to block or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking the
      growth of blood vessels that supply nutrients for tumor growth.

      Temsirolimus is designed to block the growth of cancer cells, which may eventually cause the
      cancer cells to die.

      Everolimus is designed to block a protein called mammilian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inside
      the cancer cells, which is involved in cancer cell growth.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a fixed
      dose level of a combination of liposomal doxorubicin, bevacizumab, and either temsirolimus or
      everolimus, based on when you joined this study. Up to 9 dose levels of the study drug
      combination will be tested. Three (3) participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The
      first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will receive a
      higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will
      continue until the highest tolerable dose of the study drug combination is found.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Liposomal doxorubicin, bevacizumab, and either temsirolimus or everolimus will be given in
      "cycles." Cycles will be about 21 days (or longer, depending on any side effects you may
      experience).

      Liposomal doxorubicin is given by vein on Day 1 of each cycle. On Day 1 of Cycle 1, you will
      receive it over 3 hours. If you tolerate it well in Cycle 1, you will receive it over 60
      minutes in Cycle 2. If you tolerate it well in Cycle 2, you will receive it over 60 minutes
      for all further cycles.

      Bevacizumab is given by vein on Day 1 of each cycle. On Day 1 of Cycle 1, you will receive it
      over 90 minutes. If you tolerate it well in Cycle 1, you will receive it over 60 minutes in
      Cycle 2. If you tolerate it well in Cycle 2, you will receive it over 30 minutes in Cycle 3.
      It will continue to be given over 30 minutes in Cycle 4 and further cycles, as long as you
      still tolerate it well.

      Temsirolimus is given by vein on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle. During Day 1 of Cycle 1,
      you will receive it over 60 minutes. If you tolerate it well on Day 1 of Cycle 1, it will be
      given over 30 minutes on Days 8 and 15 of Cycle 1 and over 30 minutes in further cycles, as
      long you still tolerate it well.

      Everolimus works the same way and has been shown to be as effective as temsirolimus.
      Everolimus can also be given by mouth, so it can be substituted for temsirolimus. Everolimus
      will be taken every day, starting with Day 1 of Cycle 1.

      Because of a nationwide shortage of liposomal doxorubicin, you may only receive temsirolimus
      and bevacizumab until liposomal doxorubicin becomes available.

      If you experience certain side effects, your dose level may be lowered. In some cases, your
      dose may be stopped for 1 week, until the side effect gets better. Your doctor can explain
      this to you in more detail, if it happens.

      Study Visits:

      During Cycle 1, you will have a physical exam once and blood will be drawn weekly (about 1
      tablespoon) for routine tests.

      For Cycle 2 and further cycles, you will have a physical exam and blood drawn (about 1
      tablespoon) for routine tests once every 3 weeks.

      The status of the disease will be checked by a CT or MRI scan after every 2 cycles, for
      Cycles 2-6, then every 2-3 cycles.

      Additional Procedures for Some Participants:

      If you are in the group that receives the highest safe dose of the study drugs, you will have
      the following additional procedures performed:

        -  You will have a biopsy performed at the end of Cycle 1. The biopsy will be used for
           research to see how the study drug combination acts in the body and to learn how it may
           affect cancer cells.

        -  You will have a DCE-MRI scan at 24-48 hours after your first study drug infusion (Cycle
           1), and at the end of Cycle 1. These DCE-MRI scans will be used for research to see how
           the study drug combination is affecting blood vessels that supply nutrients and oxygen
           to tumor cells.

      Length of Study Participation:

      You may continue to receive additional cycles of the study drugs, unless the cancer goes away
      completely, gets worse, or if intolerable side effects occur. In that case, you will be taken
      off study.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      After your last dose of the study drug, you will receive up to 3 phone calls from the study
      staff. The calls will be 1 month apart, and you will be asked how you are doing.

      This is an investigational study. Liposomal doxorubicin, bevacizumab, and temsirolimus are
      commercially available. Liposomal doxorubicin is FDA approved for the treatment of multiple
      myeloma, ovarian cancer that has returned, and Kaposi's sarcoma. Bevacizumab is FDA approved
      for the treatment of colorectal cancer and a type of lung cancer. Temsirolimus is FDA
      approved for the treatment of kidney cancer that has spread.

      The combination of liposomal doxorubicin, bevacizumab, and temsirolimus is not FDA approved.
      At this time, it is only being used in research.

      Up to 206 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  