
    
      Worldwide, cervical cancer remains the fourth most common cancer and fourth leading cause of
      cancer deaths among women, with the greatest burden occurring in low-resource settings that
      lack effective screening and treatment. Even in the United States (U.S.), where Pap cytology
      screening has resulted in dramatic declines in cervical cancer incidence and mortality,
      thousands of new cases and related-deaths still occur every year, most commonly among
      underserved women who face barriers to accessing screening and/or treatment. The recent
      implementation of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA testing as a primary strategy for cervical
      cancer screening has the potential to alleviate these disparities by improving the
      sensitivity for cervical precancer detection compared to Pap cytology, while providing
      greater long term reassurance following a negative HPV test. Moreover, HPV testing can be
      successfully performed on self-collected specimens, offering the possibility of expanding
      access to cervical cancer screening among hard-to-reach, underserved women.

      Despite the many advantages of primary HPV screening, the current challenge is optimizing
      triage testing to determine who among the many women testing HPV positive are at high-risk
      and require immediate colposcopy referral or treatment, while avoiding unnecessary harms
      among women at low-risk. A molecular triage test that can be conducted from the same primary
      screening sample (i.e., reflex testing) is particularly attractive for both high-and
      low-resource settings, particularly if it works from self-collected samples. Previously, DNA
      methylation of candidate host cell genes has been evaluated in self-collected samples and
      achieved acceptable performance for triage of HPV-positive women. In studies using clinician
      collected samples, there is a suggestion that methylation of carcinogenic HPV genotypes has
      better clinical performance (higher sensitivity/specificity) compared to host gene
      methylation; however, HPV methylation has not been evaluated in self-collected specimens.
      Because HPV DNA is present in only a small subset of infected cells in the lower genital
      tract, particularly in cervical precancers, it is likely that the signal-to noise ratio in
      self-collected samples is better for HPV compared to host gene methylation, resulting in
      improved specificity for cervical precancer detection. Evaluating the feasibility of HPV DNA
      methylation testing from self-collected samples is essential for determining the extent to
      which this assay can address the critical need for HPV triage in high- and low resource
      settings. In collaboration with the Cancer Genome Research Laboratory, a high-throughput,
      low-cost next-generation bisulfite sequencing assay that detects methylation of the 12 most
      carcinogenic HPV genotypes has been developed. Further, this assay includes a panel of host
      genes, including those that have been previously evaluated in self-collected specimens. The
      proposal is to test this assay in paired self and clinician-collected samples from 1,000
      women enrolled in an ongoing prospective study of women undergoing cervical cancer screening
      and colposcopy at the George Washington University (GWU). The hypothesis is that HPV and host
      DNA methylation will show non-inferior sensitivity and specificity for detection of cervical
      precancer in self-collected compared to clinician-collected samples and that HPV methylation
      will have higher absolute specificity compared to host methylation in both sample types.
    
  