
    
      Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), including HIV infections, are most commonly spread
      through unprotected sexual intercourse. STDs are a primary health issue, especially among
      young ethnic minorities in the United States. The rate of STDs is significantly greater in
      urban areas where ethnic minorities, particularly African-American males, are commonly
      represented. Despite this information, safe sexual practices, including correct condom use,
      are not commonly followed among minority males. It is believed that educational outreach
      designed to motivate and inform on the correct use of condoms will be effective in
      encouraging safer sex practices. A cell phone-based text messaging program designed to
      promote safer sex practices may provide an effective and easy means of delivery of treatment.
      This study will develop and test the effectiveness of a cell phone-based text messaging
      program to sustain abstinence, monogamy, or condom use among black urban males in
      Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

      Participation in this study will be divided into two phases. In the first study phase,
      participants will partake in a 90-minute focus group to help develop text message content and
      plans for treatment delivery. The next study phase will be a pilot test of the program
      developed in the first phase. Participants will be assigned to receive text messages
      concerning either HIV prevention or general nutrition. Participants receiving the HIV
      prevention text messages will be sent up to 90 text messages related to abstinence, monogamy,
      and condom use over a 3-month period. Participants will also be able to join interactive
      phone activities related to HIV. Participants receiving the nutritional text messages will be
      sent up to 30 messages about nutrition and healthy eating over the same period of time.
      Participants will complete telephone surveys at baseline and Months 3 and 6. The surveys will
      assess measures of abstinence, monogamy and condom use attitudes, norms, self-efficacy, and
      risk behaviors.
    
  