
    
      Liver surgery is performed under general anesthesia. Loco-regional analgesia is generally
      performed before general anesthesia induction to obtain the best post-operative pain
      control,in association with intravenous analgesic drug administration.

      For minor laparotomic surgery (defined as the resection of up to three hepatic segments), if
      not contraindicated, in our hospital loco-regional analgesia is performed through the
      placement of a thoracic (T7-T8 or T8-T9) epidural catheter in which a local anesthetic
      (usually ropivacaine) and an opioid (usually sufentanil) are administered for the first three
      post-operative days. This is still considered the gold-standard for pain management in this
      surgery. In our institute, there is a dedicated acute pain service (APS) for pain management
      in the post-operative period. APS is also responsible for monitoring, registering and
      treating all side effects related to both the procedure and the drugs used.

      In laparoscopic abdominal surgery, instead of epidural analgesia, if not contraindicated,
      spinal analgesia with low dose morphine before general anesthesia induction is performed.
      This technique is actually considered efficacy and safe in these type of surgeries.

      The investigators therefore decided to test the efficacy of spinal analgesia versus epidural
      analgesia for minor liver surgery since anterior hepatic segments resection is less painful
      than major liver surgery because it requires less liver manipulation without significant
      involvement of the Glisson's capsule. This might imply a less incidence of procedure-related
      side effects such as post-dural puncture headache or site infections. Moreover, spinal
      analgesia may allow a earlier post-operative patients mobilization and thus a earlier
      hospital discharge.

      In this randomized controlled trial, the investigators therefore aim to randomize 40
      consecutive patients into 2 arms. The experimental group will receive spinal analgesia
      (morphine 0.2 mg) for post-operative pain control while the control group will receive
      epidural analgesia (bolus of ropivacaine 0.2% 4-6 mL followed by continuous epidural infusion
      of ropivacaine 0.2%: 99 mL + sufentanil 50 mcg/mL: 1 mL).

      Randomization will be performed with closed opaque envelopes. During surgery, patients will
      be monitored as usual. Intraoperative blood losses and fluids administration will be
      recorded.

      Patients randomized into the epidural group will not receive local anesthetic administration
      through the epidural catheter during the hepatic resection phase to avoid hemodynamic
      instability. Once the hepatic resection phase is finished and euvolemic status is recovered,
      epidural analgesia will be administered as mentioned before.

      In patients in the spinal group, transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block with ropivacaine
      0.375% 20 mL bilaterally or surgical wound infiltration with ropivacaine 0.75% 10- 20 mL will
      also be performed before anesthesia recovery.

      In both groups, post-operative pain control will be managed with intravenous acetaminophen
      1000 mg 40 minutes before ending of surgery followed by intravenous administration of
      acetaminophen 1000 mg every 8 hours and a non-steroidal antinflammatory drug (ketorolac 30
      mg) as a rescue therapy in the post-operative period if not contraindicated.

      Patients will be monitored every 24 hours until the achievement of the "ready to discharge"
      status defined as:

        -  appropriate oral alimentation;

        -  optimal pain control with drugs administered orally;

        -  adequate ability in walking and personal care;

        -  clinical, laboratory and instrumental absence of any post-operative complication;

        -  intestinal function recovery;

        -  patient consent to discharge.
    
  