
    
      HIV is a virus that is transmitted through the exchange of bodily fluids, primarily through
      sexual intercourse. HIV infections can lead to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), a
      disease that breaks down the immune system and allows for entry of life-threatening secondary
      infections. Antiretroviral therapy (ART) has proven to effectively inhibit the replication of
      HIV and has resulted in a reduction in HIV-related deaths. People infected with HIV who are
      receiving ART, however, may be confronted with negative physical and emotional side effects.
      These side effects can impact quality of life (QOL), adherence to medical care, and decisions
      about health care. Stress and Coping Theory (SCT) is a person-centered approach that
      considers stressful experiences as person-environment transactions. A cognitive behavioral
      treatment based upon SCT may help to eliminate or reduce the negative impact of side effects,
      improve QOL, and maximize benefit from treatment among people living with HIV. This study
      will evaluate the effectiveness of cognitive behavioral coping training in improving side
      effect management and treatment adherence in HIV-infected people who are taking ART
      medications.

      This study will involve two phases. Phase 1 will be conducted over 12 months and will include
      two 1-hour interviews with questions about personal life, family, friends, medications, and
      medication side effects. After the first interview, participants may be invited to
      participate in Phase 2, which will last 18 months.

      During Phase 2, participants will complete five 2- to 3-hour interviews occurring at baseline
      and Months 3, 6, 12, and 18. Interviews will include questions about personal life, friends,
      family, health-related activities, drug-using behaviors, emotions, mental state, and
      educational background. Participants will be assigned randomly to one of two treatment
      groups:

        -  Group 1 participants will receive five individual sessions of cognitive behavioral
           coping training, beginning after the Month 3 interview. The 90-minute sessions will
           focus on coping with stress, dealing with medication side effects, and staying on track
           with medications.

        -  Group 2 participants will receive standard care and one group session of coping
           training, which will be held after the Month 18 interview. The group session will cover
           the same material that is covered in the individual sessions.

      After the last follow-up interview, some participants may also be asked to complete an exit
      interview about thoughts and feelings on study participation.
    
  