
    
      Cross-sectional surveys will be carried out in order to identify risk factors for residual
      malaria infection and disease at both the individual and household level, to supply parasite
      samples for detailed population-level molecular analyses and to supply epidemiological data
      for parameterization of new mathematical models of malaria transmission.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

        -  Aim 1: Longitudinally determine malaria dynamics in a major residual malaria hotspot in
           Brazil.

        -  Aim 2: Identify and quantify population changes in P. vivax and P. falciparum to detect
           reintroductions, and to estimate parasite population complexity at baseline and
           potentially after interventions.

        -  Aim 3: Develop and apply mathematical models to describe changing dynamics of malaria
           incidence and parasitemia prevalence over time, and to assess potential effects of
           combinations of interventions on malaria control and elimination.

             -  The study will be developed in the urban area of Mâncio Lima, northwestern of
                Brazil.

      A census performed by our field team between Nov 2015 and Apr 2016 identified ~ 10,000
      inhabitants in the urban area of Mâncio Lima. At the site preparation phase, a random sample
      of 20% of the households enumerated during our census will be visited by our field teams and
      all dwellers aged 3 months or up (or their parents/guardians) will be invited to participate
      in the cohort study.

      We expect to enroll ~ 2,000 subjects who will participate in 10 cross-sectional surveys
      (every six months) over five years (total of 20,000 observations), and contribute 120,000
      person-months of follow-up. Because of the open-cohort design of this study, subjects who are
      lost for follow-up are replaced with newcomers, without affecting significantly the number of
      person-months of follow-up.

      At each visit, the subjects will be interviewed and 100ul of blood will be collected to
      Active (ACD) and Passive Case Detection (PCD) (symptom based surveying; microscopy-based
      diagnosis). Each visit will include an interview, physical examination and collection of 100
      μL of blood (finger prick) to malaria diagnosis by smear, RDT and qPCR.

      When the subjects are positive by smear or RDT (rapid diagnostic test for malaria), despite
      of presence of symptoms, ≥ 20 mL of venous blood will be draw of them to immunology and
      parasite genetics study and the immediate treatment per Ministry of Health of Brazil
      guidelines will be performed.
    
  