
    
      Postpartum hemorrhage was traditionally defined as blood loss in excess of 500 mL from a
      vaginal delivery or 1000 mL at cesarean section. It can result from uterine atony, retained
      placental tissue including that from abnormal placentation, maternal genital tract trauma and
      coagulopathies. (Almog et al, 2011)

        -  Uterotonic agents (e.g. ergometrine, misoprostol) should be easily accessible. Many
           units of an oxytocin infusion and/or rectal misoprostol during and after cesarean
           deliveries used to reduce the incidence of atony. -Misoprostol has been widely
           recommended for the prevention of post-partum hemorrhage when other methods are not
           available. The most common regimen reported for the treatment of post-partum hemorrhage
           is rectally. (Oladapo et al., 2012)

        -  Misoprostol is a prostaglandin E1 analogue. It has been investigated in the prevention
           of postpartum hemorrhage, using either the oral or rectal route of administration.
           (Hofmeyr et al, 2009)

        -  Carbetocin is a long-acting oxytocin studied by Dansereau et al.; 1999.They found that
           the carbetocin group of patients had a decreased incidence of PPH and of the need for
           therapeutic oxytocics. The recommended dose of carbetocin is 100 mg given either IM or
           slowly (over 1 minute).

        -  Placenta previa, placenta accreta, and vasa previa are important causes of bleeding in
           the second half of pregnancy and in labor. Risk factors for placenta previa include
           prior cesarean delivery, pregnancy termination, intrauterine surgery, smoking,
           multifetal gestation, increasing parity, and maternal age. Thus, placenta previa is a
           risk factor for post partum hemorrhage.2006 Apr;107(4):927-41.

      Placenta previa, placenta accreta, and vasa previa. Oyelese Y1, Smulian JC.Obstet Gynecol
    
  