
    
      It is a cross sectional comparative study in the outpatient pain clinic of MUH and OCMU.
      These centers serve Delta Region which encompasses 10 governorates with 41% of the total
      Egyptian population. The study was approved by the Institutional Research Board (Code No:
      R.19.04.480 ). The sample was recruited using convenience sampling method during the period
      from April 2019 till July 2019. Two hundred fifty nine patients received medical care with
      chronic cancer pain aged 18 years or older that are oriented, alert, speak and read Arabic,
      having no communication problems or physical conditions that will prevent the completion of
      the interview were included in this study. Patients do not speak or read Arabic, or who are
      unable to complete the study questionnaires were excluded.

      Physicians screen patients for suitability in the study and consent those who met the
      inclusion criteria. During the studies, participants complete the paper of the measures while
      they are waiting for their medical consultation.

      The health service quality was assessed using Patient Satisfaction Questionnaire Short Form
      (PSQ-18) (ranging from strongly agree = 1, agree = 2, uncertain = 3, disagree = 4 and
      strongly disagree = 5). It contains seven domains; general satisfaction (questions (Q) 3
      &17), technical quality(Q 2,4,6 &14), interpersonal manner (Q 10& 11), communication (Q 1 &
      13), financial aspects (Q 5&7), time spent with the doctor (Q12&15) and accessibility and
      convenience (Q 8,9,16 &18).4 Also we evaluated the treatment satisfaction using The Pain
      Treatment Satisfaction Scale (PTSS) (ranging from 0 = dissatisfied to 100 = satisfied): It
      includes thirty nine items grouped into five dimensions; satisfaction with current pain
      medication in two subscales: medication characteristics (3 items) and efficacy (3 items);
      side effects of medication (12 items); impact of current pain medication (8 items); medical
      care (8 items) and information about pain and its treatment (5 items).
    
  