
    
      Background:

      The human androgen receptor (AR) is a steroid hormone receptor that is expressed in multiple
      reproductive tissues and has important effects on multiple organ systems. The AR is a major
      target for the treatment of prostate cancer, and, more recently, for treatment of breast
      cancer. However, the AR is also expressed on many other tissues and plays vital roles in
      other cancer types, such as head and neck cancers (eg, salivary gland and thyroid cancers),
      cutaneous malignancies (eg, melanoma and basal cell carcinoma), sarcomas, and genitourinary
      cancers (eg, renal and bladder cancers). There are very few studies investigating AR-targeted
      therapies for indications other than prostate or breast cancer; however the few anecdotal
      reports and small studies that have been performed suggest that AR-positive tumours may
      respond to therapy with AR-targeted agents. In this study we are concentrating on GBM
      Seviteronel is a dual selective P450C17,20-lyase (CYP17 lyase) and AR inhibitor currently
      being investigated in Phase 1/2 trials for prostate and breast cancers. Seviteronel has shown
      promising preclinical activity in some breast cancer models, and seviteronel in combination
      with dexamethasone (SEVI-D) has shown promising preliminary activity for treatment of
      metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. Therefore, SEVI-D could be beneficial for
      the treatment of other cancers that are known to be AR-positive such as GBM

      Aim:

      The overall aim is to facilitate and expedite the clinical testing of rational therapeutic
      hypotheses in a population with advanced cancer and unmet need, with a particular, but not
      exclusive, focus on rare or neglected cancers. The program will evaluate the clinical
      activity of SEVI-D in subjects with AR-positive GBM

      Primary Objective:

      To test the clinical activity of novel targeted treatments and/or indications as measured by
      objective tumour response or the ratio of time-to-progression on study over the preceding
      period

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Overall survival (OS) (death from any cause);

        2. Safety and tolerability of treatment (rates of adverse events)

        3. Health related quality of life during treatment (EORTC QLQ-C30v.3 questionnaire or brief
           pain inventory, if applicable).

        4. To evaluate the feasibility, efficiency and utility of an overarching framework protocol
           for multiple, parallel signal-seeking clinical substudies;

        5. To evaluate a mechanism for screening patients for actionable biomarkers to be used to
           guide therapy.

      Population:

      Patients with AR-positive GBM as confirmed by immunohistochemistry.

      Treatments:

      Seviteronel, will be administered orally at 450 mg (3 x 150 mg tablets) for men with 0.5 mg
      dexamethasone (tablet) once daily plus a GnRH analogue (depot injection). Seviteronel, will
      be administered orally at 450 mg (3 x 150 mg tablets) for post menopausal women, once daily
      in combination with once daily 0.5 mg dexamethasone (tablet). For premenopausal women (with
      intact ovaries), a GnRH analogue (depot injection) will also need to be admistered. See
      Treatment Study Table below. Patients will take seviteronel and dexamethasone each day
      continuously in 28-day cycles.

      Assessments:

      Screening for participation in the screening platform includes the review of patient history,
      current health status, availability of a biospecimen for AR screening and patient willingness
      to be in a trial if eligible.

      Clinical and safety assessments are scheduled prior to registration and then every 8 weeks
      until death.

      Imaging and other response assessments are required at baseline and 8-weekly from cycle 1 day
      1 until progression.

      Blood collection for translational studies will occur at:

        1. Baseline (collected within 21 days prior to registration) or within 28 days of C1D1
           treatment

        2. Every 2nd cycle

        3. At End of treatment
    
  