
    
      GTN is a well-established vasodilatory therapeutic agent with a long, documented history of
      use and comprehensive safety profile. In Europe, licensed indications for GTN include the
      treatment and prophylaxis of angina pectoris and the relief of pain associated with chronic
      anal fissure. Other indications for prescription only parenteral products include use during
      cardiac surgery and for emergency reduction of blood pressure.

      GTN's vasodilatory action is thought to result from the release of nitric oxide (NO) in
      vascular smooth muscle. NO stimulates guanylate cyclase, the enzyme responsible for
      production of cGMP, whose action is to lower intracellular calcium resulting in smooth muscle
      relaxation and vasodilation.

      In the case of erectile dysfunction, GTN works locally by penetrating the glans/penile skin
      and directly targeting penile blood vessels. Nitrates appear to have a direct, local effect
      on penile haemodynamics. The most likely mechanism for the erectile effect of nitrates
      involves nitrate induced dilation of the cavernous and helicine arteries, thereby increasing
      blood flow to the lacunar spaces, coupled with nitrate-induced relaxation of trabecular
      smooth muscle.

      Nitroglycerin (Nitrostat) is indicated for the acute relief of an attack or acute prophylaxis
      of angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease.

      The principal pharmacological action of nitroglycerin is relaxation of vascular smooth
      muscle. Although venous effects predominate, nitroglycerin produces, in a dose-related
      manner, dilation of both arterial and venous beds. Dilation of postcapillary vessels,
      including large veins, promotes peripheral pooling of blood, decreases venous return to the
      heart, and reduces left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (preload). Nitroglycerin also
      produces arteriolar relaxation, thereby reducing peripheral vascular resistance and arterial
      pressure (afterload), and dilates large epicardial coronary arteries; however, the extent to
      which this latter effect contributes to the relief of exertional angina is unclear.

      Nitroglycerin forms free radical nitric oxide (NO) which activates guanylate cyclase,
      resulting in an increase of guanosine 3'5' monophosphate (cyclic GMP) in smooth muscle and
      other tissues. These events lead to dephosphorylation of myosin light chains, which regulate
      the contractile state in smooth muscle, and result in vasodilatation.
    
  