
    
      According to WHO, 25% of lung cancer worldwide occurs in lifelong never smokers. Lung cancer
      in never smokers (LCINS) shows many clinical, epidemiological, molecular and genomic
      differences comparing to tobacco-related neoplasm. So, it is now considered as a separate
      entity. LCINS particularly occurs in women and Asian. They are mainly adenocarcinoma. Known
      risk factors are occupational exposure, environmental tobacco smoking, familial history of
      cancer, personal medical history of lung disease or environmental causes. LCINS carries more
      frequently molecular abnormalities leading to efficacy of targeted therapies (EGFR mutation,
      EML4-ALK inversion, less frequent mutations of KRAS ...). However, most data come from
      retrospectives studies, subgroups analysis and/or from Asian cohort even though it is a
      disease with a significant geographic variability. Finally, few studies focus on correlations
      between risk factors and molecular or genomic abnormalities.

      For these reasons and considering that LCINS is an increasing public health problem, IFCT
      (Intergroupe Francophone de Cancérologie Thoracique) states to promote the BioCAST study
      (IFCT-1002). It is a national, multicentric, prospective epidemiological study. Main
      objective is to describe the clinical and molecular epidemiology of LCINS in a French
      population composed by all cases newly diagnosed in participating centres (500 to 1500
      patients expected). BioCAST include a clinical and a biological part. The clinical component
      is based on collecting data directly from the patient through a standardized questionnaire
      during a telephone interview with a health professional. The biologic component includes a
      blood sample collection. A large genomic wide association study and an epigenetic study
      (including micro RNA study) are also planned. Other objectives are looking for correlations
      between clinical factors and molecular abnormalities; and looking for new oncogene in this
      specific population.

      BioCAST hopes to provide concrete answers to clinicians and patients about this new and
      frequent entity.
    
  