
    
      Achalasia is currently defined solely on the basis of esophageal manometry. However, this
      fails to assess sensory function which may relate more to symptoms such as chest pain and
      heartburn. To date, the importance of sensory dysfunction in achalasia is poorly understood.
      The investigators want to define the relationship between esophageal sensory and motor
      dysfunction and symptoms in achalasia.

      Following standard diagnostic evaluation including esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), barium
      esophagram, and esophageal manometry, symptoms will be assessed utilizing a standardized
      questionnaire. The subjects will then undergo transoral placement of an esophageal barostat.
      Following a standard protocol of esophageal distension, esophageal body compliance will be
      recorded with esophageal body pressure and volume. Mechanosensitivity will then be assessed
      utilizing a stepwise esophageal distension, with patients reporting symptoms utilizing a
      Likert scale. Patients will then undergo conventional achalasia treatment with either
      pneumatic dilation or Heller myotomy at the discretion of the treating gastroenterologist.
      Thereafter patients will be followed via a standardized phone survey at 3 months, 6 months, 2
      years, and 4 years after treatment to assess symptoms and treatment response. Patients will
      have standard clinical follow ups, including barium esophagram, at 1 year, 3 years, and 5
      years following treatment. Outcomes: From 100 new patients with achalasia seen yearly at
      Mayo, the investigators anticipate recruitment of 40 eligible patients over 12 months and 10
      healthy volunteers. The correlation between mechanosensitivity and esophageal body compliance
      with symptoms such as dysphagia, chest pain, and heartburn will be measured in Types I, II
      and III achalasia. The association of these parameters with conventional manometrically
      defined achalasia subtypes will also be measured. Finally, the relationship between
      sensorimotor dysfunction in achalasia and therapeutic outcomes will be assessed with
      development of predictive models to assess symptomatic outcome by barostat measurements.
    
  