
    
      Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is clinically described as a neurogenic claudication that is
      associated with increased mechanical compression on the spinal nerve roots as well as
      potential compromise of the vascular supply of the spinal nerve roots. This compression
      typically leads to symptoms of lumbar pseudoclaudication, which include pain, paresthesias,
      and discomfort in the lower extremities, commonly exacerbated by walking. Broadly speaking,
      this compression can be the result of a degenerative narrowing of the spinal or nerve root
      canals. While spinal stenosis is typically considered idiopathic, causes can also include
      malignancy, injury, and chronic inflammation. It is often debilitating to patients and can
      lead to a wide variety of negative health outcomes (pre-operative lower levels of function,
      psychological distress, high self-reported disability scores and operative risks of surgical
      correction) related to attempted surgical correction of lumbar spinal stenosis. Spinal
      stenosis continues to be a leading indication for spine surgery in adults older than 65 years
      old. Furthermore, estimated total Medicare costs for surgeries treating lumbar spinal
      stenosis amounted to over $1.65 billion for 37,598 individual operations.

      Physiologically, the venous blood flow in the lumbar spinal region is disproportionately
      affected by pressure gradients generated secondary to normal movement and pathologic
      constriction. Studies have found that patients diagnosed with lumbar spinal stenosis with
      intermittent claudication, while walking on a treadmill, experienced larger amounts of
      vascular congestion which resolved with sitting. This was measured with a myeloscope in the
      intrathecal space.

      The current vascular pathologic mechanism of the symptomatic effects of lumbar spinal
      stenosis is thought to be a consequence of constriction leading to increasing vascular
      congestion and inflammation. Authors first described the effect of constriction on vascular
      flow through a post mortem study of a patient with chronic lumbar spinal stenosis at L4-L5.
      Most significantly, they found that venous supply proximal to constriction in fact showed
      reduced and collapsed veins with gross congestion proximal to the lesion. Further
      investigation found that venous congestion led to increased inflammatory markers in nerves
      with atrophy, Wallerian degeneration, and perineural fibrosis in more severe patients. Most
      importantly, these pathologic changes were associated with vascular changes in the absence of
      direct nerve root compression at these sites. This venous congestion is a potential target
      for therapy.

      There has been previous work done with medications that are PGE1 analogs such as limaprost
      and lipo-PGE1. PGE1 analogs hypothetically treat the above lumbar spinal stenosis pathology
      by improving blood flow to nerve roots through vasodilatory and antiplatelet aggregation
      effects. However, misoprostol (PGE1 analog) has not been thoroughly evaluated as a possible
      treatment for symptoms of lumbar spinal stenosis.
    
  