
    
      Arterial Fibrillation (AF) is well-recognized as a cause for cryptogenic Acute Ischemic
      Stroke (AIS) and searched for in clinical practice. However, although AF is associated with
      Silent Brain Infarction (SBI), its role in the formation of these lesions is less well
      established and needs clarification. A multitude of clinical, laboratory, echocardiographic
      and electrocardiographic parameters are associated with AF. Although no single one of these
      parameters has sufficient specificity to rule-in AF, their combined use may nevertheless help
      to identify patients with SBI at highest risk for AF. The study is expected to provide
      evidence that long term monitoring in subjects with SBI yields similar rates of AF as in AIS
      patients.

      Patients aged ≥65 years with a presumably silent brain lesion in a brain magnetic resonance
      imaging fulfilling inclusion criteria and consenting get a subcutaneous implantation of a
      cardiac monitor (Reveal LINQ). Data will be directly transferred to the treating physician by
      the Medtronic MyCareLink Patient Monitor. In case of a relevant arrhythmia, the respective
      study site will be informed by the staff of Inselspital. Relevant arrhythmias are defined as
      follows:

        -  First episode of atrial fibrillation (≥30 seconds)

        -  Sustained ventricular tachycardia (≥30 seconds)

        -  Sustained supraventricular tachycardia (≥30 seconds)

        -  Asystoly of ≥6 seconds duration

        -  Atrial fibrillation with pause of ≥6 seconds duration

        -  Higher degree atrioventricular (AV) block (3° AV bloc; 2:1 AV conduction; 2° AV block
           type Mobitz)

        -  Sustained bradycardia <30 beats per minute (≥30 seconds) It is the responsibility of the
           respective study sites to take appropriate actions and inform the patients and treating
           physicians about relevant findings. The maximal timeframe from data transmission to data
           analysis is one week and from data transmission to patient notification two weeks.

      The expected results of the study would be supportive in introducing long term monitoring to
      the care pathway in subjects with SBI. Since SBI are more prevalent than AIS and current
      recommendations very restrictive, this would have a relevant impact on SBI management.
    
  