
    
      In this study, we intend to generate real-world evidence (RWE) by analyzing real-world data
      (RWD) (defined as data generated during routine clinical practice) from a registry-based
      Comparative Effectiveness Research study.

      The Canadian Neonatal Network (CNN) is a well-established patient registry that includes
      members from 31 hospitals and 17 universities across Canada. The Network maintains a
      standardized NICU database and provides a unique opportunity for researchers to participate
      in collaborative projects. We will use the principles of Hypotheses Evaluating Treatment
      Effectiveness (HETE) research, which are designed to evaluate the presence or absence of a
      pre-specified effect and/or its magnitude. The network has recent experience in conducting
      such a study where one CIHR-funded study to evaluate effectiveness of two modes of
      non-invasive ventilation in preterm infants is already underway in 20 NICUs across Canada.

      The CNN's coordinating facility is located within the Maternal-Infant Care (MiCare) Research
      Center, Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute (LTRI) at Mount Sinai Hospital (Toronto). Each
      participating site has highly trained abstractors who enter data from patient charts into the
      CNN database. The abstractors will also enter data specific to our project, which will allow
      us to obtain real-world data at a minimal cost with easy access to investigators for
      troubleshooting.

      Statistical Analysis overview: Since the proposed study is a CER using RWD, we will examine
      and account for potential confounders at the analyses stage. As recommended for HETE studies
      using RWD, accuracy of results will be checked by performing complementary sensitivity
      analyses. The analyses will be conducted in 2 stages: unit-level protocol effectiveness
      analysis and a secondary drug-dosage effectiveness analysis.
    
  