
    
      Patient will be recruited from the Urogynecology clinic on the first floor of the hospital.
      Patients who have completed 12 weeks of PTNS therapy will be identified by the clinic nurse
      or nurse practitioner and then a member of the research team will approach the patient
      regarding involvement in the study. Patients will be asked if they would like to take part in
      this study and will be given the human bill of rights and well as consent forms in their
      preferred language (English or Spanish) if they agree to participate. Once they agree to
      participate, they will be asked to sign the consent forms in a private patient room.

      This is a pilot study for feasibility designed as an equivalence and cost analysis study.
      Patients will be recruited at the 12th session of PTNS (conclusion of treatment and before
      maintenance therapy starts).

      Patients will be from the Urogynecology clinic at Harbor UCLA Medical Center who have OAB and
      who have been treated with the standard 12 sessions of PTNS. Patients will be randomized to
      "every month PTNS maintenance" or "as needed PTNS maintenance (Q2-12 weeks)." At enrollment,
      questions will be read to patients in either Spanish or English based on patient's preferred
      language and study staff will fill out the surveys for the patient. The patient with the
      study staff will complete the validated questionnaires, Overactive Bladder Questionnaire
      (OAB-q), the Benefit, Satisfaction and Willingness to Continue the Treatment questionnaire
      (BSW) and the Visual analogue scale for satisfaction with treatment. Urinary symptoms will be
      measured by the validated Overactive Bladder Symptom Scale (OAB-SS) and a modified voiding
      diary. All patients will have a urine dip completed at this visit to rule out a bladder
      infection. Finally patients, with the help of study staff, will answer open ended questions.
      All of these measures will be repeated 3 months after enrollment and one year from
      enrollment. After the yearlong study, participants can continue treatment which will be
      decided by the patient and treating clinician. A cost analysis will compare the cost to
      patients and the cost to the clinic between the monthly PTNS maintenance group and the
      patient prn maintenance group. All of the above measures will be recorded at enrollment, 3
      months from enrollment and 1 year from enrollment. This will be done in person with the help
      of the study staff at enrollment and either in person, via the phone or in writing at 3 month
      and 1 year follow up. No payment and no other recruitment methods will be used.
    
  