
    
      Background: Evidence-based practices (EBPs) are the most high value treatments to meet
      Veterans' addiction and mental health needs, reduce chronic impairment, and prevent suicide
      or overdose. Over 10 years, VA invested in dissemination of evidence-based psychotherapies
      and pharmacotherapies based on substantial evidence of effectiveness as compared to usual
      care. Quality metrics also track progress. Despite these investments, patients with prevalent
      needs, such as depression, PTSD and opioid use disorder often don't receive EBPs. Systems
      theory explains limited EBP reach as a system behavior emerging dynamically from local
      components (e.g., patient demand/health service supply). Participatory research and
      engagement principles guide participatory system dynamics (PSD), a mixed-methods approach
      used in business and engineering, shown to be effective for improving quality with existing
      resources.

      Significance/Impact: This study is proposed in the high priority area of VA addiction and
      mental health care to improve Veteran access to VA's highest quality care. The PSD program,
      Modeling to Learn (MTL), improves frontline management of dynamic complexity through
      simulations of staffing, scheduling and service referrals common in healthcare, across
      generalist and specialty programs, patient populations, and provider disciplines/treatments.

      Innovation: Recent synthesis of VA data in the enterprise-wide SQL Corporate Data Warehouse
      (CDW) makes it feasible to scale participatory simulation learning activities with VA
      frontline addiction and mental health staff. MTL is an advanced quality improvement (QI)
      infrastructure that helps VA take a major step toward becoming a learning health care system,
      by empowering local multidisciplinary staff to develop change strategies that fit to local
      capacities and constraints. Model parameters are from one VA source and generic across health
      services. If findings show that MTL is superior to usual VA quality improvement activities of
      data review with facilitators from VA program offices, this paradigm could prove useful
      across VA services. The PSD approach also advances implementation science. Systems theory
      explains how dynamic system behaviors (EBP reach) are defined by general scientific laws, yet
      arise from idiographic local conditions. Empowering staff with systems science simulation
      encourages the safe prototyping of ideas necessary for learning, increasing ongoing quality
      improvement capacities, and saving time and money as compared to trial-and-error approaches.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Effectiveness: Test for superiority of MTL over usual QI for increasing the proportion
           of patients (1a) initiating, and (1b) completing a course of evidence-based
           psychotherapy (EBPsy) and evidence-based pharmacotherapy (EBPharm).

        2. Scalable: (2a) Evaluate usual QI and MTL fidelity. (2b) Test MTL fidelity for convergent
           validity with participatory measures. (2c) Test the participatory theory of change:
           Evaluate whether 12 month period EBP reach is mediated by team scores on participatory
           measures.

        3. Affordable: (3a) Determine the budget impact of MTL. (3b). Calculate the average
           marginal costs per 1% increase in EBP reach.

      Methodology: This study proposes a two-arm, 24-clinic (12 per arm) cluster randomized trial
      to test for superiority of MTL over usual QI for increasing EBP reach. Clinics will be from
      24 regional health care systems (HCS) below the SAIL mental health median, and low on 3 of 8
      SAIL measures associated with EBPs. Computer-assisted stratified block randomization will
      balance MTL and usual QI arms at baseline using Corporate Data Warehouse (CDW) data.
      Participants will be the multidisciplinary frontline teams of addiction and mental health
      providers.

      Next Steps/Implementation: MTL was developed in partnership with the VA Office of Mental
      Health and Suicide Prevention (OMHSP) and if shown to be effective, scalable, and affordable
      for improving timely Veteran access to EBPs, MTL will be scaled nationally to more clinics by
      expanding MTL online resources, and training more VA staff to facilitate MTL activities
      instead of usual QI.
    
  