
    
      Sleep disorders are prevalent health problems that reduce quality of life, increase risks for
      medical disease, and enhance healthcare costs/utilization. Only a small proportion of these
      cases are diagnosed in primary care. Pilot data from this VA suggest that sleep disorders are
      not adequately managed in a primary care setting: 33% of veterans with an insomnia complaint
      had an undiagnosed primary sleep disorder (e.g., sleep apnea), and 50% of these patients were
      prescribed pharmacologic treatment for insomnia by their primary care providers. This project
      tests the incremental benefits of adding a one-time sleep specialty consultation (SSC) to
      usual primary care for reducing sleep disturbance, diurnal dysfunction, quality of life
      concerns and health care utilization among veterans enrolled in the DVAMC Primary Care
      Clinics. The SSC will consist of: (1) a thorough sleep disorders evaluation accomplished via
      a clinician-administered structured interview designed to assess specific symptoms of global
      sleep disorder categories, review of a sleep history questionnaire, and review of available
      (CPRS) medical/psychiatric electronic records; (2) education about the specific sleep
      disorders diagnoses and relevant treatment recommendations provided to the patients; and (3)
      standardized diagnostic information and treatment recommendations provided to the
      participants' primary care providers. Study hypotheses predict that patients who receive an
      SSC with feedback to their primary care providers will show greater improvements in sleep,
      mood, quality of life, and patient satisfaction, as well as larger reductions in health care
      utilization than will those who receive usual care alone. This is a randomized, wait-list
      control, clinical intervention study of 300 veterans with sleep complaints. Eligibility
      criteria include: sleep complaint for > 1 month duration, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index
      score > 5; mental status score > 24 on Folstein MMSE, no unstable medical or psychiatric
      disorder, and approval of primary provider. The SSC intervention consists of a
      clinician-administered structured interview assessing sleep pathology, plus manualized
      feedback to patients and primary care providers. Participants are randomly assigned to SSC or
      Wait List Control (WLC) conditions. Measures of sleep, mood, quality of life, and patient
      satisfaction are obtained at enrollment and at 5- and 10-month follow-up. Computerized
      utilization data is obtained for the 10 months prior to and 10 months following enrollment. A
      series of multivariate and univariate statistical tests will be conducted.

      Study findings should provide important new information about managing both the sleep
      problems and overall health care utilization patterns of patients with sleep complaints
      presenting in VA primary care settings. If SSC-evaluated patients show substantial reductions
      in their VA inpatient/outpatient utilization, this finding could have important cost-saving
      implications to the VA system.
    
  