
    
      -  A total of 12 subjects on standard 3X/week hemodialysis will be studied in 2 groups (6
           subjects per group)

        -  2 primary dialyzer membranes will be studied.:

             -  Polyamide Membrane (Gambro Polyflux series: 17R and 21R)

             -  Cellulose Triacetate (Baxter CT series: CT-190)

        -  Each 1-week treatment cycle will include 3 haemodialysis (HD) sessions per subject,
           including 2 study treatment-HD sessions and 1 non-treatment-HD session per subject.
           Treatment-HD sessions will be conducted midweek and end-of-week (i.e. Dialysis days 3
           and 5 of each week with a 1 day interdialytic interval) to avoid excessive fluid shifts
           due to the increased UF needed during the non-treatment HD session (conducted at
           beginning of the week; HD day 1).

        -  Within each group, each subject will be randomized to 1 of 6 treatment sequences. The
           treatments to be investigated are: Control; new dialyzer, reused dialyzer, low blood
           flow/dialysate flow, Low bicarbonate concentration and a different synthetic dialyzer
           membrane (PAES)

        -  Blood for a complete serum iron profile over time will be obtained during the new
           dialyzer (SFP/standard bicarbonate/new dialyzer/ high Qb and Qd) for all subjects. This
           will necessitate approximately a 24-hour inpatient confinement to obtain blood at
           specified time intervals after dialysis is completed. Blood for a partial iron profile
           will be collected during the dialysis sessions at all other dialysis sessions.

        -  Each of the 6 enrolled subjects per dialyzer membrane type will be assigned to a
           different sequence of treatments to help ensure that the treatment sequence does not
           affect the analysis (Note: the first dialysis sessions of each of the 3 study weeks,
           i.e. HD1, HD4 and HD7, are non-study related sessions during which no study procedures
           are performed except for adverse event collection.

        -  Patients should not be receiving any of the following medications from screening through
           the end of the study:

             -  Oral iron preparations, including multivitamin supplements containing iron

             -  Intravenous iron preparations

        -  Doses of ESA's should not be changed from screening to the end of the study.
    
  