
    
      The purpose of this Phase 1 clinical trial is to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of
      two asexual blood stage vaccines for Plasmodium falciparum malaria, MSP1(42)-FVO/Alhydrogel
      and MSP1(42)-3D7/Alhydrogel, in healthy adult volunteers. Between 2-3 million deaths occur
      each year as a result of malaria. Most of these deaths are a result of P. falciparum malaria,
      in children under five years of age, in sub-Saharan Africa. A safe and effective vaccine that
      would reduce both morbidity and mortality secondary to P. falciparum infection would be a
      valuable resource in the fight against this disease. The merozoite surface protein 1 (MSP1)
      is the first protein to be identified on the surface of the blood stage parasite. A portion
      of MSP1 is carried into the newly invaded erythrocyte on the surface of the parasite.
      Clinical symptoms of malaria in humans are due to the asexual blood stage. Therefore, this
      vaccine was designed to protect an individual from illness due to the asexual stage of P.
      falciparum infection by inhibiting parasite invasion of erythrocytes. The MSP1(42)/Alhydrogel
      vaccines have been used in five preclinical animal trials and no clinically significant risks
      have been identified. The study will be conducted at Quintiles Phase I Services (Lenexa, KS).
      We will evaluate three dose levels of both the MSP1(42)-FVO/Alhydrogel and the
      MSP1(42)-3D7/Alhydrogel vaccines (5 micro g, 20 micro g, 80 micro g). Sixty healthy male and
      non-pregnant female volunteers ages 18 to 50 will be enrolled. Ten volunteers in each group
      will receive a 5 micro g, 20 micro g, or 80 mirco g dose of either MSP1(42)-FVO or
      MSP1(42)-3D7 vaccines by intramuscular injection in an open label study on months 0, 1, and
      6. The groups will be staggered such that adequate safety evaluation can be performed prior
      to dose escalation. The duration of the study is 12 months per volunteer. The primary
      objective of this trial is to determine the frequency and severity of vaccine-related adverse
      events for each dose. The secondary objective is to determine the dose that generates the
      highest serum antibody levels to homologous MSP1(42) antigen at Day 42.
    
  