
    
      Background Selenium supplementation is suggested for an intervention better in food intake.
      The Tomeka Prevention Trial (TPT) is a randomized double blind nutri prevention trial.
      Initial blood collection will be specifically for the analysis of Selenium [antioxidant] and
      storage of serum. An additional blood collection will be carried out using anticoagulants so
      that plasma and white blood cells can be isolated. Plasma will allow the analysis of
      additional biomarkers collecting measurements of renin-angiotensin-system markers such as
      Angiotensin-2 and Angiotensin 1-7. This serum will be used (among other possible uses) for
      studies to investigate the antioxidant effect of Vernonia amygdalina in organs which may
      influence COVID-19 risk in emergency situations.

      The TOMEKA WBC [white blood cell] sample will be available to TOMEKA investigators as well as
      outside researchers who have important, timely hypotheses to test. Because the sample bank is
      a limited resource, proposals to use it will be evaluated in terms of scientific relevance,
      significance, and validity as well as the potential impact of the proposed study. The amount
      and type of material needed will also be considered and the efficient use of material will be
      required. Strict confidentiality will be exercised and the information provided to
      investigators will not contain personal identifiers.

      When specific uses of the TOMEKA WBC samples will be approved, the protocol will be amended.

      Objectives To provide a resource for studies of early markers, etiology, and genetic risk
      factors for COVID-19. To collect measurements of renin-angiotensin-system markers, such as
      angiotensin-2 and angiotensin 1-7.

      Methods Because the original model consent form did not specifically address herbal studies,
      participants will be asked to sign an additional consent form to document their consent to
      the collection and submission of additional blood samples for storage and future testing
      (including laboratory analysis). WHO? Everyone aged 15 and up experiencing symptoms of fever,
      cough, or shortness of breath with confirmed active COVID-19. WHY? To see if the
      investigational use of Tomeka® will prevent hospitalization and death, in COVID-19 patients.
      WHAT? The study type is observational after using patient individual data and investigators
      are assigned prospectively to monitor symptoms of the COVID-19 with a questionnaire. At the
      slightest symptom associated with the COVID-19 virus present in the patient's individual
      data, namely: fever (38 degrees c or 100, 4 degrees F), new or exacerbated cough, shortness
      of breath, sore throat, loss of smell, sudden onset without nasal congestion or loss of
      taste, digestive symptoms (nausea, vomiting / diarrhea), general weakness, headache, myalgia.
      Participants from the patient individual database will be randomized (like flipping a coin)
      to one of two groups. The intervention is education that needs to be evaluated with the
      suggested Tomeka® foods (nutraceuticals).

      Conclusion The protocol presents a treatment model developed in its early stages with
      individual medical files. The principal investigator had the idea to create a treatment build
      or based on the principle of antioxidant supplementation, proteins, lipids, energy intake.
      The protocol is leading to a serious need of nutraceuticals solution faced to the missing
      cheap COVID-19 vaccine problem when it will be available. The nutritional status of each
      COVID-19-infected patient should be assessed prior to undertaking treatments. The outcome
      objective is to teach. The total budget required for the project is from 250.000 US$ to
      1.000.000 US$ for education based on individual patient data and implementation on a global
      scale. This theoretical study merits further investigation for possible inclusion of
      nutraceuticals as an alternative for fighting and eradicating COVID-19.
    
  