
    
      4.3.20 Update: Recruitment is ongoing. Enrollment and interactions are temporarily paused due
      to COVID-19. This is not a suspension of IRB approval.

      This experiment will randomize child participants with clinical to subclinical anxiety across
      two conditions to test the effects of a piloted effortful control (EC) training intervention.
      Up to 40 preschool age children (4-6.99 years) with clinical to subclinical anxiety symptoms
      will complete either a camp-like EC training (n=20) or a waitlist control (n=20). Before and
      after the active and control conditions (time 1 and time 2, respectively), an EEG-based
      measure, the error-related negativity (ERN), will be collected while children play a simple
      computer game. The ERN indexes neural mechanisms underlying EC. Other measures to be
      collected before and after the EC training include a blink reflex known as the fear
      potentiated startle (FPS); laboratory-assessed EC and fear behaviors; and, clinically
      assessed anxiety symptoms.

      The EC intervention or "EC camp" will occur over several sessions spread across 2 or more
      weeks. Times are chosen to maximize child focus and energy as well as convenience for
      families. EC camp is comprised of short, game-like exercises that teach effortful control
      skills (e.g., response inhibition, selective attention, set shifting skills). Wait list
      participants will be given a set of written materials (adapted from the EC camp protocol) to
      complete at home with their caregivers after the post-wait list assessment.

      Primary analyses will test for group mean differences in ERN and FPS changes (i.e. from time
      1 to time 2) among children assigned to EC training compared to those in the control
      condition. Secondary analyses will test relationship of changes in neurophysiological targets
      with change in EC and Fear behaviors and change in anxiety severity.

      This study hopes to examine the mechanistic plausibility of a precise,
      neuroscientifically-derived treatment for childhood anxiety, promoting developmental
      trajectories towards health and away from chronic illness.
    
  