
    
      Women were recruited in the first trimester of pregnancy not including cases with congenital
      heart and disabling or autoimmune diseases. Those whose clinical follow-up were lost or, if
      in the postpartum period, who had to be attended in the obstetric intensive care unit were
      eliminated from the study.

      A clinical visit per month was established. Body weight and height were measured in an
      overnight fasting status using an adult scale (Seca, Hamburg, Germany). Prepregnancy Body
      Mass Index (BMI) was calculated as weight in kg divided by height in meters squared based on
      the prenatal chart or on the self-reported weight of women with no prenatal chart.

      Blood pressure was recorded at each visit using a standard sphygmomanometer (Riester Big Ben®
      Square, Germany). Preeclampsia was diagnosed and classified according to the American College
      of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG).

      Fasting blood samples (10 ml) were taken at the HMPMP laboratory in an early morning after an
      overnight fasting. Serum samples were analyzed for glucose and lipid profile (Dimension Rx L
      Max, Dade Behring, USA). At the end of pregnancy, 1 to 2 ml of neonatal peripheral blood
      sample for leukocyte DNA extraction was taken.

      Dietetic treatment was calculated according to height, weeks of gestation, and weight,
      considering an energy intake of 30 kcal/kg of ideal weight and a macronutrient distribution
      of: 55-65% carbohydrates, 10-20% fat, and the remainder as proteins. On each nutritional
      visit, the Healthy Eating Index for Pregnancy (HEI) was evaluated, and all women were
      recommended to include methionine-rich foods (beans, eggs, fish, garlic, lentils, onion, and
      soy) and those containing folic acid and vitamin B12 (beef liver, cereals, whole grains,
      yeast, etc.) in adequate quantities in their diet. The information was complemented with the
      Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ), and the diet adherence was considered adequate with 80%
      compliance to the indicated calories, at least in four visits.

      This project had no risk to pregnant women and their infants, according to the regulations of
      the General Health Research Law of Mexico. We followed the Declaration of Helsinki, and all
      patients were asked to sign the written informed consent.
    
  