
    
      Living kidney donors account for nearly a third of kidney transplants performed in the United
      States each year. While donor nephrectomy poses minimal post-surgical risk, donors face a
      small but measurable increase in the risk of developing kidney failure and other chronic
      diseases (including hypertension, chronic kidney disease, and diabetes) in the long-term.
      Routine screening presents an opportunity for the early detection and management of chronic
      conditions.

      Transplant hospital reporting requirements mandate the submission of laboratory and clinical
      data at 6-months, 1-year, and 2-years after kidney donation, but less than 50% of hospitals
      are able to comply. Transplant hospitals commonly cite barriers such as donor inconvenience,
      direct and indirect costs to donors, donors not wanting to return to the program, and the
      burden of data collection. Tools to improve donor engagement and strategies that mitigate
      patient and administrative burden are needed.

      Financial incentives have been employed in many realms of healthcare to change health-related
      behaviors. Financial incentives include a variety of rewards that have an economic value for
      the recipient, including cash payments, coupons, goods, and services, and have been shown to
      positively influence both simple (i.e. accomplished through a single action) and complex
      (i.e. accomplished repeatedly over a period of time, often involving sustained lifestyle
      modifications) health-related behaviors. However, prior work suggests that the effectiveness
      of financial incentives in achieving health behavior often varies based on the
      characteristics of the population and health behavior of interest and may decrease over time.

      Given that patient-level factors are commonly cited by transplant hospitals as barriers to
      compliance with federally-mandated donor follow-up thresholds, financial incentives might be
      a valuable tool to promote patient engagement in postdonation monitoring efforts. However,
      given the uncertainty in the literature, a randomized controlled trial is necessary to
      evaluate the effectiveness of using financial incentivization to promote patient compliance
      with follow-up care in this setting.
    
  