
    
      Behavioral task

      The behavioral task consists in presentation of a para-foveal numerical target on a screen
      for 16 ms either right or left of a central fixation point, followed by a visual mask, made
      of letters surrounding the target, presented for 250 ms. The delay between the target and the
      mask (Stimulus Onset Asynchrony - SOA) will be variable (16 ms, 33 ms, 50 ms, 66 ms or 83
      ms). Participants will then be asked to perform two tasks. First (objective task),
      participants will be asked to indicate as quickly as possible whether the target was bigger
      or smaller than the digit "5". Second (subjective task), they will be requested to judge the
      visibility of the presented target by indicating whether they had seen the target or not.

      tACS

      Study design

      The study design is composed of three experimental sessions. In these sessions, participants
      will first complete the behavioral paradigm as presented above while having their brain
      activity recorded with EEG. Afterwards, they will re-perform the task during and after tACS
      stimulation. tACS stimulation type will differ in each session : in-phase, anti-phase or sham
      (see below for further details). Stimulation sessions will occur in a double-blind randomized
      crossover design (neither the participant nor the experimenter knows which session includes
      which stimulation type), with at least 2 days of interval between them.

      Stimulation

      During tACS sessions, 6 Hz stimulation (1000 μA) will be applied simultaneously over the left
      prefrontal dorso-lateral cortex (F3 of the 10-20 international scalp EEG system) and the left
      parietal cortex (P3) using an 8-channels stimulator (Starstim NE, Neuroelectrics, Barcelona,
      Spain) with small round sponge electrodes (25 cm2 surface, maximal current density of 0.06
      μA/cm2), controlled via Bluetooth. In the in-phase condition, the phase difference between
      the two stimulation sites will be 0° which will entrain synchronization between sites. In the
      anti-phase condition on the other hand, the phase difference will be 180°, which should
      desynchronize the activity in the two cortices. In the sham condition, the stimulation (also
      anti-phase) will start with a current intensity of 2000 μA lasting for 30 seconds.
      Afterwards, the intensity will progressively decrease over 20 seconds until cessation. Each
      stimulation session will take 20 minutes and the positions of stimulation electrodes and the
      duration of the stimulation will be kept identical for all conditions.

      tDCS

      Study design

      The study is composed of two experimental sessions: one tDCS session and one sham session. In
      the tDCS session, participants will do the behavioral task (with an EEG recording) during and
      after 20 minutes of 1000 μA tDCS stimulation. As a control, participants will do the
      behavioral task in a second session (sham session) during which they will have a sham
      stimulation instead of tDCS stimulation. The two sessions will occur in a double-blind
      randomized crossover design (neither the participant nor the experimenter knows which session
      includes which stimulation type), with at least 2 days of interval between them.

      Stimulation

      During tDCS session, 1000 μA stimulation will be applied simultaneously over the left
      prefrontal dorso-lateral cortex (F3 of the 10-20 international scalp EEG system) and the left
      parietal cortex (P3) using an 8-channels stimulator (Starstim NE, Neuroelectrics, Barcelona,
      Spain) with small round sponge electrodes (25 cm2 surface, maximal current density of 0.06
      μA/cm2), controlled via Bluetooth. In the sham condition, the stimulation will start with a
      current intensity of 1000 μA lasting for 30 seconds. Afterwards, the intensity will
      progressively decrease over 20 seconds until cessation. The reason for this subtle
      manipulation is to make sure that participants will be unable to notice the difference
      between active tDCS and sham tDCS stimulation. Each stimulation session will take 20 minutes
      and the positions of stimulation electrodes and the duration of the stimulation will be kept
      identical for all conditions.
    
  