
    
      Background:

      Low-calorie sweetened beverages (LCSBs) may provide a potentially important means for
      displacing excess calories from free sugars in the diet. However, prospective cohort studies
      suggest that the use of LCSBs may contribute to an increased risk of obesity and diabetes.
      These findings are likely due to methodological limitations of study design and analysis that
      do not account for reverse causality, where higher risk of cardiometabolic outcomes may lead
      to people to switch to LCSBs. There is a need for a systematic review and meta-analysis
      (SRMA) of prospective cohort studies to overcome these methodological limitations.

      Objective:

      We will conduct a SRMA of prospective cohort studies in human subjects that have assessed
      cardiometabolic outcomes using two analytical strategies:

      i) Assessment of change in intake of LCSBs with change in outcome (change analysis)

      ii) Assessment of substitution of LCSBs for sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) or water.

      Design:

      We will conduct a SRMA according to the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of
      Interventions and report the findings according to Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic
      Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) and Meta-analysis of Observational Studies in Epidemiology
      (MOOSE) guidelines.

      Data sources:

      MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library databases will be searched using appropriate search
      terms, supplemented by hand searches of references of included studies. No restriction will
      be placed on language.

      Study selection:

      Prospective cohort studies reporting (a) change analysis (change in intake of LCSBs with the
      change in outcome), and/or (b) substitution analysis (substitution of SSBs with LCSBs or
      water) with more than 1-year of follow-up will be used. Cohort studies that have a follow-up
      duration <1 year, do not report assessment of exposure, or do not provide viable outcome data
      by level of exposure will be excluded.

      Data extraction

      Two or more investigators will independently extract relevant data and assess risk of bias
      using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) for prospective cohorts. All disagreements will be
      resolved by consensus. Risk ratios (RRs), odds ratios (ORs) and hazard ratios (HRs) for
      clinical outcomes in the prospective cohort studies will be extracted or derived from
      clinical event data across exposure categories.

      Outcomes:

      Ten cardiometabolic health outcomes will be assessed:

        1. Global adiposity - body weight

        2. Global adiposity - BMI

        3. Global adiposity - body fat

        4. Abdominal adiposity - waist circumference

        5. Overweight/obesity incidence

        6. Metabolic syndrome incidence

        7. Type 2 diabetes incidence

        8. Cardiovascular disease incidence

        9. Cardiovascular disease mortality

       10. Total mortality

      Data synthesis:

      Natural log-transformed RRs or HRs of clinical outcomes, comparing extreme quantiles (the
      highest exposure versus the lowest exposure or reference group), will be pooled separately
      using the generic inverse variance method with random effects models and expressed as RRs
      with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Heterogeneity will be tested by Cochran's Q statistic
      and quantified by the I2 statistic. To explore sources of heterogeneity, we will conduct
      sensitivity analyses, in which each study is systematically removed. If ≥10 cohort
      comparisons are available, then we will perform an a-priori subgroup analyses by
      meta-regression for follow-up (<10 years vs. ≥10 years), sex (males vs. females, males vs.
      mixed, females vs. mixed), study quality (NOS <6 vs. ≥6) and funding source. Significant
      unexplained heterogeneity will be investigated by additional post hoc subgroup analyses and
      influence analysis. A study will be considered influential if it changes the direction or
      significance of the pooled estimates or the evidence of heterogeneity. Dose response
      estimates will be pooled using one-stage linear mixed model. When ≥10 studies are available,
      publication bias will be investigated by inspection of funnel plots and formal testing using
      the Egger and Begg tests. If publication bias is suspected, we will attempt to adjust for
      funnel plot asymmetry by imputing the missing study data using the Duval and Tweedie trim and
      fill method.

      Evidence assessment:

      The overall certainty of evidence for each outcome will be assessed using the Grading of
      Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations (GRADE).

      Knowledge translation plan:

      The results will be disseminated through interactive presentations at local, national, and
      international scientific meetings and publication in high impact factor journals. Target
      audiences will include the public health and scientific communities with interest in
      nutrition, diabetes, obesity, and cardiovascular disease. Feedback will be incorporated and
      used to improve the public health message and key areas for future research will be defined.
      Applicant/Co-applicant Decision Makers will network among opinion leaders to increase
      awareness and participate directly as committee members in the development of future
      guidelines.

      Significance:

      The proposed project will aid in knowledge translation to the role of the LCSBs role as a
      replacement strategy for SSBs, strengthening the evidence-base for guidelines and improving
      health outcomes by educating healthcare providers and patients, stimulating industry
      innovation, and guiding future research design.
    
  