
    
      Brilacidin is a fully synthetic, non-peptidic, host defense protein mimetic, and has been
      shown to demonstrate anti-inflammatory and antibacterial activities.

      Two prototype tablets have been developed to contain 50 mg or 100 mg of Brilacidin. Matching
      placebo tablets have also been developed. In this Phase 1 study, the delayed release
      prototype tablets will be tested to confirm efficient and specific target release of
      Brilacidin in the colon and to assess the safety, tolerability and the pharmacokinetics of
      Brilacidin administered directly to the colon.

      Three subjects will be enrolled into each cohort of the study. Each subject will receive one
      treatment at one Assessment Visit. In each cohort, two subjects will receive a Brilacidin
      containing dose, and one subject will receive placebo.

      Cohort 1: 50 mg Brilacidin or Placebo; Cohort 2: 100 mg Brilacidin or Placebo; Cohort 3: 200
      mg Brilacidin (as 2 x 100 mg Brilacidin tablets) or 2 x Placebo.

      Each treatment (drug and placebo) will be radiolabelled with technetium-99m (99mTc). The
      radiopharmaceutical, 99mTc-DTPA, does not enter the systemic circulation and is routinely
      used for investigations of this type. In Cohort 1 and 2 each tablet, including placebo, will
      be radiolabelled to contain approximately 4 MBq 99mTc-DTPA at time of dosing. In Cohort 3
      each individual tablet, active or placebo, will be radiolabelled with 2 MBq 99mTc-DTPA to
      give a total dose of 4 MBq per treatment.

      Each tablet will be taken orally with 200 mL room temperature water with subjects in the
      fasted state. The gastrointestinal transit and release behavior of the tablets will be
      studied using gamma scintigraphy. Blood samples will be taken at pre-defined times to allow
      pharmacokinetic (PK) evaluation of drug absorption with respect to time and location of
      tablet release.
    
  