
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of infusional gemcitabine (gemcitabine
      hydrochloride) combined with fixed doses of clofarabine and busulfan in patients with
      lymphoma receiving an allogeneic stem-cell transplant (alloSCT).

      II. To estimate the day +100 success rate, defined as percentage of patients who are alive,
      engrafted and without grade 3-4 graft-versus (vs.)-host-disease (GVHD).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the day +100 success rate (defined as percentage of patients who are alive,
      engrafted and without grade 3-4 graft-vs.-host-disease [GVHD]).

      II. To estimate the rate of event-free (EFS). III. To estimate the rate of overall survival
      (OS). IV. To estimate the response rate (RR) (defined as # of responses / # of patients with
      measurable tumors).

      V. To estimate the complete response (CR) rate (defined as # of complete responses / # of
      patients with measurable tumors).

      VI. To estimate the incidence of grade 2-4 and grade 3-4 acute GVHD. VII. To estimate the
      incidence of limited and extensive chronic GVHD.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of gemcitabine hydrochloride followed by a
      phase II study.

      PREPARATIVE REGIMEN: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over
      40-180 minutes on days -6 and -4, clofarabine IV over 1 hour on days -6 to -3, and busulfan
      IV over 3 hours on days -6 to -3. Patients with matched unrelated donors also receive
      antithymocyte globulin IV on days -3 to -1 and patients with cluster of differentiation
      (CD)20-positive disease also receive rituximab IV on days -14, -7, 1, and 8.

      TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo allogeneic bone marrow (BMT) or peripheral blood stem cell
      transplant (PBSCT) on day 0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously over 24 hours or orally (PO).
      Beginning on day 0, patients receive mycophenolate mofetil IV over 2 hours or PO thrice daily
      (TID).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, and 12 months, and
      then every 6 months for 4 years.
    
  