
    
      e-STEPS is an observational, non-interventional, retrospective review study of healthcare
      medical records conducted in PD units at approximately 12 sites in The Netherlands, Germany,
      Hungary, Portugal, and the UK. There will be no study drug or any other medical intervention
      involved. Furthermore, no patient-identifying information will be transferred to the Study
      Coordinating Centre (SCC) or the sponsor. Medical records of cases with e-SP, BP and NoP who
      meet the proposed study selection criteria will be selected from approximately 12 study sites
      identified across the 5 European countries.

      Each case identified by site study staff as potentially eligible for enrollment into the
      study will be entered into the case disposition log (CDL) and will be assigned a unique
      site-specific study identification number. These cases will be considered the study sampling
      frame. The SCC will select a preliminary target cohort of subjects from the sampling frame by
      selecting all e-SP cases and undertaking a random sample of NoP and BP cases within site to
      ensure 1:1:1 enrollment ratio between the 3 study groups. In the event that a sampling frame
      at a given site contains less NoP or BP cases when compared to e-SP cases, all NoP or BP
      cases will be selected for enrollment into the study and additional cases will be randomly
      selected from another site within the country to make up for the deficit if sampling frames
      allow. Sampling within site or alternatively within country ensures that NoP cases are
      matched to e-SP cases by lot of recalled PD solution. Cases within The Netherlands, Portugal
      and the UK all used the same recalled lot of PD solutions. Therefore, if within site and
      within country sampling cannot be achieved, across country sampling can be undertaken in
      these 3 countries. If it is determined that all e-SP and NoP cases in the sampling frame were
      on CAPD at the time of the index event, any BP cases identified in the sampling frame on APD
      at the time of index event may be excluded from the selection process (may not be selected to
      comprise the preliminary target cohort) and would therefore not be enrolled into the study.

      Local site study staff will review the medical records of the cases included in the
      preliminary target cohort to confirm eligibility. Those cases meeting the eligibility
      criteria will comprise the final study cohort and will be enrolled into the study as
      subjects.

      Pseudonymised data from the subjects' medical records will be abstracted by local site study
      staff and entered at the site into the secured pass-word protected electronic data capture
      (EDC) system. No patient-identifying information will be available to non-site staff; (i.e.,
      representatives of the SCC and the study sponsor). Over the course of the study, as data are
      entered, the case status page within the EDC system will automatically update the study
      disposition of each case. As the data will be automatically quality controlled at the point
      of data entry into the EDC system on the basis of programmed validation rules for each of the
      study variables, quality control and query resolution can be managed remotely. Therefore,
      site data monitoring visits by the SCC are not envisioned. No patient-identifying information
      will be entered into the EDC system; as such, neither the SCC nor the study sponsor will be
      able to identify subjects as actual patients.
    
  