
    
      Restaurants are normative eating contexts for many families. Restaurant meals tend to be
      higher in calories and lower in nutritional quality than those prepared at home. Targeting
      children's food selection in restaurants has the potential to improve diet quality, attenuate
      excess energy intake, and shape healthy habits. The objective of this study is to make
      healthier kids' meal options more appealing and easier to choose via an in-restaurant
      intervention that combines repeated exposure and choice architecture strategies.

      Six locations of a quick-service restaurant will be paired based on income levels in the
      surrounding census tracts. A location from each pair will be randomized to each study group
      (intervention, control). Recruitment and data collection will be conducted across 3 cohorts.
      After recruitment, families will be asked to order and eat like they normally would. All
      participating families will then complete measures of children's orders, intake, and
      demographics. Then families will receive placemats and frequent diner cards. Families in
      intervention restaurants will receive placemats promoting healthier featured kids' meals.
      These families will also receive a frequent diner card, which after purchasing one of the
      featured healthier kids' meals across 6 occasions, makes them eligible for a free kids' meal
      of their choice during a predetermined redemption period. In the control group, generic
      placemats will be provided following baseline data collection, and families will also be
      provided with frequent diner cards that can be used for any kids' meals. During subsequent
      exposure periods, lasting about 2 months per cohort, families will return to the restaurant
      location where they were recruited on a weekly basis. Placemats will be available at the
      restaurant entrance, and corresponding signage will be displayed in the restaurant. In
      intervention restaurants, signs will advertise promoted meals and the option to select a toy
      in place of dessert. Participating children will be able to use their frequent diner card
      during this time to earn a free meal during the subsequent redemption period. Families will
      also be asked to complete a brief online survey once per week to monitor restaurant
      patronage. In each restaurant, study staff will conduct observations of a subsample of
      participating family and server interactions. Finally, post assessments will be completed
      during predetermined redemption periods, lasting about 3 months per cohort. Placemats and
      signage will still be available in restaurants during this time. Study staff will collect the
      frequent diner cards and ask families to order and eat like they normally would and to not
      throw out any food or leftovers. Families will be able to redeem any earned free kids' meals
      during this time. When the family is done eating, study staff will approach the table to
      administer study measures assessing orders, perspectives on the meal, and intake. Finally,
      families will also be prompted to complete an online dietary recall (ASA24) after their post
      assessment.

      The specific aims of this study are: (1) to test effects of a healthier kids' meal
      intervention on children's meal orders, and (2) to test effects of a healthier kids' meal
      intervention on children's dietary intake. It is hypothesized that (1a) children in the
      intervention restaurants will be more likely than controls to select one of the promoted
      healthier kids' meals at post-test, (1b) children in the intervention group will order fewer
      calories and desserts and less saturated fat, sodium, and sugar at post-test versus controls,
      (1c) the promoted healthier meals will make up a greater percentage of kids' meals ordered in
      intervention restaurants versus controls, based on sales data across the study period, and
      (2) compared to controls, children in the intervention group will consume fewer calories and
      less saturated fat, sodium, and sugar in the restaurant at post-test.
    
  