
    
      Difficulties in anxiety management are frequent causes of relapse to alcohol use. Empirical
      data support the role of anxiety in alcohol relapse, and both psychosocial and
      pharmacological treatments for alcohol problems increasingly address the role of negative
      affect in alcohol-use disorders. Due to the lack of large, well-controlled treatment outcome
      trials, the optimal treatment (or combination of treatments) remains unknown. Real world
      practice in the treatment of alcohol-use disorders frequently begins with brief
      detoxification and stabilization, and is often followed by some combination of CBT and
      pharmacotherapy for patients complaining of mood difficulties while attempting early
      abstinence from alcohol.

      The purpose of the present study is to evaluate the relative benefits of psychosocial and
      psychopharmacological therapy for the treatment of co-morbid anxiety and alcohol dependence
      among patients attempting early abstinence from alcohol. We will address the following four
      questions:

        1. During the course of intervention, is treatment of anxiety disorders with combined
           treatments of established utility (among non-alcohol-use-disordered patients) superior
           in managing both return to drinking and anxiety symptoms than either monotherapy, or a
           fully inactive control treatment?

        2. During the follow-up period, will patients who received the combined active treatments
           fare better in maintaining abstinence relative to the single active treatments, and
           those in the control condition?

        3. What psychosocial variables (such as increases or lapses to elevated anxiety) mediate
           return to pre-treatment levels of alcohol use?

        4. Will baseline indices of alcohol dependence and anxiety disorder severity moderate the
           relationship between treatment and outcome during both the acute and follow-up phases of
           the study?
    
  