
    
      Congenital hyperinsulinism (CHI) is a rare disease of infants characterized by the presence
      of functionally defective non-neoplastic beta-cells with inappropriate (over-) secretion of
      insulin, leading to life-threatening hypoglycaemia. Beta cells specifically express the
      glucagon-like-peptide-1 (GLP-1R), which could be a promising target for diagnostic and
      therapeutic purposes. In this study we propose to investigate the physiology of GLP-1
      receptor expression in CHI. Expression of the GLP-1 receptor will be quantified in vivo by
      68Ga-NODAGA-exendin-4 PET/CT. This data will be compared with post-surgical autoradiography
      and morphometric determinations.

      Furthermore, we will evaluate 68Ga-exendin-4 PET/CT for the pre-operative localization of
      foci of over-secreting beta cells in CHI and the discrimination between focal and diffuse
      CHI. We will compare GLP-1R PET/CT to the currently used pre-operative imaging technique
      (18F-DOPA PET combined with contrast enhanced CT). To compare these imaging techniques
      according to sensitivity, we will analyze intra-operative findings and clinical outcomes.

      These highly relevant data will allow us to evaluate the expression of GLP-1R in CHI and its
      usefulness as a target for diagnosis of this disease. Since the localization of foci in CHI
      and the discrimination between focal and diffuse CHI is challenging, surgical removal of
      unnecessary large portions of the pancreas in frequently necessary. Evaluation of a better
      target for pre-operative imaging would therefore be of great value.

      Objective:

      The primary objective is the in vivo and ex vivo investigation of the expression and
      distribution of the GLP-1R in the pancreas of CHI patients. A 68Ga-NODAGA-exendin 4 PET/CT
      will be performed in all patients included in this study. The results of quantitative imaging
      will then be compared to GLP-1R expression and autoradiography of surgical specimens to
      determine the interdependency of radiotracer uptake, beta cell mass and GLP-1R expression.

      Furthermore, GLP-1R imaging will be compared to the standard imaging techniques now used in
      pre-operative imaging of children with CHI. All patients will undergo the standard imaging
      procedure, consisting of an 18F-DOPA PET scan combined with a contrast-enhanced CT. The
      results of the GLP-1R imaging will be compared to standard imaging in respect to sensitivity
      for localization of the lesion and discrimination between focal and diffuse CHI. This will be
      determined by the comparison of the results of pre-operative imaging with intra-operative
      findings.

      Also, the safety (side-effects) of 68Ga-NODAGA-exendin and 18F-DOPA will be assessed.

      Furthermore, dosimetric calculations will be performed and the minimum radioactivity dose of
      68Ga-NODAGA-exendin 4 to obtain acceptable/reliable images will be determined.
    
  