
    
      A. Rationale Masons have the highest rate of overexertion injuries among all construction
      trades and rank second as an occupation for back injuries in the United States. Identified
      ergonomic solutions are the primary method of reducing exposure to risk factors associated
      with musculoskeletal disorders. However, many construction workers lack knowledge about these
      solutions, as well as basic ergonomic principles. Construction apprentices have the greatest
      need for ergonomics training as they embark on their careers to minimize cumulative exposure
      that leads to musculoskeletal disorders. Additionally, apprenticeship training programs often
      lack "soft skills" training on how to appropriately respond to work environments and
      practices that are unsafe. The SAVE program - SAfety Voice for Ergonomics - strives to
      integrate evidence-based health and safety training strategies into current masonry
      apprenticeship skills training to teach ergonomics, problem solving, and speaking up to
      reduce musculoskeletal injury risk. SAVE will incorporate blended learning principles by
      combining traditional, face-to-face teaching methods with e-learning methods.

      B. Objectives The primary objective of this project is to evaluate the SAVE program in a
      cluster randomized controlled trial in 12-15 masonry training centers. Clusters of
      apprentices within centers will be assigned at random to one of four intervention groups (n =
      32 per group): (1) ergonomics training only, (2) combined ergonomics and safety voice
      training, or (3) control group with no additional training intervention. Outcomes assessed at
      baseline, at the conclusion of training, and then at 6 and 12 months post training will
      include: musculoskeletal symptoms, general health perceptions, knowledge of ergonomic and
      safety voice principles, and perception and attitudes about ergonomic and safety voice
      issues. The central hypothesis is that the combination of ergonomics training and safety
      voice promotion will be more effective than no training or either ergonomics training alone
      or safety voice training alone.

      C. Procedures Primary Training Program E-learning Modules. Depending on the group to which a
      training center is assigned, apprentices within that center will view brief e-learning
      training modules to provide apprentices with basic knowledge of ergonomic and/or safety voice
      principles. These modules include text, brief video clips, and interactive on-screen slides
      that guide apprentices through content with brief quizzes that assure understanding.
      Apprentices will complete the modules at the apprenticeship training center. Learning gained
      from completing the e-learning modules will be reinforced by short (10-20 minute), applied,
      face-to-face experiential activities. These interactive, face-to-face, problem-solving
      activities will complement the e-learning and will include vignettes to promote discussion of
      hypothetical worksite cases related to ergonomics and/or safety voice. These vignettes will
      be brief to fit into existing training time demands.

      Secondary (Refresher) Training Program Refresher training for ergonomics and/or safety voice
      will bolster concepts learned by apprentices in the primary training. Depending on the group
      to which a training center is assigned, apprentices within that center will receive refresher
      training through text messages that are sent by the researchers. Secondary training is
      considered medium engagement learning since apprentices will respond to texts. For example,
      an ergonomic-related text message would read, "Keeping work between knee and shoulder level
      reduces the risk of a back or shoulder injury. During the past week have you worked on
      adjustable scaffolding?" The apprentice will respond "Yes" or "No." Apprentices responding
      "Yes" will receive a follow-up text/email reminding them of the importance of keeping work
      between knee and shoulder level. Refresher training will be delivered over a one-year period
      to maximize knowledge retention.
    
  