
    
      The MAGIC trial, also considered the "milestone" study, definitely proved that neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy improves the outcome of patients with locally advanced gastric cancer. Resection
      was considered curative in 79% under combination therapy versus in 69% of only operated
      patients (P = 0.02), 2-year survival rates were 50 and 41%, and 5-year-survival rates were 36
      and 23% (P = 0.009), respectively. The substantial weak point of the MAGIC trial remains the
      fact that only about 40% of the patients received the full dosage of scheduled postoperative
      chemotherapy, mainly due to intolerance or toxicity reasons.

      The noninferiority in relation to survival of capecitabine to 5-FU in triplet regimens for
      the treatment of patients with advanced esophagogastric cancer was demonstrated in the large
      multicenter randomized phase III, REAL-2 study, including 1002 patients. Capecitabine has
      overcome the doubts concerning the potential efficacy of oral drug administration in patients
      with gastric carcinoma, especially in relation to those patients who have undergone partial
      or total gastrectomy. The same study demonstrated the noninferiority of oxaliplatin versus
      cisplatin in advanced gastric cancer and confirmed the acceptable tolerability profile of
      this third-generation platinum analogue. It was anticipated that the use of these newer
      agents as components of triplet regimens would reduce toxicity and thereby render an
      alternative to the standard ECF combination easier to handle as a consequence of replacing
      the cisplatin component with oxaliplatin, replacing the infusional 5-fluorouracil component
      with oral capecitabine in EOX regimen. Furthermore, achieving a median overall survival time
      of 11.2 months, the EOX regimen appeared to be more active than ECF (median overall survival
      time, 9.9 months), with the higher 1-year survival rate 47% vs 38%, respectively. Compared
      with the ECF regimen, EOX was associated with significantly lower rates of grade 3 or 4
      neutropenia and grade 2 alopecia, but significantly higher rates of grade 3 or 4 lethargy,
      diarrhea, and peripheral neuropathy. Based on the results of the REAL study, EOX is therefore
      tolerable, and at least as active as ECF. This modified regimen could therefore be considered
      to be a new standard treatment and may be an appropriate reference regimen for future studies
      in advanced gastric cancer.
    
  