
    
      Acute viral bronchiolitis is one of the most common respiratory diseases in early childhood
      and is a major health problem worldwide. The seasonal burden of the disease, the number of
      hospitalizations each year and the risk of subsequent asthma bring about substantial costs in
      developed countries. Respiratory syncytial virus and Human Rhinovirus seem to be the most
      frequent etiologic agents, but other viruses such as human Metapneumovirus, Influenza virus,
      and Parainfluenza virus can also be involved. The spectrum of clinical outcomes is wide, but
      bronchiolitis is more severe when caused by Respiratory syncytial virus. In contrast, while
      Human Rhinovirus is involved in milder forms, it is more likely to be associated with
      recurrent wheezing in infancy. Acute respiratory failure from pneumonia, influenza, and
      respiratory syncytial virus is responsible for 4.25 million deaths world-wide and the leading
      cause of mortality in low and middle-income countries. In the United Kingdom up to 7% of
      bronchiolitis admissions require intensive care for ventilatory support. One third of
      unplanned infant admissions to pediatric intensive care units have respiratory failure, the
      majority due to bronchiolitis, require invasive mechanical ventilation for 4-7 days and a
      prolonged hospital stay. In countries where there is no retrieval infrastructure, the need to
      develop safe and effective alternatives to invasive ventilation and pediatric intensive care
      unit admission is acute. However, none of the interventions commonly used for infants
      admitted with bronchiolitis is backed by robust evidence of benefit for clinically
      significant outcomes, making this a pressing subject for further study. Typically, intensive
      respiratory support for bronchiolitis is via invasive mechanical ventilation through an
      artificial airway, an intervention with recognized complications in infants. There is
      evidence to support the use of non-invasive ventilation in pediatric acute respiratory
      failure of variable causes.Although evidence for use in bronchiolitis is increasing,clinical
      acceptance is not universal and published best practice guidelines are not easily available.
    
  