
    
      This will be a prospective, randomized, double blind clinical trial. Subjects will be ASA I
      and II women (per American Society of Anesthesiologists Physical Status Classification System
      or ASA) aged 18 years and older, who are known to have had ADP with an epidural needle during
      placement of neuraxial labor analgesia, and have either an intrathecal catheter or epidural
      catheter in situ. Patients will be randomized to either receive PFM or placebo (sterile
      normal saline (NS or SAL)).

      For patients with an epidural catheter, the group "EPID PFM" will receive 3 mg (6 ml) of PFM,
      followed by 3 ml of sterile normal saline to be administered through the epidural catheter.
      The placebo group, "EPID NS", will receive 6 ml of sterile normal saline via the epidural
      catheter followed by another 3 ml NS. For patients with an intrathecal catheter, the group,
      "IT PFM" will receive 200 micrograms (mcg) (0.4 ml) of preservative-free morphine, followed
      by a flush of the catheter with 2 ml of sterile saline. The placebo group will receive 0.4 ml
      and then 2 ml of sterile normal saline through the intrathecal catheter. Sixteen to 24 hours
      after receiving the first study drug, patients in all groups will be visited by an
      investigator, and then daily thereafter during the hospital admission. They will be evaluated
      for the presence of headache, analgesia requirements, need for EBP and the severity of opioid
      side effects. As long as the patient is afebrile, has not been experiencing severe opioid
      side effects and the catheter is in place and intact, the patient will then receive the
      identical study drug (for a total of two doses). The epidural/intrathecal catheter will be
      removed immediately after the second administration of the study drug.

      After discharge, the patient will be followed up once daily by telephone for up to a minimum
      of 5 days after receiving the last dose of the study drug if they remain headache free, and
      for a minimum of 3 days after resolution of PDPH.

      Statistical Design:

      This will be a prospective randomized double blind clinical trial. The primary outcome will
      be the incidence of PDPH at 48 hours after ADP. The primary outcome of the trial is the
      incidence of PDPH at 48 hours after ADP. We will consider a difference in incidence of PDPH
      between the placebo and treatment groups of 25 % to be significant, based on the findings of
      Al Metwalli et al. (Anaesthesia. 2008; 63(8):847-50), and the meta-analysis by Heesen et al.
      (Int J Obstet Anesth. 2013 ; 22(1):26-30).

      Estimates of PDPH rate after ADP range from 50 to 85%. Our rate at CUMC for the past several
      years is 66% (OB Anesthesia Division QA data). For calculation of our sample size, we
      determined that an absolute 25% decrease in PDPH would be clinically significant (i.e., 66%
      to ~40%). For a power of 90% and an alpha of 0.05, this requires 83 subjects per group (2
      epidural groups compared to each other, 2 spinal groups compared to each other). We are not
      specifically powering this for comparison of the spinal to the epidural groups, although we
      will likely be able to do so. We therefore, aim to recruit 100 subjects per group (for a
      total of 400 across all centers) assuming 10-15% of subjects may be lost because of
      inadvertent withdrawal of the catheter, subject withdrawal, or lost to follow up after
      discharge.

      This is intended to be a multicenter study involving 5 academic tertiary hospitals, having
      >2,000 vaginal deliveries per year. Since the rate of accidental dural puncture is between 1
      and 2%, we estimate we should be able to recruit 100 subjects per year. Categorical data
      (presence or absence of dural puncture headache, need for epidural blood patch) will be
      analyzed using Chi-square analysis.
    
  