
    
      This is a Phase 2, randomized, controlled, open label multi-center study to assess the
      efficacy and safety of DFV890 for the treatment of SARS-CoV-2 infected patients with COVID-19
      pneumonia and impaired respiratory function.

      The study consists of four parts:

      Screening / Baseline visit (Day -1 to 1): lasts up to a maximum of 24 hours and comprises a
      screening / baseline assessment. This visit will be used to confirm that the study inclusion
      and exclusion criteria are met and serves as baseline assessment prior to randomization.

      Treatment period (Day 1-15): Participants in the investigational treatment arm will receive
      DFV890 orally or via a nasogastric feeding tube administered for a total of 14 days in
      addition to SoC. Study drug will be supplied in tablet form which can be crushed, allowing
      for both oral and nasogastric administration. Participants in the control arm will receive
      SoC alone.

      Participants will be randomized as soon as possible, but within a maximum of 24 hours after
      screening in a 1:1 ratio to receive either DFV890 in addition to SoC or SoC alone. Study
      assessments will be conducted every 2 days for hospitalized participants.

      The End of Treatment (EOT) visit will take place on Day 15. If participants are discharged
      from the hospital prior to Day 15, assessments on the day of discharge should be performed
      according to the schedule listed under Day 15; participants will continue to take the
      investigational treatment at home to complete the 14-day treatment period and the
      participants should return to the site for the Day 15/EOT assessment (all other visits
      between discharge and Day 15 can be omitted). If a hospital visit is not possible at Day 15,
      then home nursing services may be used to support this last visit where these are available
      in accordance with local guidelines and should include all possible assessments (e.g., oxygen
      saturation with portable monitors).

      Follow-up (Day 16-29): After completion of the 14 day- treatment period, participants will be
      observed until Day 29 or discharged from hospital, whichever is sooner. Study assessments to
      be conducted every 2 days for hospitalized participants.

      If participants are discharged from hospital prior to Day 29, a study visit conducted by
      telephone will occur on Day 29 (all other visits between discharge and Day 29 can be
      omitted).

      30-day safety follow-up assessment (Day 45): A follow-up visit for safety will be conducted
      by telephone.
    
  