
    
      Annual epidemics of seasonal influenza cause substantial morbidity and mortality in the U.S.
      with high rates of hospitalizations, emergency department and outpatient visits, and medical
      costs. Children experience significant morbidity from influenza, and also play a critical
      role in spreading infection to adults. Since 2010, the Advisory Committee on Immunization
      Practices (ACIP) has recommended influenza vaccination for all children >6 months of age.
      However, vaccination rates remain very low-- only 56% of children 2-17 years are vaccinated.
      Low rates are a concern for both seasonal influenza and in preparation for pandemic
      influenza. One of the nationally recommended strategies for raising childhood influenza
      vaccination rates is to use parent reminder/recall (R/R) by phone or mail, which can raise
      rates by up to 20 percentage points. However, less than 16% of primary care practices use R/R
      despite many studies showing its effectiveness.

      Statewide immunization information systems (IISs) now exist in all states to track childhood
      vaccinations, but they have not been used for R/R for influenza vaccine because of the lack
      of evidence for its effectiveness and lack of a template for IIS-based R/R. The investigators
      have united two leading immunization research groups (Denver, CO and Rochester, NY) to assess
      the impact of centralized IIS-based influenza vaccine R/R, and to evaluate the effect of two
      types of R/R (autodial v. mail R/R) over usual care. The investigators will also develop
      tools to aid other states in creating efficient IIS R/R systems for seasonal and possible
      pandemic influenza outbreaks.

      In Colorado, evaluate the impact of (a) autodialer reminders and (b) mailed messages versus
      standard-of-care control on raising influenza vaccination rates among children 6m-17 years of
      age.

      The investigators propose a 3-arm RCT study design with the following study arms:

        1. Standard of care control

        2. Autodialer (3 reminders)- with brief education message + practice name + practice phone
           #

        3. Mailed reminder (3 reminders)-- with brief education message + practice name + practice
           phone #
    
  