
    
      Cervical cancer is the most common malignant tumor of the female productive system in
      developing countries and regions. Since five large-sample randomized controlled clinical
      trials have reported that concurrent chemoradiotherapy can improve the survival rate of
      patients with cervical cancer in the early 20th century, cisplatin-based concurrent
      chemoradiotherapy has become the standard treatment for locally advanced cervical cancer
      (LACC) . LACC has the characteristics of high invasiveness, high lymphatic metastasis and
      poor prognosis. The size and stage of the tumor are two independent prognostic factors. In
      2008, a retrospective study published in Journal of Clinical Oncology(JCO) suggested that
      single-agent concurrent chemoradiotherapy did not improve disease-free survival (DFS) or
      overall survival (OS) for patients with FIGO stage II-IVA tumors. Multiple studies reported
      poor prognosis in patients with primary tumors whose diameters were larger than 4 cm, 5 cm or
      6 cm , and in 2016, Fokdal. et al. reported a low local control rate if the residual tumor
      volume was larger than 30 cc prior to afterloading brachytherapy . In the EMBRACE trial,
      Jastaniyah et al. divided tumors into five groups based on the difference between the tumor
      volume before treatment and prior to afterloading brachytherapy, and found that the dose
      coverage of the HR-CTV by D90 was low for patients with a large primary tumor volume and a
      poor treatment response [13]. Therefore, for patients with a large primary tumor volume,
      further studies are required to investigate whether accelerated tumor volume regression prior
      to afterloading brachytherapy is meaningful to escalating the local afterloading dose
      delivered to tumor and improving the local control rate and OS.

      In recent years, with the rapid development of molecular biology, there have been multiple
      clinical trials regarding the molecular targeted drug therapy for tumor cell-specific targets
      . The angiogenesis inhibitor, bevacizumab, is the first molecular targeted drug for recurrent
      or advanced cervical cancer, which inhibits tumor angiogenesis by blocking the function of
      the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). In a GOG phase II clinical trial, bevacizumab
      was applied to 46 patients with recurrent cervical cancer. The study reported a
      progression-free survival (PFS) of more than 6 months, with a median PFS and a median OS of
      3.50 months and 7.29 months, respectively. Another GOG240 phase III clinical trial showed
      that chemotherapy combined with bevacizumab extended the OS of patients with recurrent and
      metastatic cervical cancer. United States' NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines recommend the
      combined use of bevacizumab with paclitaxel + cisplatin for the first-line treatment of
      current and metastatic cervical cancer. However, there is a lack of evidence for the use of
      bevacizumab in the treatment of LACC.

      The above background information raises the questions of: during the initial treatment of
      LACC, can the introduction of bevacizumab improve the patient's tumor regression rate and OS?
      And compared to concurrent chemoradiotherapy directly combined with bevacizumab, can
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy combined with bevacizumab + concurrent chemoradiotherapy further
      improve the therapeutic outcome? However, currently there is no research on these topics. In
      2017, our research team reported poor prognosis in patients with LACC who had a high VEGFR
      expression . This result indicated that anti-angiogenic therapy could benefit patients with
      LACC. To investigate the clinical efficacy and safety of bevacizumab in treating local
      advanced cervical cancer, we design this clinical study
    
  