
    
      Study Drugs:

      Pazopanib is designed to block the growth of blood vessels that supply nutrients needed for
      tumor growth. This may prevent or slow the growth of cancer cells.

      Vorinostat is designed to cause chemical changes in different groups of proteins that are
      attached to DNA (the genetic material of cells), which may slow the growth of cancer cells or
      cause the cancer cells to die.

      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, up to 12 dose levels of pazopanib
      and vorinostat will be tested. Three (3) to 6 participants will be enrolled at each dose
      level of the combination of pazopanib and vorinostat. The first group of participants will
      receive the lowest dose level of pazopanib and vorinostat. Each new group(s) will receive a
      higher combination dose of pazopanib and vorinostat than the group before it, if no
      intolerable side effects were seen. Participants may be enrolled on 1-3 similar dose levels
      of pazopanib and vorinostat at the same time. You will be assigned to a dose level based on
      when you joined this study. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose(s) of the
      study drug combination is found.

      The dose of the study drug combination that you receive may be lowered if you have
      intolerable side effects.

      Once the highest tolerable dose of pazopanib and vorinostat is found, this combination dose
      will be given to an expansion group of 14 additional participants.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will take pazopanib and vorinostat by mouth 1 time each day. Note that you will not take
      the study drugs at the same time as each other. You should take pazopanib either 1 hour
      before or 2 hours after eating a meal. You should take vorinostat with food.

      Study Visits:

      Each study cycle is 28 days.

      At all study visits, you will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and side effects you
      may be having.

      If you are able to take your blood pressure at home, you will be asked to take your blood
      pressure each day while you are participating on this study.

      Within 7 days before the first dose of study drugs:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs
           (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate).

        -  You will be asked how well you are able to perform the normal activities of daily living
           (performance status).

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  If you are able to become pregnant, you will have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) or urine
           pregnancy test.

      Every week during Cycle 1, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

      During Week 1 of each cycle:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

      At the end of Cycle 2 and then every 2-3 cycles after that:

        -  You will have a CT, MRI, positron emission tomography (PET) scan, and/or x-ray to check
           the status of the disease.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to
           measure tumor markers.

      After Cycle 6, you are only required to visit MD Anderson every 2 cycles if you get your
      blood draws at your local doctor at the beginning of each cycle. Talk to the study staff
      about this option.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will be taken off study early if the disease gets worse, or you have
      intolerable side effects.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-study visit.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Within 30 days after your last dose of study drugs, you will have an end-of-study visit. At
      this visit, the following tests and procedures performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to
           measure tumor markers.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a chest x-ray, CT, MRI, and/or
           PET scan to check the status of the disease.

      Up to 174 evaluable patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD
      Anderson.
    
  