
    
      This is a Phase 3 Multi-Site, Randomised, Placebo Controlled, Double Blind, Single Dose Study
      of TY027 for Early Treatment of COVID-19.

      Efficacy and safety of single dose IV infusion of TY027 in COVID-19 patients will be
      assessed.

      A total of 1,305 COVID-19 patients will be enrolled. The first 15 patients will be randomised
      1:1:1 to receive either (i) a single fixed dose of 1,500 mg TY027, (ii) a single fixed dose
      of 2,000 mg TY027 or (iii) Placebo (N = 5 per group) for initial safety assessment. This
      safety assessment will comprise the safety review of clinical signs, adverse events (AEs) and
      laboratory test results up to Day 3 post-dose.

      Subsequent patients will be randomised 1:1 to receive either a single fixed dose of 2,000 mg
      TY027 (2,000 mg TY027 group) or Placebo (Placebo group) (N = 645 per group).

      All patients will be inpatient for up to 7 days post-dosing and followed up on Days 14 and
      28.

      If a patient becomes clinically well enough for discharge before Day 7, at the discretion of
      attending physician, collection of subsequent events/parameters such as abbreviated physical
      examinations, vital signs, clinical laboratory assessments, pharmacodynamic assessment,
      biomarker assessment, disseminated intravascular coagulation assessment scheduled after
      discharge will no longer be feasbile. Conversely, if a patient was to be hospitalised beyond
      7 days for medically indicated reasons, daily monitoring and medical assessment will
      continue, with any additional ad hoc sampling to be recorded as unscheduled visit(s).

      Remote monitoring through a telephone or video call will be performed on days post-discharge
      as per originally scheduled in schedule of events, as well as on Day 14 while patients are
      serving their quarantine order or has been discharged home.

      All discharged patients are to contact the Principal Investigator or the study team as soon
      as possible should they experience a worsening of their condition, or if they are admitted to
      hospital for COVID-19-related symptoms, before their Day 28 visit.

      Final safety and efficacy analysis of all patients will be assessed at the end of the study.
    
  