
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with stage III non-small cell cancer treated
           with chemotherapy comprising cisplatin and vinorelbine ditartrate (CV) followed by
           radical radiotherapy versus concurrent CV chemoradiotherapy followed by CV chemotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the progression-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the local progression-free survival (local control).

        -  Compare the hematological, pulmonary, esophageal, and neurological toxicities.

        -  Compare the response.

        -  Compare the quality of life.

        -  Compare the cost-effectiveness.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      clinically important factors. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (sequential treatment): Patients receive cisplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and
           vinorelbine ditartrate IV over 5-10 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 3
           weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
           Beginning in week 15, patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 4 weeks.

        -  Arm II (concurrent treatment): Patients undergo radiotherapy as in arm I beginning in
           week 1. Patients receive cisplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1-4 and vinorelbine
           ditartrate IV over 5-10 minutes on days 1 and 8. Chemotherapy repeats every 3 weeks for
           up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, monthly for 6 months, and then at each follow-up
      visit.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 508 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  