
    
      Sleep is severely disturbed in mechanically ventilated ICU patients, especially those after
      surgery. Polysomnographic studies performed in these patients demonstrated a severe increase
      in sleep fragmentation, prolonged N1 and N2 sleep, reduced N3 and REM sleep, and an abnormal
      distribution of sleep because almost half of the total sleep time occurred during the
      daytime. Patients reported little or no sleep, poor sleep quality, frequent awakening, and
      daytime sleep.

      Many factors are responsible for sleep disturbance in postoperative ICU patients with
      mechanical ventilation, these include the severity of surgical stress and illness, ICU
      environment, mechanical ventilation, pain, sedatives and analgesics, and various other
      therapy. Sleep disturbances produce harmful effects on postoperative outcomes. It is
      associated with increased prevalence of delirium, cardiac events and worse functional
      recovery. Moreover, patients with sleep disturbances are more sensitive to pain.

      Unlike other sedative agents, dexmedetomidine exerts its sedative effects through an
      endogenous sleep-promoting pathway and produces a N2 sleep-like state. In mechanically
      ventilated ICU patients, nighttime infusion of sedative dose of dexmedetomidine (median 0.6
      microgram/kg/h) preserved the day-night cycle of sleep and improved the sleep architecture by
      increasing sleep efficiency and stage N2 sleep.

      Studies showed that, in mechanically ventilated patients, light sedation is better than deep
      sedation for patients' outcomes, including shortened duration of ventilation and length of
      ICU stay, and decreased mortality. Some studies even showed that no sedation (analgesia only)
      is better than sedation. In a recent study of non mechanical ventilated elderly patients who
      were admitted to the ICU after surgery, non-sedative low-dose dexmedetomidine infusion (at a
      rate of 0.1 microgram/kg/h during the night on the day of surgery) increased the percentage
      of stage N2 sleep (and decreased the percentage of N1 sleep), prolonged the total sleep time,
      increased the sleep efficiency, and improved the subjective sleep quality.

      The investigators hypothesize that, in mechanically ventilated patients who were admitted to
      the ICU after surgery, low-dose dexmedetomidine infusion may also improve sleep quality.
    
  