
    
      A low-pain lancing is being developed code name Aurora) for use with a 33g proprietary lancet
      (code name Velvet). This study evaluates the pain associated with finger lancing using this
      device and compares that pain to other commercially available lancing devices and associated
      lancets.

      All lancets used in the study are currently commercially available except the Facet 33g
      lancet, which is a prototype version of commercially available lancets.

      The Roche Multiclix, Roche Softclix, One Touch Comfort and Bayer Microlet 2 lancing devices
      are all commercially available.

      The Aurora Lancing Device is effective in obtaining a sufficient blood sample for performing
      an accurate blood glucose measurement; and the benefits of using the Aurora Lancing Device
      outweighs any residual risks associated with the product. Literature concerning blood glucose
      testing was researched by using popular medical databases such as pubmed.gov,
      diabeteshealth.com, clinicaltrial.gov and search terms lancing device, clinical study, blood
      volume and pain. Using other popular search engines such as Google was beneficial in helping
      to support claims concerning safety and efficacy. A commercial database company, NERAC was
      used as a part of the literature research effort. Our review, together with preliminary
      in-house bench testing, shows that the Aurora Lancing Device should be able to:

        -  Obtain enough blood volume for a meter reading that measures blood glucose levels;

        -  Is as safe as comparative lancing devices currently on the market;

        -  Produces no more pain than comparative lancing devices currently on the market using a
           28 gauge needle; and

        -  Is representative of "current state of the art" The Aurora Lancing Device uses a 33
           gauge, uniquely designed lancet developed under project Velvet. The blood lancet is
           designed so that it can only be used in the Aurora lancing device. The lancing device
           features multiple depth settings and includes alternate site test capability. The lancet
           guidance system is designed to maximize lancet control thereby increasing comfort and
           reducing pain perception. The Aurora lancing device is comparable to the Roche Softclix
           and other lancing devices already in commercial distribution. Like Aurora the Roche
           Softclix lancing device offers diabetics a unique lancet design and precise lancet
           motion. Roche Softclix uses a 28 gauge lancet and has eleven depth settings as well as
           alternative site test capability.
    
  