
    
      Aquatic based training can offer many of the same benefits associated with a land based
      exercises but water has certain properties that provide a more gentle and welcoming
      environment for exercising. Buoyancy in water counteracts gravity to support the weight of
      the subject and decrease the forces put on the joints. Viscosity of water can provide
      resistance proportional to the effort exerted and with gentle friction enhancing
      proprioceptive feedback. Immersing in warm water can cause an increase in body temperature
      due to specific heat and thermal conductivity, which can cause blood vessels to dilate. In
      addition, hydrostatic forces reduce edema, increasing venous return and healthy circulation.
      [Prins, 1999]; [Wilder, 1998]

      Studies have shown that water based exercise has been proven to significantly decrease pain
      in people with knee osteoarthritis compared to those in a land based exercise program.
      [Silva, 2003] In comparing an aquatic physical therapy session to a no intervention group the
      aquatic program resulted in less pain, improved physical function, quality of life, and
      strength. [Hinman, 2007]

      The purpose of this research study is to determine whether an aquatic therapy program aimed
      at increasing muscle power will be effective in improving knee symptoms and mobility in men
      and women with symptomatic knee osteoarthritis.

      The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of aquatic power training for improving
      mobility limitations, disability and quality of life in older adults with symptomatic knee
      OA.

      Hypothesis 1: In older adults with symptomatic knee OA, a 6-week aquatic power training
      intervention will reduce lower limb mobility limitations (400m walk time).

      Hypothesis 2: In comparison to baseline measures, at 6-week follow-up, there will be
      improvements in a) lower limb function (LLFDI), b) quality of life (KOOS Knee QOL),c) knee OA
      specific pain (KOOS pain) scores, and d) vastus lateralis muscle bulk (thigh muscle). These
      changes will be sustained at 12 week follow-up.
    
  