
    
      The study will be performed at all participating centers and will consist of the following
      assessments:

      Core study (assessments at baseline and at the end of treatment)

        -  Standard oncology assessment per local site

        -  NCI-CTC v.5 sensory and motor

        -  PRO-CTCAE

        -  PI-NRS

        -  NPS-CIN

        -  EORTC CIPN20©

        -  FACT-GOG NTX v.4©

        -  TNSn©

        -  PGIC

        -  OXA-NQ

      Extended study (at all available sites - any combination of assessment methods is allowed,
      minimum at baseline and at the end of treatment)

        -  EORTC CIPN15

        -  CIPN-R-ODS

        -  TNSc© at the same time points as for questionnaire

        -  OXA-NQ (also at mid-treatment)

        -  nerve conduction study of the radial (motor and sensory), ulnar (motor and sensory),
           sural, dorsal sural and common peroneal nerves (*)

        -  QST (*)

        -  Serum for biomarkers search (*)

        -  DN4

      Rationale: Within a multi-center international collaboration among experienced neurologists,
      oncologists, nurses and symptom scientists, the principal aim of this study is to evaluate
      responsiveness of a set of outcome measures for CIPN evaluation in order to define the gold
      standard for its assessment.

      The assessment of CIPN will be performed at different levels of investigation. The Core study
      will allow the evaluation of subjects with common devices, so that an assessment can be
      performed at any medical site (expected time for questionnaires completion 15 minutes).

      The Extended study will add any combination of the listed assessment methods/biological
      sample collection, in order to ascertain whether this approach can provide a more careful and
      clinically-relevant estimate of the peripheral nervous system damage. Comparison between
      healthcare evaluation and subjects' report of CIPN severity using established questionnaires
      will be performed in both Core and Extended studies.

      Aims: The primary aim for this study is to test responsiveness of the different assessment
      methods used in the core study, in a multi-center, multi-regional International setting,
      comparing changes from baseline to end of treatment. Secondary aims are:

        -  to evaluate responsiveness (changes from base line to end of treatment) also of the
           other outcome measures used in the Extended Study;

        -  to evaluate mid-treatment data predictiveness of end of treatment neurological status
           for each outcome measure;

        -  to evaluate recovery rate/modification of the neurological status for the follow up
           evaluations (3/6/12/24 months after treatment), stratifying data for different drugs.

      Study Design: 1000 patients who are candidates for neurotoxic chemotherapy for any cancer
      with non-investigational drugs (including immune checkpoint inhibitors and "targeted" drugs)
      will be enrolled from participating centers. A trained investigator in each participating
      center will perform the selected healthcare-assessed scales and supervise the
      patient-completed measures as presented in Table 1. Subjects will be examined at least at
      baseline and end of treatment (Core Study) and at additional intermediate and follow-up
      timepoints (Extended study), according to their treatment plan.

      Study Treatments: There are no study-specified treatments, as subjects will receive only
      their standard of care chemotherapy. The investigators will not influence decisions regarding
      treatment duration nor supply medication for this study. However, all treatment regimens will
      be registered.

      Participating Centers minimum requirements: Participating Centers should:

        1. accept the study protocol and have their participation approved by a local Ethics
           Committee/Institutional Review Board

        2. have access through an internet connection to the secure server located at the main site

        3. guarantee the proper assessment of the selected patients at least at the Core study
           level

        4. have the potential to recruit at least 30 patients/year

        5. have the capacity to upload the data collected from each patient within 1 week
    
  