
    
      As no curative treatment is currently available for ulcerative colitis (UC), treatment
      options are restricted to controlling symptoms, maintaining remission and preventing relapse.
      As such, treatment of iron deficiency anaemia (IDA), a key symptom of the disease, is
      integral to the medical management of UC. Iron deficiency anaemia in UC is a chronically
      debilitating disorder which has a significant impact on the quality of life of affected
      subjects. Characteristic symptoms of IDA include chronic fatigue, headache, and subtle
      impairment of cognitive function. Up to one third of subjects with UC suffer from recurrent
      anaemia, with hospitalization required in severe cases. First line standard therapy for mild
      to moderate IDA in UC is typically oral ferrous products (OFP), however this is often not
      successful. Many subjects are intolerant and suffer from continuously occurring side effects,
      occasional exacerbation of inflammatory lesions and failure to correct iron deficiency.
      Common adverse effects of OFP include nausea, epigastric discomfort and constipation, all of
      which are dose-related and appear especially evident in subjects with UC.

      As compared to oral ferrous iron, oral ferric iron can be administered with improved
      tolerability and the total dose exposure of unabsorbed iron within the gastrointestinal tract
      is significantly reduced. In addition, the iron is retained in its chelated form if not
      absorbed and this may reduce the risk of irritation within the gastrointestinal tract.
      Clinical studies conducted to date provide preliminary evidence for the therapeutic potential
      of ST10-021 in patients with IDA in Inflammatory Bowel Disease, including UC.

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether ST10-021 is safe and effective in the
      treatment of IDA in subjects with non-active UC. In an effort to target an underserved
      population, the study will include only those subjects who have failed OFP in the past, or
      where OFP cannot be used.
    
  