
    
      This clinical trial will test the FamTechCare intervention that uses multidisciplinary
      professional guidance based on in-home video monitoring to support family caregivers in
      managing behaviors of persons with dementia (PWD). Families provide the majority of care for
      PWD at home. However the stress of caregiving is so significant that it increases caregiver
      morbidity and mortality. Stress is magnified by disruptive behaviors that frequently lead to
      nursing home placement. In-home video monitoring allows experts to assess behaviors of PWD
      and to identify antecedents, recommend specific interventions, and subsequently evaluate
      caregiver outcomes. FamTechCare uses new technology to link family caregivers to experts for
      guidance in managing disruptive behaviors, supporting continued care at home while reducing
      the negative effects of caregiving.

      Caregiver-PWD dyads (N=88) will be randomly assigned to intervention or control groups. Both
      groups will record behaviors during daily care for 3 months using a home monitoring unit.
      Notably, this new technology captures 3-5 minutes prior to the behavior, thus recording
      behavior triggers and precursors. Intervention group videos will be auto-uploaded to a Health
      Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) secure Internet site for weekly team
      review with in-home feedback to caregivers in behavior management. The time and attention
      equivalent control group will receive a weekly phone call from a nurse, but their recorded
      videos will be held for review and feedback after 3 months.

      Study aims are to identify interventions, based on in-home observations, to assist caregivers
      in behavior management. Between-group effects on outcomes, including PWD disruptive behaviors
      and caregiver burden and other negative outcomes will be compared using linear mixed
      modeling. Ease of use and satisfaction, cost-efficiency, and factors influencing likelihood
      of translation into practice will be evaluated. This tests new technology for direct
      observation and immediate feedback to empower families to manage PWD behaviors at home while
      reducing caregiver stress and morbidity. Technology links caregivers to individualized expert
      guidance, acknowledging the importance and burden of their role. This study addresses NIH
      missions and the 2012 National Plan to Address Alzheimer's disease goals, integrating
      strategies to promote adoption and use of aging services technologies in interventions that
      will reduce negative caregiver outcomes, a growing public health problem.
    
  