
    
      Of the esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma (AEG) is a 1 region of the 5 cm region in the
      esophageal gastric junction. Due to the special anatomical location, the biological behavior
      of esophageal cancer and gastric cancer are not the same. Because of its wide range of
      lesions, the majority of the Siewert classification system will be divided into three types:
      I type, CM type, CM 1-5, which is the 5 cm of the CM L, which is the traditional meaning of
      cardiac carcinoma. In the investigators country, the majority of patients with type II and
      III are 2,3,4. For the resection of esophageal gastric junction adenocarcinoma, the main
      treatment method for the treatment of surgical treatment. The high incidence of type II and
      type III AEG, type III patients more than the use of the abdominal approach to the proximal
      gastrectomy, more than by the Department of general surgery. In patients with lesions, the
      lymph node metastasis is also characterized by a bidirectional transfer of the lymph nodes
      and the peritoneal cavity with the lesion of the two boundary. In order to ensure that the
      upper cut edge of the esophagus and the dissection of the mediastinal lymph nodes, the
      domestic more by the Department of thoracic surgery. For the part of the patients, the
      traditional standard surgical approach to the left thoracic approach with open
      phrenoesophageal, partial resection of the stomach, aortic arch esophagogastric anastomosis +
      thoraco abdominal 2-field lymph node dissection dissection [5,6]. The minimally invasive
      surgery in the treatment of esophageal cancer and gastric cancer has been widely accepted by
      domestic and foreign counterparts. For I type AEG patients with type Ivor-Lewis and type III
      AEG patients are commonly used in the treatment of gastric cancer, and the corresponding
      minimally invasive surgery has a certain development [7,8]. And for type II AEG patients with
      relatively standard minimally invasive surgery, there is no unit carried out at home and
      abroad. Therefore, how to choose the minimally invasive method to complete this operation is
      more thorough. It has become a hot research topic in the domestic and foreign doctors. It has
      very important clinical significance and application prospect.

      For the type II type of esophageal gastric junction adenocarcinoma, the mainstream of the
      traditional surgical method for the left chest approach to open the chest. The operation has
      the following disadvantages: 1) the integrity of the chest wall and diaphragm, the impact of
      the chest and abdomen of patients with large, close to the long-term life quality is greatly
      affected by the traditional surgery using the right side of the chest, abdominal lymph node
      dissection through the diaphragm to complete, and its complete abdominal approach to the
      poor. The foreign part of the center for smaller lesions of type II esophageal gastric
      junction adenocarcinoma underwent minimally invasive Ivor Lewis esophagectomy, but it exists
      the following drawbacks: 1) is not suitable for larger tumors; 2) gastric resection is not
      enough, the type of esophageal and gastric junction adenocarcinoma essence should be a
      special type of gastric carcinoma, proximal gastric resection should be for the removal of
      one of the standard. And the position of the operation is relatively high, which can lead to
      a large number of esophageal resection, and the length of esophageal resection is more than
      3. The 5cm is sufficient. Therefore, how to implement a minimally invasive surgical approach
      to the upper and lower middle and upper mediastinal and abdominal lymph nodes is a hot
      research topic in the field of esophageal gastric junction adenocarcinoma.

      Up to now, there is no reasonable standard minimally invasive surgery for treatment of type
      II esophageal gastric junction adenocarcinoma. The investigators sum up the experience of the
      past in the minimally invasive resection of esophageal cancer, and combine domestic and
      foreign research results. Pioneered by laparoscopic mobilization of the stomach and
      dissection of the abdominal field lymph node + thoracoscopic (left thoracic approach) to free
      the esophagus and cleaning + mirror under the purse string forceps esophagogastric aortic
      arch anastomosis under lower mediastinal lymph node, corresponding to the operation is the
      traditional through left thoracotomy combined with open operation on diaphragm. Can achieve
      the same with the traditional surgical resection of the tumor, while taking into account the
      characteristics of minimally invasive surgery. In this study, cases of type II esophageal
      gastric junction adenocarcinoma cases were collected from 120 patients with type II
      esophageal gastric junction adenocarcinoma by prospective randomized controlled clinical
      trial. Comparison of different surgical methods for patients with the safety of surgery,
      oncology resection range, the incidence of short-term complications. The effect of different
      surgical methods on the survival rate and quality of life of the two groups were compared
      with the postoperative follow-up. The surgical treatment of esophageal carcinoma with a
      reasonable level of type II type of esophageal gastric junction adenocarcinoma is improved,
      and the surgical treatment of esophageal gastric junction adenocarcinoma is improved.
    
  