
    
      The goal of this study is to test the effects of interventions informed by behavioral
      economics on the healthfulness of grocery purchases among diabetic adults. This study has a
      3-group experimental design; adult patients with diabetes or at risk for diabetes who
      typically grocery shop in-person will be randomly assigned to one of two interventions or a
      control group. In all groups, recipe cards that follow the evidence-based DASH diet and
      correspond to dietary recommendations for diabetic patients will be provided. In addition,
      the first intervention, Online, will utilize online grocery shopping at a local grocery store
      to promote healthier purchasing, with a goal of removing visceral factors that can lead to
      impulse purchases in stores. The second intervention, Defaults, will augment the Online
      intervention, showing participants a default shopping cart when they log into their accounts.
      They will be told that their cart has been filled with items that conform to a diabetic diet
      and can be used to make the recipes from the provided recipe cards, and that they may modify
      their carts as they like. In the control group, participants will shop in-person as usual.

      At baseline, all participants will complete a survey online or via phone and then will
      grocery shop in-person as usual. Participants will then be randomized and receive further
      instructions. For the next 3 weeks, they will receive recipe cards and shop in accordance
      with their assigned study group. The following week (post), they will grocery shop using the
      mode of their choice (in-person or online) and complete a survey again. Household receipt
      data will be collected throughout the study. The baseline period will also serve as a run-in
      period, and participants whose diabetes/prediabetes status is not confirmed by a physician or
      who do not comply with study guidelines for baseline procedures will not be randomized for
      further participation. Primary analyses will examine intervention effects on grocery
      purchases, with additional analyses examining spending and dietary intake. All participant
      interactions will occur online or via phone, with cards for participant payment sent via
      postal mail.

      The specific aims of this study are: (1) to test effects of Online and Defaults interventions
      on diabetic adults' grocery purchases and (2) to explore effects of the Online and Defaults
      interventions on participants' spending during grocery shopping. It is hypothesized that (1a)
      purchases made by adults in the Defaults group will be lower in calories, carbohydrates, and
      sugar and higher in nutritional quality (DASH diet score) at post-test versus other study
      groups, (1b) adults in the Defaults group will show the greatest increases in nutritional
      quality versus other study groups, (1c) the Online group will have intermediary results
      between Defaults and Controls, and (2) there will be no difference in total dollars depicted
      on receipts across study groups during the intervention period (i.e. the costs of online
      shopping will be offset by effects of the Online and Default interventions).
    
  