
    
      Fetal MRI is rapidly expanding but the choice of sequences (the combination of variables that
      produce the image and determine whether a specific tissue is highlighted at the expense of
      other tissues e.g. some sequences highlight areas with a high water content, others highlight
      tissues with a high fat content) is limited. Additional sequences have the potential to
      improve the diagnostic accuracy but need to be developed and assessed before replacing the
      current choices. In addition it is not possible to continue to add sequences to the list used
      in clinical practice as each one takes time, which is limited in clinical practice. They may
      also allow other body areas to be imaged successfully e.g. bones and heart that are not
      currently imaged to a diagnostic level to be useful in clinical practice.

      Until recently fetal MRI was restricted in the United Kingdom (UK) to magnet strengths of
      1.5T although 3T was safely used in the rest of Europe. The restrictions have been lifted and
      3T can now be used in the clinical setting for fetal MRI. The clinical value of this has not
      been established (1) In this pilot study the investigators will aim to answer the above 4
      questions.

        1. Currently the T2 SSFSE is used as the main sequence and in some institutions
           supplemented by T1 and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). The investigators wish to look
           at other sequences that may be better than these for imaging certain areas of the baby.
           The investigators have noted that the images used for imaging the placenta ( Balanced
           gradient echo) show the edges of tissues well but do not give much internal detail.
           However these images would be useful in cases of babies with cysts and may show the
           extension of the cyst more clearly than the T2. However it is not possible to simply add
           extra sequences to the scans as this takes extra time and is not appropriate in the
           clinical setting. This pilot study will allow evaluation of the sequences and formal
           comparison by a world-leading expert. This information will be used to guide local
           clinical practice but also with further development in the future to develop national
           guidelines.

        2. 3T can now be used in the UK to image the fetus. Prior to imaging clinically at 3T it is
           necessary to establish if there is any additional benefit. This pilot will allow us to
           compare historical 1.5T images with 3T images to assess the potential benefit prior to a
           larger study.

        3. Currently the fetal heart appears as a black ill-defined mass on the images. The
           investigators hope to use the balanced gradient echo sequence to image the heart.
           Initially the investigators would like to be able to image 4 chambers reliably and then
           to see if known pathology can be detected. If this is possible a larger study will be
           designed for further development. The question the investigators are asking is a very
           simple - can the investigators image the fetal heart? ' Yes/no and if so can the
           investigators reliably see 4 chambers? Yes/no. This will not need quantitative analysis.

        4. Similar to 3 as currently no definition in fetal bone is seen. The investigators wish to
           apply sequences that reliably define the bone and then pilot these in cases with known
           bone pathology.
    
  