
    
      Despite effective Acute Stroke Treatment, fewer than 10% of patients in the United States
      receive them. The largest barrier to this treatment are pre-hospital delays which include
      limited to no, knowledge of stroke signs and symptoms and the intent seek care. While there
      is abundance of stroke education materials available, studies continue to reveal severe
      deficiencies in stroke literacy (knowledge of symptoms, urgent action, and prevention
      measures).

      A mere 7% of ischemic stroke events in the US receive thrombolysis (t-PA) therapy1 due to
      delayed hospital arrival, most often related to the failure to recognize stroke symptoms and
      to call 911 immediately. Efforts to improve the public's stroke literacy have been driven by
      mass media stroke education campaigns that include public service announcements and print
      advertising. However, these efforts have failed to have an effect on 911 use (the major
      determinant of early hospital arrival) beyond the funding period for the specific media
      campaign. Stroke Centers may represent more sustainable channels for public stroke education
      initiatives promoting the use of ambulance services.

      State Departments of Health and the Joint Commission regulate Stroke Center hospitals through
      an accreditation process that requires the fulfillment of certain stroke care measures.
      Notably, one of these regulatory requirements is community stroke education by the hospital;
      however, these are underdeveloped, and lack guidelines and evaluation metrics. Consequently,
      stroke education efforts by Stroke Centers are often poorly delivered and do not use
      evidence-based approaches.

      The program helps schools fulfill NYS health education requirements through its primordial
      prevention modules. Children are also taught to teach stroke information to their
      parents/caregivers. HHS2.0 has shown to be effective in the real world setting through
      several studies, including an Randomized Clinical Trial (RCT) involving more than 3,000
      predominantly Black and Hispanic urban school children aged 9-11 years. These studies found
      that children can and will: (1) learn how to recognize stroke, including self-efficacy for
      calling 911 when they witness stroke, and retain this knowledge for at least 15 months, (2)
      communicate stroke literacy successfully to their parents and grandparents who retain this
      knowledge for at least 3 months, and (3) actually call 911 when they witness stroke symptoms
      occurring in their homes or community.

      This project is an outgrowth of our previously funded RCT (R01NS067443), in which we
      developed and established the effectiveness of a novel intervention to teach economically
      challenged minority residents of New York City to recognize stroke symptoms and know the
      correct response - call 911 (stroke literacy).
    
  