
    
      Smoking remains an intransigent public health concern. There is ample evidence that
      non-pharmacological factors, such as environmental triggers (e.g., sight or smell of a
      cigarette), can give rise to strong classically-conditioned urges to smoke (termed
      'cue-reactivity' [CR]), and that exposure to smoking cues can contribute to cessation
      failure. One promising intervention that may address CR is scheduled smoking with gradual
      reduction (SGR). Under SGR, individuals smoke only at fixed intervals, and over several
      weeks, systematically decrease their cigarettes consumed each day. The approach is postulated
      to: 1) provide 'practice' coping with environmentally-triggered cravings that occur during
      the inter-cigarette intervals, yielding increased self-efficacy to quit, and 2) weaken the
      associations between cues and smoking. Accumulating evidence has also shown that the smoking
      cessation drug, varenicline (VN), substantially ameliorates cravings and enhances cessation,
      significantly outperforming other drugs. Interestingly, recent animal research suggests that
      VN may operate at least partially by dampening conditioned drug cravings. A combination
      therapy consisting of SGR+VN might thus lead to significantly enhanced cessation,
      simultaneously attacking cravings using both pharmacological and non-pharmacological
      approaches. Because the beneficial effects of SGR and VN may be at least partially due to
      enhanced management of conditioned cravings, it is possible that that they will be
      particularly efficacious for smokers with high levels of CR. Using both laboratory
      experimental techniques and a prospective intervention design in this R34 application, we
      propose to provide initial data to: 1) test the hypothesis that a combination of SGR+VN will
      enhance cessation, 2) explore the possibility that SGR and VN might be particularly
      efficacious among smokers with higher levels of CR, and 3) explore potential mechanisms
      underlying treatment effects. Findings from this study would set the stage for larger
      efficacy and effectiveness trials of SGR alone and in conjunction with VN, as well as efforts
      to target SGR and/or VN toward the subgroups that would benefit the most (e.g., smokers with
      high levels of CR, carriers of specific smoking-related genotypes).
    
  