
    
      This study is a randomised controlled trial comparing telephone consultation to face-to-face
      consultation prior to early medical abortion at home (EMA).

      The majority of patients seeking abortion care in NHS Lothian will self-refer by telephone to
      the Lothian Abortion Referral Service (LARS).

      Routinely, patients are asked the date of their last menstrual period (LMP) by administrative
      staff. They then collect basic contact information and book an appointment to come to clinic
      within 5-7 days.

      For all women who self report an LMP that is less than 10 weeks to the date of the
      appointment they are offered, the administrative staff at LARS will read a short statement
      describing the project and ask if the patient is happy to be contacted by a member of the
      research team to discuss further. If they agree, they will also be directed to the LARS
      webpage where a copy of the Participant Information Sheet (PIS) will be available. The
      patient's contact details will be passed to the research nurse or doctor who will then call
      the patient back.

      At call back, the researcher will confirm that the patient has read the PIS and answer any
      questions and give further information as required. If the patient wishes to participate,
      verbal consent will be obtained using a standard form.

      The patient (now participant) will then be randomised to either the intervention arm
      (telephone consultation) or standard of care (face-to-face consultation).

      For participants in the standard of care arm:

      They will attend clinic as usual at the appointment already issued by LARS. After the
      consultation, they will be asked to complete a questionnaire (either self-administered or
      researcher-administered) about their preparedness for EMA.

      14-20 days later a follow-up questionnaire will be completed with the researcher via
      telephone, internet or post to assess completion of abortion (using the outcome of a low
      sensitivity urinary pregnancy test, the standard method used at the abortion service),
      overall acceptability of consultation and EMA process and what method of contraception they
      have selected.

      For participants in the intervention arm:

      They will have a telephone consultation either immediately after they have been randomised or
      at another point up to the evening before they are due to attend clinic, depending on their
      preference. The content of the consultation will be identical to that of a face-to-face
      consultation.

      They will attend clinic as planned at their allocated appointment time for an ultrasound scan
      to confirm gestation, to have standard blood tests and infection screen, complete consent
      paperwork for their abortion care procedure (as per standard care) and receive their
      medications.

      Before leaving the department, they will be asked to complete a questionnaire (either
      self-administered or researcher-administered) about their preparedness for EMA.

      14-20 days later a follow-up questionnaire will be completed with the researcher via
      telephone, internet or post to assess completion of abortion (using the outcome of a low
      sensitivity urinary pregnancy test, the standard method used at the abortion service),
      overall acceptability of consultation and EMA process and what method of contraception they
      have selected.
    
  