
    
      Design Randomized, pragmatic, multicentric with blinding of patients and health
      professionals.

      Bias control Allocation secrecy with web randomization. Blinding of patients and health
      professionals. Intention-to-treat analysis.

      Primary endpoint To evaluate whether the aspirin use reduces the intensity of organic
      dysfunction measured by the variation of the SOFA score starting from the day of admission to
      the seventh day.

      Secondary endpoint To evaluate if the aspirin use reduces the time of mechanical ventilation,
      time with vasopressors, time in renal replacement therapy, length of stay in the ICU and in
      the hospital. In addition, to evaluate the safety of its administration regarding the
      occurrence of bleeding.

      Eligibility

      Inclusion criteria:

      The three criteria below must be present:

        1. Signature of informed consent

        2. Patients must be older than 18 years old

        3. Diagnosis of sepsis and/or septic shock for less than 48 hours with at least one of the
           following organ dysfunctions:

             -  Lactate above 4mmol/L (36mg/dL)

             -  Thrombocytopenia < 100,000/mm3 or reduction > 50% in the count in the last 3 days

             -  PaO2/FiO2 < 200 without signs of apparent volume overload

             -  Hypotension MAP < 65mmHg refractory to volume replacement with the need to use
                vasopressor

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Pregnancy

        2. Impossibility to use the intestinal tract

        3. Death perspective in less than 24 hours

        4. Patients in the end of their lives or in exclusive palliative care

        5. Patients with active bleeding

        6. Prior study participation

        7. Known allergy to aspirin

        8. Active peptic ulcer

        9. Previous use of antiplatelet agents in the last 7 days

       10. Previous use of AINEs in the last 7 days, except for dipyrone.

       11. Patients at high risk of bleeding, defined by the presence of at least one of the
           criteria below:

             -  Hemorrhagic stroke in the last 7 days or central nervous system surgery in the last
                72 hours.

             -  Platelets <30,000 cells/mm3

             -  Large surgery in the last 24 hours if the attending surgeon judges that the risk of
                bleeding is high enough that aspirin cannot be used

             -  Ophthalmologic surgery postoperative and transurethral resection of the prostate at
                the discretion of the attending physician

             -  Hepatic cirrhosis or previous liver disease with altered prothrombin activity,
                manifested by INR above 2.0 or other previous coagulopathies

             -  Severe head injury in the last 7 days

             -  Presence of epidural catheter

      Study intervention The treatments to be compared in the study are a dose of 200 mg of aspirin
      daily for 7 days and placebo. Both look identical.

      Study outcomes

      Primary outcomes:

      • Variation of the SOFA score between D7 and D1

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  Acute Kidney injury KDIGO stage > 2

        -  Death in the ICU

        -  Days free of mechanical ventilation within 28 days

        -  Days free of vasopressor within 28 days

        -  Length of ICU stay

        -  Length of hospital stay

      Data management The data will be collected directly from the chart of the patients admitted
      to the ICU. Data quality assurance will be made through periodic verification, aiming for
      complete and consistent data. The centers will receive periodic reports for adequacy of
      potentially inconsistent or incomplete data.

      Statistics The baseline SOFA of patients with sepsis is 8.8 with a standard deviation of 3.
      The expected reduction in the control group in the SOFA at day 7 is 2 points. Considering a
      power of 80% and a level of significance of 0.05, it is estimated that 109 patients will be
      needed in each group. Estimating mortality up to D7 by 10%, will require 120 patients in each
      arm of the study, a total of 240 patients.
    
  