
    
      This research is aimed at conducting structural and stigma-focused interventions to increase
      HIV and STI testing uptake among Black men who have sex with men (BMSM). The research is
      focused on this population due to the alarmingly high rates of HIV/STI (sexually transmitted
      infections) among BMSM- this group has experienced elevated rates of HIV incidence and
      prevalence since the beginning of the US epidemic, and current estimates demonstrate that
      although BMSM make up only 0.2% of the population they make up 22% of new HIV infections. The
      investigator have documented a 5.1% annual HIV incidence and a 35% HIV prevalence among BMSM.
      Health care models are failing to engage BMSM at all points of the HIV care continuum
      including the seek and test components. The CDC recommends that individuals at substantial
      risk for HIV be tested for HIV/STI every three to six months; however, this goal is not being
      achieved and, therefore, a new approach to engaging BMSM is needed. To address these
      shortcomings and based on preliminary studies, the investigators are conducting a 2 x 2
      factorial design study to evaluate a model that is aimed at increasing HIV/STI testing uptake
      among BMSM. The investigators will test a stigma-focused intervention as stigma is a known
      deterrent to HIV/STI testing, yet little has been done to address this factor; and, the
      investigators will evaluate HIV/STI test counseling delivered online (in conjunction with
      at-home HIV/STI test kits) as this delivery of testing may remove key barriers to reaching
      BMSM in need of HIV/STI related care services. Specific Aim 1: Assess HIV/STI testing uptake
      at scheduled HIV/STI test counseling appointments during the 12 month follow-up period. 500
      BMSM will be randomly assigned to one of four conditions: (a) receive CDC-based risk
      reduction counseling and scheduled for in-office HIV/STI test counseling appointments, (b)
      receive HIV stigma-enhanced intervention and scheduled for in-office HIV/STI test counseling
      appointments, (c) receive CDC-based risk reduction counseling and scheduled for online, via
      video calling, HIV/STI test counseling appointments, or (d) receive HIV stigma-enhanced
      intervention and scheduled for online, via video calling, HIV/STI test counseling
      appointments. Specific Aim 2: Evaluate mediating (key theoretical stigma variables) factors
      collected via assessments at 3, 6, and 12 month follow-ups. Specific Aim 3: Conduct an
      economic evaluation to determine the costs of the office-based and online-based HIV/STI test
      delivery formats from both a community-based payer perspective and a comprehensive societal
      perspective that includes all costs. This project has the potential to exert a sustained and
      powerful impact not only on approaches to engaging BMSM, but to improving HIV/STI testing
      uptake which will likely improve multiple health outcomes among BMSM. If effective, this
      approach to improving HIV/STI testing uptake would be available for dissemination immediately
      and would fit within resource limited settings such as community based organizations and
      health departments.
    
  