
    
      Low-grade or unresolved inflammation is involved in the pathogenesis of many human diseases.
      Common sleep patterns of restricting sleep during the work week and "catching up" on sleep
      over the weekend lead to inflammatory upregulation that does not recover completely after the
      weekend.

      The goal of this proposal is to investigate, for the first time, inflammatory resolution
      pathways. Inflammatory resolution mediators, such as resolvins, are derived from omega-3 free
      fatty acids and actively 'turn-off' inflammation. Based on preliminary data, the
      investigators hypothesize that common sleep restriction-recovery patterns disrupt
      inflammatory resolution pathways, making it difficult to return to inflammatory homeostasis.
      If true, pharmacologically increasing the body's natural production of endogenous
      inflammatory resolution mediators may provide a way to reduce the detrimental inflammatory
      consequences of common sleep restriction-recovery patterns.

      The hypothesis will be tested using an experimental model that mimics common patterns of
      restricting sleep on weekdays and "catching up" on sleep on the weekend. The proposal will
      further utilize the unique ability of low-dose aspirin, which - like no other non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drug - is able to activate inflammatory resolution pathways. Healthy women
      and men between the ages of 18 to 65 years will be tested under three, 11-day in-hospital
      stays, during which participants will be exposed to control sleep or common patterns of sleep
      restriction-recovery. The three in-hospital stays will be combined with preemptive
      administration of low-dose aspirin or a placebo.

      Targeting inflammatory resolution pathways could provide a novel, non-behavioral strategy to
      mitigate both inflammatory consequences and future disease risks in those undergoing periods
      of sleep restriction-recovery patterns - a behavior pattern that is unlikely to be eradicated
      in the near future, as changes in sleep are generally difficult to make and to maintain.
    
  