
    
      The primary aim of this multicentric study is to populate the first national microbioma
      biobank with biological samples (fecal, salivary, urinary and blood samples) subjects
      suffering from metabolic syndrome, and healthy volunteers.

      The secondary aim is the characterization of microorganisms of the biobank and study of the
      microbiota-pathology relationship using meta-omics, in vitro and in vivo approaches, The
      study plans to enrol 35 subjects at Policlinic of Bari, according to the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria. The study participation is voluntary, and the subjects have the right to withdraw
      from the study at any time and for any reason.

      During the study, 3 visits are planned:

        -  Visit 0 (V0), including description of the objectives and procedures study, signature
           written informed consent, inclusion/exclusion criteria evaluation, medical examination
           (blood pressure measurement, abdominal and thoracic physical examination),
           anthropometric measurements (weight, height, BMI, abdominal circumference measurement),
           filling in of the anamnestic questionnaire, delivery of kits for the collection of
           fecal, salivary and urinary material to be reported at Visit 1 and delivery of a 3-day
           food diary, to be completed autonomously in the days preceding the Visit 1.

        -  Visit 1 (V1) - at least 4 days after V0, including delivery of the of the collected
           biological material (feces, saliva, urine), and of a 3-day food diary, filling in of the
           new signs and symptoms anamnestic questionnaire and blood sampling by medical staff.

        -  Telephone evaluation: administration of a "Food Frequency Questionnaire" to assess the
           subjects' alimentary habits.

      Standard Operative Procedures (SOP) for samples storing, transport and processing will be
      adopted to ensure samples stability and grant results validity and quality.

      Following collections, samples will be processed in different aliquots that will be used for:

        -  routine screening;

        -  storage in the first Italian human microbiote biobank (I.R.C.C.S. - Istituto Tumori
           "Giovanni Paolo II", Bari);

        -  evaluation of the proteomic, metascriptomic, metabolomic, metagenomic, and metagenetic
           profile.

      Furthermore, molecular characterization of pathogenic microorganisms and pathogenic biotypes
      (pathovars) of commensal species of subjects with selected pathologies will be conducted.

      Part of the biological material will be used for animal studies on the physiopathological
      role of the human intestinal microbiota transplanted into mouse models of pathology and
      Germ-free mouse models (specific animal study protocol developed).

      The study foresees no more than minimal risk associated with blood sampling procedures. All
      the necessary measures to avoid any risks / inconveniences resulting from participation of
      the subject under study will be taken.

      The study is compliant with Good Clinical Practice. Study protocol and all related documents
      have been approved by approved by the Independent Ethics Committees (IEC) of the involved
      clinical sites.

      To ensure the protection and confidentiality of the participants' data, all study activities
      will be carried out in accordance with the European General Data Protection Regulation,
      Regulation (EU) 2016/679, which repeals Directive 95/46/EC.
    
  