
    
      Maternal cardiovascular physiology evolves during the course of pregnancy to accommodate the
      growing foetus. In order that the uterine artery can deliver 10% of the entire maternal
      cardiac output, there are considerable structural and physiological changes that take place.
      There is a 30% increase in global arterial compliance, predominantly due to vasodilation at
      the level of the renal arteries, which leads to a reduced total peripheral resistance. Stroke
      volume increases due to the plasma expansion and increasing total blood volume. All water
      compartments show an absolute and relative increase with advancing gestation and eventually
      water represents the largest component of weight gain in pregnancy. These changes have been
      measured and known to clinicians for decades. Yet, it is only in the recent past, that the
      possible clinical relevance of assessing total body water and extracellular body water has
      been enhanced by the cross over of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy with obesity
      epidemics.

      Bio-electrical impedance analysis (BIA) measures whole body (or regional) impedance by means
      of an electric current transmitted at different frequencies. New techniques allow measurement
      of total body water with separation into extracellular and intracellular water. Current
      evidence suggests that BIA may provide useful information not only in different
      well-established patient groups (renal dialysis, malnutrition), but also in critically ill
      patients with burns, trauma and sepsis undergoing fluid resuscitation.

      There are a limited number of studies assessing the use of BIA during pregnancy. In a
      longitudinal study of 126 pregnant women, Piuri and colleagues assessed changes of
      bio-impedance analysis among low-risk pregnant woman recruited in the first trimester and
      followed their progress. They found that women who developed hypertensive disorders of
      pregnancy (HDP) showed significantly different bioimpedance from control cases. Total Body
      Water (TBW)indices were highly significantly different from the first trimester. In
      pregnancies delivered of small for gestational age (SGA) newborns, these indices were the
      opposite of the values observed in patients with HDP-average for gestational age (AGA).TBW in
      these patients was significantly reduced compared with normal pregnancies. The authors
      concluded that the bioelectrical impedance is a fast, simple, noninvasive way to assess the
      TBW content in pregnancy and bio-impedance might help to identify, early in gestation,
      patients at risk of developing different clinical phenotypes of hypertensive disease of
      pregnancy and SGA fetuses.

      In a prospective observational study of 3000 pregnant women, Kent and colleagues examined the
      use of multi frequency segmental bioelectric impedance analysis in the first trimester of
      pregnancy for assessment of maternal body composition as predictors of increased birth
      weight. They observed that on direct measurements of body composition, birth weight
      correlated positively with maternal fat-free mass and not adiposity.

      Several factors may influence the progression of normal labour. It has been postulated that
      the routine administration of intravenous fluids to keep women adequately hydrated during
      labour may reduce the period of contraction and relaxation of the uterine muscle, and may
      ultimately reduce the duration of the labour. It has also been suggested that intravenous
      fluids may reduce caesarean section rates (CS) for prolonged labour. Conversely, excessive
      volumes of intravenous fluids may pose risks to both the mother and her new-born with
      different fluids being associated with different risks.

      In a Cochrane systematic review, Dawood and colleagues reported that administration of
      intravenous fluids compared with oral intake alone demonstrated a reduction in the duration
      of labour. The findings of other trials suggested that if a policy of no oral intake is
      applied, then the duration of labour in nulliparous women may be shortened by the
      administration of intravenous fluids at a rate of 250 ml/hour rather than 125ml/hour.
      However, there was no objective assessment of hydration status.

      However, the benefits of routine administration of intravenous fluids to labouring women has
      not been adequately elucidated although it is a widely-adopted policy, and there is no
      consensus on the type or volume of fluid that are required, or indeed, whether intravenous
      fluids are at all necessary. Women may be able to adequately hydrate themselves if they were
      allowed oral fluids during labour.

      Enhanced recovery was initially introduced for patients having minimally-invasive
      laparoscopic surgery. Following its introduction in colorectal surgery, it is now advocated
      for many other specialities including Obstetrics. Enhanced recovery has transformed the
      delivery of perioperative practice. The core ethos of enhanced recovery is to speed up a
      patient's recovery after surgery and improve patient outcomes, with associated benefits for
      staff and healthcare systems.

      Patients are given clear instructions about fluid and food intake before the operation.
      Currently there is limited data about hydration state at the time of admission for operation.
      Women having their operation on the morning of admission are advised to follow the following
      instructions: a) they should not eat food after 0200h. b) They can drink water until 0600h.
      c) At 0600h women should consume 400ml (2x 200ml bottles supplied at outpatient
      'pre-clerking' clinic) of high energy carbohydrate drink before they attend hospital. Women
      should then remain nil by mouth, unless advised differently by the hospital team. Ranitidine
      and all routine medications (unless directed otherwise on the intrapartum care plan) should
      be taken at 0600h. Women having operations in the afternoon are advised a) to have light
      breakfast such as cereal, toast and fruit. b) Women should not eat food after 0600h but may
      drink water until 1000h.

      Hypertensive disorders during pregnancy carry risks for the mother and the baby and it is one
      of the leading causes of maternal morbidity and mortality death in the worldwide. A UK study
      reported that one-third of severe maternal morbidity was a consequence of hypertensive
      conditions and a study conducted in the USA found that over half of admissions for acute
      kidney failure, one-quarter of admissions for coagulopathy and nearly one-third of admissions
      for ventilation or cerebrovascular disorders occurred in women with hypertensive disorders.

      In a semi-longitudinal cohort study from Italy, Wilfried and colleagues examined changes in
      body fluid composition using Bioimpedance analyser of women with early onset preeclampsia (75
      subjects) and late onset preeclampsia (117 subjects) and compared results to healthy
      controls. They observed significant difference in extracellular water among women with
      preeclampsia across trimesters. However, changes in body fluid and degree of severity of
      pre-eclampsia were not examined before. Other conditions that could affect body composition
      of water during pregnancy includes hyperemesis gravidarum, poor renal or cardiac function,
      major postpartum haemorrhage, and sepsis.
    
  