
    
      Design: a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial in
      parallel groups.

      This study will enroll subjects of both sexes aged from 6 months to 6 years who are admitted
      to hospital within 48 h of the onset of acute intestinal infection (AII), presumably of viral
      aetiology. Patients to be enrolled in the screening will be children with typical viral
      gastroenteritis/enteritis symptoms. The key symptom is decreased in the consistency of stools
      (loose or liquid) and increased in the frequency of its evacuations (at list 3 time daily).
      Virus detection in stool samples will be performed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR).

      After the parent/adopter signs a parents/adopters information sheet (Informed Consent form)
      for the child's participation in the clinical trial, the recording of medical history data, a
      medical examination including the evaluation of symptoms on the Clinical Dehydration Scale
      (CDS) by pediatrician, and laboratory tests will be performed during Visit 1 (Day 1). If
      inclusion criteria are met and non-inclusion criteria are absent (day 1), the patient will be
      included in the trial and randomized to administer either Ergoferon or Placebo.

      In addition to the standard/pathogenetic therapies, group 1 patients will take Ergoferon
      following a 5-day regimen, whereas group 2 patients will receive Placebo. The
      parents/adopters of the patient will be provided with a patient diary and instructed how to
      complete the diary.

      Before treatment stool specimens will be collected from the patients for detection and
      differentiation of Rotavirus A, Norovirus 2 genotype, Astrovirus, Adenovirus F, Shigella
      spp., enteroinvasive E.coli (EIEC), Salmonella spp., and thermophilic Campylobacter spp.
      using a PCR assay to diagnose the etiology of intestinal infection. In total, the patients
      will be monitored for 10 days (screening, randomization, treatment initiation - Day 1; the
      treatment on Days 1-5; observation in hospital - Day 6, and follow-up period - Day 7-10).
      During the treatment and inpatient observation periods (Days 1-6, Visits 1-6), the patients
      will be examined daily by a pediatrician, and the examination results, including the CDS
      scores, will be recorded in source documents. The patient's parent/adopter will complete the
      patient diary every day, recording the presence/absence of diarrhea signs, vomiting, and body
      temperature. The pediatrician will check them each time for the correctness of completion. On
      day 10 (after hospital discharge), Visit 7 will be done (as an in-person visit (a hospital or
      calling a doctor) or a distance, 'phone' visit) to interview the parents/adopters about the
      patient's health, presence of any complications, and use of medications (the pediatrician
      will use this information to complete a questionnaire). Collection of stool specimens and
      repeat PCR for Rotaviruses/Noroviruses/Astroviruses/Adenoviruses, Shigella spp., EIEC,
      Salmonella spp., and Campylobacter spp. will be performed on Days 3, 4, and 6 of inpatient
      observation and after discharge from the hospital (Day 10); collection of blood and urine
      specimens for safety tests will be carried out at baseline and before hospital discharge (day
      6). The recording of the intake of study therapies and of concomitant medications as well as
      the assessment of compliance with and safety of the study therapies will be performed on Days
      2-6 and 10.

      Patients who recovered while in hospital and are discharged from the unit earlier than at 5
      days will undergo the procedures of Visit 6, including the collection of biological specimens
      for PCR (efficacy evaluation) and biochemistry, blood test and urinalysis (safety
      assessment). The parents/adopters will be given the blister pack with the remaining study
      drug so that the patient can continue the treatment.
    
  