
    
      The successful adoption of brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) as assistive technologies (ATs)
      for disabled populations depends on the ability to elicit rapid, intuitive, and reliable
      control signals. To date, it is not known which sources of neural information provide the
      most natural and efficient means of control. This study will directly assess the efficacy of
      two sources of neural control signals, speech and motor cortex, for BCI control of software
      and devices using investigators' Cortical Communication (CortiCom) system.

      The CortiCom system consists of 510(k)-cleared components: platinum PMT subdural cortical
      electrode grids, a Blackrock Microsystems patient pedestal, and an external NeuroPort Neural
      Signal Processor. Up to two grids will be implanted in the brain, for a total channel count
      of up to 128 channels, for six months. In each participant, the grid(s) will be implanted
      over areas of cortex that encode speech and upper extremity movement.

      Investigators' study will be the first to investigate the efficiency and intuitiveness of two
      contrasting neural control strategies for BCI: Motor imagery and speech. As the first study
      to chronically and simultaneously record from human speech and motor regions, this study
      seeks to achieve the following:

        -  demonstrate the ability to decode intended upper extremity movements using information
           decoded from primary motor cortex arm/hand area;

        -  demonstrate the ability to decode intended speech from articulatory speech cortex; and

        -  determine the most effective and intuitive user strategies (e.g. imagined speech or
           imagined movement) and optimal neural sources for brain-computer interactions,

      The patient populations targeted in this study are amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS),
      brainstem stroke, locked-in syndrome (LIS), and tetraplegia. Individuals within these
      populations may have normal cortical function and cognition while suffering from motor or
      combined speech and motor deficits.

      Based on research by colleagues, as well as investigators' own experience working with
      participants affected by epilepsy implanted with high density electrocorticographic grids,
      investigators hypothesize that long-term recording of neural activity from the targeted
      cortical areas may provide a new communication channel for these clinical populations. The
      utilization of high-channel-count (up to 128 channel) ECoG grids, in combination with
      simultaneous coverage of speech and motor cortex, will enable investigations into the
      performance of speech-mediated and motor-mediated control efficacy as applied to a variety of
      end effectors, such as computers, tablets, headsets for virtual or augmented reality, smart
      lights, televisions, and assistive technologies. Additionally, eye-tracking may be utilized
      in combination with neural commands to improve target selection performance and ease.

      Through this study, investigators will assess the performance of speech- and motor-mediated
      control using chronic, high-channel count ECoG grid neural implants in pursuit of a
      high-performing, clinically beneficial BCI assistive technology.
    
  