
    
      A vaccine to interrupt malaria transmission would be a valuable tool for local elimination or
      eradication of this disease. Pfs25, a surface antigen of ookinetes in the mosquito stage of
      P. falciparum, is a lead candidate for a malaria transmission blocking vaccine. Recombinant
      Pfs25 has been conjugated to Pseudomonas aeruginosa ExoProtein A (EPA), and adjuvanted with
      Alhydrogel . This dose escalating, double-blind, randomized controlled trial will determine
      safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine in malaria exposed adults. One hundred twenty (120)
      subjects will be enrolled and randomized to receive the low dose (16 g of conjugated Pfs25,
      n=10), the high dose (47 g of conjugated Pfs25, n=50), or the comparator vaccine (Euvax B for
      first 3 vaccinations, then Menactra vaccine for the fourth vaccination, n=10 for 2
      vaccinations, n=50 for 4 vaccinations). Enrollment within the high dose group will be
      staggered for additional safety. The low dose and the matching comparator cohort (Group 1)
      will receive 2 vaccine doses given at 0 and 2 months. For the rest of the subjects, 3 doses
      will be given at a 0, 2, 4 month dosing intervals, and a fourth (booster) dose will be given
      12 months following the third dose at the start of the subsequent transmission season.
      Subjects will be followed for 12 months following the last vaccination. Safety outcomes will
      be local and systemic adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs). Immunogenicity
      outcomes will be antibody responses as measured by ELISA against recombinant Pfs25 and EPA,
      and B cell responses. Functional activity of the induced antibody will be assessed by direct
      transmission blocking assays (direct skin feeds, direct membrane feeding assays) conducted at
      the Malaria Research and Training Center (MRTC) in Mali and in a standard membrane feeding
      assay conducted at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) in the
      United States.
    
  