
    
      The purpose of this grant is to evaluate the efficacy of sodium butyrate as a novel treatment
      for cognitive deficits in schizophrenia (SZ). Sodium butyrate is a short chain fatty acid and
      binds to the zinc site of histone deacetylases (HDAC). The inhibition of HDAC results in
      histone hyperacetylation.

      The proposal consists of a small preliminary open label study to assess tolerability and side
      effects of sodium butyrate in schizophrenic patients receiving antipsychotic treatment ( in 5
      patients with SZ treated with sodium butyrate for 8 weeks), followed by a larger double-blind
      study of the effects of sodium butyrate on cognitive function and symptoms, in SZ patients
      who are not in an acute exacerbation of the primary symptoms and show continued cognitive
      deficits. Secondary aims will be to evaluate its effects on improving symptoms and
      functioning in SZ, and the relationship of the drug's clinical effects to epigenetic and
      inflammation related biochemical changes. In the double-blind phase we plan a study at 3
      sites: 2 US, 1 China, but only the US site at the Nathan Kline Institute ( NKI) will be
      active in the initial phase of the study.

      We will provide a brief overview of the importance of these questions, some previous
      interventional treatment approaches, and the potential of HDAC inhibitors and sodium butyrate
      in particular to improve cognitive function.

      The persistent cognitive deficits which can be appreciated across the course of SZ, from
      prodromal to chronic SZ, may be the most important underlying dysfunction in preventing
      functional, occupational, and social recovery in SZ compared to other symptom domains. There
      is no effective treatment for these cognitive deficits which persist after antipsychotic
      medication has reduced or resolved the positive symptoms of SZ. Although some exploratory
      studies of nicotinic agonist drugs showed promise for improvement of cognitive deficits
      associated with SZ , later larger and better-controlled studies with nicotinic agonist drugs
      have not shown markedly positive effects for this type of pharmacologic intervention,
      although one recent study is promising.

      There is increasing interest in epigenetic mechanisms involving in DNA methylation and
      histone acetylation involved in the pathology underlying SZ and related disorders ). There is
      also interest in activation of inflammatory process as a part of the underlying
      pathophysiology of SZ, and there is research showing that effects on inflammatory markers may
      be partially mediated though epigenetic mechanisms of histone acetylation and DNA
      methylation. There is growing evidence that HDAC inhibitor drugs (HDACi) have properties of
      being cognitive enhancers and potential treatments for psychiatric disorders where cognitive
      deficits are prominent, such as SZ and Alzheimer's disease. Graff and Tsai suggest they may
      be particularly important in the process of promoting memory consolidation or conversion of
      short-term to longer- term memory and increasing memory retention or consolidation. Memory
      consolidation is demonstrated by the temporal gradient of retrograde amnesia (severity of
      amnesia most severe for events that occurred shortly before the amnesic event), as well as
      improvements in delayed recall of previously learned information after a retention interval.
      A specific deficit in memory consolidation has been demonstrated in SZ . Delayed recall
      performance may be used as an index of consolidation. For example, Goff et al found evidence
      of a beneficial effect of d-cycloserine on delayed but not immediate thematic recall using
      the Logical Memory Test (LMT) from the Revised Wechsler Memory Scale (WMS-R).

      Sodium butyrate is a chemical compound found in foods and sold as a health food supplemental
      (a nutraceutical) which is a strong HDAC inhibitor (predominantly class I HDAC) and has
      anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective properties). Previous studies suggest it may have
      potential as a treatment for cognitive deficits in several psychiatric disorders, and have
      potential ameliorative effects on depression, and on human inflammatory diseases. Research
      with animal models show that sodium butyrate and phenylbutyrate have potential to improve
      cognition, including rescue of fear and spatial memories and enhancement of contextual
      memory, spatial memory and object recognition and improved memory in a mouse model of
      Alzheimer's disease. Sodium butyrate also decreased depressive-like behaviors in models of
      maternal deprivation and chronic stress . One human study with a butyrate congener improved
      cognitive outcome, including improvements in a test of working memory, in treatment of a urea
      cycle hyperammonia disorder. Sodium butyrate has also been used in clinical trials of
      inflammatory bowel diseases (Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis) with positive effects on
      clinical state and also with improvement on indicators of inflammation . In the Crohn's
      disease study it also significantly decreased an immunological component interleukin-1 beta
      (IL-1 β). It has been used and sold widely as health food supplement nutraceutical in humans
      and has a good safety profile . It also reduces insulin resistance and lipid metabolic
      abnormalities as documented in both an animal model of fat induced insulin resistance and in
      an experimental human study preventing lipid induced insulin resistance . This effect may be
      relevant as a beneficial effect for metabolic abnormalities that are frequently reported in
      obese SZ. Sodium butyrate is lipophilic compound that passes the blood-brain barrier. This is
      reported in previous studies and reviews stating that sodium butyrate crosses the blood brain
      barrier). For example, in a mouse model oral sodium butyrate increased histone acetylation
      both in brain and periphery. This fulfills a criterion the Stanley granting organization
      requests be reported for proposed pharmacological studies.

      The above background provides a rationale for a trial of sodium butyrate as a cognitive
      enhancer in SZ.

      The specific aims of the double-blind will be to test the following hypotheses.

      Primary Aim:

        1. Treatment with sodium butyrate will improve cognition in SZ as measured by the composite
           and domain scores of the Measurement and Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in
           Schizophrenia battery (MATRICS [MCCB]) . The primary outcome measure will be the MCCB
           composite score.

           Secondary Aims:

        2. Treatment with sodium butyrate will improve memory consolidation as measured by delayed
           recall performance.

        3. Improvement in cognitive function induced by sodium butyrate in SZ will be correlated
           with improvement in a measure of performance on real world functional tasks as assessed
           by the University of California San Diego (USCD) Performance- Based Skills Assessment
           Battery (UPSA).

      We will also explore whether improvement in cognition is related to change in HDAC activity
      in peripheral blood cells and changes in inflammatory makers in the blood (CRP, IL-1 β ), and
      assess whether there is any improvement in psychopathology as measured by PANSS scale.

      The study will be conducted in two phases, an open-label study of the safety and tolerability
      of sodium butyrate in patients with schizophrenia followed by a randomized placebo controlled
      experimental study of the effects of adjunctive 6.57 gms of sodium butyrate per day for 12
      weeks
    
  