
    
      The Project UPLIFT intervention was designed for delivery to groups of six to eight people by
      telephone or Internet, though for this study the intervention will be web based only. The
      telephone intervention comprised eight hour-long sessions, each including check-in,
      instruction, skill building, and discussion, with homework between sessions. The Web
      intervention contains the same elements: check-in, video instruction, skill building, a
      discussion board, and homework between sessions. Instruction focuses on increasing knowledge
      about depression, CF, CBT, and mindfulness and skills related to CBT and mindfulness.
      Participation in the sessions involves skills practice, discussions, and group exercises
      based on the sessions' main topics. CBT-related topics include thought monitoring,
      identifying cognitive distortions, self-esteem, problem identification, goal setting, and
      identifying supports. Relaxation exercises, including a body scan (i.e., a mindfulness
      exercise) and progressive muscle relaxation, are also used for coping and to facilitate
      awareness of the body. Mindfulness activities include attention to skin, sights, and sounds
      and other meditations. Participants will practice their skills between sessions through
      homework assignments including monitoring and changing thoughts, and practicing relaxation
      exercises, meditation exercises, and mindfulness. A week's homework is discussed at the
      beginning of the next session. The program is designed to guide participants from noticing,
      challenging, and changing thoughts (CBT components), to staying in the present moment with
      acceptance of and nonreactivity to those thoughts (mindfulness components). All sessions will
      be co-facilitated by a layperson with CF and a doctoral student in psychology, supervised by
      a licensed clinical psychologist.

      Once the subjects are recruited and enrolled, baseline assessment will take place and then
      they will be randomized into the intervention group or treatment-as-usual control group
      condition (recommendation to consider obtaining mental health services). All participants
      will complete questionnaires via the internet. Following the initial assessment, the groups
      will receive their assigned intervention (or control treatment) and there will be
      questionnaire based testing of mental health, QoL, and disease management at 2 months
      (immediately following the group intervention), 6 months, and 12 months.
    
  