
    
      Stage 1 - The development of the integrative learning program

      Delphi technique was employed to gain consensus in the best possible therapeutic
      interventions for old people with dementia among members of the expert panel. The panel
      consisted of 8 health professionals including a gerontic care nurse, a registered nurse, an
      occupational therapist, a physiotherapist, a Chinese medicine practitioner, a mindfulness
      practitioner, a nutritionist, and a neuroscientist. They all had more than 10 years of
      experience in their own disciplines.

      A research team member explained to the experts individually the purpose of having the Panel
      and the importance of opinion sharing and idea exchange. Subsequent exchanges covered the
      conceptual framework, needs of people with dementia, components of the program operation and
      the intervention protocol. The experts did not meet but to provide their views through emails
      or audio recordings. Research members organized, collated the views, presented the aggregated
      views iteratively to each expert for consideration. The exchange on each topic terminated
      when all experts reached total agreement on their analysis and views were exhausted. Upon
      completion of each round, a summary was sent to all experts for accuracy checking. With this
      iterative approach, 12 rounds of exchange were necessitated to develop the complete
      integrative learning protocol.

      To dispel any unrealistic expectations and facilitate learning, training in goal setting
      skills is needed in the integrative learning program. It was agreed among the experts that
      people with dementia have different needs and expectations, and various levels of difficulty
      and ability to meet them, be it basic (novice) or advanced (expert). Hence the Panel
      formulated a list of developmental needs which are necessary and essential for quality living
      of people with dementia. The goal of development of each need was also identified based on a
      novice-expert continuum and the conceptual framework of neuroplasticity and learning.

      The Panel reviewed some common dementia management programs used in local institutions.
      Although these programs have included many contemporary treatment modalities, the results
      were not marked. The Panel also commented that the treatment modalities could have been
      sufficient but the piece-meal approach might undermine their efficacy. They concluded that an
      integrated and structured multi-modality approach together with emotion management should be
      adopted for the integrative learning program. The multi-modality treatments in the program
      were structured sessions that employed physical, cognitive, social, and emotional
      stimulations to intervene dementia. The modalities selected for the program included reality
      orientation, daily living skills training, reminiscence therapy, multisensory stimulation,
      fall prevention program, mindfulness activities, Meridian exercise, brain health program
      (Four Arts of the Chinese Scholar which referred to zither, go, calligraphy and painting) and
      health education. It was also agreed that case managers, caregivers, and participants were
      free to choose these treatments or could be assigned to a treatment regime on a 'mix and
      match' basis to suit their personality traits for improving their abilities to meet their own
      needs.

      Based on the outcome of the above Delphi exercise, the experts brain-stormed the contents and
      details of each, followed by discussions before resolutions were made by consensus. Consensus
      was reached for the duration of a standard 3-day protocol and 5-day protocol. The 5-day
      protocol was an extended version of the 3-day one which allowed the participants to practice
      more in a designated time. Table 2 shows the 3-day integrative learning protocol.
      Interventions using the protocol were carried out by case managers who could be nurses,
      occupational therapists, or other health professionals. These case managers were independent
      of the research team. To ensure the competency of the case managers, each one had to attend a
      3-day training workshop, with one day on theories, another day on practical training by 3
      members of the Expert Panel (the gerontic care nurse, the nurse, and the occupational
      therapist) and the final day on quality assurance.

      Stage 2 - Proof of concept: The evaluation of the implementation of the developed program by
      using a mixed method approach

      i) Quantitative Method The study was held in three community care centers run by the same
      non-profit organization (NPO) and their routine and care provided were the same across their
      centers. Two types of services were provided in community care centers, residential and day
      care. The centers were located in different districts where residents were in public housing.
      Three centers were randomly drawn from the NPO by drawing lots. Eligible older people with
      dementia from the centers were recruited by convenience sampling. All participants continued
      with their daily routines and medications during the research period.

      Having received consent from both the eligible older people and their relatives, the research
      team randomly allocated them to the control group (Con), Experimental 3-day normal group
      (Exp-N) and Experimental 5-day intensive group (Exp-I). For the control group, the
      participants received conventional therapy which included group activities for reality
      orientation, reminiscence therapy and activities organized by occupational therapists one
      hour a day, five days a week. In addition to conventional therapy, the two experimental
      groups also joined the integrative learning program. For consistency, Day 1 and 3 of the
      3-day protocol were replicated as Day 4 and Day 5 of the 5-day protocol.

      Allocation concealment was done to avoid selection bias while blinding was done to research
      assistant who performed data collection. Data were collected before the start of the program
      (T0) and upon its completion (T2 - at 6th month) for all 3 groups. For the two experimental
      groups, there was a mid-intervention evaluation (T1- at 3rd month). During the intervention,
      the trained case managers evaluated the conditions of the participants on a monthly basis
      until the completion of the program. They joined the monthly case conferences held by the
      respective centers listening to progress of the participants reported by center staff.

      With the adoption of the mixed method approach, quantitative data were collected using 10
      validated clinical test instruments while qualitative data were based on the verbatim
      transcripts of the monthly case conferences.

      ii) Qualitative Method For the qualitative data, the verbatim transcripts of the case
      conferences were used for thematic analysis. These verbatim records were transcribed and
      coded for content analysis, based on the conceptual framework of the integrative learning
      program. The research assistant first identified words /segments in each transcript and then
      condensed them into meaningful units. Two panel members abstracted all the condensed meaning
      units into subthemes.
    
  