
    
      Inclusions After ethical agreement, this observational single-center open study will be
      conducted in the simulation center of the Paris Sud medical school (LabForSIMS). After
      written consent, all anesthesia residents of Ile de France (PGY3-PGY4) will attend a one-day
      simulation session and will be included in the study. Four immersive scenarios will be
      performed using a high-fidelity adult mannequin (cardiac arrest, local anesthetic systemic
      toxicity, malignant hyperthermia and abdominal hemorrhage after trauma). Pedagogical
      objectives to be mastered will include both technical and non-technical skills.

      Before the training session, residents will be randomized into 2 groups:

        -  "actor-spectator" group (role of actor during at least one scenario in the simulation
           session). Three residents will participate in each scenario (one playing the role of the
           anesthesia resident, one playing the role of the staff physician and the third being
           called for help). Residents not involved in the scenario will observe the scene with
           direct videotransmission (role of ''spectators''). Actors and spectators will
           participate in all debriefings after each scenario.

        -  and "spectator-only" (observer during the whole one-day session but participation in the
           debriefing part of the four scenarios).

      Primary Outcome Measures: Evaluation of learning

        1. Satisfaction (Kirkpatrick Level 1 ) A satisfaction questionnaire will be recorded at the
           end of the simulation session (Likert scale (0 to 10)).

        2. Evaluation of medical knowledge (Kirkpatrick level 2) Before (pre test) and following
           (post test) the simulation one-day session, residents will complete a test of medical
           knowledge, indicating their role. This test will include 16 questions (4 questions per
           scenario), completed with additional questions unrelated with program training.

        3. Evaluation of non-technical skills (Kirkpatrick level 2) An auto evaluation
           questionnaire evaluating self perceived non-technical skills will be recorded at the end
           of the simulation one-day session (Likert scale (0 to 10)).

        4. Evaluation of changes in professional practice (Kirkpatrick Level 3) A questionnaire
           evaluating if the simulation program will modify professional practice will be recorded
           at the end of the simulation session (Likert scale (0 to 10)).

      Secondary outcome measures: Learning retention The same questionnaire will be recorded three
      months after the sessions.
    
  