
    
      This intervention study will measure the outcomes of the PC CARES (Promoting Community
      Conversations about Research to End Suicide) curriculum implemented in 9 rural Alaskan
      villages. It will compare pre-post data from intervention participants to non-participants,
      and will analyze social networks related to suicide prevention behavior in each village.
      Researchers will work with local service providers and other partners to recruit facilitators
      who will be trained in implementing the 4 session PC CARES curriculum. Pilot research by the
      investigators produced a roster of 12 social ecological roles within the village (hereafter:
      'network positions') that are relevant to suicide prevention. These network positions include
      7 organizational affiliations: individuals interacting with young people on the basis of
      their position in schools, health care facilities, mental health services, social services,
      religious institutions, tribal governments, city governments (including law enforcement). The
      roster also includes 5 family roles: Elder; parent ; a sibling or cousin who is close; other
      adult family member who is also a mentor: or friend. Facilitators will then recruit members
      in their communities who fill these network positions in their community to attend the 4 PC
      CARES sessions.

      Baseline data collection:

      For pre-intervention data collection, investigators will recruit widely in each village,
      focusing on those who occupy the 7 formal network positions, and youth ages 15-24. Data
      collection will involve a survey taken on an electronic tablet in which they will be asked
      about demographics (6 items), Knowledge about reducing suicide (7 items), Skills in making
      positive community changes (7 items), Attitude toward suicide prevention (20 items), Behavior
      related to suicide prevention (58 items). Questions about Behavior will have follow up
      questions asking with whom they've done the behavior (which of the 12 network positions) and
      'How Often?'

      Recruitment efforts will involve inviting those who occupy the 7 formal network positions,
      others we expect to attend PC CARES, and youth ages 15-24. From there, investigators will use
      respondent driven sampling (RDS), a peer-referral system that tracks recruitment patterns via
      referral coupons.

      By starting with those who attend PC CARES sessions, investigators hope to document diffusion
      effects: meaning to learn how PC CARES impacts those who attend the learning circles, people
      close to them and others in the community.

      Some of these respondents will self-select to participate in the PC CARES intervention, and
      others will not.

      Data collection during intervention:

      After each Learning Circle, all participants will be asked to complete (on paper) a 55-item
      survey, which includes 46 of the items from the baseline survey, plus questions about
      satisfaction and utilization of research evidence indicators. In addition to collecting
      survey data, investigators will also audio record PC CARES Learning Circles in order to
      identify facilitator fidelity to the curriculum, as well as facilitators' accurate
      presentation of the data and participants' accurate understanding of the data.

      Follow Up data collection:

      For data collection approximately 3 months after the intervention, investigators will recruit
      all those who attended PC CARES, and will target all of those in the 7 formal network
      positions, whether or not they participated in the intervention. Investigators also aim to
      have youth (ages 15-24), and community members who fill the 5 identified informal support
      roles and others (e.g. Elders, mentors) to participate in each village. This survey will be
      identical to the baseline survey. RDS will be used to recruit survey respondents beyond those
      initially recruited.

      Investigators expect to conduct this study in 9 different villages. In each village,
      investigators expect to train 2-4 facilitators, have 15-20 Learning Circle participants, and
      have 65-150 participants in the social network surveys. This comes to a minimum of 82
      participants per village to a maximum of 174 participants per village. Across 9 villages,
      investigators expect to have no more than 1566 subjects.

      This study maximizes rigor through a multiple baseline, multi- method approach, and carefully
      tracks the process indicators, moderating variables, and mechanisms leading to our
      hypothesized proximal, intermediate and ultimate outcomes of youth support to reduce suicidal
      behavior. Most community-based suicide studies measure only changes in participants'
      knowledge, attitudes and intentions to act. This study goes further by documenting changes in
      participants' prevention behavior overtime, and assessing its impact on protective
      interactions within the community. Integrating key lessons from the pilot research,
      investigators use multilevel growth modeling to track the factors likely to affect these
      outcomes, namely participation at community (cross-sector) and individual (dosage) levels,
      and the formal or informal social role of participants. Using innovative social network
      methods, investigators also investigate the intervention's impact on prevention-oriented
      interactions, help-giving and seeking, and health promoting exchanges within the community.
      By documenting the level and type of preventative and supportive interactions taking place
      among people in various roles (including youth) within the village before and after PC CARES,
      investigators can assess the effectiveness of the intervention at initiating community-level
      change among PC CARES participants and those who did not participate: allowing investigators
      to measure diffusion effects. This data informs investigators of the scalability of the
      approach. This analysis considers the moderating effects of key variables such as the degree
      of closeness between youth and PC CARES participants, level of collaboration between
      formal-informal supporters, interactions across age groups, and other village characteristics
      (e.g. level of participation and population). The study's Interrupted time series design has
      3 cohorts. All villages in Bering Straits will have the chance to participate. For each
      cohort, 3 villages will be randomly selected and invited to join in. If a village refuses or
      is not ready at that time, another randomly selected village will be offered the spot. This
      approach strikes an acceptable balance between randomization for scientific rigor and
      community self-determination.
    
  