
    
      Impaired motivated behaviors, including aspects of decision-making and reward-related
      processes, lie at the root of maladaptive behavior in many psychiatric disorders, including
      major depression (MD). Little is known of the cognitive and neural mechanisms that underlie
      MD in adolescents. Adolescence is a key period during which many psychiatric disorders first
      emerge, and studies during this developmental stage may provide a unique window to address
      primary deficits associated with the disorders. In particular, major depression shows a
      marked increase in prevalence at adolescence. Data from family-based and longitudinal studies
      suggest that anxiety disorders (AD), often preceding MD, may index childhood vulnerabilities
      for the development of MD. The concomitant examination of MD and AD can help interpret these
      findings. We propose to examine, in adolescents, the manner in which the various elemental
      emotional-cognitive processes are differentially affected in MD and AD compared to healthy
      controls. This investigation will be done in two phases. In Phase I, using fMRI, we will test
      two tasks in the decision-making model of gambling that have similarly been tested in adults
      in a group of healthy adolescents and healthy adults. This phase will serve as a test of the
      feasibility and validity of using these tasks in adolescents, and will provide normative
      developmental data by comparing healthy adults with healthy adolescents. In addition to
      showing the feasibility of using these tasks in normal adolescents, we will also test task
      performance behaviorally in healthy, anxious and depressed adolescents. Measures will include
      psychophysiological and eye tracking measures, and behavioral variables. Once task
      performance is well characterized behaviorally, we will conduct in Phase II an fMRI study in
      independent groups of depressed and anxious adolescents and compare the findings with those
      obtained in healthy adolescents.
    
  