
    
      Administration of subcutaneous UFH for antithrombotic prophylaxis is standard therapy in the
      postoperative setting. Often, a dosage of 5000 U twice a day has been used, with a
      demonstrated antithrombotic efficacy and an acceptable hemorrhagic complication profile.
      However, recent surgery guidelines regarding antithrombotic prophylaxis with UFH 5000 U
      suggest that a thrice daily regimen should be used following major oncologic surgeries. These
      new guidelines have raised some concerns in anaesthesiology, particularly regarding the
      safety of epidural catheters combined with thrice daily heparin. Optimal analgesia during the
      early postoperative period following some types of major oncologic surgery involves the
      placement of epidural catheters. Epidural analgesia provides the best relief of the
      significant pain which may be present after thoracotomy or supraumbilical laparotomy during
      the early postoperative period, improving ambulation, coughing, pulmonary function, bowel
      function as well as short and long-term quality of life. However, the benefits of epidural
      catheters must outweigh the risk of complications, the most feared being spinal hematoma.
      Recent guidelines in anaesthesiology support the placement of epidural catheters with the
      concomitant administration of UFH 5000 U two times a day. However, these guidelines do not
      clearly support the placement of an epidural catheter if a three times a day regimen is used,
      very little data being available to assess the risk of this practice. Older studies (1973)
      suggest that a significant proportion of patients (15%) will develop abnormal partial
      thromboplastin times using a three times a day regimen. However, it is not known if these
      results are still consistent with more recent laboratory technologies, or how they compare to
      twice daily heparin. In the absence of even basic data regarding systemic effect on
      coagulation, it is difficult at this time to begin to determine safe practice regarding the
      placement of an epidural catheter in presence of a three times a day UFH 5000 U regimen. This
      study is designed to obtain this data.

      Methods: As needed for standard anesthesia , surgical and post-operative care, an arterial
      line will be placed and kept for the first 24 hours postoperatively. Immediately prior the
      first UFH dose and hourly for the following 24 hours, blood samples for partial
      thromboplastin times will collected through the arterial line. The first dose of UFH will be
      given in the operating room by the anaesthesiologist. A blood sample for partial
      thromboplastin time will also be collected 3 days following the first dose of UFH.
    
  