
    
      Every year approximately 12,000 men are diagnosed with prostate cancer in the Netherlands and
      approximately 2,400 die of this disease. When prostate cancer is limited to the prostate,
      patients can be operated or radiated with a curative intention, however, metastasized disease
      is incurable. Initially, prostate cancer responds to testosterone at castration level and
      treatment with androgen receptor signaling inhibitors. However, after an average of 24
      months, prostate cancer will reach a castration resistant stage (mCRPC), which is associated
      with high morbidity and mortality. Since the introduction of Docetaxel in 2004, multiple
      treatments for mCRPC have become available. All these treatments have a proven beneficial
      effect on quality of life and all expand life expectancy. An important clinical problem is
      that approximately 50% of older patients are not able or not willing to receive docetaxel
      treatment. These patients are also not eligible for treatments of docetaxel refractory
      disease. Therefore, there is a need for effective treatments with little site effects.

      In the phase 3, ALSYMPCA study 921 patients were randomized between Rad-223 (Xofigo®) and
      placebo in a 2:1 distribution1. Patients with symptomatic bone metastases, limited lymph node
      involvement, adequate bone marrow, kidney and liver functions were included in this trial.
      Patients were previously treated with docetaxel or could not receive docetaxel, declined
      docetaxel or docetaxel was not available. At a planned interim analysis after 538 deaths, the
      primary end point overall survival (OS) was 14.9 months in the Radium-223 treated arm and
      11.3 months in the placebo arm (HR 0.70; 95% CI 0.58-0.83). All secondary end points were at
      the favor of Radium-223 treated patients, including time to first skeletal related event,
      quality of life and various biochemical end points. However, patient reported pain scores
      were not collected in the trial. Radium-223 treatment was well tolerated, with the most
      prominent side effects (all grades) thrombocytopenia 12 and 6%, neutropenia 5 and 1% and
      diarrhea 25 and 15% in the Radium-223 and placebo arm, respectively.

      A post-hoc analysis showed an equal efficacy of Radium-223 treatment in docetaxel pre-treated
      patients as in docetaxel naïve patients.

      In this registry the investigators aim to evaluate the efficacy of Radium-223 treatment and
      first subsequent therapy in a non-study population. Various parameters will be collected,
      including changes in patient reported pain score. Moreover, changes in serum and blood levels
      of biomarkers of bone metabolism and levels of blood osteoclast precursors in Radium-223
      treated patients will be evaluated for their potential to predict treatment outcome.
    
  