
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Individuals with Type 1 diabetes have substantially higher risk for premature atherosclerotic
      vascular disease (ASVD) than the general population. Risk factors for the development of ASVD
      have been identified, but linking them to initiation of atherosclerosis was not feasible
      until recently. Advances in non-invasive imaging now permit early detection of changes in
      blood vessel function and structure. This imaging provides an opportunity to evaluate risk
      factors for ASVD and vascular status in a cohort at a critical time for development and early
      progression of ASVD.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Subjects were enrolled from 1987-1992 and were followed from diabetes diagnosis. Standardized
      protocols for examinations and interviews were implemented and the data base included a
      valuable longitudinal plasma bank. Because incident cases were enrolled, information was
      collected from diagnosis on children, adolescents and young adults currently without symptoms
      of atherosclerosis. The existing database was expanded, the existing resources were used
      including the plasma bank, and promising new and well established clinical research
      techniques were incorporated by: (i) measuring plasma lipid levels on stored plasma and on
      newly collected blood samples, (ii) measuring triglyceride levels on newly collected blood
      samples, (iii) measuring urinary albumin excretion rates on newly collected specimens
      (already measured from diagnosis to date), and (iv) assessing endothelial function by
      brachial artery ultrasound, (v) measuring the intima medial thickness (IMT) of the carotid
      artery by ultrasound, and (vi) measuring coronary calcium by computed tomography scanning.
      These activities allowed pursuit of the following specific aims: 1) to determine the
      relationship between established risk factors for atherosclerosis and the development of
      pre-clinical atherosclerosis, 2) to determine the relationship between endothelial
      dysfunction and carotid IMT, and 3) to determine the relationship between coronary artery
      calcification and carotid IMT. Such information was critical in directing further efforts
      toward primary prevention of atherosclerosis in individuals with Type 1 diabetes mellitus.
    
  