
    
      Background:

      Due to screening and progress in treatment the overall survival of women treated for breast
      cancer has increased over the last decades. Therefore, the long-term effects of breast cancer
      have emerged as an important topic. An increased mortality is seen within years post
      treatment due to an increased incidence of cardiac dysfunction among survivors of breast
      cancer. This increased mortality is related to long term side effects of treatment with
      chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Earlier studies into this topic have focused on specific
      patient groups and therefore these results are difficult to translate to the general
      population. Furthermore, most echo graphic studies have focused on the systolic dysfunction
      of the heart, which is a late stage of the cardiac deterioration. Detecting cardiotoxicity
      early on provides the opportunity for early treatment and might therewith prevent
      deterioration of cardiac function and improve the prognosis of patients

      Objectives:

      Primary objective

        1. To assess the risk of a systolic and / or diastolic cardiac dysfunction at
           echocardiography of breast cancer patients compared to matched controls.

           Secondary objective:

        2. To assess the risk of heart failure( a combination of clinical complaints, objective
           measures at physical examination, laboratory examination or echocardiography) in breast
           cancer patients as compared to matched controls

        3. To determine the value of patient characteristics, clinical complaints and signs in
           physical examination in diagnosing cardiac dysfunction as found of echocardiography

        4. To determine the additional diagnostic value of biomarkers; N-terminal pro-hormone of
           brain natriuretic peptide (NT-pro-BNP) and high sensitive troponin T (hs-troponinT) in
           diagnosing cardiac dysfunction, as found on echocardiography

        5. Genetic analysis

      Study design and population:

      This is a cross-sectional, observational study in women in general practice who have been
      curatively treated for breast cancer with chemo and / or radiotherapy at a minimum of 5 years
      ago and an age and general practitioner (GP) matched female control population. Patients must
      be 18 years or older, younger than 80 at the time of diagnosis, not been treated for other
      types of cancer with chemo- and/or radiotherapy and must be willing to give written informed
      consent Primary study parameters

        1. Systolic and diastolic cardiac function of echocardiography

        2. Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)

        3. Multi dimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI-20)

        4. Cardiovascular Risk Management (CVRM)

        5. Short physical examination: blood pressure, height, weight, waist circumference,
           electrocardiography, signs of edema, auscultation

        6. Laboratory testing: Hemoglobin, hematocrit, leucocytes, creatinine , estimated
           glomerular filtration rate (GFR), cholesterol, triglycerides, High-density lipoprotein
           (HDL) cholesterol, Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, Cholesterol/HDL ratio,
           C-reactive protein (CRP),Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), glucose

        7. Serum and plasma for biomarkers

        8. ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) -tube for DeoxyriboNucleic Acid (DNA) analysis
           Outcomes

      Primary outcome:

      The cardiac dysfunction will be related to type of therapy and compared to the age-and
      general practice matched control group. Information on type of therapy will be gathered
      trough contacting the hospitals were patients were treated.

      Secondary outcome:

      Symptoms and signs of women with cardiac dysfunction will be compared with those without
      cardiac dysfunction. A comparison between women treated for breast cancer and women without
      breast cancer will be made.

      The level of the biomarkers will be linked with the cardiac dysfunction. In women treated for
      breast cancer with chemo- and/or radiotherapy these will also be linked with type of therapy.

      DNA analysis will be carried out to investigate if changes in candidate genes are related to
      the development of cardiac dysfunction.

      Burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness The minimal
      invasive tests will be performed if patient are willing to participate in de study after
      contact trough letters. As far as known no serious adverse events are linked to the described
      study procedures.

      With this study we hope to get insight in the risk of cardiac dysfunction after chemo- and/or
      radiotherapy in women treated for breast cancer. And to determine possibly diagnostic measure
      to detect this deterioration. Eventually, this may contribute to the early detection of
      cardiac dysfunction in women treated with chemo- and/or radiotherapy for breast cancer to
      improve the prognosis for patients.
    
  