
    
      The purpose of this research study is to evaluate the Endeavor, a compact, forward-folding,
      ultralight manual wheelchair that incorporates small "swing-down" wheels for navigation in
      confined areas. This enables access to narrow environments such as those encountered in
      offices, restrooms, and transportation settings. When using the small access wheels, the
      wheelchair also fits down the aisle of airplanes and collapses to be stowed in the overhead
      compartment. It is anticipated that the Endeavor will maximize mobility; increase access to
      confined areas; and ease the demands of travel for people with disabilities.

      There are two stages to this research project: an Activities of Daily Living Course and an
      In-Home trial. The activities of daily living course is located at the Human Engineering
      Research Laboratories and simulates daily barriers encountered by wheelchair users. Subjects
      will be asked to complete the course in their personal wheelchair and in the Endeavor three
      times each. Testing will be completed during a one-day visit that will not exceed 2 1/2
      hours.

      For the in-home trial, subjects will be asked to use the Endeavor as their primary means of
      mobility for two weeks, which will be compared to using their own wheelchair for two weeks.
      During this four-week period a datalogger will be mounted to the subject's wheelchair(s),
      which will give information about distance traveled, average speed, and time used. In
      addition to the data-logger, subjects will also be asked to keep a brief, daily, written log
      of the activities they performed while in the chair. At the end of the Endeavor trial-use
      period, subjects will be asked to complete a questionnaire. There is an 8-week follow-up
      period where subjects will be allowed to keep the Endeavor. We will make three calls during
      this period to conduct interviews on usage of the Endeavor.
    
  