
    
      The objectives of this study were to (1) develop a novel, integrative, psychological
      intervention, specifically cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), for the treatment of tinnitus
      among veterans who have past exposure to loud noise, and (2) accrue preliminary data
      examining the efficacy of the approach relative to standard care with education (ED) control
      conditions. Tinnitus was the most common service-connected disability among veterans
      2006-2012. Interventions for tinnitus are few and no cure exists. This pilot study examined
      the feasibility and efficacy of providing individualized (CBT) for veterans with bothersome
      tinnitus. Twenty-five veterans were recruited and randomly selected to one of two conditions
      during Period One of the study; the treatment condition (CBT) or (ED) control. A CBT manual
      and an ED manual were developed for this study. Subjects were be eligible for the study if
      their tinnitus was likely caused by noise exposure, their tinnitus was chronic (> 6 months),
      tinnitus was a major health concern for them, and participants were able to commit to a
      6-week course of treatment at the West Haven location of VACHS. Subjects were veterans
      blinded to the treatment group to which they are assigned if ED or CBT. The THI served as the
      primary outcome measure and the TRQ served as the secondary outcome measure pre- and
      post-treatment follow-up. Results of this pilot project were used to inform the design and
      methods of future rigorous randomized controlled clinical trials of CBT for tinnitus
      following its incorporation into the Progressive Tinnitus Management (PTM) protocol. Baseline
      and outcome data of the 4 participants who completed the study after this third arm was added
      to the study design are not reported as this third arm essentially modified the design such
      that a new study began but was not completed.
    
  