
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. To investigate the role of genotypes for carcinogen metabolizing enzymes (CME) and DNA
      repair proteins(DRPs) of the father of children diagnosed with retinoblastoma (RB) and his
      environmental exposures prior to the child?s conception in the etiology of sporadic bilateral
      retinoblastoma.

      II. To test if the prevalence of preconception environmental exposures and polymorphisms with
      known or predicted functional consequences in genes for CMEs and DRPs is different in fathers
      of children with sporadic bilateral RB compared with fathers of the control group.

      III. To test if the prevalence of the father?s preconception environmental exposures and his
      polymorphisms in CMEs and DRPs differs between subsets of cases defined by the type of
      mutation at the RB1 gene locus.

      IV. To investigate the role of genotypes for CMEs and DRPs of the mother and child and
      environmental exposures after the child?s conception in the etiology of sporadic unilateral
      RB.

      V. To test if the prevalence of environmental exposures during the pregnancy and
      polymorphisms with known or predicted functional consequences in CMEs is different in the
      mothers of children with sporadic unilateral RB compared with mothers of the control group.

      VI. To test if the prevalence of polymorphisms in genes for CMEs and DRPs with known or
      predicted functional consequences is different in the children with sporadic unilateral RB
      compared with controls.

      VII. To test if the prevalence of gestational exposures and polymorphisms in genes for CMEs
      of the mother and the polymorphisms in genes for CME and DRPs in the children differs between
      subsets of cases defined by the type of mutation at the RB1 gene locus.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Participants undergo a structured telephone interview questionnaire. The parental
      questionnaires collect basic demographic data (including age, race, education, and income),
      occupational history, medical radiation exposure, diet and supplement use (for the year
      before pregnancy for father, during pregnancy for mother), tobacco use, and alcohol use. The
      mothers are also asked about residential pesticides and prior assisted reproductive
      technology.

      Controls (parents) provide saliva samples. If a patient is also enrolled on COG-ARET0332,
      then the patient blood and tumor samples should be submitted. Parents of patients on this
      protocol should also submit a blood sample. Blood samples from the affected child, and blood
      and/or sputum samples from the parents may be submitted. Tumor specimens should be submitted
      if available.

      For some patients, a RB1 mutation detection assay on DNA derived from peripheral blood is
      performed. If the mutation is found, the parents? DNA is also screened. Blood samples undergo
      DNA-based sequencing analysis, single nucleotide polymorphism genotyping, quantitative
      Southern blot analysis, isolation of RNA and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction
      analysis, and loss of heterozygosity analysis.
    
  