
    
      Following the standard rehabilitation intake process (physician visit, nurse intake, exercise
      physiologist consultation based on stress test and clinical data passed from the physician)
      all subjects will begin their secondary prevention program including on-site supervised
      training, nurse case management, plus dietitian and psychological consultation as necessary.
      During the study weeks subjects will wear the smartwatch (Polar Inc.) in order to collect
      de-identified data (heart rate, step count, walk speed etc.) and will upload data to the
      Polar cloud. No medical data will be uploaded and subjects will only have a coded ID randomly
      generated. During the exercise periods (both on-site in the cardiac rehabilitation institute,
      and also during the recommended community exercise performed on their own).

      Gradually, the number of on-site sessions will decrease from the standard of 8 sessions per
      month to zero (each month after the first a reduction of 2 sessions). We plan to reduce the
      on-site sessions while increasing the number of home-based session in order to evaluate the
      ability to monitor, coach and dynamically adjust the exercise program by combined use of
      smartwatch data and telephone contact. Polar exercise watch will be provided and appropriate
      operation instructions and education will be given after informed consent.

      During the 6 month study period we will contact subjects once or twice weekly in order to
      encourage participation, fine-tune the exercise program and to assess secondary prevention
      goals.

      All subjects will undergo a stress test before and after 6 months of training part of the
      standard of care management, as well as dietitian, physician and psychologist consultations
      will be offered following the regular schedule of the standard rehabilitation program (at
      baseline, 3 months and 6 months).
    
  