
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is an important clinical disorder occurring in men, women, and
      children with a prevalence of 4 percent, 2 percent and 1-3 percent, respectively. OSA is
      under active study in adults and is definitely linked with increased cardiovascular
      morbidity, even in its mild to moderate clinical forms. In contrast, OSA has not been well
      studied in children and the potential deleterious consequences on cardiovascular function
      have received little or no attention.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study will examine in children 1) The interaction between OSA and baroreflex dysfunction,
      2) The relation of OSA severity and baroreflex dysfunction to abnormalities in blood pressure
      control during wakefulness and sleep, 3) The association of the diminished baroreflex gain
      and impaired blood pressure control with an index of end organ damage, the left ventricular
      mass index, and 4) Whether effective treatment of OSA results in significant improvement in
      baroreceptor function, blood pressure control and a decrease in left ventricular mass index.
      A cross-sectional study will be conducted in 8-12 year old children with OSA and a matched
      group of normal children. Studies include baroreceptor function, 24-hour ambulatory blood
      pressure and left ventricular mass index. Baroreceptor function will be measured by
      non-invasive techniques based on combined computer analysis of heart rate and blood pressure
      measured by portapres. 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure will be measured by a Spacelab
      monitor and left ventricular mass index will be measured by direct M-mode echocardiogram. A
      longitudinal study will be conducted on the effect of adequate treatment of OSA on
      baroreceptor function, daytime and nocturnal blood pressure and left ventricular mass index.
      A cohort of children with OSA and a matched group of normal controls will be followed for a
      period of 12 months after treatment of the disorder. Results are expected to show that
      children with OSA have decreased baroreceptor sensitivity, elevated nocturnal blood pressure
      and increased left ventricular mass index and that effective therapy for OSA, as determined
      by polysomnography, will improve or normalize baroreceptor sensitivity as well as nocturnal
      blood pressures and will lead to a decrease in left ventricular mass index.
    
  