
    
      Backgrounds Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) which is followed by surgery is now a standard
      therapy in the local advanced breast cancer (LABC) since it was introduced 50 years ago,
      increasingly being used in early-stage LABC patients. Some NACT studies in RSCM use a
      doxorubicin-based regimen, giving a 70-80% partial response, but do not require a complete
      response both clinically and pathologically. The NACT response was 80% with a complete
      clinical response of 36%. The complete pathological response obtained after NACT is the
      prognosis of a replacement marker both overall and disease-free survival in the LABC. The
      purpose of giving NACTis to increase tumor resectability and de-escalation surgery and kill
      micrometastasis which will increase the length of disease-free and life expectancy of the
      patient. New tumor margins causing post-NACT tumor shrinkage can be used as surgical margins.

      Doxorubicin-based chemotherapy is the most commonly given chemotherapy for NACT as well as
      entering the first line of the National Formulary. However, side effects are limited from
      drug resistance side effects that can cause cardiomyopathy and heart failure. One of the
      factors that influence doxorubicin resistance is the presence of efflux pumps such as
      P-glycoprotein (P-gp) on the cell surface. While the effects of toxicity arise due to the
      formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the presence of free radicals. Efforts to
      improve the efficacy of the combination of chemotherapy currently being used with targeted
      therapies such as anti-HER-2 and bevacizumab, but have a high enough toxicity and are
      expensive and not included in ForNas. Likewise, some drugs that have been tested in vitro as
      P-gp inhibitors/modifiers, but failed in clinical trials because of ineffectiveness and
      greater side effects on the kidneys and heart. Some previous studies have confirmed that
      simvastatin is a potential ABCB1 / P-gp inhibitor.

      Statins are the most widely used anti-hypercholesterolemia in the world, through inhibition
      of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme-A reductase (Hmgcr) which is an enzyme that limits the
      use of the mevalonate pathway that can be used as intracellular cholesterol. Besides having
      pleiotropic effects, statins also have anti-tumor effects. At this time, statins have
      received approval as a potential anti-tumor agent because several epidemiological studies
      have agreed on the relationship between statin use and reducing the risk of recurrence of
      LABC after adjuvant therapy. Some preclinical studies show that statins can decrease breast
      cancer cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in various experimental models. results from
      pre-operative "window-of-opportunity" clinical trials on LABC so that statins can reduce
      tumor proliferation and induce apoptosis. Reports in the RSCM get simvastatin 40 mg for 4
      weeks for neoadjuvant reduce the proliferation index in the LABC by 53.3% and inhibit the
      increase in LABC cells through the Rho / Rock pathway. Although several studios of statin
      antitumor activity have been carried out, the role of statins in oncology has not yielded
      satisfactory results or controversies and provides heterogeneous responses depending on the
      molecular identity and tumor type malignancy. The results of a clinical preliminary study
      indicate that giving a single statin is not as effective as an anti-cancer because it
      requires large effects and large side effects.

      Several in vitro studies and animal models show that the combination of statins can increase
      the accumulation of intra-cell chemotherapy so that the effects of potentiation of
      chemotherapy arise. The administration of a combination of doxorubicin statins increases the
      potential for anti-cancer effects through the accumulation of doxorubicin in cancer cells,
      causing the potential for DNA damage, inhibition of proliferation, and induction of
      apoptosis. statins can also protect cardiotoxic induced by doxorubicin if it is given
      pre-therapy in mice. With a variety of anti-tumor mechanisms as well as the enormous benefits
      and potential addition of statins that can be well-tolerated, safe, and inexpensive. However,
      until now the effects of antiproliferation synergy and induction of apoptosis combination of
      simvastatin and doxorubicin in LABC patients are not well known. This study aims to determine
      the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of simvastatin combination and CAF chemotherapy as
      neo-advanced therapy in LABC patients. The use of this combination is expected to improve
      clinical and pathological responses as well as surgical margins while providing
      cardioprotection effects, so as to provide the best service with high oncological value.

      Methods

        1. Subject and study design This research is a double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical
           trial conducted at Dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo General Hospital and Koja General Hospital
           from January 2018 to September 2019. Eligible patients are patients with grade IIIA to
           IIIC invasive breast cancer that is histologically proven. A total of 60 LABC patients
           were included in this study. Participants received a combination of NACT CAF and
           Simvastatin (40 mg / day) (n = 30) or placebo (n = 30). Besides being used to make a
           histopathological diagnosis, samples were taken by biopsy before NACT, examined for the
           expression of HMG-CoA Reductase (HMGCR) and P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Participants were
           evaluated for the clinical response after 3 NACT cycles. If it gives a complete or
           partial response, then the patient will proceed to surgery. Then, the postoperative
           specimen will be reviewed for a pathological response. However, if it is stable or
           progressive, the patient will be given a 2nd line NACT.

        2. Tumor assessment The primary outcome was clinical response while the secondary outcome
           was the pathological response, incision boundary, P-gp expression, Hmgcr expression and
           side effects. The analysis was performed on the population per protocol. Clinical
           response assessment uses WHO 1979 criteria. Pathological responses of tumors are
           evaluated according to the Miller-Payne scoring system. MPG classification is used to
           evaluate the relevance between pathological response and clinical response. The incision
           boundary assessment is performed using histopathological tissue incisions depending on
           the surgical margins of the tumor on the medial, lateral, cranial, caudal, and baseline
           sides of the tumor; based on the size of the new tumor. Histopathological results will
           determine whether the level is free from the tumor or not based on the size of the new
           tumor. Disease assessment is carried out by investigation after 3 NACT cycles. Side
           effects were assessed during treatment and for 7 days after the last treatment dose and
           assessed using CTCAE 3.0.

        3. Biomarker assessment Estimation of P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and Hmgcr expression was seen
           under a microscope from a sample after a core biopsy was performed before starting
           chemotherapy. P-gp expression was interpreted based on the percentage of p-glycoprotein
           positive cells in the total cell population (low = 0%, 1+ = 1-19%, and 2 + = 20-100%
           positive cells). Hmgcr expression is interpreted based on the percentage of Hmgcr
           positive cells in the total cell population (negative = 0%, 1+ = 1-10%, 2+ = 11-50%, 3+
           => 51-100% positive cells)..

        4. Statistical analysis The main results in this study were clinical responses based on WHO
           1970 criteria. ORR values in this study were calculated from the ratio of the number of
           patients who showed a response (complete and partial) to the total number of patients
           and were analyzed using the Pearson Chi-Square Test. Secondary outcomes in the form of
           pathological responses based on GMP and incision boundaries were analyzed using Fisher's
           Exact Test. Bivariate analysis of clinicopathological variables and molecular biology
           with the therapeutic response using the Continuity Correction Test and the Fischer's
           Exact Test. The results of the bivariate analysis with p> 0.25 were performed
           multivariate analysis using the Logistic Regression Test. The analysis was performed
           with the help of a computer using the SPSS 23 program. Differences were stated to be
           meaningful and obtained p values <0.05.
    
  