
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the histologic response rate in patients with high-risk, premalignant
           lesions of the upper aerodigestive tract treated with cetuximab.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the clinical response rate in these patients.

        -  To determine if patterns of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) component expression
           are altered in these patients.

        -  To determine the change in status of genetic alterations, including loss of
           heterozygosity, in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified by lesion type [diffuse
      dysplasia vs recurrent dysplasia vs dysplastic lesions with 3p or 9p loss of heterozygosity
      (LOH)]. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I (treatment): Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, 22,
           29, 36, 43, and 50 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (control): Patients receive regular follow-up care. Patients have the option of
           receiving cetuximab after completion of the study.

      In both arms, patients with persistent or recurrent high-grade dysplasia or dysplastic
      lesions with 3p or 9p LOH undergo surgical resection, if feasible, after week 8.

      Tumor biopsy samples are obtained at baseline* and after week 8 for histologic and biomarker
      correlative studies. Tissue samples are analyzed by histopathology to determine histologic
      changes in post-treatment lesions and by immuno-histochemistry (IHC) to measure expression
      and activation of EGFR signaling pathway components. LOH studies are also performed.

      NOTE: *Paraffin-embedded tissue from the original diagnostic biopsy may be used for baseline
      assessment, if the diagnostic biopsy was performed within 3 months prior to study entry.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at approximately 1 month, every 3
      months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for up to 5 years as per routine standard of
      care.
    
  