
    
      Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) develops serial treatment resistance and is
      considered incurable. It is a largely indolent disease, which would give the body time to
      mount an effective immune response. CRPC is therefore potentially well suited for vaccine
      therapy.

      Docetaxel is an antineoplastic agent belonging to the taxoid family. The FDA-approved course
      of therapy for prostate cancer consists of 75 mg/m2 docetaxel given intravenously as a 1-hour
      infusion every 21 days on Day 1.

      Sipuleucel-T (Provenge), is an FDA-approved cancer vaccine therapy manufactured by culturing
      an individual's own freshly isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), including
      antigen-presenting cells (APCs) and T cells, with a fusion protein (PA-2024) composed of
      prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP) linked to granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor
      (GM-CSF). A course of therapy consists of three doses of Provenge administered at 2-week
      intervals.

      This is an open-label phase II study in taxane-naïve patients with metastatic CRPC of
      docetaxel followed by Provenge. Adult (age >18 years) men with metastatic CRPC.
      pathologically-confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate with clinical or radiologic evidence
      of metastatic disease that has progressed despite treatment with anti-androgens, inhibitors
      of adrenal-produced androgens (abiraterone), or androgen receptor inhibitors (enzalutamide),
      and who, prior to study entry are candidates to receive Standard of Care chemotherapy (e.g.,
      docetaxel/prednisone) or immunotherapy (Provenge), will be enrolled in this study.

      This study will recruit a total of 32 patients with metastatic CRPC. Patients will receive 6
      cycles of docetaxel followed by Provenge. Treatment will be administered on an outpatient
      basis. Patients must meet one of the following prognostic criteria:

        -  PSA doubling time ≤6 months

        -  >10 bone lesions (only if they meet PSA doubling time criteria)

        -  Visceral metastases

        -  Bone and lymph node lesions

      The primary objective of this study is to characterize the immunological biomarkers during
      therapy and correlate the immunological biomarkers with clinical outcome. The strategy aims
      to determine whether cytokine production and T cell infiltration of tumor cells could favor
      regression using a combination of chemotherapy plus vaccine. Tissue endpoints will include
      biopsies prior to chemotherapy, on day 14 during the rest period between therapies and after
      vaccine therapy. Prostate cancer tissue infiltrates will be studied for expression of CD3,
      CD4, CD8, CD25/FOX3P, CD56, CTLA-4, PD-1, and Ki67. Additional immunological endpoints will
      be secondary antigen spread and various cytokine biomarkers.
    
  