
    
      The unifying goal of our work is to develop new approaches for the prevention of urinary
      tract infection (UTI) in persons with spinal cord injury (SCI). Most individuals with SCI
      have neurogenic bladders, and the resulting urinary stasis and bladder catheterization
      predispose them to recurrent UTI. Currently few, if any, measures are effective at prevention
      of UTI in persons with neurogenic bladders.

      Bacterial interference, or using benign bacteria to prevent infection with virulent
      pathogens, may offer a solution to the significant problem of recurrent episodes of UTI in
      persons with SCI. Two trials in persons with SCI of instilling nonpathogenic Escherichia coli
      (83972) directly into the bladder demonstrated a strong association between colonization with
      this non-pathogen and decreased frequency of UTI. However, the successful colonization rate
      of the direct inoculation method was low (51-62%). Since a urinary catheter-associated
      biofilm, or bacteria plus extracellular matrix, continually seeds the bladder with bacteria,
      we proposed to use urinary catheters that had been pre-coated with a biofilm of E. coli 83972
      as a means to achieve bladder colonization. Our recently completed pilot (B3248P)
      demonstrated that insertion of urinary catheters pre-coated with E. coli (83972) was an
      effective and safe method to achieve bladder colonization with this potentially protective
      strain. The rate of successful colonization with the E. coli-coated catheters was high (10 of
      12 subjects, or 83%). However, this pilot was limited to the subpopulation of SCI veterans
      who utilize chronic indwelling catheters for bladder drainage.

      The current proposal expands upon previous work by widening the range of eligible subjects
      and by simplifying the colonization protocol. Since an intermittent catheterization program
      (ICP) is a preferred and more common means of managing neurogenic bladders than chronic
      catheterization, we now plan to test E. coli 83972-coated catheters in persons with SCI who
      use ICP for bladder drainage. We hypothesize that short-term use (3 days) of E. coli
      83972-coated catheters in persons with SCI practicing ICP will lead to successful
      colonization (persisting 28 days or more) in the majority of subjects. We will also record
      subjects' rates of symptomatic UTI while colonized with E. coli 83972 and compare these rates
      to the subjects' baseline rates in the year prior to study entry. Subjects will be able to
      remove their study catheters at home and to submit urine samples by mail, so the colonization
      process will simple and convenient. If successful colonization is achieved in this pilot
      trial, a larger clinical trial will be designed to test the efficacy of these catheters at
      preventing UTI in persons with SCI.
    
  