
    
      The SentiNot 2.0 protocol aims to elucidate the effectivity and accuracy of the delayed
      sentinel lymph node dissection concept (dSLND) when upfront SLND is considered unnecessary,
      such as in the setting of a preoperative diagnosis of DCIS, in cases of unclear BIRADS 4 or 5
      lesions that are planned for diagnostic excisional biopsy or in selected cases of risk
      reducing mastectomy. Acknowledging the large variance of practice in this setting, the study
      aims to address pragmatism to allow for inclusion. For this reason, the trial is designed
      separately and independently for mastectomy and breast conserving surgery, so that
      participating sites can recruit as fitting in their practice.

      In patients included in the SentiNot 2.0 trial, SPIO (MagTrace,2.0 ml) is injected up to 24
      hours preoperatively or perioperatively during primary breast surgery on patients with a
      preoperative diagnosis of DCIS (or suspicious lesions with no clear diagnosis of invasive
      cancer but, considered for SLND). The SPIO is injected close to the lesion. If injected less
      than 24 hours before the operation, a 5 minute massage should be performed. Planned breast
      surgery is performed. The transcutaneous magnetic counts by SentiMag in the axilla is
      measured at the end of the breast procedure, so as to allow for confirmation that SLND may be
      identified. Thus,the SLN is consequently marked with SPIO, but not excised.

      In this manner, women that have pure DCIS on final histopathological examination have avoided
      unnecessary upfront SLND.

      If there is underlying invasive breast cancer on final histopathological examination, SLND
      will be performed at a second operation (d-SLND). A preoperative injection of radioisotope
      (RI) RI will be added to maximize the chance to detect the SLN. SLND will start with a
      registration of the magnetic and isotope signal in the axilla, and the incision will be
      placed in relation to the signal. In patients that have undergone mastectomy, tracers are to
      be injected intracutaneously in the lateral part of the mastectomy scar. The routine use of
      blue dye (BD) is strongly advised, but is not compulsory. However, if no transcutaneous
      signal for SPIO and RI is measured in the axilla pre-incision, an injection of BD according
      local routines will be administered. Subsequently, SLND will be performed. Patients with
      upgrade to invasive cancer will undergo SLND, but will be randomized with an allocation ratio
      of 1:1 to SentiMag first or Radioactive probe first. This will mandate the "principal
      modality" to perform SLND. Every step of the procedure will be controlled; if the principal
      modality fails, then the surgeon will use the "secondary". If the principal modality
      succeeds, the secondary will be registered and documented.

      The procedure will be divided to the following steps:

        -  Transcutaneous axillary signal detection

        -  Subcutaneous axillary detection, after the incision has been performed.

        -  In situ SLN identification.

        -  SLN retrieval ex vivo.

        -  Residual axillary signal ("Background counts"). If a SLND is successfully completed with
           the primary modality and no residual axillary signal is detected, before completing the
           procedure, the secondary modality will be undertaken to allow for the detection of
           "discordance".

      Principle modalities maybe either RI or SPIO. If BD is used, dyed lymphatics should be
      ignored until failure with both modalities has been reached. The success of each modality,
      principal and secondary, will be controlled per step. If the surgeon documents principle
      modality failure for a given step, this is to be documented. The intention-to-treat principle
      will apply, but if there is failure of the modality randomized as principle, then the
      per-protocol-analysis principle will apply. All SLNs (magnetic, brown, radioactive, blue)
      will be removed. Palpable nodes may be removed according to surgeon discretion, but should be
      reported as such. Total technique failure has to be discussed with the patient in advance,
      and a plan with patient consent consisting of no-surgery, sampling, axillary dissection or
      treatment according to intraoperative decision has to be available. If no SLN is found, the
      procedure performed (axillary clearance, sampling. etc) should be discussed in advance with
      the patient. The SLN may be sent for frozen section in order to avoid a third operation, if
      SLN metastases are present.

      Standard of care patients (SLND performed upfront for diagnoses included in the inclusion
      criteria or patients going to l-SLND without SPIO) may also be enrolled in the study
      prospectively as a control arm.Additionally, patient preference will be tolerated and results
      will be reported for study secondary and other pre-specified endpoints. Patients in the
      control group has to be informed that their un-identified data will be used as a comparison
      and, an oral consent has to be given before surgery regardless whether SLND is planned or
      not. This will allow for controlled real world data from a prospective control arm in fashion
      of a cohort.
    
  