
    
      Hypothesis: the "pushing" maneuver reduces of 50% the risk of shoulder dystocia in comparison
      with either an expectative attitude or a suctioning of fetal nose and mouth.

      Main objective: to assess whether prophylactic use of the "pushing on the fetal head"
      maneuver decreases the prevalence of shoulder dystocia, in comparison with an expectative
      attitude or a suctioning of fetal nose and mouth.

      Secondary objective: to compare the occurrence of neonatal complications including brachial
      plexus injury, clavicle and humerus fracture, hematoma and generalized asphyxia.

      Main criterion: occurrence of shoulder dystocia, defined by a necessity of requiring a
      specific obstetrical maneuver (McRoberts' maneuver).

      Secondary criterion: neonatal complications including neurological damages (brachial plexus
      injury), generalized asphyxia, hematoma, clavicle and humerus fractures.

      Methods: prospective, randomized, multicenter blind study with a modified intention-to-treat
      analysis. Patients are included during the last obstetrical consultation and randomized in
      the delivery room.

      Number of patients (α error, β error): a sample size of 1126 patients was calculated to allow
      detection of a 50% reduction of shoulder dystocia, with a prevalence of dystocia reaching
      4.3% in usual deliveries (expectative attitude or suctioning of fetal nose and mouth), with a
      65% dystocia risk decrease in the group C (α error of 0.05, β error of 0.20).

      Inclusion and exclusion criteria. Inclusion: women having completed 37 or more gestational
      weeks with singleton vertex fetus, delivering vaginally. Exclusion: patients with caesarean
      section are excluded.

      Place of the study: department of gynecology and obstetrics, BEAUJON hospital, Clichy, France
      and department of gynecology and obstetrics, BICHAT hospital, Paris, France.

      Duration of inclusion: two years and 6 months Duration of patients' participation: two months
      maximum Duration of the study: two years and 9 months. Mean number of inclusion each month:
      30 Number of investigation centre: 2 (BEAUJON hospital, BICHAT hospital).
    
  