
    
      This is a Phase 1 open-label, multicenter, nonrandomized study of the safety and
      pharmacokinetics of the combination of CNTO 328 and docetaxel in patients with metastatic
      Hormone-Refractory Prostate Cancer (HRPC). Eligible patients must be age >= 18 years, have
      histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate, and have documented
      metastatic disease. Prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease is not allowed.The study will
      last for approximately 26 months. This study will be conducted in 4 phases: 1. Screening (up
      to 4 weeks): understanding and signing an informed consent form, physical/neurological exam,
      an ECG, vitals will be checked, urinalysis, a radiologic assessment, routine blood samples,
      study blood samples, a circulating tumor cell blood sample, a testosterone level blood
      sample, and a prostate specific antigen (PSA) sample. If the results show that the patient
      can be a part of the study, the patient will begin the run-in phase. If the results of the
      screening show that the patient cannot be part of the study, the patient will not receive
      docetaxel as part of this study or CNTO 328.Starting with the first docetaxel infusion, the
      patient will be required to take prednisone twice a day, until the end of Cycle 3. After
      Cycle 3, the study doctor will decide if and/or when the prednisone taken. Dexamethasone will
      be required at 12 hours, 3 hours, and 1 hour before the start of every docetaxel infusion
      through Cycle 3. After Cycle 3, the study doctor will decide how the dexamethasone will be
      taken. Antiemetics (to prevent nausea and vomiting) are also required. The study doctor will
      decide the dose, how often, and how these should take them 2. Run-in Phase (up to 3
      weeks):The term run-in phase describes a period of time before the start of the formal study
      treatment. During this phase, the patient will receive only one drug, either docetaxel or
      CNTO 328 depending on the assigned group. Groups 1A, 2, and 3: The patient will be given
      docetaxel 3 weeks before the formal study treatment begins. During the next 2 weeks the
      patient will not receive any study drug, but will undergo certain tests and procedures. Group
      1B: The patient will be given a CNTO 328 infusion 2 weeks before the formal study treatment
      begins. During the next week the patient will not receive any study drug, but will have
      certain tests and procedures. 3. Cycles 1 through 17 (14 cycles - up to 46 weeks and with
      additional 3 cycles -up to 55 weeks):Cycles 1 through 17 are each planned to be 3 weeks in
      length. All treatment groups will receive an infusion of docetaxel on week 1 of every cycle.
      The CNTO 328 infusion occurs based on the treatment group to which the patients are assigned.
      Group 1A: Patients will receive a 6mg/kg infusion of CNTO 328 every two weeks, starting on
      week 1, cycle 1. Group 1B: Patients will receive a 6mg/kg infusion of CNTO 328 every two
      weeks, starting two weeks prior to cycle 1.Group 2: Patients will receive a 9 mg/kg infusion
      of CNTO 328 every three weeks, starting on week 1, cycle 1. Group 3: Patients will receive a
      12mg/kg infusion of CNTO 328 every three weeks, starting on week 1, cycle 1. The overall
      amount of CNTO 328 increases with each higher group. Therefore, Group 1A and 1B will be
      filled before Group 2, and Group 2 will be filled before Group 3. This allows CNTO 328 to be
      tested in a safer manner. The docetaxel dose remains the same for all three groups.Patients
      may receive up to 14 cycles of treatment provided there is no evidence of disease
      progression, including serum PSA progression, or unacceptable toxicity. However, patients
      responding to treatment with at least stable disease (SD) after 14 cycles will be permitted
      to receive 3 additional cycles of treatment. In addition to drug therapy, patients will
      receive other tests and procedures. Most of the tests required before study medication is
      administered and throughout the study would be done normally during any treatment for
      prostate cancer. However, these tests and procedures may be done more often. The following
      are the tests and procedures: Routine blood tests; Study blood samples; Testosterone level
      sample; PSA sample; Circulating Tumor Cell blood sample; Urinalysis; Physical
      exam/neurological exam; Vital signs; ECG (electrocardiogram); Radiological tests4. Follow-up:
      After patients complete treatment they will have follow-up visits including patients that
      discontinue treatment early. The patients will have them 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks after the final
      treatment cycle is completed. The Week 4 visit will be the "End of Study Visit". There will
      be 3 more visits at 12, 18, and 24 weeks after the final treatment cycle. Long-term
      Follow-up: No matter when or why the patients leave the study, the study doctor or nurse may
      telephone them to ask about their health and/or look at their medical records every 3 months
      to check on how they are doing. They will do this for one year after the last infusion of
      study drug. Patients will not need to go to the study center or have any tests performed. The
      study center will also ask about any treatment the patient received after they completed
      their participation in the study . Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 will be given intravenously (into the
      vein) once every 3 wks for up to 17 three week cycles. CNTO328 will be administered
      intravenously (into the vein) over 2 hours according to one of the following regimens: 6
      milligrams of medication per kilogram of body weight (mg/kg) once every 2 wks; 9 mg/kg once
      every 3 wks; and 12 mg/kg every 3 wks for up to 17 three week cycles.
    
  