
    
      INTRODUCTION. In normal pregnancy vascular remodelling of the maternal uterine spiral
      arteries occurs. Trophoblast cells invade the spiral arterioles within the first 12 weeks of
      pregnancy and replace the muscular wall of the vessels converting them into wide bore, low
      resistance, large capacity vessels, a process normally completed by 20 weeks gestation. The
      pathogenesis of generalized endothelial dysfunction in complicated pregnancies is subdivided
      into two phases. The first phase exists of a poor trophoblast invasion of the spiral arteries
      during the placentation process, causing failure to transform the placental bed arteries from
      high to low resistance vessels. This results in local ischemia, reperfusion damage and
      oxidative stress. The local damage activates the second phase where enhanced production of
      anti-angiogenic factors and oxidative stress products results in systemic inflammation,
      endothelial activation and decreased endothelial nitric oxide. In case the endothelial damage
      is most outspoken, thrombotic micro-angiopathy is induced with platelet-fibrin thrombi in
      micro-vessels. The angiopathy results in consumption of circulating platelets, causes
      hemolysis in affected micro-vessels and reduces portal blood flow in the liver, finally
      resulting in periportal necrosis, a condition seen in severe pre-eclampsia (PE).

      HYPOTHESIS.

        -  Increased oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction are present early in pregnancy
           when pregnancy complications will develop later on.

        -  Oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction are not entirely independent from each
           other and can be measured.

        -  Oxidative stress can be reduced and endothelial function can be improved by
           interventions that will reduce the risk of developing pregnancy complications.

      Thus: measurement and integration in an algorithm of oxidative stress and endothelial
      function in early pregnancy will allow us to determine which pregnancies will benefit from
      preventive interventions. This selection will optimize targeted interventions on high risk
      pregnancies without overtreatment of others.

      METHODOLOGY

        1. Study design 1.1. Single center prospective longitudinal study For the first part of the
           study, the investigators propose a prospective longitudinal design. Pregnant women in
           their first trimester of pregnancy, will be eligible and will be followed throughout
           pregnancy and until 6 months postpartum.

           1.2. Multicenter matched case-control study The second part is a case control study
           where patients with pregnancies complicated by PIH / PE / preterm birth / IUGR will be
           compared to normotensive controls, matched for maternal and gestational age, parity,
           smoking behavior, BMI and ethnic group. Patients will be followed throughout (the rest
           of their) pregnancy and until 6 months postpartum. The patients in this study will be
           included in UZA, Erasmus MC, Maastricht UMC, ZOL (Ziekenhuis Oost-Limburg).

        2. Description of investigations 2.1 Endothelial function (RHI): The reactive hyperemia
           index is measured using peripheral artery tonometry (PAT) (endoPAT®, Itamar). The
           tonometer consists of a finger- mounted probe plethysmograph, capable of sensing volume
           changes in the vessels of the index fingers. It is a non-operator-dependent and thus
           reproducible technique. Sensors are placed at the fingertips of the index fingers.

      Suprasystolic occlusion of the non-dominant upper arm, at 200mmHg or 60 mmHg above systolic
      blood pressure, will be obtained using a cuff. After upper-arm occlusion the response to
      reactive hyperemia will be measured. The contralateral (dominant) arm is used as control, to
      correct for systemic effects.

      2.2 Arterial stiffness (PWV, PWA): Pulse wave velocity and pulse wave analysis will be
      calculated using the Sphygmocor system ® (Atcor Medical, West Ryde, Australia). To calculate
      PWV, two pressure waveforms must be measured at a known distance apart and the distance
      between measurement sites is divided by the propagation time. Aortic PWV is measured by
      carotid-femoral PWV (cfPWV) as it is the 'gold standard' measurement of the stiffness of the
      aorta. Measurements of cfPWV will be performed using a pressure tonometer to transcutaneously
      record the pressure pulse waveform in the underlying artery. The tonometer contains a
      micromanometer that provides a very accurate recording of the pressure within the artery. The
      carotid and femoral PWV will be assessed by gently compressing respectively the carotid
      artery and the femoral artery with the tip of the tonometer at the site of maximal pulsation.
      The Sphygmocor device will automatically calculate the cfPWV. PWA will calculate AIx by
      placing the tonometer at the radial artery (site of maximum pulsation). A generalized
      transfer function will derive the aortic pressure waveform from the radial artery waveform.
      From the aortic pressure waveform, the augmentation pressure (AP) and augmentation index
      (AIx) can be calculated. The AP (ΔP) is defined as the height of the late systolic peak above
      the inflection point on the waveform. The AIx is defined as AP expressed as a percentage of
      the aortic PP. As AIx is affected by heartrate, it will be standardized to a heart rate of 75
      bmp (AIx-75).

      2.3 Pulsatility index uterine artery (PI UA) and fetal biometry: Uterine artery Doppler
      examinations will be performed using trans-abdominal color directed pulsed wave Doppler
      (Voluson, GE Healthcare Technologies, USA). PI of both uterine arteries will be obtained on
      either side of the cervix before 14 weeks' gestation and at the apparent crossover with the
      external iliac arteries after 14 weeks. At the same moment basic fetal biometry parameters
      will be measured: bi-parietal diameter, head circumference, abdominal circumference, femur
      length and expected fetal weight using Hadlocks formula.

      2.4 NLR and MPV: Performing a complete blood count, NLR, MPV and platelet count will be
      obtained using a ADVIA 120 Hematology System (Siemens healthcare, Germany).

      2.5 Automated blood pressure measurement: SBP (systolic blood pressure), DBP (diastolic blood
      pressure) and MAP (mean arterial pressure) after 10 minutes rest in a sitting position, will
      be measured using a Mindray VS 900 monitor (Mindray, China).

      2.6 Oxidative stress 2.6.1 Electron paramagnetic resonance: NO and O2∙- EPR (electron
      paramagnetic resonance) is derived from magnetic resonance spectroscopy and uses microwave
      radiation to detect molecules with an unpaired electron number, like radicals. When an
      magnetic field is created by the EPR spectrometer, all radicals will align. The EPR
      spectrometer sends out a radio frequent microwave, causing the electrons to jump from a low
      to a high energy state. This energy absorption can be measured and is directly correlated to
      the amount of free radicals in the sample. A 'spin trap' will be added to scavenge the very
      reactive radicals and to prolong their half live. The concentration of NO will be determined
      using an Iron-DETC (Fe(II)DETC2 (iron(II)diethyldithiocarbamaat) solution. The spin probe for
      the determination of O2∙- (superoxide) in maternal serum is CMH
      (1-Hydroxy-3-methoxycarbonyl-2,2,5,5-tetramethylpyrrolidine) and in placental tissue this is
      ascorbic acid (Vitamin C). Vitamin C has an anti-oxidative effect and is abundantly present
      in the human body. O2∙- reacts easily with vitamin C to form the ascorbic radical. This
      ascorbic radical is a measure for the O2∙- concentration in placental tissue. Placental
      tissue will be investigated at the time of delivery, maternal serum at week 9, week 28, at
      delivery and 6 months post-partum.

      2.6.2 Western blot analyse: ONOO-, eNOS en iNOS NO and O2∙- react to form ONOO-. The ONOO-
      production will be indirectly measured in placental tissue via tyrosine nitration.
      Nitrotyrosine arises when ONOO- reacts with tyrosine in proteins and can be quantified in
      placental tissue with Western blotting using anti-nitrotyrosine antibodies. NO is formed out
      of L-Arginine by NOS (Nitric Oxide Synthase). This reaction is regulated by VEGF (Vascular
      endothelial growth factor), an endothelial mitogen that has an important function in the
      proliferation of endothelial cells and in angiogenesis. VEGF stimulates eNOS (endothelial
      NOS) and induces therefore NO production. Placental ischemia will increase VEGF-production
      and thus raise NO-production, as an compensatory mechanism to guarantee sufficient
      feto-maternal transfusion. In an oxidative environment, the lack of NOS-stabilizing factors
      results in NOS-uncoupling. NOS-coupling causes a shift from NO production to O2∙- production.
      This maintains an oxidative setting. iNOS (inducible NOS) production is induced by cytokines
      and endotoxins during inflammatory conditions. Monoclonal antibodies will determine
      concentrations of eNOS and iNOS in placental tissue.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

        1. Sample size calculation 1.1. Single center prospective longitudinal study For the
           physiologic study of the RHI in pregnancy the investigators calculated that for a 95%
           confidence interval, a population standard deviation of 0.5 (as described in other
           populations for RHI) and a tolerable standard error of the mean (SEM) value of 0.1, 97
           women have to be followed. Taking at least a 10% dropout into account the starting
           sample size will be 110 women.

           1.2. Multicenter matched case-control study In a pilot study by Yinon [Yinon, 2006] the
           reactive hyperemia index (RHI) in normotensive pregnancies was 1.8, and in PE 1.5; in
           most populations standard deviation is 0.5. For 80% power and a two sided α = 0.05 and
           considering a 0.3 difference clinically relevant, the sample size for each group would
           be 44; which will be considered the sample size for the cross-sectional study comparing
           PE (44), PIH (44), IUGR (44) and preterm birth (44) with normotensive controls (44).

        2. Descriptive statistics and data analysis 2.1. Single center prospective longitudinal
           study For the physiologic study of the RHI in pregnancy the investigators will calculate
           the reference values and 95% confidence interval. Longitudinal data will be plotted and
           a linear mixed-effects model with random intercept will be fitted. Percentiles for RHI
           and PWV will be calculated based on this model. Correlation coefficients between
           baseline RHI, PWV, UA Doppler PI, fetal biometry, NLR, MPV, MAP, birth-weight percentile
           and EDCs will be analyzed.

      2.2. Multicenter matched case-control study RHI, PWV, UA Doppler PI, fetal biometry, NLR,
      MPV, MAP, birth-weight and EDCs and other continuous variables in hypertensive versus non
      hypertensive pregnancies will be tested for normality using the Shapiro Wilk Test. If there
      is normality, they will be expressed as mean, standard deviations and 95% confidence
      intervals and compared using two sided T test. If not, they will be expressed as median and
      interquartile ranges and compared using Mann Whitney U Test.
    
  