
    
      This study will include about 100 research subjects with established primary diagnosis of
      bipolar disorder admitted to an inpatient ward at the department of psychiatry for affective
      disorder. The study will be conducted in two inpatient wards. Patients who consent to
      participation will be offered to stay in a sensory room (a physical sensory room in one ward
      and a virtual sensory room via a pair of wireless VR glasses in another ward). In connection
      with the use of the virtual or physical sensory room, the patients will be given a visual
      analogue scale which asks the patient to rate their overall anxiety and mental health on a
      scale from 1 (feeling very bad) to 10 (feeling excellent). This will be the primary measure
      of the study. Before and after each visit the participant will have their pulse and blood
      pressure measured.

      Included patients will also be asked about participation in individual interviews.
      Semi-structured interviews will be carried out and collected data will be analyzed with a
      phenomenological approach. The purpose of this study is to shed light on experiences of
      staying in the digital and analogue sensory rooms.

      A number of self-rated questionnaires will be used in the project to establish the research
      subjects' level of depression and anxiety during their inpatient stay.

        -  The Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating (MADRS-S) scale. MADRS-S is a self-assessment
           tool for assessing depression symptoms, it is used regularly in the clinic to evaluate
           depression symptoms. The inventory consists of a self-assessment form containing 9
           statements intended to measure different depression symptoms. This scale is administered
           at the enrollment interview if patient consents to participation and once weekly until
           discharge.

        -  Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) is a self-assessment instrument that measures the degree of
           anxiety. The inventory consists of a self-assessment form containing 21 statements
           intended to measure 21 different anxiety symptoms. This scale is administered at the
           enrollment interview if patient consents to participation and once weekly until
           discharge.

        -  The Clinical Global Impressions (CGI) scale. CGI is a 7-scaled evaluation tool that
           requires the physician to determine the degree of the patient's disease at the time of
           assessment, in relation to the clinician's previous experience in patients with the same
           diagnosis. This scale is administered at the enrollment interview if patient consents to
           participation and once weekly until discharge.
    
  