
    
      As with other major joints of the lower limb that carry weight (hip, knee), the osteochondral
      lesion (LOC) of the talus, can be a major source of pain and disability for the affected
      patient. The LOC of the talus can appear after one (or repeated) traumatic injury,
      compromises the bone and adjacent cartilage, being able to cause blisters in the cartilage
      layers, lesions similar to a cyst within the bone under the cartilage, or fracture of the
      cartilage and the bony layers.

      The ankle joint supports multiple loads of the corporal weight in the daily activities, the
      reason why the properties of the cartilage in the ankle are different from those that appear
      in the hip and the knee. In the absence of an injury, the cartilage of the ankle has better
      resistance and tension properties to face the increase of forces than the hip or knee
      throughout life.

      However, once an injury appears, the cartilage of the ankle appears to have less repair
      capacity compared to the hip or knee. Since the most common cause of LOC of the talus is
      post-traumatic, the average age of these patients is comparatively lower than that of
      patients affected by injuries to other joints.

      Osteochondral injuries have an incidence of 27 per 10,0000 inhabitants in the USA. They are
      injuries that usually affect the working population and active sportsperson, producing pain,
      functional limitation and that probably contribute towards the evolution of an accelerated
      joint degeneration. Currently, there are multiple treatment modalities used by ankle and foot
      surgeons. These include debridement and microfractures of the subchondral plaque, utilization
      of totipotential cells, osteochondral autograft/allograft, tibiotalar arthrodesis, and
      partial/total ankle arthroplasty. However, no treatment offers a clear superiority over the
      others.

      Debridement and microfractures performed arthroscopically is the most frequently used
      procedure and involves; the removal of degenerated cartilage and subchondral bone; obtaining
      firm lesional edges that prevent the spread of the lesion; and finally the stimulation of the
      bone marrow talar by performing microfractures of the subchondral plate. This with the hope
      that fibrocartilage will form that covers the osteochondral lesion. Although this
      fibrocartilage has histological characteristics different from those of native articular
      cartilage, good results have been reported in 82% of the cases when combining good quality
      studies in this regard.

      The standard technique is not able to generate a replacement articular cartilage strong
      enough to support the joint loads to which the ankle is exposed. Therefore, clinical trials
      seek to increase the traditional treatment of debridement and microfractures with the
      intra-articular use of totipotent cells at the end of the procedure. Although the results of
      these series are promising and comparable at least to those of traditional treatment, the
      absence of comparative studies between them complicates the choice of treatment for both the
      patient and the surgeon. For this reason, the investigators have designed a prospective,
      comparative, double-blind study that will allow elucidating which of these interventions is
      the best alternative for our patients.

      General Objective:

      To compare the effectiveness of traditional debridement and microfracture treatment versus
      adding a platelet-poor plasma (PPP) scaffold embedded in allogenic stromal mesenchymal cells
      derived from the umbilical cord in patients with osteochondral lesions of the talus.

      Specific Objectives:

        -  To compare functional and radiological results before versus post-surgery within each
           group studied (control and experimental)

        -  To compare functional results after surgery of the groups in traditional treatment
           versus traditional treatment plus mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC).

        -  To compare the quality of repair of the tissues of the groups in traditional treatment
           versus traditional treatment plus mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC).

      Work hypothesis:

      The augmentation treatment of the osteochondral lesions of the talus with mesenchymal cells
      produces better clinical and imaging results than standard treatment with only debridement
      and microfractures.
    
  