
    
      Cervical cancer screening programs vary across settings and there is no clear guidance for
      effective screening programs for HIV-positive women. Evaluating the performance of algorithms
      that include human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA testing as first stage screening in high HIV
      prevalence settings like Botswana is essential for establishing an evidence-based strategy
      for cervical cancer screening in HIV-positive women.

      This study seeks to evaluate the performance of two-stage cervical cancer screening
      algorithms using primary HPV testing in women living with HIV in Botswana. Second stage
      screening modalities include Papanicolaou (Pap) smear, visual inspection with acetic acid
      (VIA) and colposcopy.

      The study will enroll 300 HIV positive women. For all 300 participants, gynecologic speculum
      exam will be performed and provider-collected cervical swabs will be collected for HPV
      testing and Pap smear preparation. HPV testing will be performed with either the
      commercially-available Cepheid Xpert® HPV Assay or a high throughput PCR platform. Pap smear
      will be prepared using standard technique at the site of collection.

      Participants who test HPV-negative will have their Pap smear sent to the National Health Lab
      (NHL) for staining and pathologist evaluation. If the Pap smear is abnormal, they will be
      referred to colposcopy per current Botswana Cervical Cancer Prevention Guidelines.

      Participants who test HPV-positive will also have their Pap smear reviewed, and will also be
      asked to return for colposcopy and will undergo further diagnosis and treatment for cervical
      cancer per national guidelines. At the colposcopy visit, a trained nurse will conduct VIA
      using the Botswana standard protocol. After application of acetic acid to the cervix, the
      nurse will record visual results as positive or negative. If VIA is positive based on
      assessment of the lesion(s), the nurse will record a recommendation for either cryotherapy or
      loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP). Since all of these HPV-positive participants
      will undergo colposcopy, the participants will not be informed of the VIA results, as neither
      cryotherapy nor LEEP will be administered based on the VIA results. Rather, the participants
      will proceed to colposcopy and results of colposcopy will determine further diagnosis and
      treatment. This design enables us to assess the utility of the two-stage algorithms while
      providing the highest-quality follow-up to cervical cancer screening abnormalities in
      Botswana.

      These same participants will be invited back at one-year for repeat cervical cancer screening
      using the same screening methods as at baseline. The data will inform guidelines on the
      frequency of hrHPV testing in women living with HIV.
    
  