
    
      NIH develops new imaging techniques as one of its priorities for accelerating science,
      including methods for non-invasive patient assessments. Computed tomographic (CT) imaging is
      a mainstay of diagnostic imaging. The latest major technological advance is photon counting
      CT (PCCT) which uses a new x-ray detector that measures x-ray penetration of the body and the
      energy of each x-ray photon. NIH has one of three prototype Siemens PCCT CounT systems in the
      world for investigational use. The scanner can perform standard CT and PCCT imaging. In this
      protocol, NIH patients already enrolled in a clinical research protocol and who are referred
      to Radiology for diagnostic CT as part of that research may be enrolled in this study of
      PCCT. The diagnostic CT scan requested by their medical care team will be performed on the
      CounT scanner, providing the clinically indicated imaging, along with a single, brief PCCT
      exam to support PCCT development. The data will be used to characterize quality of the PCCT
      images and to develop testable hypotheses and new diagnostic applications using PCCT
      capabilities.

      Current CT systems, such as the Siemens SOMATOM Flash, have two x-ray tubes, each paired with
      an x-ray detector that measures total x-ray penetration of the patient and uses that
      information to create the images. The CounT scanner is a modified version of the Flash in
      which one of the two standard detectors has been replaced with a PCCT detector. The two
      imaging modes for the CounT scanner are (i) standard detector study as in a Flash scanner and
      (ii) PCCT scan. The patient scan will thus include clinically indicated radiation exposure
      with the standard detector and research radiation with the PCCT detector. The CounT system is
      sited at the Clinical Center under a CRADA with Siemens Medical Solutions.

      Compared to current scanners, PCCT offers four major advantages:

        -  lower radiation dose

        -  greater spatial resolution

        -  reduced imaging noise

        -  x-ray energy discrimination

      The primary objectives are to:

        -  develop and characterize new medical imaging methods

        -  facilitate translation of PCCT advantages into clinically useful applications.

      As a translational development protocol, all imaging studies are open-label and data may be
      analyzed as they are collected. Bias is minimized using objective measurements. Observational
      data may be characterized using descriptive statistics. Simple comparisons between the
      standard CT and PCCT may use paired and unpaired parametric and non-parametric techniques.
      These studies will form the foundation to develop advanced clinical imaging capabilities and
      applications.
    
  