
    
      The purpose of this study is to examine the therapeutic effects of movement and body
      awareness on recovery from cancer-related fatigue. In the current study, 60-80 female cancer
      survivors with cancer-related fatigue will be recruited who have been out of treatment for at
      least eight weeks. They will be randomized to either a 10-week qigong contemplative movement
      course or a 10 -week exercise-nutrition course. This study is designed as a non-inferiority
      trial to test the primary hypothesis that a ten week qigong intervention is not inferior to a
      ten week exercise-nutrition active comparator group in reducing fatigue in female cancer
      survivors (assessed via the FACIT-Fatigue scale). If non-inferiority is demonstrated during
      analysis, the data will be further analyzed to examine whether the qigong group significantly
      decreases fatigue more than the healthy living comparison group. The FACIT-Fatigue scale will
      be delivered at three time points: before the intervention starts (T1), after it ends (T2),
      and three months after the intervention has ended (T3). Further, this study will directly
      examine the underlying physiological mechanisms by which each intervention exerts its
      effects. Participants will be tested pre (T1) and post (T2) intervention on a variety of
      measures across multiple bodily and brain systems (eg EEG, fMRI, EMG, ECG, ICG, mechanical
      lung function, Doppler flowmetry, serum cytokines, muscle strength, 6 min walk test) to
      assess changes in these systems that are associated with reduction of fatigue and improvement
      of the subjective sense of vitality and energy. The data will be used to test whether
      conscious attention to bodily sensations cultivated in contemplative movement practices (i.e.
      Qigong) can actually impact levels of inflammation in the periphery as well as cortical
      measures of interoceptive awareness (ie resting state insula connectivity), and whether these
      changes will be associated with fatigue reduction. The secondary hypothesis is that decreased
      inflammation levels in the blood will be correlated with reduction in fatigue at post
      intervention as well as changes in neural markers of interoceptive and bodily awareness, and
      that this effect will be stronger in the qigong group.
    
  