
    
      Intrapericardial fibrinolytic agents are used in the drainage of tuberculous, purulent,
      neoplastic and other inflammatory pericardial effusions to prevent recurrent effusions and
      constrictive pericarditis. This use is based on evidence from case reports and a small trial
      that did not have the statistical power to reliably evaluate the effect of pericardial
      drainage facilitated by intrapericardial fibrinolysis on safety and important clinical
      outcomes.

      The Second Investigation of the Management of Pericarditis (IMPI-2) Trial will compare the
      effectiveness and safety of complete percutaneous pericardial drainage facilitated by
      intrapericardial alteplase (recombinant human tissue-type plasminogen activator) to
      conventional pericardiocentesis when indicated in 2176 patients with large pericardial
      effusion due to tuberculous and non-tuberculous pericarditis. An internal pilot study of 218
      patients will initially confirm the feasibility of conducting a large-scale multi-centre
      clinical trial of intrapericardial fibrinolysis in patients with large pericardial effusion,
      and also provide preliminary safety data, following a dose finding study of intrapericardial
      alteplase.

      Hypothesis: We hypothesise that patients with large pericardial effusion randomized to
      intrapericardial alteplase to ensure complete pericardial drainage will have at least a 35%
      reduction in cardiac tamponade requiring pericardiocentesis or constrictive pericarditis
      compared to conventional pericardiocentesis when indicated.

      Objectives: The primary objectives of the IMPI-2 Trial are:

        1. To demonstrate the feasibility of conducting a multicentre clinical trial of
           intrapericardial fibrinolysis in patients with large pericardial effusion, and to assess
           the safety of intrapericardial alteplase in an internal pilot study, and

        2. To determine the effectiveness of intrapericardial alteplase in reducing the composite
           outcome of cardiac tamponade requiring pericardiocentesis or constrictive pericarditis
           in patients with large pericardial effusion in the full trial.

      Should the internal pilot study demonstrate feasibility and safety; all 218 patients will be
      rolled-over into the full scale IMPI-2 trial of 2176 participants. The primary outcome is the
      first occurrence of cardiac tamponade requiring pericardiocentesis or constrictive
      pericarditis. The secondary safety endpoint is safety of intrapericardial fibrinolysis
      measured by effect on major bleeding, and serious and non-serious adverse events. The
      secondary efficacy outcomes are constrictive pericarditis, and cardiac tamponade requiring
      pericardiocentesis, analysed separately, and persistent or recurrent pericardial effusion
      without cardiac tamponade, hospitalisation, and death. The secondary diagnostic outcomes are
      proportion with bacteriologically confirmed tuberculosis from any organ or tissue; time to
      diagnosis of bacteriologically confirmed tuberculosis in days; accuracy of novel tests for
      the diagnosis of tuberculosis; proportion with specific diagnosis of any pericardial disease;
      time to diagnosis of a specific pericardial disease in days.

      Study Design: IMPI-2 is a prospective randomized open blinded end-point trial that will
      enroll 2176 patients with large pericardial effusion over 36 months from up to 30 centres in
      South Africa and Africa. Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to receive complete
      pericardial drainage facilitated by intrapericardial fibrinolysis or conventional
      pericardiocentesis when indicated on enrollment to the study. Patients will be followed at 2
      weeks, 6 weeks, 12 weeks, and in months 6, and 12 after enrollment. The IMPI Project Office,
      University of Cape Town, South Africa will manage and coordinate the study in association
      with the Pericarditis Research Unit, Walter Sisulu University, South Africa and the
      Population Health Research Institute, McMaster University, Canada.

      Importance: IMPI-2 addresses very serious complications of large pericardial effusion (i.e.,
      cardiac tamponade and constrictive pericarditis), which are associated with high mortality
      despite pericardiocentesis or pericardiectomy. This study will utilise the research network
      that was established by the IMPI trial which was completed in 2014.
    
  