
    
      There are indications for mobile phone effects on psychological and psychological
      functioning. Most publications on this subject report effects on 'mobile phone addiction'. A
      methodological problem in these studies is the collection of data in retrospect. With the
      mobile phone application it is possible to prevent this type of bias. By collecting real-life
      data in a longitudinal design with a 2 x N=1 pilot study, it is possible to obtain an
      impression of the relationship between mobile phone usage and emotion/behavior efficiently.

      The objective of this study is to investigate whether there is a relation between smartphone
      usage and psychological parameters in young adults. Taking into accordance the type of
      research (observational) and the present state of literature (the relationship between mobile
      phones and psychological effects has not been studied before using the experience sampling
      method (E.S.M.)) the following hypothesis are formulated. It is expected that the undesired
      absence of one's phone will lead to an enlarged stress level. Furthermore, it is expected
      that an increase of phone usage will lead to more depressive symptoms, to less concentration
      and to sleep disturbance. Finally, it is expected that loneliness will lead to increased
      phone usage.

      A longitudinal pilot study, in which the participant will be asked to fill out the mobile
      phone application questionnaire 10 times a day at random moments on a smartphone, during a 3
      months period.

      The mobile phone application questionnaire contains a series of multiple choice questions
      about the present affect (three positive, five negative), the present context and activities
      (physical activity, occupation, presence of other people), physical discomfort (fatigue,
      concentration level, pain) and mobile phone usage (frequency, frustration when unable to use
      phone) since the last beep. Positive affect: cheerful, mentally fit and relaxed. Negative
      affect: irritated, bored, lonely, stressed and worrying. The answers will be registered using
      a 7-point Likert scale, ranging from 'not' to 'very'.

      Participants will be invited to the research location twice for a briefing (30 minutes) and a
      debriefing session (30 minutes). Furthermore the participants will be asked to fill out the
      mobile phone application questionnaire on a daily base after every beep. It is expected this
      will cost a time investment of approximately 15 minutes per day. The questionnaires are
      generally experienced as a small burden (in previous research performed by this department).
      Participation is not associated with health risks.
    
  