
    
      -  This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the
           safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug combination to learn whether the
           drug combination works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the
           drug combination is being studied.

             -  The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved PDR001 as a
                treatment for any disease.

             -  The FDA has not approved dabrafenib and trametinib for your specific disease but it
                has been approved for other uses, whether alone as single agents, or given together
                as in this study.

        -  This research study is studying a combination of drugs as a possible treatment for
           metastatic colorectal cancer characterized by BRAF V600E mutation.

             -  All humans have a gene called BRAF which is responsible for sending signals to
                proteins called B-Raf inside of cells that help them grow. In some metastatic
                colorectal patients, this gene mutates and causes cancer cells to grow in
                uncontrolled ways.

                --- Dabrafenib is a drug that is thought to inhibit the mutant BRAF activity, which
                may serve to slow or stop cell growth of metastatic colon cancer.

             -  Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) is a pathway that helps to activate the
                BRAF mutated genes. The MAPK pathway is commonly found to be overactivated in BRAF
                mutated tumor cells. MEK (which refers to MAPK/ERK Kinase) enzymes are essential to
                the activity of the MAPK pathway.

                  -  Trametinib inhibits the MEK enzymes in order to shut down the MAPK pathway,
                     thus blocking the pathway that helps the cancer cells grow uncontrollably.

                  -  PDR001 is a drug which binds to PD1 on immune cells and is believed to block
                     binding of PD-L1 and PD-L2. PD-L1/PDL1 and PD-L2/PDL2 are often used by cancer
                     cells and to escape the power of the body's immune system so that they cannot
                     be fought. By blocking that binding of the molecules, the body's immune system
                     may reach and fight the cancer cells. Researchers are hoping that
                     administration of all three of these drugs may help anti-cancer activities
                     work together to slow or stop the cancer growth and may help your own immune
                     system damage or destroy the existing cancer cells.
    
  