
    
      HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) are characterized by disabling cognitive,
      behavioral, and motor dysfunction and can occur in individuals with HIV even while taking
      combination antiretroviral therapy (ART). The mechanisms for these residual impairments are
      not fully understood, but appear to involve poor penetrance of ART drugs into the central
      nervous system (CNS) and the resulting brain sanctuary for inadequately suppressed HIV
      infection with associated sustained inflammation. Adjunctive therapies with targeted
      neuroprotective agents are critically needed for the treatment of HAND. Insulin is involved
      in multiple CNS functions including food intake, metabolism, learning, and memory. Insulin
      has neuroprotective properties demonstrated in cell culture experiments and in vivo models,
      which provide strong evidence for its use as a therapeutic agent to treat HAND.

      Insulin modifying therapy (IMT) includes intranasal insulin administered by a novel nasal
      drug delivery device. IMT may play important roles in neuronal plasticity and survival by
      protecting hippocampal neurons against oxidative stress and apoptotic cell death induced by
      glutamate neurotoxicity. Previous studies support the proposed early phase trial of IMT as a
      novel therapeutic agent for HAND.

      This double-blinded placebo-controlled clinical trial evaluates safety of intranasal insulin
      at the daily dose of 40 IU and will provide initial data for assessing safety and efficacy.
      The protocol measures safety by incidence and frequency of adverse events. Clinical effects
      of IMT over the 24-week trial period are measured by change in neurocognitive and functional
      testing results, as well as several novel radiological and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
      surrogate markers. Outcomes from these studies could have important implications for the
      design of future studies with IMT and other neuroprotective compounds for HAND.
    
  