
    
      Participants for this study will be chosen from senior centers . All members of the senior
      centers who can read and write either Hebrew or English and are not cognitively impaired (as
      assessed by the administrator/social worker in charge of the center) will be asked to
      participate. It is estimated that between 30-50 members of each senior center will agree to
      participate. The control group will be chosen by convenience sampling of members from other,
      different senior centers. These centers will be chosen based on close geographic proximity
      and similar demographic characteristics to the experimental, humor group, senior centers. The
      choice of which center will be used for the experimental and control groups will be based on
      logistic considerations.

      This method of sample selection and group assignment were chosen due to several
      considerations. At present there are approximately 60 participants in the Rishon Lezion
      Holocaust survivor senior center. It is highly unlikely that all of the members of the center
      will agree to participate in the study and/or will continue with the entire intervention.
      Based on a power of .80 and an alpha rate of .05, in order to detect a significant difference
      between two groups with a moderate effect size, a total of 64 subjects will be necessary for
      each of the two groups, the experimental and the control each group. Therefore, there are not
      enough seniors in one center to participate in either groups and additional sites for subject
      recruitment was found to be necessary.

      A second consideration is diffusion of the treatment protocol. It is thought that if both the
      control and humor groups were recruited from the same senior center, then there would be the
      possibility that the seniors would discuss among themselves the humor intervention, thereby
      leading to a diffusion of treatment. In this situation, it might be hard to differentiate
      between those who participated in the humor and the control group. Therefore, the seniors of
      the control group would need to be recruited from another senior center.

      This process then leads to another issue, namely selection bias, in that the control and
      humor groups might be different from the outset of the study. Two measures will be taken to
      decrease this threat to the internal validity of the study. Firstly, an attempt will be made
      to match the senior centers that will be used to recruit those in the control group with the
      senior centers used for the humor group, based on geographic location and demographic
      characteristics. Secondly, both the control and humor groups will be asked to complete the
      questionnaires at the beginning and at the end of the study. Therefore, differences will be
      determined between the two groups at two points in time.

      Humor Program: The "Humor as a Way of Life" program will be comprised of one session per week
      lasting 2-3 hours per session. The program will take six months to complete. The first three
      months of the program will be moderated by Mr. Yochanan Waller, a known video producer and
      humorist. Under Mr Waller's direction, each participant will be requested to relate a
      humorous story or situation. These sessions will be video recorded. Between each session, Mr
      Waller will edit each session. At the next session, all of the participants will view all of
      the stories related during the previous session. Any parts of the videos that are not used
      for the purpose of the program will be destroyed.

      The first four weeks of the program will include strategies to incorporate humor into
      everyday life. These sessions will be conducted by Mr. Enzo Agada, a known humorist, and his
      wife, Amalia Garbulsky, a Social Worker. The topic of humor and its impact on everyday life
      will be presented and discussed. Initially the moderator will tell humorous stories and aim
      to trigger reactions or comments from the participants about their own personal associations
      of what they just heard. Participants will be asked about humorous life events and will be
      asked to share those events with the group. During each session the moderators will generate
      an atmosphere of mirth and will try to involve as many participants as possible in the
      discussion. The moderator will act as a stimulant for humor, smiling, and laughter.

      At the end of the four months, a large celebration will be conducted where a final video will
      be shown that summarizes the project.

      During the next two months, volunteers will be recruited to transport the participants to
      other senior centers in groups of 3-4. The participants will share with the seniors the final
      video and will try and encourage other seniors to use humor in their daily lives.

      Instruments: Four questionnaires will be used in this study; a demographic data
      questionnaire, the RAND Health Survey (Hays, Sherbourne, & Mazel, 1993), the General Well
      Being Schedule (Dupuy, 1987)and the Brief Symptom Inventory (Derogatis & Spencer, 1982).

      After institutional ethical review and approval, each potential senior center administrator
      will be contacted to gain approval for admission to the site to collect data. The principle
      investigator of the study will oversee and supervise all data collection. All members of each
      senior center who speak and write Hebrew or English and are cognitively competent (as
      assessed by the administrator/social worker of each senior center) will be asked to
      participate. These seniors will be contacted, the study will be described and informed
      consent obtained. Copies of the informed consent form will be given to each participant.
      After informed consent was obtained, each participant will fill out the three questionnaires.
      Data collectors will be available to help participants fill out their forms if necessary.
      This data collection will take place before the project has begun. Each participant will be
      asked to write the last four digits of their identity numbers on the form so that follow up
      questionnaires will be able to be correlated with baseline data. All subjects will fill out
      all forms at baseline and after six months, after completion of the project. Control subjects
      will be offered the option of participating in the next humor therapy session whenever
      possible.

      If the results of the GWB questionnaire indicate great psychological distress of the
      participant, then the administrator/social worker of the senior center will be informed as
      necessary.

      Analysis: Descriptive statistics will be used to describe the sample and results of the RAND
      and GWB questionnaires. Differences between the two groups will be determined using a MANOVA.
    
  