
    
      An epidemiologic study looks at the patterns, causes, and control of disease in groups of
      people. Researchers want to see if various risk factors (such as decreased and delayed
      fertility, obesity, and a sedentary [low physical activity] lifestyle) and certain markers
      that cause breast cancer are different in women in the above groups.

      If you have breast cancer and you agree to take part in this study, you will be interviewed
      by a trained interviewer with a questionnaire at a time convenient for you, either during
      your visit to MD Anderson or The Rose, or by phone. You will be asked questions about your
      personal demographics (such as your age and race), environmental exposures, medical history,
      family history of cancer, and other day-to-day lifestyle factors. It should take about 30-40
      minutes to complete the interview. Clinical data about your breast cancer treatment will also
      be collected from your medical records.

      You will also have a one-time blood draw (about 3 tablespoons). If blood cannot be drawn or
      not enough blood can be drawn, you will have a saliva sample taken where you will be required
      to spit into a container. If you have already donated blood or a saliva sample in the
      Mexican-American Cohort Study, a portion of that sample may be used instead of having to
      collect a new sample. Your blood or saliva sample will be used to look at your DNA (genetic
      material of cells). The study pathologist will look at possible prognostic markers
      (substances that predict outcome of disease) from tissue obtained from your surgery.

      Neither you nor your regular doctor will receive reports of this research study. The results
      of this research study will not be placed in your health records. All of your information
      obtained in this study will be kept confidential either in a password-protected computer or
      in a locked file cabinet in a secure location.

      Your participation will be over in this study when all the data has been collected and
      analyzed.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 1,825 women will take part in this multicenter study.
      Up to 1125 will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  