
    
      -  Design: controlled, cluster-randomized, open-label, two-parallel-arm, multicenter
           clinical trial. Primary Care professionals will be randomized to one of the two study
           groups: 1) Experimental Group (EG): they will apply an approach based on Motivational
           interview (MI), previously receiving a training program. 2) Control group (CG): usual
           care. They will receive an instructional program in order to avoid the "contamination"
           effect of the motivational approach. At least 50 professionals (family doctors,
           residents and nurses) will participate, each of whom will recruit (through opportunistic
           search) 9-10 PC patients.

        -  GE intervention: they will receive a 20-hour training program to acquire specific skills
           on the approach to patients with risky consumption, which will consist of a workshop,
           with two video recordings of consultations with simulated standardized patients, one
           before and others after the same, each participant receiving at the end a personalized
           training feedback.

        -  CG intervention: they will not receive the training program in MI, instructing them to
           carry out the medical advice that they usually carry out in these patients (informative
           model); They will also be videotaped, in order to verify that the approach they carry
           out is not motivational. On the other hand, both groups will receive an 8-hour workshop
           on detection, management and approach to the patient with excessive alcohol consumption,
           based on the recommendations and the action algorithm postulated by the PAPPS. To
           measure the knowledge and attitude of the professionals of both groups in relation to
           the approach of the patient with alcohol consumption, they will fill out a questionnaire
           validated by our group. In addition, expert evaluators, after viewing the video
           recordings, will fill out a check-list to check the attitude of each professional, using
           the EVEM Scale, which has been validated by members of our group.

        -  Material and / or techniques to be used: The information of the participants will be
           obtained from tools already validated to assess risk alcohol consumption [Alcohol Use
           Disorder Identification Test (AUDIT), the motivational interview (EVEM questionnaire)]
           and satisfaction of the doctor-patient (PDRQ-9). In addition, the MCRS scale (Medical
           Condition Regard Scale) will be used to evaluate the attitude of health workers in the
           approach to alcohol, which has not been validated in Spanish to date. The Spanish
           validation process will be carried out by this research group. -Alcohol Use Disorder
           Identification Test (AUDIT). Tool designed to identify risky alcohol consumption and
           comprises 10 questions divided into 3 conceptual domains. The first domain assesses
           recent alcohol consumption and contains 3 questions (frequency of consumption, typical
           amount and frequency of heavy consumption). The second domain assesses symptoms of
           dependence through 3 items (loss of control over consumption, increased relevance of
           consumption and morning consumption) and finally the third domain assesses harmful
           alcohol consumption through 4 questions (Feeling of guilt after consumption , memory
           gaps, alcohol-related injuries and environmental concern about consumption). A result
           equal to or greater than 8 is considered indicative of risky and harmful consumption, as
           well as a possible dependence on alcohol. -Evaluation Scale of the Motivational
           Interview (EVEM). 14-item scale with a score of 0 to 4, created and validated by members
           of our group, to assess encounters between professionals and patients in which MS is
           used. This scale analyzes: 1) empathy; 2) facilitation for the patient to position
           himself; 3) works in accordance with the patient; 4) use open questions; 5) perform
           reflective listening; 6) performs summaries; 7) validate the patient; 8) agreement of
           change objectives; 9) promotes the design of action / plan with the patient; 10) avoid
           discord with the patient; 11) develop a maintenance plan with the patient; 12) global
           spirit: evocation, collaboration, autonomy, understanding.

        -  Patient-Doctor Relationship Questionnaire (PDRQ-9). 9-question scale that assesses the
           doctor-patient relationship in clinical practice. Likert-type scale with 5 categories: 1
           ("not at all appropriate"), 2 ("somewhat appropriate"), 3 ("appropriate"), 4 ("quite
           appropriate") and 5 ("very appropriate"). This scale has been validated in Spanish and
           will allow knowing the satisfaction of the patient in the alcohol approach developed by
           the health worker. -Medical Condition Regard Scale (MCRS). 11-question scale that
           assesses the attitude of health workers in the clinical approach. It is a Likert-type
           scale with 6 categories (1 = totally disagree, 6 = totally agree). It will be validated
           in Spanish by our research team.

        -  Location: Health Centers of the Andalus Health Service of the province of Córdoba
           (Spain).

        -  Study population: patients aged 14 or over with risky alcohol consumption (28 Standard
           Drink Units -SDU- / week in men and 17 SDU / week in women) users of PC services.

        -  Sample size: the main evaluation criterion will be the self-reported consumption by the
           patient. Based on a previous study carried out by members of our team, and to detect a
           difference of 20% between the percentage of patients in abstinence (partial or total)
           between the EG (37%) and the CG (20%); for an alpha error of 5%, a statistical power of
           80%, the size would be 220 subjects (110 / group). Assuming a 5% loss rate and being a
           cluster randomization system, we will take into account the "design effect". Estimates
           of the intra-cluster correlation coefficient (ICC) in CCT by cluster in PC show that
           they are generally less than 0.05. This ICC translates, for a cluster size of 15, into a
           design effect that corresponds to a factor of 1.7. Assuming this value, the size would
           be 394 subjects to be recruited (197 in each group).

        -  Randomization: The randomization unit will be the healthcare professional and the
           intervention unit will be the patient. Professionals will be assigned randomly and
           equally (1:1) to one of the two study groups. -Mechanism of control of the
           interventions: each participant will also be videotaped with a real patient in a visit
           chosen at random, also evaluating her skills with the EVEM scale.

        -  The follow-up period for each patient will be 12 months, with 5 visits (initial, per
           month, at 3 months, at 6 months and at 12 months), in addition to four interleaved
           telephone contacts. -Study variables: The main outcome variable will be the level of
           self-reported alcohol consumption (UBEs) and the score of the Alcohol Use Disorder
           Identification Test (AUDIT) questionnaire.
    
  