
    
      A pilot prospective randomized clinical trial will be conducted at Ain shams University
      Maternity Hospital during the period from August 2016 to August 2018.

      A sample size of 50 cases will be recruited from women presenting to the outpatient
      gynecologic clinic of Ain Shams University Maternity Hospital planned to undergo vaginal
      hysterectomy for benign cause. selected patients should be in age group from 40 to 70 years.
      Uterus size should be < 12 weeks with absence of significant scarring in the pelvis from
      previous surgeries. Endometriosis, Adnexal mass, malignancy, thinned out cervix should be
      excluded. After approval of the ethical committee , a detailed explanation of the procedure
      will e informed to the participant & her approval to be involved in the study, an informed
      written consent will be taken. After that, included patients will be randomized into 2 groups
      each one include 25 patients. First group includes women who will undergo vaginal
      hysterectomy using monopolar electrocautery. Second group includes women who will undergo
      vaginal hysterectomy using Purohit's technique. Principles of Purohit technique are 1.
      Vaginal walls are incised by monopolar current(30-50W).2.A right angle forceps is used o
      elevate, hook, stretch, spread and retract all the lateral attacements of uterus & vessels
      from their posterior aspects; tissues are coagulated using bipolar current (45 W) and divided
      between the prongs of forceps. 3. conventional volume reduction maneuvers are used as
      associated procedures in cases of large uteri to create the parauterine space for bipolar
      forceps and scissors.

      Meanwhile the principles for vaginal hysterectomy using unipolar electrocautery are 1.Vaginal
      walls are incised by monopolar current(40 W) 2.A curved Bulldog clamp is applied just 0.5 cm
      lateral to uterine border along its attachements all through the pedicles. Then unipolar
      electrocautery (40 W) is applied to the pedicles along the lteral border of the uterus medial
      to the artery with maximum thickness 1 cm. 3. Uterine vessels are individually secured. 4.
      conventional volume reduction maneuvers are used as associated procedures in cases of large
      uteri to create the parauterine space for bipolar forceps and scissors.
    
  