
    
      Introduction

      Heart transplant is golden standard in the treatment of terminal heart failure. Although
      patients' survival improved due to new advanced surgical techniques and the use of modern
      immunosuppressants, the posttransplant period of these patients is still fraught with
      complications and associated with reduced life expectancy compared to healthy individuals.
      Morbidity and mortality in the early post-transplant period are mainly associated with
      infections, acute graft rejection, multiorgan failure, and unspecified graft failure. In the
      late posttransplant period, the main cause of death is cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV).
      It should be emphasized that 30% of patients after 5 years and 50% after 10 years have
      angiographic changes in coronary arteries. Unlike atherosclerosis in the native heart that is
      typically focal, noncircumferential and usually localized in proximal segments of coronary
      arteries, CAV is a diffuse disease with concentric intimal hyperplasia and thickening of
      microvasculature media. It is a multifactorial disease caused by the immune, but also other
      non-immune factors: cellular and humoral (antibody-mediated) graft rejection, donor-specific
      anti-HLA antibodies, CMV infection, and hypercholesterolemia. The pathophysiology of
      immune-mediated development of CAV is based on T-cell and vascular endothelial interaction.
      According to the previously known association between graft rejection and development of
      coronary vasculopathy, routine clinical follow-up of transplanted patients includes regular
      myocardial biopsies with pathohistological analysis for cellular and humoral rejection.

      Although CAV sometimes develops rapidly, it is usually slowly progressive disease associated
      with the development of chronic humoral graft rejection. Since symptoms and signs of CAV are
      usually absent or atypical (due to afferent and efferent graft denervation), early diagnosis
      is extremely important. For that reason, according to current recommendations of
      International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation (ISHLT), regular periodic coronary
      angiographies are being performed. Nowadays, modern transplant centers, besides classical
      coronary angiography, perform intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) for coronary artery imaging. It
      provides a measurement of intimal thickness and today it is the gold standard in early
      detection of vasculopathy. However, due to the better spatial resolution of coronary artery
      layers, especially the intimal layer, in comparison to IVUS, optical coherence tomography
      (OCT) is started to use more often in the detection of CAV.

      Despite many efforts, there are still no effective measures for CAV prevention. Out of all
      examined options, statin therapy and use of mTOR inhibitors as a part of the
      immunosuppressive regimen is providing best, but still not effective enough. Since the
      development of CAV is associated with various immune factors, immunomodulatory therapeutic
      options are being investigated. One of those options is extracorporeal photopheresis. It is
      an immunoregulatory method that divides patients' peripheral blood into two fractions:
      leukocyte-rich and leukocyte-poor fraction. The first fraction is immediately returned in
      circulation, and another one is exposed to UVA irradiation to achieve the immunomodulatory
      effect, i.e. increase in regulatory T-cell activity. This reduces rejection and graft
      vasculopathy as a result of an excessive immune response to the transplanted organ. The
      positive effect of this therapeutic method on CAV development was confirmed in one small
      study where pathomorphological changes of coronary arteries were detected using IVUS.
      Moreover, maintenance immunosuppressive therapy in study patients included a combination of
      cyclosporin and azathioprine, inferior to contemporary immunosuppressive combinations.

      Hypothesis Extracorporeal photopheresis, along with other standard methods of treatment after
      heart transplantation significantly reduces the development of cardiac allograft vasculopathy
      as detected with optical coherence tomography.

      Materials and methods:

      This is a controlled prospective study of de novo heart transplant patients followed at the
      the Department for intensive care unit, arrhytmias and transplantation cardiology at
      University Hospital Center Zagreb. We plan to enroll 25 consecutive patients after heart
      transplant after signing an informed consent form. All patients will be treated with standard
      immunosuppressive protocol and have a standard follow-up with regular biopsies. The number of
      patients (12-13) determined by chance will receive additional treatment with extracorporeal
      photopheresis (ECP) according to a predetermined protocol. During the first post-transplant
      year, these patients will undergo 10 ECP treatments, each pair of treatment given on two
      consecutive days. Complete blood count, electrolytes and coagulation parameters are performed
      prior to the procedure. Since psoralen application can cause photosensitivity, patients are
      advised to avoid sun exposure for 24 hours. The procedure will be performed in the Department
      for transfusion and transplantation biology at University Hospital Center Zagreb.

      All patients included in the study will undergo two coronary angiographies with OCT imaging -
      the initial within the first three months after heart transplantation, and the second 12
      months after heart transplantation. Ilumien Optis System platform with Dragonfly Optis
      Imaging catheter will be used to acquire high-resolution images. OCT images acquired at basal
      and control will be used for statistical analysis of ECP effect on the development of cardiac
      allograft vasculopathy. OCT acquisition will be performed in all three major coronary
      arteries. The analysis will be performed in a blinded fashion. For quantification of intimal
      tissue hyperplasia, we will measure maximal and median intimal thickness, maximal and mean
      intima area, as well as volumetric indices including intimal volume, plaque volume, and
      plaque index. These parameters will be normalized to measured segment length. Qualitative
      intimal tissue analysis will be performed as well. All plaques in the acquired segments will
      be characterized and sized according to luminal presentation and mapped for serial
      assessment.

      During the study, we will collect patients' medical history data, anthropometric
      measurements, and laboratory tests results. According to the standard protocol of myocardial
      biopsies and pathological analysis, results regarding graft rejection will be used in the
      comparative analysis of photopheresis efficacy.
    
  