
    
      Subjects will be identified for the study after meeting inclusion & exclusion criteria. Part
      of said criteria is that the patient will medically require a lumbar puncture (LP) to be
      completed for their medical care and the patient is currently located in the CRMH Pediatric
      Emergency Department, Pediatric Ward, Or Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. After the study team
      member identifies a patient who meets the criteria and obtains the necessary
      consent/assent(s) these paper documents will then be kept under lock and key in a box located
      in the Pediatric ED or the Pediatric ICU and then daily will be collected and stored in a
      locked file cabinet in a locked office in the Pediatric ICU. The practitioner will then load
      the preset procedure note (see attached document) into EPIC. In this procedure note, there
      will be a link to RedCap (a secure data collection tool) where the study team member will
      enter the patient's medical record number and date of birth. The patient will then be
      randomized to either the standard of care/ control group (palpation only lumbar puncture) or
      the experimental group (lumbar puncture after ultrasound-guided (US) skin marking) via
      RedCap. RedCap will be set to randomize patients via block randomization to the desired N of
      60 (30 in each control and experiential groups), and no study team member/ practitioner will
      have access to the set block randomization parameters in RedCap.

      Regarding sedation versus analgesia (performed for standard of care reasons and not affected
      by the research study), the decision on what is best and needed for the patients will be up
      to the performing practitioner in both groups. This ranges from superficial skin numbing
      cream and sucrose gel (for neonates) to lidocaine injections to oral or IV medications for
      pain/anxiety to full procedural sedation; or a combination of any of these methods. This will
      be entirely up to the performing practitioner as the methods used can vary greatly from
      patient to patient based on a multitude of factors. If procedural sedation is required then
      often another attending physician must be present in order to administer the sedating
      medications but this individual is not part of the study and will obtain their own consent
      for sedation as applicable as per Carilion Clinic policy. The agent(s) of choice will be
      clearly documented in the procedure note so this information can be taken into consideration
      when performing data analysis. All sedation v analgesia will take place prior to beginning
      the procedure. Once the practitioner is ready to begin they will start a timer to properly
      keep time as to the duration of the entire procedure.

      The practitioner performing the lumbar puncture procedure will either be a study team member
      or another practitioner who is under the direct supervision of a study team member (ie
      advanced care practitioner under an attending, a junior resident under a senior resident).
      The study team member will supervise/perform the procedure as indicated to not only ensure
      the safety of patients but to make sure proper protocol is followed.

      After analgesia v sedation is administered, if the patient is in the standard of care group,
      the practitioner will then position the patient in the best position they believe is needed
      to obtain the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) sample. This is typically sitting upright or having
      the patient lying down on their side (with the latter being more common). The practitioner
      will then palpate the area they feel is the best to insert the spinal needle to collect the
      sample. The gap that is being palpated is typically between the 3rd and 4th or the 4th and
      5th lumbar vertebrae. Following this, the practitioner will then don sterile gloves, and
      clean the patient's back with betadine or chlorhexidine as per their discretion. The spinal
      needle will then be inserted into the spinal interspace, the stylet from the needle will be
      removed, and the fluid will be collected. The amount of fluid that will be collected varied
      based on the patient's age as well as the testing that is deemed clinically necessary.
      Typically 1-3 milliliters of CSF will be collected in each of the 3-4 tubes that are provided
      in the LP kit that is used for the procedure. After the fluid is collected, the needle will
      then be removed and pressure will be held on the insertion site to ensure no bleeding or CSF
      leakage. When bleeding or fluid leakage has halted the procedure is then completed and the
      timer is stopped. The time it takes to perform this procedure varies greatly with different
      practitioners and patients but is typically completed within 15-60 minutes.

      After analgesia v sedation is administered, if the patient is in the experimental group (use
      of ultrasound- see attachment in submission), the practitioner will then position the patient
      in the best position they believe is needed to obtain the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) sample.
      This is typically sitting upright or having the patient lying down on their side (with the
      latter being more common). The practitioner will then use a portable, point-of-care US
      machine in order to identify the best interspace to obtain the sample. This involves using a
      small amount of US gel (a non-toxic, water-based substance used to improve sound waves and
      therefore picture quality when performing the US) and the actual US probe on the patient's
      back. After the desired space is identified in the sagittal and transverse planes with the US
      machine, a small mark will be placed on the patient using a surgical pen (a marker similar to
      a "sharpie" but is safe for use on human skin and will wash off in 1-2 days). The desired
      space that is being identified is typically between the 3rd and 4th or the 4th and 5th lumbar
      vertebrae. Following this, the practitioner will then wipe the US gel off the patient's back,
      don sterile gloves, and clean the patient's back with betadine or chlorhexidine as per their
      discretion. The spinal needle will then be inserted into the spinal interspace that was
      identified and marked as noted previously, the stylet from the needle will be removed, and
      the fluid will be collected. The amount of fluid that will be collected varies based on the
      patient's age as well as the testing that is deemed clinically necessary. Typically 1-3
      milliliters of CSF will be collected in each of the 3-4 tubes that are provided in the LP kit
      that is used for the procedure. After the fluid is collected, the needle will then be removed
      and pressure will be held on the insertion site to ensure no bleeding or CSF leakage. When
      bleeding or fluid leakage has halted the procedure is then completed and the timer is
      stopped. The time it takes to perform this procedure varies greatly with different
      practitioners and patients but we anticipate it taking between 25-70 minutes. The extra time
      allotted is due to the use of the US, but how much time exactly it will take is not fully
      known, and in fact, it may not add time as compared to the control population but this will
      need to be investigated further during data analysis. There is potential for a patient to be
      under sedation (as discussed above) for a longer time if using US rather than the standard of
      care palpation only, but this is currently unknown.

      CSF will be sent to the lab and analyzed with the tests that are deemed needed by the
      practitioner. In general, it is commonplace for a "CSF Cell Count & Differential" to be
      ordered on all CSF samples as this is a baseline test of the sample. The data provided from
      this test will be analyzed by research team members via EPIC but the actual sample itself or
      what additional tests are ordered will in no way be impacted by the research. Specifically,
      this test tells the study team member how many red blood cells are present in the CSF. With
      some exceptions, the fewer red blood cells that are present in the CSF fluid is indicative of
      a procedure that was able to be performed smoothly, efficiently, and without multiple
      attempts. The CSF from the first tube will be used for the "CSF Cell Count & Differential",
      which again is commonplace. In some, uncommon instances (for various reasons including
      dehydration, failed LP attempt) only a small amount of CSF can be obtained. Should this be
      the case, the practitioner will decide what tests are needed on the small CSF sample. Data
      from the procedure (excluding the "CSF Cell Count & Differential" if there was not enough
      sample to run this test) may still be used in data analysis so the patient will still be
      enrolled in the study. An instance in which this may occur is on a dehydrated child where
      there are suspicions of meningitis. In this case, the most crucial test to run on the CSF is
      a bacteria or viral culture. Again the cell count and differential are still very helpful and
      standard to order on these samples but the first priority goes to the culture if there was
      only a small sample that was able to be obtained.

      The amount of time needed to access the patient's medical record by a study team member after
      the procedure and lab test completion is approximately 30 minutes per patient. Please refer
      to the attached spreadsheet to see exactly what data will be extracted in a de-identified
      manner but in general, the patient's age, weight, height, the results of the "CSF Cell Count
      & Differential" lab testing, the level of the practitioner but not their identity (ie
      resident v attending), and procedure notes will be specifically accessed for collection and
      analyzing. This will be done in a HIPAA compliant manner (ie private, secure,
      password-protected computers, internet access, and databases). At least weekly a member of
      the study team will be accessing patient charts (with the HIPAA data provided by RedCap) in
      order to extract the de-identified data required and place in it a secure spreadsheet. After
      the de-identified data is collected, the patient's medical chart, as well as PHI, will not
      need to be accessed again. No follow-up will be needed for the purposes of this study.
    
  