
    
      Hip fractures are associated with significant blood loss and a subsequent need for blood
      transfusion. The causes of bleeding are multifactorial, increased fibrinolytic activity being
      one of them. The use of allogenic blood products is expensive and is associated with
      increased risk of hemolytic and anaphylactic reactions, post-operative infections and
      lengthened hospital stay. Tranexamic acid (TXA) is a simple and inexpensive pharmacological
      agent that inhibits fibrinolysis and reduced bleeding. It has a 44 year history of clinical
      use beginning with patients with symptomatic menorrhagia as well as bleeding prophylaxis in
      hemophiliac patients undergoing tooth extraction

      Tranexamic acid (TXA) is an antifibrinolytic medication (reduces the destruction of blood
      clots, thus promoting the ability to stop bleeding) that is frequently used to reduce
      perioperative blood loss, blood transfusions and associated costs in major cardiac, vascular,
      obstetric, and orthopedic procedures. It has been used successfully in orthopedics to reduce
      perioperative blood loss, particularly in spine surgery, total knee and total hip
      arthroplasty (THA). Multiple recent meta-analyses have found that use of TXA in the setting
      of total knee arthroplasty (TKA) and THA leads to significantly less overall blood loss and
      lower rates of blood transfusion without increasing rates of venous thromboembolism (VTE) or
      other complications.

      Osteoporotic hip fractures are at an increased risk than elective orthopaedic surgery
      patients because they are exposed to a double bleeding insult. Fractures bleed and many of
      these patients sustain their first hit when hematoma forms in their soft tissues leading to
      symptomatic anemia. Subsequently these patients sustain additional blood loss when they
      undergo surgery for definitive treatment of their injuries.

      Trauma surgeons understand the risk of hemorrhage associated with trauma and routinely give
      TXA to patients who present with high energy injuries. The CRASH-2 trial was an international
      study which randomized 20,000 bleeding trauma patients to get TXA or matching placebo upon
      presentation. With 99.5% follow up, the authors noted a decreased risk of bleeding and death
      without ill effect.

      However, there are limited data on its use in patients with hip fractures. We propose a
      double-blinded, randomized, controlled trial comparing perioperative administration of TXA to
      placebo in the setting of femur fractures. Thus our goal is to examine the safety and
      efficacy of TXA in reducing blood loss and red blood cell requirement for patients with
      intertrochanteric, subtrochanteric femur fractures at the time of hospital admission.
    
  