
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate whether the use of a Fitbit device and an exercise
      prescription is associated with increased daily activity and in turn increased exercise
      tolerance in young adult patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). The investigators hypothesize
      that use of the Fitbit and an exercise prescription will be associated with increased
      exercise tolerance compared to standard counseling and an exercise prescription alone.

      For patients with CF, young adulthood and adolescence is a significant time of vulnerability.
      In addition to normal behavioral challenges of adolescence and young adulthood (seeking
      independence/autonomy while also choosing rebellion), those with CF are often dealing with
      significant disease progression. Therefore, working in new innovative ways to improve
      adherence to regimens that improve lung function such as exercise are needed to continue to
      support patients during this vulnerable time.

      Studies of patients with cystic fibrosis have shown that regular exercise training can
      decrease rate of lung function decline, potentially improve lung function, and improve
      aerobic capacity. However, many patients do not include regular exercise in their daily
      routine. Successful strategies to improve adherence include providing patient specific
      guidelines for an appropriate exercise program, supporting participation and providing
      positive feedback. Overall, exercise is a crucial diagnostic and therapeutic modality for
      patients with Cystic Fibrosis, although awareness somewhat limited. The adult CF program at
      Boston Children's and Brigham & Women's Hospital established an inpatient and outpatient
      exercise program as part of a quality improvement effort. Patients are prescribed an
      individualized exercise program or exercise prescription based on their assessment during a
      sub-maximal effort. This program has been successful but given the rigors of daily life (e.g.
      school, work, family obligations), adherence is a concern with resources limiting more
      rigorous feedback to maintain this essential life activity.
    
  