
    
      Skin cancer is a common, often chronic condition that negatively impacts patient quality of
      life. Currently, more than 5 million skin cancer surgeries are performed in the United States
      each year, at a cost of over $8 billion per year. Eighty percent of these tumors occur on the
      head and neck, anatomic sites most visible to society. Recent studies have demonstrated that
      patients have reduced concern about the severity and prognosis of their skin cancer in the
      period immediately following Mohs micrographic surgery (MMS). However, patient QOL related to
      appearance and social interactions is impaired in the weeks following MMS due to elevated
      distress regarding post-surgical physical appearance.

      One-to-one peer support programs benefit both the patient and the mentor. In one-to-one peer
      support programs, individuals previously affected by a disease or condition volunteer to
      provide support to current patients in a loosely structured, mentorship setting. Peer mentors
      provide mentees with social and emotional support as well as practical guidance on health
      system navigation. Similar peer mentorship programs with burn patients who had significant
      changes to outward physical appearance resulted in positive experiences for both mentee and
      mentor. Notable mentee feedback included the formation of an immediate connection with a peer
      supporter and feelings of "automatic trust" even after previously seeing a mental health
      professional for their care. Mentors described their participation in peer programs as a
      source for continued learning and inspiration for their own recovery.

      One-to-one peer support is a cost-effective, well-received intervention that increases
      patient satisfaction and objective QOL measures across many fields. Outcome measurements of
      one-to-one peer mentorship programs have demonstrated high rates of patient satisfaction and
      positive psychological outcomes in patients suffering from diabetes, breast cancer, prostate
      cancer, colon cancer, and gynecologic cancers. The operating cost of peer support mentorship
      is low, and these programs can further relieve the health care system by reallocating access
      to patient support services to a community level.
    
  