
    
      Background: Asthma is the third largest cause of hospitalization in children under 15 years
      of age. It is a reversible obstructive lung disease caused by airway inflammation and
      constriction of the airway smooth muscle. Mucus producing glands of the airway become
      enlarged resulting in overproduction of mucus. All those factors result in airflow
      obstruction with airtrapping, ventilation/perfusion mismatch and hypoxia. Therapies such as
      beta-agonists (i.e. albuterol), anti-cholinergics (i.e. atrovent) and steroids are used for
      an acute asthma attack. Unfortunately, patients may develop status asthmaticus, in which a
      severe attack does not respond to nebulized bronchodilators, and require intensive care
      admission.

      HFCC is an FDA (1988 under Class II 510K) approved device/modality of chest physiotherapy
      which has been utilized in patients with mucus hypersecretion, atelectasis and pneumonia.
      There is a paucity of pediatric studies. A comparative retrospective/prospective data
      analysis on exacerbations and hospitalizations in medically fragile (profoundly disabled)
      children using outpatient HFCC showed that use of this therapy reduced days of
      hospitalization for pulmonary exacerbations. Long term use in quadriplegic children reduced
      pulmonary secretions, incidence of pneumonia, and number of hospitalizations. In the
      pediatric cystic fibrosis population, there was improvement of lung function during
      hospitalization and long term decrease in progression of lung disease. Furthermore, in
      patients with mild to moderate asthma, there was no decline in lung function with the use of
      beta agonist and HFCC versus beta agonist alone indicating good tolerance and safety.

      Because asthma patients have mucus hypersecretion and this modality has been shown to be
      effective in other patient populations with mucus hypersecretion, this modality can be used
      as a means of reducing pulmonary morbidity and thereby allowing the respiratory therapist to
      allocate his/her time more efficiently.

      Purpose:

      Assess efficacy of HFCC in PICU population ages 2 to 21 years of age with status asthmaticus

      Design: Prospective Randomized non blinded HFCC (administered 4 times a day for 20 minutes)
      with conventional PICU management of asthma exacerbation vs. conventional PICU management of
      asthma exacerbation alone. Child would not have any of the standard asthma medications
      changed or stopped because of this study.

      End Points of Interest:

      Primary

      1) PICU days - Average number of PICU days as researched is about 4.47 days. There may be
      factors such as non PICU floor availability and PICU rounds that may delay transfer from PICU
      to the non PICU floor. So the official discharge from PICU will be when the attending PICU
      physician announces or deems it acceptable for PICU discharge

      Secondary

        1. Length of hospitalization

        2. Pediatric Asthma Severity Score a validated asthma severity score in pediatric
           population: 1) observed level of respiratory distress 2) accessory muscle use 3)
           auscultation (degree of wheezing) 4) oxygen saturation 5) respiratory rate Scored
           observations 0, 1, or 2 and total the observation numbers for a Severity score

        3. Discomfort

      Patient inclusion 2 to 21 yo (VEST approved for over two yo) Admitted to PICU for status
      asthmaticus Negative urine pregnancy test prior to initiation of study in those with menses

      Patient Exclusion

      Absolute contraindication to VEST use:

        1. Unstable head or neck injury

        2. Active hemorrhage with hemodynamic instability

        3. Intracranial pressure > 20 mmHg or those in whom intracranial pressures should be
           avoided (was a relative contraindication but after discussion moved to absolute)

      Presence of anomalies such as:

        1. Former premature infant with BPD

        2. Congenital bronchogenic or pulmonary anomaly (i.e. CF)

        3. Congenital heart disease
    
  