
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and feasibility of cytoreductive fludarabine and cyclophosphamide
           followed by high-dose myeloablative therapy comprising total-body irradiation,
           cyclophosphamide, and alemtuzumab in patients undergoing autologous filgrastim
           (G-CSF)-mobilized peripheral blood stem cell transplantation for stage I-IV chronic
           lymphocytic leukemia.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the clinical and molecular remission rate and duration in patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open label, nonrandomized study. Patients are assigned to 1
      of 2 cohorts according to time of enrollment.

        -  Cytoreductive induction therapy: All patients receive fludarabine IV and
           cyclophosphamide IV on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2-4 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete
           response (CR) or partial response (PR) proceed to stem cell mobilization. Patients with
           stage III or IV disease at this point are removed from study.

        -  Stem cell mobilization: All patients receive Dexa-BEAM comprising oral dexamethasone
           once daily on days 1-10; carmustine IV and melphalan IV on day 2; and cytarabine IV
           twice daily and etoposide IV once daily on days 4-7. Patients also receive filgrastim
           (G-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on day 8 and continuing until leukapheresis is
           completed. Patients undergo peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) harvest between days 20
           and 28. Patients without an adequate number of collected PBSCs may receive a second
           course of Dexa-BEAM. Patients achieving CR or very good PR proceed to high-dose
           myeloablative therapy and PBSC transplantation (PBSCT) with or without consolidation
           therapy.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Beginning between 1-2 months after completion of Dexa-BEAM,
           patients in cohort 2 receive alemtuzumab IV over 2 hours on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, 12, 15,
           17, 19, 22, 24, and 26 and then proceed to high-dose myeloablative therapy and PBSCT
           within 1 month after completion of consolidation therapy. Patients in cohort 1 do not
           receive consolidation therapy and proceed directly to high-dose therapy within 3 months
           after completion of stem cell mobilization.

        -  High-dose myeloablative therapy and PBSCT: Patients undergo total-body irradiation on
           days -7 to -5. Patients then receive cyclophosphamide IV on days -4 and -3 and
           alemtuzumab IV over 2 hours on days -10, -9, -8, -6, and -4. Patients undergo PBSCT on
           day 0.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  