
    
      This randomized trial tests whether the addition of chemohormonal therapy improves
      PSA-progression free survival in patients with high risk, clinically-localized prostate
      cancer. The neoadjuvant approach is taken since there appears to be a higher acceptance rate
      in the prostate population for this type of therapy and several phase II trials have
      demonstrated its safety. Multiple chemotherapeutic therapies have shown efficacy in advanced
      prostate cancer and docetaxel has become the community standard. Many high risk patients are
      initiated on LHRH agonists at or near the time of diagnosis of their prostate cancer. In
      order to allow the inclusion of these patients in the protocol, enhanced enrollment and
      maintain compliance with therapy, up to 3 months of androgen deprivation therapy prior to
      enrollment will be permitted. This study will therefore be able to test the hypothesis that
      targeting both androgen-sensitive and chemotherapy- sensitive prostate cancer cells will
      improve outcomes in these high-risk patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized study. Patients are stratified according to
      nomogram-predicted biochemical progression-free survival at 5 years (0-20.9% vs 21-39.9% vs
      40-59.9% vs ≥ 60%) and androgen-deprivation therapy prior to randomization ≤ 4 months (no vs
      yes). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Please see the Arms sections for more
      details.

      The primary and secondary objectives are described below.

      Primary:

      - To determine whether treatment with neoadjuvant docetaxel and androgen deprivation therapy
      prior to radical prostatectomy will increase the rate of 3-year biochemical progression-free
      survival (bPFS) compared to treatment with immediate radical prostatectomy alone for
      high-risk prostate cancer patients.

      Secondary:

        -  To compare the 5-year bPFS rate, bPFS, disease progression, disease-free survival, and
           overall survival of patients randomized to the two arms of this trial

        -  To determine the safety and tolerability of neoadjuvant docetaxel and androgen
           deprivation therapy prior to surgery for high-risk patients undergoing radical
           prostatectomy

        -  To compare the impact of neoadjuvant docetaxel and androgen deprivation therapy on time
           to clinically apparent local disease recurrence and metastatic disease in high-risk
           patients undergoing radical prostatectomy for clinically localized prostate cancer

        -  To compare the impact of neoadjuvant docetaxel and androgen deprivation therapy relative
           to RP on pathologic tumor stage, frequency of lymph node metastases and positive margin
           rates for high-risk patients undergoing radical prostatectomy for clinically localized
           prostate cancer

        -  To determine if changes in serum testosterone levels will predict bPFS

        -  To determine prospectively whether PSA doubling time (PSADT) is a surrogate endpoint for
           time to clinical metastases and overall survival

      Patients are followed up to 15 years post-randomization.
    
  