
    
      The study-design is a single center single blinded randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 2
      arms. Patients admitted to Akershus University Hospital (Ahus) with a displaced two-part
      proximal humeral fracture of OTA/ AO group 11A2 or 11A3 in need of surgical treatment will be
      randomly allocated to two groups; conservative/ non-operative treatment or open reduction and
      internal fixation (ORIF).

      All following aims evaluated at controls at 6, 12, 26 and 52 weeks. The 6 months and 1 year
      controls will additionally be conducted by independent physiotherapists. The other controls
      are conducted by the treating surgeons. The physiotherapists will be blinded of chosen
      treatment, the patients wearing a t-shirt covering the shoulder at the consultations, hence
      single blinded RCT.

      Primary aim: Functional outcome as evaluated by the Quick DASH (Disability of the arm,
      shoulder and hand) score at controls.

      Preoperative evaluation:

      The project participants will supervise and evaluate the data. General history, including;
      mechanism of injury, occupation, pre-existing medical conditions and medication, smoking
      history, American Society of Anesthesiologists Classification (ASA classification), BMI, hand
      dominance. At inclusion, the patient will be asked to fill out quick-Dash, Visual Analog
      scale (VAS), EQ-5D to determine the baseline-characteristics.

      Postoperative evaluation:

      Evaluation of postoperative radiographs for reduction of fracture and possible errors of the
      operative technique by the project participants and a radiologist.

      Secondary aims:

        1. Initial radiographic examination with standardized radiograph projections; true
           anterio-posterior projection and scapula projection pre- and post-operative.
           Registration of radiological complications defined by a reduction of Head-Shaft-Angle
           (HSA) of ≥10⁰ in frontal plane, screw penetration/cut-out, screw failure or failure of
           the osteosynthesis on radiographs. Evaluation of fracture healing/ non-union.

        2. Evaluation of postoperative reduction: Reduction of tubercles, rotation of caput,
           re-establishment of medial support, position of calcar screws and distance from screws
           to cartilage in x-rays. Computer-tomographic scans are standard pre-operative practice
           at our institution. The problem of intra- and inter-observer reproducibility is a
           well-known confounder of fracture classification in proximal humeral fractures and CT
           scans will help clarify classification (19, 20) and fracture configuration. CT scan
           postoperatively will be taken within few days after surgery (Only in Stratum 1).

        3. Qualitative Computed Tomography (QCT) is an alternative method to measure Bone Marrow
           Density (BMD) using a Hydroxyapatite plate/ a phantom. This is a flat plate placed under
           the shoulder during ordinary CT scanning. Several studies have demonstrated an
           association between the QCT measurements and risk of fragility fractures, so BMD will be
           assessed.

        4. Functional outcome of surgical treatment as evaluated by Constant score by independent
           physiotherapists during follow-up. Measurement of strength according to recommendations
           given by the European Society of Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons ESSSE (http://secec.org/).

        5. Functional outcome evaluated by Oxford Shoulder score, which is a validated
           patient-reported outcome measure. A shoulder-specific instrument designed to assess the
           outcome of all shoulder surgeries.

        6. EQ-5D, a generic measure of health status that provide a simple descriptive profile used
           in clinical evaluation of health care. EQ-5D is recommended for use in
           cost-effectiveness in Health and Medicine and by the Washington panel of
           Pharmacoeconomics and outcomes research (ISPOR) task.

        7. Health economic registration; length of hospital-stay, sick leaves, use of
           physiotherapy, appointments at general practitioners, extra controls at in-patient
           orthopedic clinic, removal of plate or nail, extra surgeries.

        8. Monitoring complications such as deep or superficial infection, reoperations, avascular
           necrosis, non-union, nerve or vessel-damage.

      In the literature, the following risk factors for failure of the osteosynthesis, Avascular
      necrosis (AVN) or chance of poor functional outcome are outlined; the factors will be
      examined as subgroups to see whether they are representative also for our population:

        -  A non-adequately reduced fracture. Evaluated in postoperative radiographs. Malalignment?

        -  Not adequately positioning of implant

        -  Degree of medial comminution and medial hinge (the amount of metaphyseal bone attached
           to the anatomic head fragment at trauma.

        -  Is sufficient medial support achieved in our patients, and if not, does the construction
           fail?

        -  Varus subsidence, measured as reduced Head shaft angle (HSA) (>10 degrees) during follow
           up

        -  Fixation in varus, HSA <120 or HSA <110 .

        -  Enough contact between head and shaft for healing?

        -  Age: Increasing age predisposes osteosynthesis failure and reduced function, probably
           because of decreasing bone density in proximal humerus in older age. The examiners want
           to examine whether there is a cut-off in age, in example 60, 65, 75, 80 or 85 years of
           age.

        -  Valgus >45 or Varus <30, which fracture is the worst?

      Patients allocated to the conservative group may be offered surgical treatment if the
      fracture changes/ dislocates, in example no contact between the fracture ends if the patients
      activities of daily living (ADL) is greatly affected or pain is disproportionately
    
  