
    
      It has long been recognized that dietary factors influence the risk of developing colon
      cancer, with populations consuming a higher proportion of fruits and vegetables having lower
      risk. A compound found in the skin of grapes, resveratrol, has been purported to have colon
      cancer prevention activity though the dosages obtained through the diet have always seemed
      too low to produce inhibitory effects against cancer cells in the laboratory. We have found
      that low concentrations of resveratrol inhibit the Wnt pathway, a key signaling pathway which
      is activated in over 85% of colon cancers. We have also found in a small pilot trial that low
      dosages of freeze-dried grape powder can directly inhibit Wnt signaling in the normal colon
      and that grape powder was more effective than resveratrol alone in blocking Wnt throughput.
      This suggests that components of grapes may have direct activity in inhibiting a key
      signaling pathway and that this may correlate with cancer prevention activity.

      In this study, we will directly test the impact of a diet containing a specific amount of red
      grapes in the context of a controlled amount of other resveratrol containing foodstuffs on
      Wnt signaling in the colon. This grape-supplemented diet provides a low-dose of resveratrol
      in conjunction with other potentially active components contained within the grapes.
      Participants will be normal volunteers and molecular studies will be done on colon tissue
      obtained by a limited flexible sigmoidoscopy before, and after, the red grape-containing diet
      is ingested. Different dosages of grapes will be utilized. This study will define the effect
      of dietary grape-derived low dose resveratrol on biomarkers related to the Wnt pathway, and
      provide critical information as to the utility of this nutritional approach toward colon
      cancer prevention.

      For this study, seedless red grapes will be used. Ten participants will be enrolled at each
      dose level of grapes as follows:

        -  Dose level 1: 1 lb/day fresh red grapes

        -  Dose level 2: 2/3 lb/day fresh red grapes

        -  Dose level 3: 1/3 lb/day fresh red grapes

      Participants will be normal volunteers identified through advertisements, referrals, and
      community outreach.

      Primary Objective:

      Define the minimum dietarily achievable amount of resveratrol-rich fresh red grapes which are
      effective in inhibiting Wnt signaling in human colonic mucosa.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. Define whether grape-supplemented diet affects colonic mucosa cell proliferation.

        2. Define any side-effects associated with the resveratrol-rich dietary program.
    
  