
    
      Peripheral neuropathy is now recognized as the most common neurological complication of HIV
      disease and its treatment. Before highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) was
      introduced, the prevalence of HIV-associated distal sensory polyneuropathy (DSP) was already
      estimated to be 35%, mostly contained to populations with moderate to advanced
      immunosuppression. Now, since the advent of HAART, the prevalence of HIV-associated
      neuropathy has increased to 52%, possibly due to a combination of antiretroviral toxic
      neuropathy (ATN), decreased mortality, and accumulated medical comorbidities.

      Successful treatment of neuropathic pain is inherently difficult, and treatment of
      HIV-associated neuropathic pain is particularly complicated. To date, evidence supporting
      effective therapies for neuropathic HIV-associated pain is lacking, despite several types and
      classes of drugs having been evaluated in clinical trials. This study will evaluate the
      safety and efficacy of duloxetine, methadone, and the combination of duloxetine and methadone
      in painful HIV-associated neuropathy. Both of these drugs are approved by the Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) but for purposes unrelated to HIV-associated neuropathy, and no previous
      studies have utilized these two treatments for this purpose.

      For this study, 120 participants with painful HIV-associated neuropathy will be recruited.
      The trial will last for approximately 23 weeks. Each participant will receive a total of 4
      study treatments. The following treatment pairings will be given in a sequence determined by
      randomization:

        1. duloxetine and methadone placebo

        2. methadone and duloxetine placebo

        3. duloxetine and methadone

        4. duloxetine placebo and methadone placebo

      Each treatment period will last 4 weeks and will be followed by a 1-week combined taper and
      washout.

      People wishing to enroll in this study will have a screening visit that will last about 3
      hours. During this visit, participants will have an HIV test, physical exam, neurologic exam,
      blood drawn, electrocardiogram (EKG), and a pregnancy test, if applicable. Participants will
      also be asked about their current health and any medications they may be taking. They will
      also be asked about their mood and be given the results of tests performed at the screening
      visit.

      If screening qualifies participants for the study, they will return for a pre-entry visit
      lasting 2 hours. During this visit, participants will have a limited physical exam and be
      asked about changes in their health or medicines since screening. Participants will also be
      given a pain diary with instructions to record neuropathy pain every day for each of the 7
      days before beginning the study and throughout the study.

      After beginning the study, participants will return to the clinic for another 8 visits. These
      visits are at the end of each 4-week treatment period and at the end of each 1-week crossover
      period. At each visit, there will be a limited physical exam and participants will answer
      questions about their health and medications. Participants will also be told the results of
      routine lab tests and pregnancy tests performed during the study.
    
  