
    
      Breast Cancer Survivors:

      If patient agrees to take part in this study, they will visit the cancer survivorship clinic
      where the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Patient will have a 30-60 minute interview where they will be asked about cancer-related
           informational needs, feelings about survivorship care plans, and preferred methods of
           communication with survivorship clinic staff.

        -  Patient will be asked about whether they would use the internet and other technologies
           (such as text messages for appointment reminders) as tools in breast cancer
           survivorship.

        -  Patient will use a web-based tool called HealthATM. HealthATM is a website that is
           designed to provide information and tools to help patients better manage their health.
           After 10-15 minute session with the website, patient will be asked about how easy the
           website was to use and other questions about their session.

        -  Patient will complete a short questionnaire at the end of the interview asking about
           personal characteristics, how involved they are in their health care, and their
           attitudes towards the HealthATM website. It should take about 5 minutes to complete this
           questionnaire.

      All interviews will be audiorecorded. All audio recordings will be kept for 5 years and then
      destroyed. All interview data will be stored in password-protected computers and/or locked
      file cabinets. There will be no personal identifying information connected to patient's
      interview answers.

      Length of Study:

      All of the study procedures will take place at one visit. The visit should last about 60
      minutes.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 40 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at LBJ General
      Hospital.

      Clinic Stakeholders:

      If clinic staff agree to take part in this study, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  Clinic staff will take part in a 60-90 minute focus group session where they will be
           asked about their feelings about survivorship care plans and if they think web-based
           eHealth programs would be helpful as tools in breast cancer survivorship.

        -  Clinic staff will be asked about any challenges and barriers they feel are facing the
           survivorship programs at LBJ.

        -  Clinic staff will use a web-based tool called HealthATM. HealthATM is a website that
           provides information and tools to help patients better manage their health. After a
           10-15 minute session with the website, they will be asked about how easy the website was
           to use and other questions about their session.

      All focus group sessions will be audiorecorded. All audio recordings will be kept for 5 years
      and then destroyed. All focus group data will be stored in password-protected computers
      and/or locked file cabinets. There will be no personal identifying information connected to
      your focus group answers.

      Length of Study:

      All of the study procedures will take place at one visit. The visit should last about 60
      minutes.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 40 stakeholders will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at LBJ General
      Hospital.
    
  