
    
      Ischemic heart disease is the leading contributor to the worldwide burden of disease, as
      assessed on the basis of disability-adjusted life-years.

      ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI) is associated with a coronary occlusive thrombosis
      in 90% of patients, non-ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction (NSTEMI) only in 26% of cases. In
      this regard, increasing attention is given to the composition of coronary thrombus. In acute
      STEMI, platelet and fibrin content in the occlusive thrombus is highly dependent on ischemia
      time, thus one can infer that this may have a substantial impact on the efficacy of drugs or
      devices used for coronary reperfusion.

      Among several circulating cell types - platelets, erythrocytes, monocytes, and neutrophils -
      as well as plasma molecules, modulating the thrombosis process, platelets constitute the
      major cellular component of the thrombus and their activation is essential for thrombus
      formation. Although the role of platelets in thrombosis has been deeply characterized, the
      molecular mechanisms underlying platelet activation and focal adhesion within human coronary
      thrombi, the composition, time changes of the occluding thrombus and its interaction with the
      other cells have not been clearly elucidated, mainly due to the difficult accessibility to
      the thrombotic material. Thrombus aspiration, although having a controversial role as an
      adjunctive strategy in primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for STEMI and NSTEMI,
      relies on the extraction of occlusive thrombi by an aspiration catheter, advanced in the
      coronary arterial tree and constitutes a unique opportunity for obtaining coronary thrombi
      from patients suffering from AMI.

      Defining variable molecular pathways responsible for thrombus formation according to time
      lapse and pathophysiology may pave the way to newer therapeutic strategies.

      Hypothesis of the study Coronary thrombus undergoes significant modification according to the
      pathophysiology of formation (erosion, plaque rupture or metal strut exposure) and time-lapse
      from symptom onset.

      The exact definition the molecular composition of coronary thrombus and of its proteomic and
      metabolomics patterns may identify the target of newer therapeutic strategies.

      Aims of the study are: to elucidate the molecular composition of coronary thrombus in AMI, to
      understand, at molecular level, phenotypic alteration related to thrombus formation, to
      highlight new potential factors involved in disease's onset or related to time of thrombus
      formation.

      A consecutive series of patients admitted for an ACS, with either STEMI and occluded
      infarct-related artery or NSTEMI and visible thrombus in the culprit artery will be deemed
      suitable for thrombus aspiration. PCI will be performed with a standard procedure, with
      either femoral or radial access. All patients will be receiving acetylsalicylic acid (100 mg
      daily) and a P2Y12 inhibitor - clopidogrel (600 mg, then 75 mg daily), prasugrel (60 mg, then
      10 mg daily) or ticagrelor (180 mg daily). After insertion of the arterial sheath, every
      patient will receive 70 IU/kg of heparin.

      After guidewire positioning across the lesion, the thrombus aspiration system will be
      advanced with gentle suction and several passages will be performed through the culprit
      lesion.

      The lyophilized thrombus from each patient enrolled will undergo to extensive molecular
      characterization in term of proteins, metabolites (Amino Acids and Acylcarnitines) and polar
      lipids.

      Polar metabolites and lipids from thrombus will be extracted and analyzed following a
      validated methodology: 5 mg of wet thrombus will be added to a 330 μL of methanol solution
      containing deuterated internal standards of amino acids and carnitines and lyso-sphingomyelin
      100 µg/ml as internal standard for lipidomics. These solutions will be incubated at 45 °C for
      50 min and finally divided into two aliquots. The first one will be used to analyze amino
      acids and acyl-carnitines following our LC-MS/MS method already used in the analysis of CSF
      as previously reported. The second aliquot will be employed to screen phospholipids by
      LC-MS/MS. Data obtained will be quantified using MarkerLynx and NeoLynx software, and
      statistically investigated using GraphPad Prism, Simca P+ and MetaboAnalyst software.

      The lyophilized thrombus will be digested by Filter Aided Sample Prep (FASP) protocol. Then,
      instrumental triplicates will be acquired for each sample by a platform nanoLC-ESI-QTOF-MS/MS
      performing label free shotgun proteomics experiments in order to identify, and
      simultaneously, quantify expressed proteins as already reported. The result of this study
      will be a list of expressed proteins during coronary thrombus in acute myocardial infarction,
      that may be used for bioinformatics analysis.

      Data will be processed by a dedicated software (Profile Analysis, Bruker, Markerlynx).
      Highlighted metabolites/proteins will be identified by database and by fragmentation
      analysis.

      Specifically for metabolomics and lipidomics, the data will be processed to obtain peak
      deconvolution and alignment, denoise and Total Ion Count normalization to give a table of
      mass pairs with associated relative intensities for all the detected peak for each sample
      analyzed. Then, the data matrix will be used for multivariate Analysis (PCA; PLS-DA) using
      SIMCA-P + 11.0 (Umetrics AB, Umeå, Sweden).

      By multi-omics researches and data processing, it will be available a panel of interesting
      molecules as a framework for each clinical group studied. These biological compounds will be
      then subjected to an in-silico analysis to rebuild their functional implications in the
      physiology and molecular homeostasis of coronary thrombus in acute myocardial infarction. To
      perform such a meta-analysis of the data we will mainly use Ingenuity Pathways Analysis
      (IPA), (Ingenuity Systems, Mountain View, CA). Through the Pathways analysis and the Gene
      Ontology it will be possible to identify the metabolic pathways and the secondary
      genes/proteins inhibited and/or stimulated for a specific phenotype and consequently classify
      potential effectors molecules and/or pharmacological target.
    
  