
    
      Audit and feedback (A&F) is an intervention that aims to improve professionals practices by
      providing professionals with a summary of their performance over a period of time. A&F has 1)
      an audit phase, in which performance indicators are measured and 2) a feedback phase, in
      which the indicators are reported to the professionals to encourage reflexive practice and
      determine an action plan. Although its effectiveness has been demonstrated, it is widely
      accepted that this type of intervention is highly variable and that its design has
      considerable room for improvement. A major limitation to the effectiveness of A&F is a
      persistent intention-action gap encounters by professionals following the feedback. This gap
      prevents the translation of planned actions into concrete changes in practice. In nursing, an
      aspect that contributes to this gap is a lack of coordination of actions within nursing
      teams, which limits their capacity for collective action.

      Purpose and objectives: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of an A&F
      intervention enhanced with an action support component on the primary care nursing teams'
      capacity to improve performance compared to a standard A&F intervention. This study has two
      specific objectives: 1) to measure the effects of the addition of structured focus groups
      during an enhanced A&F intervention on the performance levels of the process and outcome
      indicators compared with the measured effects of standard A&F intervention; and 2) to analyze
      the effects of the implementation fidelity of the standard and enhanced A&F interventions on
      the effectiveness of A&F.

      Method: A pragmatic cluster randomised controlled trial with analysis of implementation
      fidelity will be conducted. Eight primary care nursing organizations will be included. Four
      of them will receive a standard A&F intervention, while the remaining four will receive an AF
      intervention with a support component. Performance will be measured using clinical
      administrative data from an electronic database currently used to compile statistics on the
      services provided and the users of Local community service centers (CLSC) in Quebec.
      Performance will be measured from wound care episodes of patients who had a follow-up during
      the study period. Four process indicators (continuity, planning and adjusting of the
      treatment plan, initial assessment and education) and three outcome indicators (frequency and
      number of consultations and duration of episodes) sensitive to nursing care will be measured
      3 times: at the beginning of the study (T1), after 6 months (T2) and after 12 months (T3).
      The feedback meetings will take place between times 1 and 2, then between times 2 and 3. The
      intervention group will receive the support component in the form of structured focus groups
      in addition to the feedback meetings, twice between each of the time periods. Models of
      generalized estimating equations will be adjusted to analyze differences in performance in
      each group. An analysis of implementation fidelity will be conducted in parallel of the
      pragmatic trial using grids of observations in each of the settings
    
  