
    
      Project Objective:

      Ankle osteoarthritis is characterized by joint pain, tenderness, limitation of movement, and
      variable degrees of inflammation. These factors combined and left untreated will severely
      limit a person's mobility and willingness to participate in activities. Two common surgical
      procedures chosen to alleviate pain and to increase mobility are ankle arthrodesis (ankle
      fusion) and arthroplasty (ankle replacement). Success rates for these procedures are variable
      and the amount of information available regarding long-term follow-up is limited. The extent
      to which a person is able and willing to move around the world is often an indicator of
      his/her condition. The proposed study will examine walking activity levels, and any
      difference in activity, in patients immediately before and after undergoing surgical
      treatment for ankle arthritis.

      Successfully regaining motility is a priority for patients electing to have surgical
      treatment for ankle arthritis. A difference in activity levels would indicate an important
      outcome difference between surgical procedures.

      Research Plan:

      The investigators propose a mobility outcome study with up to 500 ankle osteoarthritis
      subjects who will undergo corrective surgery.

      Methodology:

      The investigators propose a mobility outcome study with a total of up to 500 ankle
      osteoarthritis subjects before and after surgery over the three years of the study. Ankle
      arthritis subjects will be recruited from patients at the VA Puget Sound Health Care System
      (Seattle, WA), Harborview Medical Center (Seattle, WA), Orthopedic + Fracture Specialists
      (Portland, OR), Orthopaedic Associates of Michigan (Grand Rapids, MN), and Twin Cities
      Orthopedics (Edina, MN) who have been diagnosed with end stage ankle arthrosis, are
      ambulatory, speak English, are cognitively intact, and between the ages of 18-80.
      Recruitment, informed consent procedures and the experimental protocol will be approved by
      the Institutional Review Board (IRB) at each study site.

      Since there is no clinical equipoise it would be unethical to randomize treatment at this
      time. This project is an observational study of the outcomes following two common treatments:
      Ankle arthrodesis (fusion) and ankle arthroplasty (total ankle joint replacement). The
      outcomes will be assessed in two domains:

      Functional domain: Each subject's functional status will be determined by the Musculoskeletal
      Function Assessment (MFA) and the SF-36 general health survey. The MFA is a written
      questionnaire that assesses activity and social limitations caused by musculoskeletal injury.
      After completing the questionnaires, subjects will be fit with the Stepwatch Activity Monitor
      (SAM, Cyma, Seattle WA) around their ankle. An investigator will give them verbal
      instructions about wearing the SAM. This is a small, pager-sized device which counts the
      number of steps taken by the wearer. The SAM will be worn around the subject's ankle for 14
      days, and then the subject will return the monitor and activity log to the VA by visit or by
      mail. Assessments using the MFA and SF-36 will occur prior to surgical intervention and at 3,
      6, 12, 24, and 36 months following the intervention. Long term follow-up using the MFA and
      SF-36 was approved in April 2017 and will continue until 12 years after the participant's
      ankle surgery. Assessments using the SAM will occur prior to surgical intervention and at 3,
      6, 12, 24 and 36 months following the intervention. These assessments will provide data on
      functional limitations due to ankle arthritis and on the efficacy of the treatments in
      restoring functional ambulation.

      Biomechanical domain: Instrumented gait analysis will be performed on each subject.
      Reflective markers will be placed on each subject's head, hands, arms, trunk, legs, and feet.
      The subject will walk along a 12 m walkway with embedded forceplates. The motion of the
      markers will be collected with a 10 camera Vicon 612 system and processed to determine the
      motion of the ankle joint in three planes as well as the moment and power generated by the
      ankle during walking. This will allow us to assess the technical functional of the ankle
      joint, the range of motion used during gait and the moment, power and energy contribution of
      the ankle during walking for each of the treatments. Gait assessments will occur prior to
      surgical intervention and at 12, 24, and 36 months post-op. Gait assessment takes place at
      the VA Puget Sound Health Care System in Seattle, WA. The investigators will only recruit
      subjects from the VA and Harborview Medical Center for the gait analysis portion of the
      study.
    
  