
    
      Recent advances in Hepatitis C Virus (HCV) treatment represent a paradigm shift for the
      treatment of HCV-infected persons with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) coinfection. With
      potent antiviral activity, excellent safety/tolerability, few drug interactions and once
      daily, oral dosing, Sofosbuvir (SOF)/Ledipasvir (LDV) have had excellent efficacy in
      randomized controlled trials and offer great promise for the treatment of hepatitis C in
      HIV/HCV coinfected patients who are at high risk for progressive liver disease and
      HCV-related mortality. While the availability of SOF/LDV has great promise for the treatment
      of patients, the experience with antiretroviral therapy (ART) for the treatment of HIV
      infection indicates that interferon-free oral therapy is necessary but not sufficient to cure
      HCV in the real world. While removal of Interferon increases the proportion of coinfected
      persons who use drugs (PWUD) eligible for treatment, multiple barriers will remain (e.g.,
      medical/psychiatric illness, substance abuse, and social constraints). Effective ART in
      coinfected PWUDs provides a strategic framework for the delivery of curative HCV treatment;
      novel and effective strategies for delivering this care for HCV must be evaluated, including
      incentives and peer-mentoring.

      Financial incentives. One method for increasing delivery of care is the contingent
      administration of monetary incentives; such reinforcements have improved health outcomes
      related to drug/alcohol abstinence, smoking cessation, childhood vaccination, tuberculosis
      care and HIV treatment. Contingent reinforcement has also been successfully used to link
      HIV-infected patients to care and improve adherence to ART. Curative HCV treatments are given
      for a finite duration (12 weeks) which offers an ideal paradigm for incentive interventions
      by reducing the overall cost and removing concerns of loss of adherence if incentives are
      stopped.

      Peer support. A second method for improving delivery of care is the use of peers or
      laypersons with the same illness. By matching on cultural competencies and establishing
      trust, peers may be particularly effective in some settings. In one study, African American
      veterans with poorly controlled diabetes assigned to peer-support had better glucose control
      than those assigned financial incentives. Coinfected patients may benefit from peer support.

      The investigators will test two innovative strategies to improve HCV treatment outcomes in
      HIV/HCV coinfected patients through the delivery of SOF/LDV for 12 weeks as part of a
      randomized controlled trial. HIV-infected patients will receive SOF/LDV under one of three
      randomly assigned conditions: usual care (clinic-based nursing model), incentive care (IC) or
      peer-mentor care (PMC).
    
  