
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify novel genomic variants and pathways associated with baseline, as well as the
      change in serum thymidine kinase (TK1) levels (measured pre-registration, after two cycles,
      and at disease progression) among women with advanced hormone receptor (HR) positive breast
      cancer treated with palbociclib and endocrine therapy (ET).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To generate patient derived xenograft (PDX)s and organoids from tumor biopsies obtained at
      pre-registration, at 2 months, and at disease progression, to test novel endocrine therapy
      combinations. (PDX Aim) II. To test whether PDX engraftment is associated with progression
      free survival. (PDX Aim) Sequencing Aims III. to describe changes in the genomic landscape of
      HR-positive HER2-negative advanced breast cancer by comparing sequencing data
      (deoxyribonucleic acid [DNA] and ribonucleic acid [RNA]) from preregistration archival breast
      primary tumors (when available), with tumor biopsies obtained preregistration, after two
      months on study, and at disease progression on palbociclib and ET.

      IV. To evaluate whether genomic variants and pathways (measured using DNA and RNA sequencing
      at pre-registration and after two months of treatment) are associated with 1) PFS; 2)
      baseline and changes in serum TK1. (Sequencing Aim) V. To tabulate the number of patients who
      have targetable mutations found in the preregistration tumor biopsy and to record their
      subsequent treatment regimen following progression on palbociclib and ET. (Sequencing Aim)
      VI. To compare and contrast the actionable genomic alterations found in cfDNA or CTC derived
      DNA that are not found in tumor tissue. (Sequencing Aim) VII. To assess whether genetic
      alterations known to be associated with endocrine monotherapy resistance are seen in
      circulating tumor- DNA (ctDNA) and circulating tumor cell (CTC) derived DNA. (Sequencing Aim)
      VIII.To determine whether use of a 3D micro cancer model, combined with sequencing data from
      tumor biopsies, ctDNA and PDXs collected at the time of disease progression, can be used to
      personalize future treatment options for PROMISE participants. (Sequencing Aim) IX. To
      compare the changes in Ki67 levels (by immunohistochemistry [IHC]) and serum TK1 levels after
      2 months of treatment. (Proliferative biomarker aim) X. To assess whether the change in Ki67
      and serum TK1 levels after 2 months of treatment with palbociclib and ET is associated with
      progression free survival (PFS) outcomes. (Proliferative biomarker aim) XI. To assess whether
      high baseline serum TK1 levels (> 200 Du/L) are associated with PFS outcomes. (Proliferative
      biomarker aim) XII. To assess whether an increase in TK1 between 2 months and 12 months is
      associated with PFS. (Proliferative biomarker aim) XIII. To assess the change in EMT marker
      expression (e.g. Vimentin, SLUG and E-cadherin) and serum TK1 after two months of treatment
      with palbociclib and ET. (EMT aim) XIV. To determine the association between the expression
      of EMT markers and Ki67 levels after two months of treatment with palbociclib and ET. (EMT
      aim) XV. To determine the association between the expression of EMT markers after two months
      of treatment with palbociclib and ET, and PFS outcomes. (EMT aim) XVI. To assess whether
      there is a change in the level of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) observed in archival
      tumor, at pre-registration, at 2 months, and at disease progression on palbociclib and ET.
      (Immune aim) XVII. To assess the change in TILs (including CD8, PD-L1, and FOXP3) after 2
      months of treatment with palbociclib and ET. (Immune aim) XVIII. To assess the association
      between TILs and serum TK1 levels at preregistration, at 2 months, and at disease progression
      on palbociclib and ET. (Immune aim) XIX. To characterize and evaluate changes in the immune
      landscape of HR+ HER2 -MBC using serial biopsies obtained pre-registration, at 2 months, and
      at disease progression (as well as archived primary tumor when available) using digital
      spatial profiling (DSP) (NanoString GeoMx platform) . (Immune aim) XX. To assess, by use of
      mass cytometry (CyTOF), whether i) peripheral blood immune markers obtained pretreatment are
      associated with either TK1 or PFS and ii) whether the changes in peripheral blood immune
      markers after 2 cycles of treatment are associated with changes in serum TK1 levels. (Immune
      aim) XXI. To discover putative mechanistic connections underlying bacteria-drug interactions
      in all patients. (Microbiome aim) XXII. To identify the biomolecular features within the gut
      (stool) microbiome and its association with the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of
      letrozole and palbociclib. (Microbiome aim) XXIII. To discover novel predictive biomarkers of
      resistance to CDK4/6i and ET and/or to find biomarkers that add additional predictive power
      to other promising biomarkers such as TK1 by performing the following: (Metabolic, proteomic
      and lipidomic aim) XXIV. A metabolomics analysis (>5,000 metabolites sampled through
      untargeted mass spectrometry at Metabolon) of paired serum samples obtained pre-registration
      and after 2 months on palbociclib and ET.

      XXIVa. An Olink-based cytokines panel (Explore panel of 1,536 proteins) of paired serum
      samples obtained pre-registration and after 2 months on palbociclib and ET.

      XXIVb. A lipidomics analysis (platform TBC) of paired serum samples obtained pre-registration
      and after 2 months on palbociclib and ET.

      XXV. To correlate the changes in the metabolites, cytokines and lipids to the preregistration
      genomic tumor characteristics, serial Ki67 levels and PFS outcomes. (Metabolic, proteomic and
      lipidomic aim) XXVI. To assess the change in serum TK1 levels after 2 months, and at disease
      progression, on palbociclib and ET, and its association with the preregistration
      CD44high/CD24/low/ERlow cancer stem cell-like phenotype, including the following: total and
      phosphorylated AURKA, breast cancer stemness biomarkers (CD44, CD24, ALDH1) EMT transcription
      factors (SMAD5, SOX2), cyclin E, cyclin A and phosphorylated Retinoblastoma (Rb). (Other aim)
      XXVII. To examine shifts in the populations of epithelial like CTCs and stem cell like CTCs
      during the course of endocrine therapy with palbociclib. (Other aim) XXVIII. To assess CTC
      expression of ER, HER2, and other markers of endocrine resistance. (Other aim)

      OUTLINE:

      Patents undergo collection of blood and stool samples at baseline, 7 days after letrozole
      monotherapy treatment, and at completion of each cycle, urine samples at baseline and
      completion of each cycle, and saliva samples at baseline. Patients also undergo collection of
      blood and urine samples at disease progression. Biopsy samples are analyzed for genetic
      profile via genome sequencing and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing. Biopsy samples are also
      used for the generation of xenograft mice model.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up every 6 months for 7 years.
    
  