
    
      Background:

      Tuberculosis (TB) remains the most important infectious disease in the world. Keys to
      successful control of TB is rapid diagnosis, prompt treatment, as well as effective
      preventive therapy for contacts with latent TB infection (LTBI). Current methods for the
      diagnosis of LTBI are tuberculin skin test (TST) and interferon-gamma release assay (IGRA).
      For preventive therapy, the recommended regimens include daily isoniazid for 9 months and
      daily rifampicin for 4 months. By incorporating long-acting rifapentine, a new regimen
      combining weekly rifapentine and high-dose isoniazid for a total of 12 doses has been proven
      of equal potency and toxicity. However, the treatment completion rate is much higher in
      weekly treatment for 3 months than daily treatment for 9 months. It is reasonable that using
      rifapentine-based preventive therapy can markedly increase the completion rate. However,
      study is lacking, especially in Asia, the high endemic area of TB.

      With the effort of all health care workers and public health personnel, the incidence of TB
      in Taiwan has gradually declined in recent 10 years. In order to maintain the trend of
      decreasing in incidence, preventive therapy for LTBI become more and more important. However,
      which is the best preventive regimen for LTBI is still unknown. Therefore, we conduct the
      prospective randomized multicenter studies to compare the treatment completion rate of two
      regimens in Taiwan. The first regimen is daily isoniazid for 9 months. The second is weekly
      rifapentine plus high-dose isoniazid for 3 months.

      Specific Aims:

        1. Understanding which of the two preventive regimens has the highest completion rate under
           supervision.

        2. Understanding the reasons of interruption in preventive therapy.

        3. Comparing the side effect profile of the two preventive regimens in Taiwan.

      Methods:

      In this prospective multicenter study, we will enroll close contacts aged >=12 with positive
      TST. Chest radiography and sputum studies, if necessary, will be performed to exclude active
      pulmonary TB. After performing baseline IGRA, participants will be randomized into 2 groups
      with different preventive regimens. The first regimen is daily isoniazid for 9 months. The
      second is weekly rifapentine plus high-dose isoniazid for 3 months. The primary outcome is
      treatment completion rate of the two preventive regimens. The secondary outcome is toxicity.
      All participant will be followed for 2 years and screen for the development of active
      pulmonary TB by chest radiography and sputum studies if necessary. The reasons for treatment
      incompletion will be recorded.
    
  