
    
      1. Background Soft tissue sarcoma (STS) is a category of malignancy with mesenchymal
           origin, its incidence is 10-20 cases/million and accounts for 1% of all human malignant
           neoplasms. The most common STSs include undifferentiated polymorphic sarcoma/malignant
           fibrohistiocytoma (UPS/MFH), synovial sarcoma, fibrosarcoma and liposarcoma.

           The rarity of the tumor, the various subtypes and heterogeneous behavior make the
           diagnosis and treatment of sarcoma a challenge. Many patients, especially those from
           developing countries were diagnosed with a late stage disease or recurrent sarcoma being
           treated with many unplanned resections, which would impact limb function or even
           survival. Except those with unresectable diseases, surgical resection remains the
           mainstay of treatment for soft tissue sarcoma, the defined aim of surgery is R0
           resection with a good functional outcome. With development of modern strategy and
           technique, limb sparing surgery has been implied in more than 80% of cases and was
           proven to have similar local control as amputation without sacrifice of survival. The
           most common limb sparing surgeries include compartment resection and wide resection.
           Compartment resection has been gradually replaced by functional compartment resection,
           aiming at more function preservation, while so far there has been no evidence-based and
           clinically comprehensible definition of the term "wide resection". Many textbooks still
           advocate the need to obtain a 2- to 3cm surgical margin width in all directions when
           resecting a soft tissue sarcoma, but some other orthopaedic and surgical oncologists
           recommended 1cm or 5cm margin width for STS.

           Local recurrence-free interval is the major end-point in evaluating the quality of
           surgery, functional outcomes and treatment morbidities are equally important end-points.
           Five-year local recurrence-free estimations for limb and trunk wall sarcoma should be
           below 20%, and approaching 10%. Margin status is reported to be a key prognostic factor
           for local recurrence. Surgical margin width is determined mainly by the distance from
           the tumor edge to the periphery of the specimen, and should be co-assessed by surgical
           oncologist and pathologist. Different margin width of 1-5cm has been recommended for
           obtaining a safe margin, as stated above, but in a limb sparing surgery, margins
           exceeding 1 cm were obtained in only 47% of patients and it's nearly impossible to
           obtain 2 cm margins in all directions for an extremity STS. With adjuvant therapies, a
           close dissection can be adequate in order to preserve important functional structures，
           but the following questions are unanswered:1. How close is safe for STS resection? 2. Is
           a margin close to periosteum has the same oncologic result as a margin close to muscular
           membrane or subcutaneous fat? As we all know that local anatomy influences sarcoma
           growth by setting natural barriers to extension, and sarcoma might infiltrate or
           compress surrounding structures, thus, a rational resection should be designed mainly
           based on the understanding of these characteristics. Scientists investigated different
           barriers and converted them into different margin width in order to facilitate a safe
           resection. Among these efforts, a barrier resection was reported to be an option for
           recurrent extremity STSs and obtained satisfactory local control.

           Barrier resection was defined as "en bloc" removal of tumor with surrounding barriers.
           The barriers include muscular fascia, vascular adventitia, epineurium and periosteum, in
           some cases where there is no barrier, 3-5cm of healthy tissue is considered equivalent.
           Barrier resection was developed according to the above characteristics of STSs, which
           featured with the fact that sarcomas take the path of least resistance and initially
           grow within the anatomical compartment in which they arose, and the phenomenon that skip
           metastases are limited within the same anatomic compartment in which the primary lesion
           is located. Furthermore, a barrier resection can be designed preoperatively based on
           imaging studies and is easy to perform intraoperatively based on understanding of local
           anatomy, and also, it's easy for pathologists to obtain materials for margin evaluation.

           Another content of barrier resection is repair and reconstruction, which includes vessel
           replacement, dynamic restoration, supporting and wound coverage. With the assistance of
           repair and reconstruction, sacrifice of margin safety would be no longer needed and in
           some selected cases, adjuvant radiotherapy would be spared.

           Well defined "R" classification is widely implied to determine the margin status in
           STSs, in brief, R0 is microscopically negative, R1 is microscopically positive but
           macroscopically negative, R2 is macroscopically positive. The goal of resection is R0
           resection with a good functional outcome, but it's impossible to confirm margin status
           for all cut edges intraoperatively, while postoperative examination can't guide
           intraoperative manipulation. So far there has been no evidence-based and clinically
           comprehensible definition of the term "wide resection", though many guidelines
           recommended a 1cm normal tissue around tumor. Thus, our study aims at investigating the
           difference between barrier resection and 1cm margin resection, with local recurrence as
           main end-point, disease specific survival and functional outcome as secondary
           end-points.

        2. Aims First end-point: Compare the local recurrence between barrier resection and 1cm
           margin resection.

      Secondary end-point:

      Disease specific survival (DSS) Functional outcome (MSTS) Surgical complications (Grade)

      The first end-point is to compare the local recurrence between barrier resection and 1cm
      margin resection, it's designed based on the following facts:

        1. In compartment theory of Enneking, muscle is independent compartment and most recurrent
           STSs develop in the same compartment as its original site.

        2. The "R" classification of UICC categorized resection margin with margin status, but not
           margin width, most guidelines recommended 1cm margin resection and a muscle resection
           from origin to insertion was not required any more. As a result, local control for
           recurrent STSs was reported to have higher recurrent rate as compared to primary STSs.

        3. Some authors in China reported that barrier resection was effective in local control
           with acceptable extremity functional outcome.

      3. Schedule:

      From Jan. 2014 to Dec. 2018, as following:

      2014.01-2014.03: Methodology and infrastructure construction. 2014.04-2015.09: Sample
      collection, Surveillance, data gathering. 2015.10-2018.12: Followup, data analysis.

      Patients with recurrent extremity STSs are candidates of the study, preoperative CT or MRI
      should be taken for orientation. As reported previously, barrier resection was associated
      with comparable local recurrent rate as primary STSs, closing to 15% and 5% of amputation
      rate, while Eilber reported a recurrent rate and amputation rate for recurrent STSs of 18%
      and 38%, respectively.

      Muscles in trunk don't have independent compartment, thus a barrier resection is not feasible
      for patients with trunk recurrent STSs. Retroperitoneal STSs have distinctive anatomy and
      biological behavior, thus are also excluded.

      4. Randomization: Patients would be randomized as 1:1 to two groups. Randomization should be
      taken after radiological evaluation and inclusion. Patients would be stratified according to
      histologic subtypes and adjuvant therapies.

      Patients would be followed up for at least 24 months for disease status and the survival
      information will be followed up to postoperative 60 months.
    
  