
    
      Retrograde leak point pressure (RLPP) is intraoperatively evaluated, by means of retrograde
      perfusion sphinterometry, in patients scheduled to undergo RALP at our Institution, with no
      patient affected by preoperative urinary incontinence or neurological disorders.

      Retrograde Perfusion Sphincterometry (RPS) technique. With the patient under general
      anaesthesia, with a nasogastric tube and rectal tube to decompress the bowel, properly
      positioned for RALP procedure (30° of trendelemburg), a graduated fluid supporting pole is
      positioned in order that the 0 cm position resulted at the level of patient's pubis . At the
      beginning of the surgical procedure, the indwelling 16ch Foley catheter is inserted and the
      bladder fully emptied.

      The deflated Foley catheter is then retracted to mid urethra/fossa navicularis and inflated
      with 1.5 cc of Saline in order to prevent fluid extravasation from the external meatus. The
      catheter is then connected to a 500 cc of Saline perfusate bottle and the bottle is
      progressively lowered (along the fluid supporting pole) from an eight of 1 meter above the
      pubis till the fluid stops to flow. The value, in cmH2O, at which the fluid stops to flow
      into the bladder represents the RLPP.

      Six-branch autologous sling surgical technique. Briefly, after bilateral vas deferens
      harvesting at the time of bladder mobilization during RALP, the sling is prepared on scrub
      nurse table with six absorbable CT2 needle 0-Vicryl sutures (each measuring 16 cm in length),
      tight centrally together; the vas deferens are cut in 6 specimens and transfixed with the
      suture and collected centrally in order to create the bulky central part of the sling .

      Before urinary continuity restoration, the sling is introduced into the surgical field and
      its extremities are fixed bilaterally to the periosteum of the pubic branches at medial (just
      lateral to the symphysis), lateral and posterior level; the denonvilliers fascia is restored
      in a double layer fashion in order to separate the urethrovesical anastomosis from the sling.
      Upon completion of the urethrovesical anastomosis, the sling is tensioned, tightening
      together the two medial branches first, then the two lateral ones. After subjective proper
      tension is achieved, the RLPP is evaluated and the tension adjusted accordingly to pre
      surgery values.

      RLPP was respectively evaluated before pneumoperitoneum induction (RLPPb) and after
      pneumoperitoneum induction (RLPPp). RLPP was then evaluated after urethrovesical anastomosis
      (RLPPa) and during proper sling tensioning (RLPPs). The aim of sling tensioning was to obtain
      similar pressures as after pneumoperitoneum induction (RLPPs ≅RLPPp).
    
  