
    
      Self-affirmation, a process by which individuals reflect on cherished personal values is a
      potent means of augmenting the effectiveness of threatening health communications.
      Individuals tend to be defensive against information suggesting their behavior puts them at
      risk for disease or negative health. Previous evidence suggests that self-affirmation may
      reduce defensiveness to threatening health information, increasing openness to the message
      and resulting in increased disease risk perceptions, disease-related worry, intentions to
      engage in preventive behavior, and actual behavioral change. Understanding the mechanisms
      that explain these robust effects would yield evidence important for dissemination, including
      ways to refine self-affirmation interventions and make them more potent, which could change
      the ways that public health messages are constructed. Thus, we aim to elucidate potential
      mechanisms underlying the effectiveness of self-affirmation, including self-activation,
      general affirmation, and domain-specific affirmation. In study 1, female human subjects will
      be randomly assigned to one of eleven affirmation or self- activation conditions. Following
      the affirmation or activation task, subjects will read about the documented link between
      alcohol and breast cancer. Finally, they will be asked a series of questions about their
      intentions to reduce drinking, their perceived risk of breast cancer, and their worry about
      breast cancer. Study 2 will replicate study 1, but in a different behavioral domain (physical
      activity) and a different sample (both males and females who do not meet physical activity
      recommendations). Study 3 will extend Studies 1 and 2 by examining whether the most effective
      self-affirmations identified in these studies produce short-term increases in fruit and
      vegetable consumption. Drawing on previous research, we hypothesize these inductions will be
      effective to the degree that they involve a self-affirmation, but will not be effective if
      they involve only other-affirmation or self-activation.
    
  