
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine whether the addition of memantine hydrochloride to whole-brain radiotherapy
           (WBRT) preserves cognitive function, specifically memory, as measured by the Hopkins
           Verbal Learning Test for delayed recall (HVLT-delayed recall), over that of placebo and
           WBRT in patients with brain metastases at 24 weeks from the start of drug treatment.

      Secondary

        -  Determine whether the addition of memantine hydrochloride preserves cognitive function,
           specifically memory, as measured by the HVLT-delayed recall at 8 weeks, 16 weeks, and 12
           months from the start of drug treatment.

        -  Determine whether the addition of memantine hydrochloride increases time to
           neurocognitive failure as measured by cognitive decline on a battery of tests including
           the HVLT for free recall, delayed recall, and delayed recognition; the Controlled Word
           Association Test (COWAT); the Trail Making Test Parts A and B (TMT); the Medical
           Outcomes Scale-Cognitive Functioning Subscale (MOS); and the Mini-Mental Status
           Examination (MMSE).

        -  Evaluate the potential benefit of memantine hydrochloride in change and overall quality
           of life, as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-Br)
           subscale.

        -  Determine whether the addition of memantine hydrochloride increases progression-free
           survival.

        -  Determine whether the addition of memantine hydrochloride increases overall survival.

        -  Compare adverse events between the treatment arms according to the CTCAE v3.0 criteria.

        -  Collect serum, plasma, buffy coat cells, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for future
           translational research analyses.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to recursive
      partitioning analysis (RPA) prognostic class (class I vs class II with controlled systemic
      disease) and prior surgical therapy (none vs radiosurgery or surgical resection). Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) 5 days a week for 3 weeks (15
           fractions). Patients also receive oral memantine hydrochloride once daily beginning on
           day 1 of WBRT and continuing for 24 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo WBRT as in arm I. Patients also receive oral placebo once daily
           beginning on day 1 of WBRT and continuing for 24 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6 months, every 4 months for 1
      year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  