
    
      Nutritional supplements have been shown to improve energy, protein, micronutrients intake,
      maintain or improve nutritional status in hospitalized malnourished elderly patients.
      However, its use in the elderly post-hospitalization is unknown, particularly in the local
      setting. This randomized controlled trial aims to investigate if provision of short term
      nutritional supplements to elderly malnourished patients after discharge from hospital
      improves nutritional status parameters. In addition, the impact of nutritional supplements on
      functional status, clinical outcome in terms of hospital readmission, number of visits to
      general practitioner/polyclinic and the acceptability of nutritional supplement in elderly
      are also examined. In this study, malnourished elderly subjects >65 years old identified by
      Malnutrition Universal Screening Tool from geriatric ward 63C will be recruited within 24 to
      48 hours before discharge. They will be randomized into either intervention or control group.
      Subjects in the intervention group will receive nutritional supplements of 600 to 900 kcal as
      part of regular diet. As for the control group, these similar calories will be recommended
      from food fortification, as part of the standard care during diet counseling, to come from
      food. Both group subjects receive individualised assessment by the Dietitian. At baseline,
      nutritional status parameters such as weight, height, body mass index, skinfold thickness,
      handgrip strength, albumin and functional status will be measured. Subjects are then followed
      up at outpatient dietitian clinic 4 and 12 weeks from hospital discharge. Albumin test will
      be repeated at week 4 and week 12. They will keep a three-day food record end of week 1, week
      4 and week 12 in order to assess their food and nutritional supplements intake. Compliance
      will be monitored from food diaries and interview. At the end of week 12, the same
      nutritional parameters will be re-evaluated for both groups. In addition, the number of
      hospital admissions, visits to the general practitioner/polyclinic and the acceptability of
      nutritional supplements will be determined. The results from this study will guide future
      nutritional interventions for the malnourished elderly post-hospital discharge.
    
  