
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Modern treatments for cardiovascular disease that enhance survival have increased the need to
      understand and improve corresponding aspects of quality of life. The increasing interest in
      prevention and health promotion in contemporary cardiovascular care emphasizes reducing risk
      factors that have major behavioral components, such as smoking, diet, and exercise. Personal
      and social resources and psychological coping strategies are associated with quality of life
      both directly and indirectly, through such positive health behaviors. Findings from this
      research provided an essential foundation for continued investigation focusing on longer-term
      changes in health status and quality of life in a planned ten-year follow-up with the present
      sample.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study developed and tested an integrative prospective structural equation model of the
      interrelationships among social resources, coping strategies, positive health behaviors, and
      quality of life in cardiovascular disease over a four-year time-period. It also contrasted
      predictive findings relating to cardiac illness, stroke, and hypertension with predictive
      findings from matched-control groups of healthy individuals and individuals with very serious
      (cancer) and moderately serious (arthritis) noncardiovascular disease.

      The research involved secondary data analysis with a large sample of individuals surveyed
      through the Center for Health Care Evaluation at the Stanford University Medical School. The
      sample included individuals between the ages of 55 and 65 who had used medical services in
      two large medical centers. Extensive psychosocial and physical health data were available
      from mail-out inventories at three points in time over a four- year period. Of eligible
      respondents contacts, 92 percent agreed to participate in the initial survey, and 89 percent
      (1884) of them provided complete data. Participation in one-year and four-year follow-ups
      approached 90 percent of surviving respondents from the previous survey. At the initial
      testing, 411 respondents (22 percent) reported diagnosed cardiac illness (excluding stroke
      and hypertension), 83 respondents (5 percent) reported diagnosed strokes, and 593 respondents
      (31 percent) reported diagnosed hypertension.

      The data base at all three measurement times included extensive information on the quality of
      life, positive health behaviors, personal and social resources, and coping strategies.
      Computerized hospital medical records were available for one-third of the sample, and were
      used to evaluate the reliability of subjects' self-reports of medical conditions and health
      status. Group comparisons were made on two dimensions: illness type and post-illness time
      interval. Longitudinal analyses were used to examine causal influences on positive health
      behaviors and quality of life, and to develop and test an integrative predictive model.
    
  