
    
      The primary objective of this registry is to create a database of patients who present with
      acute cardiovascular and are found to be COVID -19 positive (by PCR). The registry will
      consist of four arms (1) Retrospective data for all patients since the COVID-19 appear in
      Qatar unit the date of submission the protocol (2) Prospective data starting from the date of
      submission of this protocol and forward until end of December 2020 (3) Retrospective data for
      all cardiac patients hospitalizations in the COVID period of this year 2020 will be compared
      to previous years to report the trends of acute cardiovascular conditions in the COVID era to
      previous data, as a lot of countries documented decrease in the incidence. (4) retrospective
      data for acute MI and found to be COVID-19 until this protocol amendment from participating
      hospitals in the Gulf region to be compared with Acute MI from Qatar who collected in arm 1.
      The registry will consist of patients admitted with AMI who were already having active
      COVID-19 infection or were incidentally found to have COVID-19 by PCR. Additionally,
      prospective data from the data of this protocol amendment until the end of December 2020.
      This arm target to (a) increases the number of the collected patient for Acute MI with
      COVID-19category due to the small number in Qatar alone. (b) give the opportunity for Qatar
      to lead a multicenter project to serve in a hot topic, in particular, the data collection and
      analysis will be in Qatar. (c) allow releasing a publication for one cardiovascular center
      (Qatar only) and multi-cardiovascular center (all the Gulf), a multi-center publication about
      this issue could be rare on the worldwide level, and finally, (d) to increase the accuracy of
      the data analysis due to larger data size and comparing more than one site together.

      Secondary plan to compare our patients' populations and outcomes with that of other
      international registries such as the NACMI(US registry). The NACMI registry is a rapid
      collaboration of multinational societies and medical institutions with a pragmatic study
      design to encourage widespread participation that will enable the development of data-driven
      guidelines and therapies.

      The subject will be patients with confirmed or suspected COVID -19 infection with the acute
      cardiovascular conditions at the time of presentation to the hospital or that developed while
      in the hospital. All the history, laboratory results, current admission data, medication,
      angiogram, or intervention procedure (if underwent), and any other relevant data will be
      collected. All the patients who are applicable for this registry and meet the inclusion
      criteria will be involved so the final number of the subject is not specified. All patients
      with the acute coronary syndrome, out of hospital cardiac arrest and arrhythmias who are
      found to be COVID positive and required hospitalization will be included.

      The following data variables will be collected as covariates of interest: baseline
      demographic and clinical characteristics, laboratory data, and pattern of ST-segment
      elevation (diffuse, focal, with or without ST-segment depression and/or PR -segment
      depression) transthoracic echocardiography or point-of-care ultrasound findings, commonly
      used time to treatment metrics in STEMI care (door -to -balloon or door -to -needle times),
      angiographic characteristics, and adjunctive pharmacological and device therapies including
      mechanical circulatory support (MCS ).

      Implications for COVID -19 positive patients Observational registries have gained traction in
      cardiovascular medicine as they provide important information, including benefits and
      potential complications of different treatments or procedures. [12] For example, consecutive
      enrollment of patients with well -defined entry criteria in the Chest pain -MI Registry has
      been a reliable source for outcome-based, a quality improvement on high -risk STEMI/NSTEMI
      patients. [13] Immediate access to actionable data is particularly relevant to the current
      expanding COVID -19 pandemic which is disproportionally affecting cardiovascular patients and
      healthcare workers. [14] At present, there is no data-driven consensus on the management of
      patients with confirmed or suspected COVID -19 infection who present with ST-segment
      elevation on ECG. [11,15,16] The NACMI registry will be beneficial in identifying etiology,
      patterns of myocardial injury, developing a risk model for cardiac complications,
      understanding short and long -term major adverse cardiac events, and designing clinical
      trials testing different treatment modalities. Therefore, the registry will include both
      COVID -19 positive patients and PUI with acute cardiovascular conditions. A comparison of PUI
      subsequently confirmed positive to those subsequently confirmed negative will provide a
      unique insight into the pathophysiologic mechanism of STEMI from COVID -19, including
      myocarditis and prothrombotic states. Comparison of patients enrolled in NACMI to
      propensity-matched non -COVID STEMI controls for 1 year prior will provide critical
      information regarding etiology, treatment strategies and clinical outcomes in the COVID -19
      pandemic. As testing for COVID -19 becomes more rapid, this decision -making process is
      expected to evolve. Additionally, it has been reported that overall STEMI volumes have
      decreased in the COVID -19 era, without a clear understanding of the reasons. [17,18] It may
      be that patients are delaying their presentation to the hospital, potentially leading to the
      need for mechanical circulatory support in the acute setting, mechanical complications of
      STEMI, sudden death or an increased heart failure population. Additionally, if patients are
      presenting later in their clinical course, NACMI registry data will allow practitioners to
      improve care models to improve time to treatment in this unique era.
    
  