
    
      Today 90 percent of terminations of pregnancy are medical abortions. Approximately 33 000
      medical abortions are performed in Sweden each year and 20-30 percent of these women opt for
      IUC as post abortion contraception. Thus, the results of this study potentially affect at
      least 6600-9900 women every year in Sweden alone. A disadvantage with medical abortion
      compared with surgical abortion is the standard practice of delayed insertion of IUC. It has
      been shown that 42 percent of women scheduled for delayed insertion after surgical abortion
      did not return for the follow up and IUC insertion.(5) This problem is common also in medical
      abortion practice. Immediate insertion could lead to insertion rates close to 100 percent.
      However, this practice has not been studied for medical abortion.

      The background for this trial is the belief that a higher rate of insertion of IUC, perhaps
      close to 100 percent, within 48 hours after medical abortion, can compensate more than well
      for a potentially higher rate of expulsion at immediate insertion. A clinically significant
      difference in IUC use at six months following the medical abortion of at least 20 percent is
      expected.

      This large multicenter, randomized, patient centered clinical trial will investigate the
      effectiveness, feasibility, continued use, safety and acceptability of immediate insertion of
      intrauterine contraception within 0-48 hours after a completed medical abortion when compared
      to delayed IUC insertion at 2-4 weeks post abortion which is current practice.

      Aim To study use, safety and patient acceptability of intrauterine contraception after
      immediate insertion compared with standard insertion 2-4 weeks post medical abortion at 3, 6
      and 12 months post abortion.

      Drug:

      Mirena速 (LNG-IUS 52mg), Kyleena速 (LNG-IUS 19.5mg), Jaydess速 (LNG-IUS 13.5 mg), NovaT速
      (Cu-IUD, medical device, but due to use outside indication it is included in this
      application)

      Design:

      Open label, randomized, controlled, multicenter study. Phase III (therapeutic confirming).

      Primary objective:

      To study if immediate insertion of intrauterine contraception is superior to insertion at 2-4
      weeks post abortion with regard to number of women using IUC as contraception at 6 months
      post abortion.

      Variable:

      The proportion of women in each group (immediate or delayed) using IUC as contraception at 6
      months post abortion (use vs non-use).

      Secondary objectives:

      To study if immediate insertion of intrauterine contraception is non-inferior to delayed
      insertion with regard to safety and acceptability.
    
  