
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in
      Canada. In addition to lung impairment, secondary effects of the disease are well established
      including impairments in muscle function and exercise capacity. However, individuals with
      COPD also have marked deficits in balance and an increased risk of falls with a 3-5 times
      higher annual fall rate than those of similar age. The underlying mechanisms remain unclear,
      but several factors have been implicated including decreased physical activity, muscle
      weakness, altered trunk mechanics, comorbidities, hypoxemia and proprioceptive deficits.
      Given this unique impairment profile, tailored approaches to balance training and fall
      prevention are needed in COPD.

      Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is an integral therapeutic intervention for individuals with
      COPD. The program typically consists of supervised exercise, disease-specific education, and
      psychological and social support. Balance training and fall prevention strategies are not
      currently included in international guidelines for PR and few programs include any balance
      assessment. We have previously shown that the exercise component of traditional PR has
      minimal effect on measures of balance and fall risk. We then conducted an RCT to examine the
      effects of balance training alongside PR, which specifically addressed the profile of balance
      deficits we had identified in COPD. Tailored balance training alongside PR results in
      clinically important improvements in balance performance compared to PR alone. Given these
      results, we now have the opportunity to build on our existing experience to test the effect
      of the intervention on falls.

      The purpose of this study is to establish the efficacy of a tailored balance exercise program
      for reducing falls in individuals with COPD enrolled in PR. If participation in tailored
      balance training decreases falls compared to usual PR, this approach will represent an
      innovative and potential cost-saving strategy to prevent falls and reduce associated
      healthcare utilization in COPD. Our results will be relevant for guiding clinical and
      policy-based decision making, given the large population of individuals with COPD and the
      potential for severe consequences of falls in this population.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the long-term effects of tailored balance
      exercise on the rate of falls in individuals with COPD enrolled in PR. Secondary objectives
      are to determine 1) the long-term effects of the program on measures of balance, balance
      confidence and muscle strength; and 2) the cost-utility of the program.
    
  