
    
      Background: Excessive alcohol and other substance use often begin in adolescence and
      contribute extensively to the development of non-communicable diseases and lifelong
      morbidity/mortality. In Switzerland, the prevalence of binge drinking (the most common mode
      of alcohol excess in adolescence) and other excessive substance use in young people is high,
      both in the general and in the primary care population. Since most young people visit a
      primary care physician at least once in any year, primary care offers an ideal context to
      individualize the preventive messages delivered in the community to favor behavior change.

      Primary care physicians are encouraged to screen and provide brief interventions addressing
      excessive alcohol and other substance use in young people, but a range of barriers such as
      time constraints and insufficient training limit the implementation of these recommendations.
      Finding new ways of building on the potential of primary care whilst addressing these
      barriers is essential.

      Several recent trials of brief primary care interventions showed substantial reductions (20%
      to 30%) in the proportion of participants who were excessive substance users at follow-up but
      no statistically significant differences between the intervention and control groups. Key
      authors have hypothesized that this could be due to assessment reactivity, i.e. when
      pre-intervention assessment itself encourages behavior change and thus serves as an
      intervention. Indeed, screening in the clinical context could act as an intervention and be
      as effective as a brief intervention within the consultation. To date this hypothesis has not
      been explored for young people attending primary care.

      Methods: One of our previous trials (PRISM-Ado), and a pilot trial conducted in 2018, inform
      the methods of this parallel-group randomized controlled trial in primary care. Advisory
      panels of primary care physicians and young people contributed to the development of this
      protocol. Recruitment will take place in primary care practices in the French-speaking part
      of Switzerland. Young people between the ages of 14 and 24 years consulting for any health
      problem will be eligible. 606 young people will be included and randomized to complete two
      different types of confidential pre-consultation screening surveys: one focusing on the
      assessment of binge drinking and other substance use (intervention group) and the other on
      physical activity (control group). Both surveys will include identical additional
      socio-demographic and health-related questions. The primary care physicians will not
      automatically have access to the answers provided in the surveys and participants will be
      free to decide if they wish to disclose them to their physician during the consultation.
      Follow-up phone interviews will take place at 3, 6 and 12 months. They will be identical for
      all participants and include all questions from the intervention and control questionnaires.
      The main outcome at 3 months follow-up will be the proportion of patients reporting binge
      drinking (≥1 episode) in the past 30 days. Secondary outcomes will include the proportion of
      young people reporting smoking (≥ 1 cigarette a day), electronic cigarette use (≥ once a day)
      and/or excessive cannabis use (≥1 joint/week) in the past 30 days. Analysis will be by
      intention to treat and will take into account clustering of participants within practices.

      Expected value of the proposed trial: If our intervention proves effective, it will offer a
      simple, widely expandable method to encourage behavior change in young people consulting in
      primary care, thus contributing to a much-needed reduction in the burden of non-communicable
      diseases in the future. In addition, by providing a quantification of the effect of
      assessment reactivity per se, our study will provide key information for the design of future
      trials of interventions addressing substance use in young people attending primary care.
    
  