
    
      1. Study design and general procedures

      200 RVVC patients will be selected according to the above eligibility criteria form the
      Second Affiliated Hospital of WMU during December 2019 to March 2022. Women will be informed
      about the study protocol, procedures, investigational product and potential risks of
      treatment. After 200 RVVC patients were cured (mycological cured) by traditional intensive
      antifungal drug treatment, they will be randomly divided into control group (n=100) and
      experimental group (n=100). The control group continued to receive one course of Clotrimazole
      vaginal tablets for consolidation therapy once a month for 6 months, and the experimental
      group will be given the fractional CO2 laser therapy once a month for 3 months. In the same
      period, 5 healthy women of childbearing age will be recruited as the normal control group,
      and the normal control group do not receive any treatments.

      2.Treatment

      2.1 Intensive treatment: Clotrimazole tablets 500mg PV biw Q3d, with or without injector, the
      tablets are placed deep in the vagina for 2 weeks.

      2.2 Consolidation treatment

      2.2.1 Control group: Clotrimazole tablets 500mg PV biw q3d in consolidation therapy, with or
      without injector, the tablets are placed deep in the vagina once a month for 6 months.
      Treatment is prohibited during the menstrual period.

      2.2.2 Experimental group: The fractional CO2 laser therapeutic machine will be used with
      wavelength 10.6 μ m, output power 40 w, action time 2000 μ s, lattice spacing 700 ~ 1000 μ m,
      gradually retreated from the vagina to the vaginal orifice according to the 5mm distance, and
      irradiated the vagina at 360 °once a month for 3 consecutive months as a course of treatment.
      Treatment is prohibited during menstrual period.

      3. Sample collection and detection

      3.1 Collection: Vaginal secretion samples will be collected from patients with RVVC before
      and after intensive therapy, at the end of consolidation therapy, and at 3, 6 and 12 months
      after consolidation therapy. The vaginal secretions samples of 5 volunteers will be collected
      when signing the informed consent. After emptying the urine, the participants take the
      lithotomy position in the gynecological examination bed, fully exposed the vulva and
      perineum. The gynecologists expose the cervix with a disposable vaginal dilator, collect the
      vaginal posterior fornix secretion with two disposable vaginal aseptic cotton swabs. Then the
      investigators send one sample to the Second Affiliated Hospital of WMU for vaginal discharge
      laboratory examination, put another sample into the 1.5ml cryopreservation tube and seal it
      in a liquid nitrogen tank at -80 ℃. These samples will be submitted to Shanghai Pudong
      Decoding Life Institutes for vaginal flora structure detection within 3 months.

      3.2 Vaginal discharge laboratory examination: The Second Affiliated Hospital of WMU will take
      up the laboratory examination, including vaginal cleanliness, pH value of vagina, vaginal
      microbiological conditions. The use of a microscope to examine vaginal secretions wet smears
      and staining smears to observe their cleanliness and the presence of special bacteria and
      cells to confirm vaginal cleanliness and vaginal microbiological conditions. Vaginal pH value
      will be determined by the precise pH test paper method.

      4. Follow-up visit: The investigatorswill take follow-up visit with RVVC patients at 3,6 and
      12 months after consolidation therapy, and vaginal secretions samples will be collected for
      fungal culture to compare the vaginal microecological environment, evaluate clinical cure
      rate and recurrences of infection. Besides, the investigators will carry out targeted
      treatment for recurrent patients and again collect vaginal secretions sample to detect and
      analyze the species abundance and structure of vaginal flora.

      5.Data analysis: ①By comparing the vaginal microecological environment (vaginal cleanliness,
      pH value of vagina, vaginal microbiological conditions and vaginal flora structure) between
      the normal control group (n=5) and 200 RVVC patients before the intensive therapy, the
      investigators will verify the vaginal microecological environment of RVVC patients has
      changed, and find out the difference between healthy women and RVVC patients. ②By comparing
      the vaginal microecological environment between control group (n=100) and experimental group
      (n=100) in different period (before and after intensive therapy, at the end of consolidation
      therapy, and at 3, 6 and 12 months after consolidation therapy), the investigators will find
      out the change of vaginal microecological environment in all treatment and development stages
      of RVVC, verify whether the fractional CO2 laser could restore the normal pH value of vagina,
      improve vaginal microecological environment, restore the proportion of vaginal flora or not.
      ③By comparing the cure rate and recurrence rate of VVC between control group (n=100) and
      experimental group (n=100) at 3, 6 and 12 months after consolidation therapy, the
      investigators can draw which treatment effect is better between fractional CO2 laser
      consolidation therapy and traditional antifungal consolidation therapy for RVVC.
    
  