
    
      A mixed-method evaluation of The Faithful House is proposed. In the main, we will conduct a
      randomized control trial of the education program to determine treatment effect. We will also
      conduct semi-structured interviews and focus groups with stakeholders. This more qualitative
      work will be done in order to refine our program and evaluation and to assess the fidelity of
      the intervention and assess and unintended consequences. Informed consent will be sought from
      all prospective participants.

      The source population is families that receive HIV care from Arusha Lutheran Medical Centre
      and Selian Hospital. Participation and related compliance is enhanced because subjects come
      to the hospital for HIV treatment. Couples with children ages 10 to 17 years will be
      recruited to participate in a Faithful House workshop and study by hospital volunteers. All
      patients attending the clinic during the recruiting period will be screened based on
      eligibility criteria. The list of patients screened will be checked against the clinic
      register to verify that all potential participants were screened and all eligible respondents
      were invited to participate in the workshop and study.

      The list of recruited couples will be randomized to receive the intervention or to serve as
      the control arm. The control arm will be offered the intervention at the conclusion of the
      study. The goal is to have N=150 couples in the treatment arm and N=150 couples in the
      control arm. The rationale for the sample size is twofold. First, given the estimated
      variances from surveillance studies the sample size permits the estimates of small to
      moderate effect sizes at 80% power and 5% Type I error. In simple terms, the proposed
      evaluation is strongly powered to detect politically and clinically meaningful effects.
      Second, given time, budget, and patient flow characteristics, 300 couples is near the maximum
      of our capacity. Baseline measures will be taken via survey on all participants in a clinical
      setting about one month prior to beginning the education program. Post program measures will
      be taken in a clinical setting three months after the intervention is complete. A
      context-based pretest and post-test will be administered to only those in the treatment group
      on the first and last day of the intervention.

      Gender and age specific surveys will be used to interview men, women and children and
      questions on self-reported violence will be included in women and children's questionnaires.
      Answers to questions on violence will be collected using non-verbal response cards to protect
      confidentiality and to assure respondents that enumerators will not know their responses.

      Analyses will focus mainly on difference in estimates for the primary outcome measures of the
      self reported incidence by mothers and children (10-17) of acts of violence against women and
      children including child-witnessed violence in the past three months before the intervention
      and three months post intervention. Sub-group analysis by gender will be conducted. We will
      look at within group difference and between group differences. Retention will be assessed by
      comparing results from the pretest and post-test given on the first and last day of the
      intervention.

      Secondary analyses on secondary outcomes such as parental attitudes toward violence and abuse
      and changes in intimate partner violence. We will examine the hypothesized theoretical links
      (e.g., mediation) between observed outcomes and program characteristics. A two-sample t-test
      will be used to look for differences in incidence of violence between the intervention and
      control groups. Multiple regression will be used to identify and examine predictor variables.

      All data will be collected using electronic pads that contain self-checking logic within the
      questionnaire. Should missing data exceed 10%; multiple imputation procedures will be
      employed. However, our experience in similar studies is that imputation was not required
      because our fielding processes led to very high completions in the field.

      Study instruments will include before focus group discussions (FGD) prior to the
      intervention, baseline, before and after workshop tests, three-month follow-up interviews,
      and post analysis FGD. Where possible, questions from other family and child violence studies
      will be utilized to allow for inter-study comparisons, especially focusing on evaluation
      studies of other The Faith House education programs and on the Violence Against Children in
      Tanzania National Survey conducted in 2009. All differences will be reported at a p <0.05.
      Data analysis will be completed using Stata v12. Importantly, we will also conduct a
      qualitative comparison of our outcome measures with published surveillance estimates in order
      to learn more about our source population and the potential impact of our program on the area
      if scaled up. As mentioned above, we will conduct interview and focus groups to improve
      program development, assess the fidelity of the implementation, and potential unintended
      consequences. Indeed, on-going study results will be monitored and a priori stopping rules
      assessed.
    
  