
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial to compare clinical outcomes between advanced cancer
      patients receiving and not receiving care from the SPARKLE care model, in addition to current
      oncologic-led palliative care model. The hypothesis is that the SPARKLE care model results in
      a) improved quality of life of both advanced cancer patients and their caregivers, and b)
      reduced acute healthcare utilization and costs by these patients.

      Primary Study Aim: To determine the incremental effect of SPARKLE in addition to usual
      oncologist-led care on quality of life of advanced cancer patients. Patients' quality of life
      will be measured at baseline before randomization and 16 weeks after randomization using the
      Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G).

      Secondary Study Aim 1: To determine the incremental effect of SPARKLE in addition to usual
      oncologist-led care on caregivers' quality of life. Caregiver quality of life will be
      measured at baseline before randomization and 16 weeks after randomization using the
      Singapore Caregiver Quality of Life Scale (SCQOLS), which was validated among caregivers of
      advanced cancer patients in Singapore.17 The PI was part of the team, led by the applicant's
      mentor, that developed the SCQOLS.

      Secondary Study Aim 2: To determine the effect of SPARKLE in addition to usual oncologist-led
      care on healthcare utilization and total healthcare costs, including the costs of delivering
      SPARKLE, from randomization until death. Healthcare utilization and cost data will be
      extracted from medical and billing data. SPARKLE costs will be captured prospectively using
      an Activity Based Costing Approach. The study hypothesis is that per capita healthcare costs
      will be lower in the SPARKLE model due to fewer admissions and shorter hospital lengths of
      stay when admitted.

      A prospective randomized controlled trial design will be used to test the effectiveness of
      the SPARKLE model. The recruitment target is 240 patients with advanced cancers, defined as
      stage 4 solid tumors including lung, colorectal, nasopharyngeal and pancreatic cancers.
      Eligible participants are randomized to usual care or SPARKLE intervention group using
      randomized permuted blocks method generated by an independent statistician, with block size
      kept unknown to the clinical investigators/site personnel. A total of 240 caregivers will be
      recruited.

      The study will take place in the National Cancer Centre of Singapore (NCCS).
    
  