
    
      Myelodisplastic Syndromes (MDS) are a heterogeneous group of diseases characterized by
      ineffective hematopoiesis (as a result of increased apoptosis of precursor cells),
      progressive peripheral cytopenia, with a tendency to evolve to acute leukemia.

      The term "syndrome" represents the wide clinical spectrum of this group of diseases, ranging
      from mild and stable cytopenia, with a low risk of leukemic conversion and a life expectancy
      of several years, to true pre-leukemia.

      The International MDS Risk Analysis Workshop recently developed a consensus risk-based
      International Prognostic Score System (IPSS) for primary MDS, which has markedly improved
      prognostic stratification of MDS patients. Following IPSS,it is now possible to identify
      patients (i.e. Hig-Risk and Intermediate-2-Risk patients) with a bad prognosis (i.e. a
      life-expectancy < 1 year) due to a high risk of leukemic evolution.

      Currently, allogeneic stem cell transplantation represents the only curative therapy for this
      subgroup of high-risk patients. However, this therapeutic option is often precluded for
      several reasons (old age, comorbidity, lack of suitable donor).

      Among the experimental treatments hitherto tested, 5-Azacitidine (5-Aza) has recently shown
      promising results. Moreover, the biological experimental data suggest that the association of
      5-Aza with histone deacetylase inhibitors, such as Valproic Acid, and with differentiating
      agents, such as retinoic acid, might be synergistic.

      Azacitidine (Aza C), a pyrimidine nucleoside analog, was developed as an antitumor agent. In
      addition to cytotoxic effects, it induces differentiation of malignant cells in vitro. Aza C
      inhibits DNA methyltransferase, the enzyme in mammalian cells responsible for methylating
      newly synthesized DNA, resulting in synthesis of hypomethylated DNA and changes in gene
      transcription and expression. The mechanism by which Aza C produces its effects is most
      likely multifactorial. Aza C can produce significant myelosuppression, particularly at higher
      doses. Aza C could also be acting as a biologic response modifier. The response of
      hematopoietic progenitors to cytokines is impaired in patients with MDS. This may be
      attributable in part to abnormalities of the signal transduction pathway downstream from the
      cytokine receptors. In vitro data suggest that Aza-C can modulate the cytokine signal
      transduction pathway, rendering sensitive unresponsive cells to the effects of cytokines,
      partially restoring normal hematopoietic regulation. Incorporation of Aza-C into DNA inhibits
      DNA methyltransferase and induces DNA hypomethylation. 5-Azacytidine and
      5-Aza-2_-deoxycytidine (decitabine), 2 potent inhibitors of cytosine methylation, have shown
      strong antileukemic activity in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In addition, both induce
      trilineage responses in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) at dose levels allowing for
      outpatient management, with moderate myelotoxicity and no significant nonhematologic
      toxicity.

      Azacytidine is the only drug approved by FDA for the treatment of MDS. The median survival
      for patients with MDS and a Intermediate/high IPSS score, treated with conventional care
      regimens, is assumed to be 11 months. Patients treated with Azacytidine in the CALGB 9221
      trial had a median survival of 18 months. Responses occurred in 60% of patients on the Aza C
      arm (7% complete response, 16% partial response, 37% improved) compared with 5% (improved)
      receiving supportive care (P <.001). Median time to leukemic transformation or death was 21
      months for Aza C versus 13 months for supportive care (P =.007). Transformation to acute
      myelogenous leukemia occurred as the first event in 15% of patients on the Aza C arm and in
      38% receiving supportive care (P =.001). Furthermore, Aza-C improved quality of life,
      compared to supportive care.

      The opposing actions of histone acetyltransferases (HATs) and histone deacetylases (HDACs)
      allow gene expression to be exquisitely regulated through chromatin remodelling. Aberrant
      transcription due to altered expression or mutation of genes that encode HATs, HDACs or their
      binding partners, is a key event in the onset and progression of cancer. HDAC inhibitors can
      reactivate gene expression and inhibit the growth and survival of tumour cells. The
      remarkable tumour specificity of these compounds, and their potency in vitro and in vivo,
      underscore the potential of HDAC inhibitors as exciting new agents for the treatment of
      cancer. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors have been shown to be potent inducers of growth
      arrest, differentiation, and/or apoptotic cell death of transformed cells in vitro and in
      vivo. One class of HDAC inhibitors, hydroxamic acid-based hybrid polar compounds (HPCs),
      induce differentiation at micromolar or lower concentrations. Studies (x-ray
      crystallographic) showed that the catalytic site of HDAC has a tubular structure with a zinc
      atom at its base and that these HDAC inhibitors, such as suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid
      (SAHA) and trichostatin A, fit into this structure with the hydroxamic moiety of the
      inhibitor binding to the zinc. HDAC inhibitors cause acetylated histones to accumulate in
      both tumor and normal tissues, and this accumulation can be used as a marker of the biologic
      activity of the HDAC inhibitors. Hydroxamic acid-based HPCs act selectively to inhibit tumor
      cell growth at levels that have little or no toxicity for normal cells. These compounds also
      act selectively on gene expression, altering the expression of only about 2% of the genes
      expressed in cultured tumor cells. In general, chromatin fractions enriched in actively
      transcribed genes are also enriched in highly acetylated core histones, whereas silent genes
      are associated with nucleosomes with a low level of acetylation. However, HDACs can also
      acetylate proteins other than histones in nucleosomes. The role that these other targets play
      in the induction of cell growth arrest, differentiation, and/or apoptotic cell death has not
      been determined. Our working hypothesis is that inhibition of HDAC activity leads to the
      modulation of expression of a specific set of genes, which control has been disrupted by
      ectopic expression of EVI1 or similar oncogene, that, in turn, result in growth arrest,
      differentiation, and/or apoptotic cell death. The hydroxamic acid-based HPCs are potentially
      effective agents for cancer therapy and, possibly, cancer chemoprevention.

      Valproic acid Valproic acid (VPA, 2-propylpentanoic acid) is an established drug in the
      long-term therapy of epilepsy. During the past years, it has become evident that VPA is also
      associated with anti-cancer activity. VPA not only suppresses tumor growth and metastasis,
      but also induces tumor differentiation in vitro and in vivo. Several modes of action might be
      relevant for the biological activity of VPA: (1) VPA increases the DNA binding of activating
      protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor, and the expression of genes regulated by the
      extracellular-regulated kinase (ERK)-AP-1 pathway; (2) VPA downregulates protein kinase C
      (PKC) activity; (3) VPA inhibits glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta), a negative
      regulator of the Wnt signaling pathway; (4) VPA activates the peroxisome
      proliferator-activated receptors PPARgamma and dagger (Rif. 25); (5) VPA blocks HDAC (histone
      deacetylase), causing hyperacetylation. The findings elucidate an important role of VPA for
      cancer therapy. VPA might also be useful as low toxicity agent given over long time periods
      for chemo prevention and/or for control of residual minimal disease. Authors show that the
      well-tolerated antiepileptic drug valproic acid is a powerful HDAC inhibitor. Valproic acid
      relieves HDAC-dependent transcriptional repression and causes hyperacetylation of histones in
      cultured cells and in vivo. Valproic acid inhibits HDAC activity in vitro, most probably by
      binding to the catalytic center of HDACs. Most importantly, valproic acid induces
      differentiation of carcinoma cells, transformed hematopoietic progenitor cells and leukemic
      blasts from acute myeloid leukemia patients. More over, tumor growth and metastasis formation
      are significantly reduced in animal experiments. Therefore, valproic acid might serve as an
      effective drug for cancer therapy. These findings constitute a "proof of concept" to use
      valproic acid for the therapy of acute leukemia and myelodisplastic syndrome.

      ATRA

      Retinoids have been shown to have a major role in the treatment of APL. There is also in
      vitro evidence that primary blast cells from FAB groups other than M3 can demonstrate
      phenotypic evidence of maturation when exposed to retinoid with or without other agents.
      Additional relevant information on AML/MDS comes from a number of sources:

      (I) The addition of retinoid increases the sensitivity of AML blasts to Ara C in vitro.

      (II) BCL 2 protein is over-expressed in a proportion of AML cases. There is some evidence
      that this correlates with treatment response and survival and, since chemotherapy results in
      apoptotic cell death, this may constitute a mechanism of chemo-resistance. Retinoids down
      regulate BCL 2 expression AML blasts in vitro. The increased sensitivity of AML blasts to
      chemotherapy mentioned above, mediated by retinoid, is due to shortening of the BCL 2
      half-life.

      (III) In a pilot study by Tallman et al, 39 high risk patients with a median age of 65 years,
      most of whom (n=25) had failed to respond to chemotherapy, were treated with ATRA (150 mg/m2)
      and LD Ara C. Forty-two percent of patients achieved a CR (25%) or PR (17%) and a further 17%
      had stable disease.

      (IV) In a recent study from M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, 170 patients with a median
      age of 66 years with AML or high risk MDS were randomized to receive FAI (fludarabine, Ara C
      and idarubicin) alone, or FAI combined with either G CSF or ATRA or both. The overall 6 month
      survival was 49%. In a comparison of ATRA-treated versus ATRA-non-treated patients, there was
      a more favourable outcome in recipients of retinoids, with CR rates of 56% vs 42%
      respectively (p=0.06) and superior 6 month survival and event free survival (both p=0.02) but
      no long-term benefit was demonstrable. In this study the exposure to retinoid was relatively
      short, namely from day -2 to day +8 of chemotherapy (Rif. 30).

      (V) In a recent study from Dusseldorf, 18 patients with MDS and AML secondary to MDS were
      treated with Valproic Acid (VPA) alone, and 5 patients received a combination of VPA and
      ATRA. A favourable response was observed in 44% of the patients treated with VPA alone, with
      a median response duration of 4 (3-9) months. Four of the five patients who subsequently
      relapsed were treated with VPA + ATRA, two of them responding again. The Authors hypotize
      that pre-treatment with VPA might be necessary for a synergistic effect of both drugs.

      The above evidence suggests that retinoids may be a useful biological response modifier (when
      combined with chemotherapy and/or VPA) with little or no additional toxicity. Their role will
      therefore be examined in this trial, in association with 5-Azacytidine and Valproic Acid.
    
  