
    
      Acute ischemic stroke (AIS) is a leading cause of adult mortality and morbidity in the United
      States, affecting over 800,000 individuals, annually, leaving many with permanent disability.
      Furthermore, hundreds of thousands of Americans experience a transient ischemic attack (TIA),
      a momentary episode of neurologic dysfunction, which often precedes a major stroke and serves
      as a warning for future ischemic events. Despite symptoms resolving, experiencing a TIA
      increases the risk of stroke by 20% within 90 days. Emergent evaluation, prompt acute
      treatment, and identification of stroke etiology for secondary prevention are key to
      decreasing the morbidity and mortality associated with cerebrovascular disease. Key to
      treatment and prevention is the identification of stroke etiology - large vessel
      atherosclerosis, cardioembolic phenomenon, or in-situ small vessel cerebrovascular disease -
      since primary and secondary prevention measures differ based on stroke subtype. The diagnosis
      of ischemic stroke includes a combination of patient history, clinical assessment, and brain
      imaging. However, identifying the cause of cerebrovascular ischemia is challenging and
      routinely assigned of cryptogenic origin.

      Therefore, there is a great need to understand the pathogenesis of TIA and AIS events in
      order to develop more effective preventative measures. Recent studies have identified the
      differential expression of genes in whole blood that may differentiate the major ischemic
      stroke types. Such differences may help identify TIA and AIS events that are more likely to
      respond to therapy specifically tailored to the major stroke type. Furthermore, by
      establishing a more robust standard for secondary prevention, future stroke events may be
      avoided.

      BASE is a multisite prospective study with a estimated enrollment of up to 1100 subjects
      adult subjects and 100 age, gender and co-morbidity matched controls ("Controls") will be
      recruited from patients who present to the Emergency Department (ED) or hospital with
      suspected AIS or TIA. Research personnel will identify potential patients by responding to
      "Brain Attacks" pages from the ED to the Stroke Team for patients who meet current Brain
      Attack criteria. Following evaluation by the ED and neurology physicians, the clinical
      coordinator will verify the patient had a suspected AIS or TIA and meets eligibility
      criteria. The patient or their legal surrogate will be approached for study participation.
      Written informed consent will be obtained for all subjects enrolled.

      There are two recruitment windows related to BASE determined by time of symptom onset, time
      of presentation at ED or hospital, and ability to consent:

        1. "BASE" - patients that present with suspected stroke symptoms within 18 hours of symptom
           onset or last known normal time OR

        2. "BASE 24" - patients that present within 24 hours +/- 6 hours (i.e. 18 - 30 hour window)
           of symptom onset or last known normal time and clinical evidence suggesting Acute
           Ischemic Stroke.
    
  