
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of a combination drug product containing
      50 mg diphenhydramine, 5 mg zolpidem and 0.5 mg lorazepam on total sleep time, and to
      determine the contribution of zolpidem to the combination, using a 3-hour Phase Advance model
      of sleep challenge with 8 hours of polysomnographic (PSG) recording. This is a 2-arm,
      2-period crossover trial including the 3-drug investigational product and a 2-drug
      comparator. The 2 arms are: investigational combination product, and a 2-drug comparator
      containing diphenhydramine and lorazepam but not zolpidem. Participants will be adults who
      sometimes have difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep, but who are generally healthy and
      do not have chronic insomnia or sleep apnea.

      A total of 14 subjects are planned to enroll in the study. Subjects who qualify for
      participation will be asked to keep a sleep diary to document their sleep times leading up to
      their first overnight stay in the sleep center and during the study. Subjects will be asked
      to spend at least 7.5 hours in bed at a regular bedtime during the study. Qualifying
      participants also will not anticipate traveling across 3 time zones, be involved in night
      shift work, or significant disruptions in their sleep schedules during the study. The study
      requires 2 one-night stays in a sleep center in New York City, for administration of the
      study treatments and PSG & EEG measurements. Qualifying subjects will anticipate being able
      to return to the sleep center, located in Manhattan, for a total of 3 visits, including
      initial screening and 2 treatment times.

      Subjects will receive a follow up phone call from study staff 3 days after final dose of
      study medication.

      During each sleep center visit, subjects will arrive to the sleep center approximately 5
      hours prior to their average usual bedtime and will be given their study treatment. Their
      sleep will be monitored for 8 hours. Each subject will receive both treatments, although the
      sequence of the 2 treatments will be randomized. Both subjects and study personnel monitoring
      the subjects will be blinded to the identity of the treatment administered at each visit.
    
  