
    
      Prospective, non-randomized, international, open, multicenter study. Patients that comply
      with the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be implanted with a BIOTRONIK CRT system.

      The primary objective is to study the magnitude of CRT response measured as function of
      increase in Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF) in order to demonstrate a superior CRT
      response in women.

      The Secondary main objectives are:

        -  To study changes in major clinical variables during a 12M FU period in men and women

        -  To study how Left Ventricular End Diastolic Volume (LVEDV) and Left Ventricular End
           Systolic Volume (LVESV) change in men and women with CRT response

        -  To study CRT responders and value if there are significant gender differences at
           baseline with regards of presence of inter/intra ventricular dyssynchrony, HF etiology
           (ischemic versus non-ischemic cardiomyopathy), QRS morphology (LBBB vs. RBBB) and QRSd

        -  Observational assessment of how key baseline clinical variables are related to the
           patient's CRT response, to create a possible "gender specific" response model.

        -  Study the relationship between QRSd (amount of dyssynchrony) and CRT response in men and
           women

      There are no study specific requirements for the implantation procedure of the CRT device;
      implantation will be performed according to the routine hospital's practice.

      In order to obtain an equal distribution of males and females in the study population
      enrolled by the site, all the inclusions should be performed consecutively (based on the
      normal hospital flow of CRT candidates), but the difference in the enrolment rate by gender
      should not exceed > 2 by site at any time during the enrolment phase.

      The study flowchart consists of a baseline assessment, implantation/pre-hospital discharge, 2
      month Follow Up (FU), 6 month FU, 12 month FU, and final study.

      Special assessments as echocardiography (echo), 6 minute walk test and Quality of Life test
      (QOL) will be performed at baseline, after 6 months and at one year follow-up.

      12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) will only be performed at baseline. Device testing, (Serious)
      Adverse (Device) Events ((S)A(D)E), and changes in medication will be collected during all
      planned study FUs throughout the duration of the study. A device interrogation outside the
      scheduled study FU window needs to be reported as unscheduled FU.

      The timing for scheduled FUs is at 2 month, 6 month and 12 month after implantation (and
      pre-hospital discharge) with a time window of ± 1 month.

      All the echo images and ECGs will be saved and sent to the respective Core Labs.

      The estimated sample size is 494 patients: 247 men and 247 women.
    
  