
    
      The Pre-treatment period includes Screening visit. After providing written informed consent
      form to participate in the study, patients will be evaluated for eligibility during a
      screening period of 14 days (Days -14 to -1). If patients meet all inclusion and exclusion
      criteria will be randomized at the moment of entry in the trial in a 1:1 allocation to
      receive either MPV followed by Rd (Treatment Group A) or MPV alternating with Rd (Treatment
      Group B).

      Patients in the Treatment Group A will receive nine cycles of MPV consisting on one 6-weeks
      cycle of Velcade (Bortezomib) as an intravenous bolus twice weekly (days 1, 4, 8, 11, 22, 25,
      29 and 32) followed by a 10 day rest period (day 33 to 42), in combination with oral
      Melphalan, once daily on days 1 to 4 and oral Prednisone, once daily on days 1 to 4, followed
      by eight 4-weeks cycles of Velcade (Bortezomib) as an intravenous bolus on days 1, 8, 15 and
      22 followed by a 6 day rest period (days 23 to 28), in combination with Melphalan and
      Prednisone per os once daily on days 1 to 4, followed by a 24-day rest period (days 5 to 28).
      After the nine MPV cycles, patients will receive nine cycles of Rd consisting on 4-weeks
      cycles, including Revlimid (lenalidomide), once daily on days 1-21 followed by a 7 day rest
      period (days 22 to 28) plus oral dexamethasone, once weekly on days 1,8,15 and 22, followed
      by a 6 day rest period (days 23 to 28).

      Patients in the Treatment Group B will receive the same schedule of therapy, but the MPV
      cycles will be alternated with Rd cycles. In this treatment Group B, patients will be again
      randomized to start receiving either MPV or Rd as first cycle of therapy. Overall, patients
      will receive an identical number of cycles, nine cycles of MPV and nine of Rd. Patients
      randomized to Treatment Group A relapsing/progressing or with major toxicities under
      treatment with MPV will be crossover to receive Rd, but only after study coordinator
      approval.

      During the Treatment Period, patients will be evaluated at day 1 of each cycle. After
      completion of the Treatment Period, all patients will be evaluated every 2 months thereafter.

      Safety will be assessed by the monitoring of adverse events, physical examinations, vital
      signs measurements, and haematology and clinical chemistry test. Response to treatment will
      be based on EBMT an IMWG criteria. Response to treatment will be evaluated at day 1 of each
      induction cycle, and every 2 months during thereafter.
    
  