
    
      End-stage colorectal cancer is associated with physical and psychological symptoms that
      negatively affect patients' quality of life (QOL). Nonpharmacological interventions that
      promote relaxation and reduce psychological distress are associated with a reduction of pain
      suggesting that psychological distress and anxiety may mediate the relationship between
      symptom severity and QOL. Pilot data from a sample of 28 end-stage cancer patients supports
      the mediational role of psychological distress in the symptom severity - QOL relationship.
      The results indicated that the mere presence or absence of a physical symptom is not related
      to patient QOL. Rather, greater symptom severity was associated with significantly poorer
      QOL, and when the effects of psychological distress were controlled, the relationships
      between symptom severity and QOL were no longer significant. The proposed research focuses on
      psychological distress as an underlying mechanism of physical symptom severity among EOL
      cancer patients and a non-traditional approach (acupuncture) to relieving distress and
      symptom severity. Acupuncture has been used successfully with end-of-life populations (EOL)
      to reduce pain and shortness of breath [4]. Patients with psychological distress report the
      greatest benefit from acupuncture. Rather than using acupuncture to treat pain and
      discomfort, the proposed research will evaluate acupuncture that targets acupoints associated
      with anxiety and emotional well-being. One hundred seventy patients with metastatic
      colorectal cancer will be recruited for the study through the University of Pittsburgh Cancer
      Institute (UPCI).

      Participating patients will be randomized into one of three conditions: 1) a "true"
      acupuncture condition, 2) a "sham" acupuncture condition, and 3) a usual care control group.
      Assessment procedures will gather demographic, QOL, physical and psychological
      symptomatology, medication use, and salivary cortisol data. Randomization will occur after
      baseline assessment, and participants randomized to one of the two intervention conditions
      will receive acupuncture treatments three times a week for four weeks. Follow-up assessments
      will occur weekly for four weeks following the intervention. The proposed study will 1) test
      the efficacy of an acupuncture intervention in reducing psychological distress and physical
      symptom severity and 2) examine acupuncture's role in regulating stress responses associated
      with hypothalamic-pituitary axis (HPA) activity. Findings from this study will 1) promote our
      understanding of psychological distress as a mechanism of physical symptom distress, and 2)
      promote the integration of Eastern healing philosophies (acupuncture) with the Western
      medical model (stress-related HPA activation).
    
  