
    
      Bleeding during ear surgery is still a challenge for surgeons and anesthesiologists .
      Although extensive blood loss is rare during ear surgery, however, establishing a favorite
      surgical field is often difficult. The reason is that even slight bleeding may distort the
      view of the field and increase the occurrence of complications, including deafness, the
      longer duration of surgery, or even inconclusive surgery .

      Many techniques have been proposed to improve the field of ear exploration surgery. Bipolar
      diathermy, packing, local vasoconstrictors, and induced hypotension are the most commonly
      used techniques . Diathermy can lead to local damage and delayed bleeding . Using topical
      vasoconstrictions can lead to hemodynamic instability especially in patients with a history
      of hypertension or ischemic heart disease. Induction hypotension exposes the patients to more
      anesthetic drugs and hence a higher risk of potential side effects. However, neither of these
      methods guarantees a desirable surgical field with no bleeding. Therefore, investigators are
      working on more effective and safer methods to reduce bleeding and hence to improve the field
      of surgery .

      Activation of fibrinolysis during and after surgery is a well-known phenomenon. Many
      mechanisms associated with coagulation disorders, such as surgical trauma, blood loss and
      consumption of coagulation factors and platelets, using crystalloid and colloid given during
      and after surgery, hypothermia, acidosis, foreign materials, and etc. In recent studies,
      systemic infusion of anti-fibrinolytic drugs have been used to reduce bleeding in various
      forms of surgery such as major orthopedic surgery,and adeno-tonsillectomy.

      Tranexamic acid (TXA) is a synthetic antifibrinolytic agent that binds to the lysine binding
      sites of plasmin and plasminogen. Saturation of the binding sites causes separation of
      plasminogen from superficial fibrin and hence prevents fibrinolysis. Any surgical procedure
      can cause a considerable tissue damage and hence trigger the release of enzymes, such as
      'tissue plasminogen activator' that converts plasminogen to plasmin and activates
      fibrinolysis process. TXA can prevent fibrinolysis activity by inhibiting the activity of
      this enzyme.

      Systemic infusion of TXA associated with several potential side effects such as nausea,
      vomiting, diarrhea, allergic dermatitis, dizziness, hypotension, seizures, impaired vision,
      achromatopsia (impaired color vision), and particularly thromboembolic events. Several
      studies have been conducted on topical TXA in different types of surgery but no systemic
      absorption or side effects have been reported.

      To date, the effect of TXA on reduction of bleeding in ear surgery is unclear . There is no
      consensus on the efficacy of TXA and its effective dose in reducing bleeding. This trial will
      aim to assess the effect of topical TXA on bleeding and improvement of surgical field during
      ear surgery in patients with chronic ear disease.
    
  