
    
      AIMS

        -  To determine if children exposed to mild iodine deficiency (ID) during fetal life
           achieve worse cognitive development compared to children exposed to normal iodine status
           reached by maternal iodine supplementation.

        -  To compare urinary iodine concentration (UIC), thyroglobulin (Tg), free
           tetraiodothyronine (FT4) and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) in pregnant women on 150
           µg iodine or placebo

        -  To compare milk iodine concentration (MIC) in colostrum, and TSH in the first 200
           newborn children to pregnant women receiving 150 µg iodine or placebo

      BACKGROUND

      Iodine deficiency increases the risk for hypothyroidism and goiter and during the pregnancy
      for abortion or cognitive and other abnormalities of the baby. According to the WHO
      recommendations, UIC during pregnancy should be 150-249 ug/L. In 2007 a national study showed
      iodine sufficiency in Swedish general population. It is debated whether or not iodine shall
      be given to pregnant women in iodine sufficient populations.

      The research group started this randomized iodine intervention in pregnant women in 2012. The
      first hypothesis was that iodine supplementation of 150 µg/day is needed during pregnancy in
      Sweden in order to ensure normal iodine and thyroid hormone status in mothers and newborn
      children and that pregnant women in Sweden suffer from mild iodine deficiency (ID).

      There is a substantial gap of knowledge with regards to whether mild ID during fetal life
      entails negative consequences on cognition. Two large observational studies have shown
      association between mild ID during pregnancy and lower IQ or educational performance in
      school-children. The only two randomized placebo-controlled trials (RCTs) studying mild ID in
      pregnancy were either too small for safe conclusions to be drawn ( Brucker-Davis et al,
      n=86), or did not manage to separate groups based on iodine levels (the MITCH study,
      Melse-Boonstra et al, n=839). The need for a RCT with sufficient sample size remains. This
      led the research team to form a second hypothesis within the trial: children exposed to mild
      ID during fetal life have lower cognitive development compared to children to mothers taking
      150 ug iodine supplementation during pregnancy. The decision to expand the trial was made and
      the target number of participants to be recruited increased from 200 to 1275 in order to
      reach enough power to follow-up the childrens' cognitive development.

      METHODS

      Design

      This is a prospective placebo-controlled trial of children whose mothers got iodine
      supplement 150 µg/day or placebo (a multivitamin preparation without iodine) during pregnancy
      (week 10±2 until delivery). The target number participants during pregnancy is 1275 to enable
      sufficient power in the children follow-up (n=788). The main outcome is intelligence quotient
      (IQ) at 7 year of age. Cognitive development in children will be also assessed at 18 months,
      3.5, and 14 years.

      Pregnancy part

      Pregnant women from more than ten maternity care centers in Sweden are randomized to daily
      receive a multivitamin tablet with 150 µg iodine or placebo (multivitamin without iodine).
      The intervention starts at pregnancy week 8-12 and ends directly post-partum for the first
      200 women and at pregnancy week 36±2weeks for the remaining participants. This time point may
      be adjusted to local circumstances, depending on when during the third trimester the routine
      visit at maternity care center takes place. Participants are included after the first visit
      by a midwife. Urine sample for UIC and U-creatinine, and blood sample for thyroid hormones,
      thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), thyroglobuline (Tg) and thyroperoxidase antibodies
      (TPO-ab) are collected and a simple questionnaire is filled in at week 10±2 weeks of
      pregnancy and placebo/iodine is started. Selenium and iron is also measured. The same
      measurements are collected in week 25±1 week and week 36±2 weeks. Directly after delivery
      (within 5 days), MIC and UIC in the first 200 mother as well as UIC and TSH in their newborn
      child were collected and a simple questionnaire is filled in. Weight, length and APGAR in the
      child and pregnancy complications are registered. Blood is also frozen for future analyses
      and access to medical files is accepted.

      In parallel 90 healthy female controls from Skaraborg area stratified for age and smoking
      habits are collected from a randomized sample attained by the Swedish Tax Agency. UIC,
      u-creatinine, FT4, TSH, Tg, TPO-ab, and samples to be frozen are collected and a
      questionnaire is filled in. Selenium and iron is analyzed in blood sample from the first 200
      pregnant women and from controls. The primary purpose for having a control population is to
      ascertain that the normal population in the area of Skaraborg is iodine sufficient.

      Children follow-up

      At 18 months ± 1 month psychomotor development is assessed by means of ASQ (Ages and Stages
      Questionnaire). At 3,5 years ± 2 months the IQ is measured (WPPSI-IV), behavior is assessed
      (CBCL questionnaire) and urine is collected for UIC measurement. At 7 years ± 3 months the
      following are assessed: IQ (WISC IV), motor development (Movement ABC), behavior (CBCL),
      symptoms related to attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder (ADHD, 5-15 Nordic
      questionnaire). Additionally, at 7 years ± 3 months urine is collected for UIC measurement,
      blood sample is taken for thyreoglobulin (Tg), thyroid hormones and deiodinases, and MRI of
      the brain is performed in a subsample. At 14 years ± 6 months all these, except for the
      Movement ABC, are repeated. On all occasions information on socio-economic status and other
      possible confounders are collected by means of questionnaires filled by parents and by
      children (14 years).
    
  