
    
      This was a prospective multicenter randomized controlled trial in 6 closed ICUs with 24/7
      in-house intensivist coverage at 6 academic-affiliated medical centers in a resource limited
      setting from October 18, 2007 to May 03, 2014. All parts of the study were reviewed according
      to the Consolidated Standards for Reporting Trials (CONSORT) statement. Crossover was not
      allowed. Participants were blinded to randomization group, as were the healthcare providers
      and statistician. Randomization was accomplished using Random Allocation Software© (RAS;
      Informer Technologies, Inc.). Block randomization was performed by a computer generated
      random number list prepared by a statistician. Allocation consignment occurred through
      confidential communication between the patient's nurse and a third party not involved in
      recruitment. The data analyzer was blinded to group randomization and was not present during
      ventilator weaning. There were no important changes to methods after trial commencement. The
      study ended because it achieved the necessary sample size.

      Pparticipants were randomly assigned to ventilator weaning either by protocolized methodology
      or by usual care (UC). All patients were ventilated using Dräger Evita® XL or Evita® 4
      ventilators (Dräeger Medical, Inc., Lubeck, Germany). In the PW group, weaning and extubation
      readiness was determined by the RT using pre-defined criteria and the result of a SBT.
      Pre-defined weaning criteria included: (1) patent upper airway; (2) ability to protect airway
      (defined by mental status and presence of adequate gag and cough reflexes); (3) ability to
      clear secretions; (4) decreasing secretion burden requiring suction not more frequently than
      every 2 hours; (5) level of support (FiO2 < 50%, PEEP = 5); and (6) hemodynamic stability not
      requiring chemical (vasopressors, inotropes) or mechanical (e.g. intra-aortic balloon pump,
      extracorporeal life support) circulatory support. Until the SBT, management of each group was
      the same. For patients in the UC group, SBT type and determination to extubate was determined
      by attending physician preference. For participants in the PW group, the SBT type was
      protocol determined, and extubation decisions were driven by RT. The SBT consisted of
      continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) of 5 mmHg with an FiO2 ≤ 0.4. After 3-minutes
      patients were assessed for appropriateness to continue the SBT by arterial oxygen saturation
      (SaO2) ≥ 92% without arrhythmias, and a rapid shallow breathing index (RSBI = RR/VT) < 105
      breaths/min/L. Specified signs of respiratory distress included respiratory rate (RR)> 30
      breaths/minute, SaO2< 90%, heart rate (HR)> 140 breaths/minute, or a sustained increase or
      decrease of HR of >20%, systolic blood pressure >200 mmHg or <80 mmHg, or agitation, anxiety,
      or diaphoresis without other identified cause. The SBT was performed for 120 min in
      accordance with prior studies. At the end of the SBT, the RSBI was re-measured and an
      arterial blood gas (ABG) was obtained.

      In the UC group, the SBT type and extubation decision was determined by the attending
      intensivist on service based upon neurologic status, airway competence (gag, cough, suction
      requirements), and negative inspiratory force (NIF) or RSBI measurements. Extubation success
      was defined as remaining extubated for 48 hours without need for re-intubation or other forms
      of non-invasive MV.
    
  