
    
      1. Recruitment efforts will be made in the community via advertisements and online
           advertisements (e.g., Craigslist, Facebook).

        2. Prospective participants will contact the investigators via email or by calling the
           study phone number listed on the advertisements.

        3. Once a participant indicates interest by contacting study personnel, a 5-minute
           screening interview will be conducted with the prospective participant using the
           screening questionnaire to ensure eligibility criteria are met. For those who do not
           qualify or agree to participate, the age and reason for non-qualification or declination
           to participate will be recorded; any other data will be destroyed by shredding or
           electronic shredding. For those who do qualify, name and contact information will be
           kept confidential and maintained in a locked room.

        4. After written agreement to enlist in the study, participants are randomly assigned to
           group (i.e., treatment or control) by previously prepared sealed opaque envelopes.

        5. Participants will complete the demographic questionnaire, the Dental Fear Survey, and
           the investigator will complete the specific phobia section of the ADIS-5 with the
           participant.

        6. Then a Behavioral Avoidance Task will be conducted with the participants

             1. One-minute baseline, in which the participant sat quietly.

             2. Then nine dental-related steps will be completed each lasted 30 seconds, and a SUDS
                rating was collected at each step.

        7. After completing the Behavioral Avoidance Task, the investigator provides a 15-minute
           demonstration to the participants.

             1. The control group watched a video on their smartphone about smartphone capabilities
                as an attention control.

             2. The treatment group was shown how to conduct self-directed exposure therapy and
                rate SUDS on their smartphone.

           i. The video is a typical preventive visit to the dentist, including walking into the
           dental office, being called back for treatment by the dental assistant, sitting in the
           dental chair, and seeing the hygienist perform a teeth cleaning.

           ii. The video is presented in a first and third person perspective, and the order is
           randomly assigned (e.g., view the first person perspective video during week 1 of
           treatment and then third person perspective during week 2 of treatment).

        8. Researcher will model how to rate SUDS prior to watching the exposure video, how to
           access the exposure video, how to rate actual SUDS experienced during the video, and how
           to either continue to the next video or stop the exposure session.

             1. Participants are advised that watching the exposure video three times per day is
                the ideal, which may match the amount of exposure in a typical 50-minute treatment
                session.

             2. One time per day was the suggested minimum, and five times per day was the
                suggested maximum.

        9. An email will be sent to participants in the treatment group daily to remind them to
           conduct the exposure session over the two weeks of treatment.

             1. Participants follow the link each day with their smartphones. Before each exposure
                video, participants rate expected distress on the SUDS. Then asked to watch a video
                depicting dental care-related material. After viewing the exposure video,
                participants rated actual distress experienced on the SUDS.

             2. The participants then are immediately prompted to watch the video again. If the
                participant chooses to watch the video again, the participant will do the same
                procedure of pre-rating anxiety, watching the video, and post-rating anxiety.

             3. Finally, participants are prompted to complete the procedure a third time. After
                completing the procedure three times, the participants are no longer prompted,
                however, they had the ability to complete the procedure up to two more times if
                they so desired.

       10. One week after the pre-assessment, participants are contacted via telephone by the
           investigator to complete measures and schedule the post-assessment session.

             1. Participants in the control condition will complete the Dental Fear Survey

             2. Participants in the treatment condition will complete the Dental Fear Survey and
                the IGroup Presence Questionnaire.

       11. Participants return for the post-assessment session at least two-weeks after the
           pre-assessment to complete questionnaires and conduct the Behavioral Avoidance Task
           again.

             1. Participants in the control condition will complete the Dental Fear Survey

             2. Participants in the treatment condition will complete the Dental Fear Survey,
                IGroup Presence Questionnaire, and Acceptance and Acceptability Rating Profile.
    
  