
    
      This will be a single site, study of the SENSE device in up to 20 study subjects, (five
      healthy controls and five each with ICH, AIS with LVO and AIS without LVO) in whom SENSE can
      be applied within 24 hours of stroke symptom onset. LVO will be defined as occlusion of the
      internal carotid artery (ICA) or middle cerebral artery (M1 or M2). All images in stroke
      patients will be reviewed by an independent neuroradiologist and final diagnoses ascertained
      by an independent neurologist. The treating clinicians will be blinded to the data collection
      and SENSE device scanning as described below.

      A history and physical examination will be performed by the treating physician, and routine
      evaluations (including a diagnostic head CT/CT angiogram or MR/MR angiogram). All eligible
      subjects must have the diagnostic head CT/MR scan and clinical diagnosis of a stroke (ICH,
      AIS with LVO or AIS without LVO) performed within 24 hours of symptom onset.

      Eligible subjects or legally authorized representatives will be approached for enrollment.
      Prior to obtaining informed consent, concurrence of patients' eligibility for this study and
      an assertion that the patient is clinically stable will be obtained from the treating team
      and its attending physician prior to obtaining informed consent. After obtaining informed
      consent to participate in the study, the SENSE device will be placed on the subject and
      monitoring will proceed over 45 minutes. A research coordinator will be present at the
      bedside for the 45 minutes of SENSE monitoring.

      After enrollment, routine clinical management will ensue in the emergency department (ED),
      hospital ward or intensive care unit (ICU) as appropriate. A standard of care head CT with or
      without CT angiography or MR with or without angiography performed prior to diagnosis will be
      collected and analyzed. All enrolled AIS subjects must have a CT or MR angiography performed
      within 24 hours to establish absence or presence of LVO. Study procedures shall not delay,
      detract or interfere with medically necessary care or with planned treatments.

      The SENSE device will be placed on the subject's head, and two small ink dots will be marked
      on the head corresponding to a known location on the device to allow for the device to be
      removed and replaced consistently throughout the 45 minutes of testing.
    
  