
    
      1. Rationale: Many patients who were hospitalized benefit from rehabilitation after they
           are discharged. Rehabilitation may be provided in one of several settings, including
           home, nursing home or facility specializing in rehabilitation. Success of rehabilitation
           depends on patient's ability and willingness to cooperate with rehabilitation staff.
           Unfortunately, some patients cannot or do not follow the rehabilitation protocol. If
           they do not participate in rehabilitation for at least 90 minutes/day, they have to be
           discharged from a rehabilitation facility. It would be useful to be able to predict
           which patients will have problem with rehabilitation after they are admitted from an
           acute care setting. In this study, the investigators will test the hypothesis that
           executive function is important for achieving rehabilitation goals.

        2. Background: Executive function is a set of mental processes that helps connect past
           experience with present action. People use it to perform activities such as planning,
           organizing, strategizing, paying attention to and remembering details, and managing time
           and space. Executive function was the most important factor for level of care elderly
           individuals required (Royall, Chiodo, & Polk, 2005). This study also found that many
           elderly individuals have impaired executive function even though they have normal
           cognitive function. Executive function is also related to functional abilities in
           individuals with mild dementia (Martyr & Clare, 2012).

        3. The research question: The hypothesis tested in this study is that rehabilitation
           potential is decreased in persons with impaired executive function. The purpose of this
           study is to attempt development of a screening tool that could be used before the
           patients are admitted for rehabilitation. Results of this screening would alert the
           rehabilitation facility about possible problems occurring after the patient is admitted
           for rehabilitation. If such a testing will show that patient's executive function is
           impaired, rehabilitation results may be improved by treatment of this impairment (Royall
           et al., 2009).

        4. Study design: During admission of a patient, Dennise Fernandez will ask patients to
           state why they need rehabilitation. If they are able to state the reason, Dennise
           Fernandez will explained the study to them and if the patient is interested she will
           give him/her the Informed Consent Form. If the patient will be unable to state the
           reason for rehabilitation, the study will be explained to his/her proxy and informed
           consent given to the proxy. The patient/proxy will have time to read the Informed
           Consent on his/her own and ask any questions he/she may have. It the patient/proxy signs
           the Informed Consent, Dennise Fernandez will ask how old the patient is and the patient
           will be asked to complete the Trail Making Tests.

           Both parts of the Trail Making Test consist of 25 circles distributed over a sheet of
           paper. In Part A, the circles are numbered 1 - 25, and the patient should draw lines to
           connect the numbers in ascending order. In Part B, the circles include both numbers (1 -
           13) and letters (A - L); as in Part A, the patient draws lines to connect the circles in
           an ascending pattern, but with the added task of alternating between the numbers and
           letters (i.e., 1-A-2-B-3-C, etc.). The patient should be instructed to connect the
           circles as quickly as possible, without lifting the pen or pencil from the paper. Time
           the patient as he or she connects the "trail." If the patient makes an error, point it
           out immediately and allow the patient to correct it. Errors affect the patient's score
           only in that the correction of errors is included in the completion time for the task.
           It is unnecessary to continue the test if the patient has not completed both parts after
           five minutes have elapsed.

           Step 1: Give the patient a copy of the Trail Making Test Part A worksheet and a pen or
           pencil. Step 2: Demonstrate the test to the patient using the sample sheet (Trail Making
           Part A - SAMPLE). Step 3: Time the patient as he or she follows the "trail" made by the
           numbers on the test.

           Step 4: Record the time. Step 5: Repeat the procedure for Trail Making Test Part B.

           Scoring:

           Results for both TMT A and B are reported as the number of seconds required to complete
           the task; therefore, higher scores reveal greater impairment. The patient will
           participate in therapy during their stay, with their participation evaluated by a)
           amount of time participating in therapy each day, b) need for encouragement by staff to
           participate. Encouragement will be rated on four point scale: i) no encouragement, ii)
           minimal encouragement, iii) moderate encouragement, iv) maximum encouragement. 72 hours
           prior to discharge, they will be asked by Dennise Fernandez to complete again Trail
           Making Tests.

        5. Sample size: 100 patients

        6. Study population: All admitted patients who will meet inclusion criteria will be
           approached until 100 of them signs the Informed Consent Form.

           Inclusion criteria:

             1. Admitted for rehabilitation

             2. 65 years old or older

             3. Speaks English

           Exclusion criteria:

             1. Unable to read (even with glasses)

             2. Unable to write

        7. The expected results of the research: Results of this study will be published in a
           scientific journal. If the results are positive, a scale will be developed that will
           inform rehabilitation facility about rehabilitation potential of a patient before he/she
           is admitted for rehabilitation.

        8. Principal Investigator: Ladislav Volicer, MD, PhD

        9. Potential risk to the subjects: The research will not influence rehabilitation of the
           patients. The only risk is that they may become frustrated if they difficulty
           accomplishing the Trail Making Tests.

       10. Experimental Procedures: Administration of the Trail Making Tests and recording duration
           of rehabilitation and possible need for encouragement. Results of Trail Making Test with
           be correlated with level of participation in therapy.

       11. Potential benefit to subjects: None

       12. Human subjects considerations: Informed consent will be given to patients only after
           they express interest in research and they will have one day to decide if they want to
           sign it. If a patient cannot explain the reason for his/rehabilitation, the study will
           be explained to his/her proxy and the proxy will receive the informed consent form. Each
           patient will receive a PIN and all research protocols will be identified only with this
           PIN. The master list connecting PINs and names will be kept by the rehabilitation
           facility employee, Dennise Fernandez.

       13. The study does not have greater than minimal risk.
    
  