
    
      Background:

        -  The administration of autologous tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) can mediate
           complete, durable regressions in 20-25% of patients with metastatic melanoma. Recent
           studies have shown that these TIL predominantly recognize unique mutated or viral
           neoantigens expressed by the cancer not shared by other melanomas.

        -  Administration of bulk autologous TIL to patients with a variety of other solid cancers,
           including cancers of the gastrointestinal tract and genitourinary tract, have little if
           any therapeutic impact.

        -  Recent studies in the National Cancer Institute Surgery Branch (NCI-SB) have shown that
           TIL from non-melanoma solid cancers can also contain T-cells reactive against nonshared
           unique mutated neoantigens expressed in the cancer. The frequency of these Tcells is
           very low (often < 0.1%) and it is thus difficult to isolate and grow mutation reactive
           T-cells to levels required for effective therapy.

        -  In a single patient with chemo-refractory metastatic cholangiocarcinoma, we were able to
           grow a relatively pure population of neoantigen reactive TIL and administration of these
           cells mediated a near-complete regression of all metastatic disease now lasting 2.5
           years.

        -  We have developed approaches to identify rare neoantigen reactive T-cells from common
           non-melanoma cancers, to isolate their T-cell receptors (TCR), and to genetically
           engineer autologous peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) to express these TCRs with high
           efficiency. The neoantigen TCR gene-modified cells can recognize and destroy the
           autologous cancer in vitro.

        -  In addition to reactivity to neoantigens derived from nonsynonymous mutations, T-cells
           can recognize human papilloma virus (HPV) epitopes in patients with HPV-induced cancers.
           The TCR from these reactive cells can be isolated and retrovirally-transduced into
           autologous PBL with high efficiency. This clinical protocol will treat a single patient
           with refractory anal cancer using the adoptive transfer of autologous PBL transduced
           with genes encoding TCRs that recognize unique mutated or viral neoantigens expressed by
           the cancer.

      Objective:

      -Under a single-patient IND, to treat a patient with metastatic HPV-16 positive squamous cell
      anal cancer with autologous peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) that have been transduced with
      genes encoding T-cell receptors that recognize mutated or viral neoantigens in the autologous
      cancer.

      Eligibility:

        -  Must have measurable, metastatic disease as assessed per RECIST v1.1 criteria.

        -  Must sign the informed consent document.

        -  Willing to sign Durable Power of Attorney Form.

        -  Must have all regulatory approvals prior to start of treatment.

      Design:

        -  This patient will have already undergone resection or biopsy to obtain tumor for
           generation of autologous TIL cultures. This will have been conducted under the NCI-SB
           cell harvest protocol 03-C-0277 (Cell Harvest and Preparation for Surgery Branch
           Adoptive Cell Therapy Protocols).

        -  Exomic sequencing and RNA-Seq will be performed to identify the mutations expressed in
           the patient s cancer. Multiple autologous TIL cultures will be grown and tested for
           reactivity against mutations from the autologous tumor using assays we have developed
           that involve the exposure of autologous antigen-presenting cells to long peptides
           containing the mutation or tandem mini-genes encoding the mutation.

        -  T-cell cultures with reactivity against mutated and viral neoantigens will be identified
           and the individual T-cell receptors that recognize the neoantigens will be synthesized
           and used to create retroviral supernatants for transduction of the TCR into the patient
           s autologous PBL.

        -  The patient will be treated with a non-myeloablative, lymphodepleting preparative
           regimen of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine, followed by the infusion of autologous
           transduced PBL and then high-dose aldesleukin. The patient will also receive
           pembrolizumab on Day -2 prior to cell administration and three additional doses every
           three weeks following the cell infusion.

        -  Clinical and immunologic response will be evaluated about 4-6 weeks after cell infusion
           and periodically thereafter.
    
  