
    
      Converting knowledge on actual need for opioid pain medications after surgery into tangible
      benefits can prevent over-prescription of opioids that become available for non-medical use.
      The objective of this aim is to prescribe pain medications after surgery in a
      patient-centered fashion. The investigators have used the average amount of opioid
      medications (in milligram morphine equivalents - MME) taken prior to discharge to inform the
      clinical decision support tool. This tool will reduce the amount of opioid medications
      prescribed while maintaining patient post-operative pain control. The calculated "prior to
      discharge daily MME dose" will be applied to generate a recommendation for the prescription
      of a cumulative opioid dose that will be displayed when the electronic order entry for the
      post-discharge pain medication is made in the EHR using a best-practice alert (BPA). In
      addition, the provider will be prompted to also prescribe non-opioid analgesic medications.
      This BPA was developed by the Principal Investigator under guidance of the UCHealth System
      Multidisciplinary Opioid/Pain Management Committee as well as published guidelines.

      Based on the relationship between opioids taken prior to discharge and post-discharge opioid
      intake described above as well as published guidelines for post-discharge prescriptions after
      surgery will use a tiered approach towards determining the total amount of opioids to be
      prescribed. Accordingly, the investigators have integrated an algorithm into the BPA such
      that opioid intake from the EHR only triggers the BPA if the total amount of prescribed
      opioids exceeds the predicted thresholds.

      The opioid prescribing BPA will be assessed over a 44-week period in all eligible patients.
      At the time of writing the prescription an automatic notification will appear on the care
      provider's screen that identifies a suggested post-discharge opioid dose within the
      electronic prescription pad. If approved by the provider, opioid-only prescriptions will be
      written as suggested. Final dosing decisions and drug choices will remain at the discretion
      of the treating provider and will be tracked. The investigators will use an all "ON" vs. all
      "OFF" configuration to answer the questions if the average amount of total opioids per
      post-discharge prescription is lower with the BPA active. The investigation will commence
      with two "OFF" periods to assess if reduction in prescribing patterns occurs over time
      regardless of the intervention. Two "ON" periods at the end of the study will determine if
      any observed changes in prescribing patterns stabilize or continued changes take place.
    
  