
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine toxicity and tolerability, and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of brigatinib
      and bevacizumab in patients with ALK rearranged non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the dose-limiting toxicities of brigatinib in combination with bevacizumab.

      II. To estimate overall response rate (ORR) to treatment with brigatinib and bevacizumab.

      III. To estimate the duration of response as defined by the time of first documented clinical
      benefit to the time of progression.

      IV. To estimate patient survival by measuring progression free survival (PFS) as defined by
      the time from treatment initiation to documented disease progression or death from any cause.
      Overall survival (OS) as defined by the time from treatment initiation until death due to any
      cause.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify predictive biomarkers using genetics and tumor immunology-based assessment
      platforms.

      Ia. Analysis with next-generation sequencing (NGS) to identify predictive biomarkers for
      response using tissue and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) (optional for patients with brain
      metastases).

      Ib. Tumor tissue will be obtained at baseline, and cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)
      (cfDNA)/cell tumor DNA (ctDNA) obtained at baseline and the time of progression or study
      completion will be evaluated for genomic alterations and biomarkers.

      II. Evaluation of central nervous system (CNS) penetration through cerebral spinal fluid
      (CSF) obtained by lumbar puncture on cycle 2 day 1 (C2D1) (with time matched pharmacokinetic
      [PK] blood draw), and at progression or study completion for consenting patients (optional).

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of brigatinib.

      Patients receive brigatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of cycle 1 and days 1-21
      of subsequent cycles. Patients also receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) on day 8 of cycle
      1 and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Starting cycle 2, cycles repeat every 21 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, 3, 6, 9, and 12
      months, then every 6 months for up to 3 years.
    
  