
    
      Methods Patients of ES with age greater than or equal to 18 years and weight greater than or
      equal to 30 kgs in World Health Organisation (WHO) functional class II and III attending our
      congenital clinic were invited to participate in the study. Informed written consent was
      taken from all the patients before screening procedures were initiated for the study. A
      detailed clinical examination and non-invasive testing including electrocardiogram, chest X
      ray, pulmonary function tests (to exclude associated restrictive/obstructive lung disease)
      and echocardiography(including contrast echo if required for demonstrating right to left
      shunt) were conducted. Patients with simple congenital heart defects (atrial septal defect >
      2cm, ventricular septal defect > 1cm and aortopulmonary communications > 0.4 cm) with
      echocardiographic evidence of right to left shunt were included. Medical therapy and clinical
      condition of the patients had to be stable for 3 months prior to screening. Patients on
      treatment with prostanoids, endothelial receptor antagonists (ERA), PDE-5 inhibitors or any
      other vasodilators with in 1month prior to screening were excluded. A systemic pulse oximetry
      (SpO2) between 70% and 90% at rest in room air and a baseline 6 minute walk test(6MWT)
      distance between 150 and 450 meters were required for inclusion. Eisenmenger physiology was
      confirmed by cardiac catheterization as mean pulmonary artery pressure > 40mmHg, pulmonary
      capillary wedge pressure < 15mmHg and pulmonary vascular resistance >10 wood units/m2. Oxygen
      study was also done in selected patients to diagnose reversible pulmonary arterial
      hypertension(PAH) and such patients were excluded. Patients were also excluded if they were
      in WHO class IV, were in congestive heart failure or had PCWP > 15mmHg,had left ventricular
      ejection fraction <40%, atrial fibrillation, patent ductus arteriosus, complex congenital
      heart defects, restrictive lung disease(total lung capacity < 70% of predicted), obstructive
      lung disease ( forced expiratory volume in 1 second [FEV1] < 70% of predicted with FEV1/
      Forced vital capacity [FVC] < 60%), previously diagnosed coronary artery disease requiring
      nitrate therapy, abnormal biochemical profile and hypersensitivity to PDE- 5 inhibitors. Left
      and right heart catheterization was done in eligible patients as described in our preliminary
      observational study. Calculation of pulmonary and systemic blood flow(Qs), PVR and SVR was
      performed using the Ficks equation and assumed values of oxygen consumption according to age
      and gender of patient. The study was conducted according to the most recent amendments to the
      Declaration of Helsinki and in adherence to good clinical practice guidelines. The trial was
      approved by the National Drug Regulatory Authority (DCG) and the ethical committee of our
      institution.

      Study design and procedure:

      A double blind randomised placebo controlled crossover trial was carried out to study the
      efficacy and safety of oral tadalafil. Eligible patients were randomised to receive either
      oral tadalafil or matching placebo after baseline assessment of WHO functional class,
      exercise capacity by 6MWT and hemodynamic study by cardiac catheterization. Randomisation,
      blinding and drug/placebo administration was done by two pharmacists of the hospital.
      Patients received tadalafil 40mg once daily or matching placebo for 6 weeks which was
      followed by a 2 week washout before crossing over to the other drug for another 6 weeks.
      Routine medications for PAH like digoxin and diuretics was continued through out the study.
      Compliance was assessed by the pill count method at 3 weekly intervals. Safety of the drug or
      placebo was assessed by noting adverse effects, vital signs and (SaO2) by pulse oximetry at 3
      week intervals. Clinical assessments (WHO functional class), 6 MWT and hemodynamic parameters
      by cardiac catheterization were reassessed after 6 weeks and again at the end of the study.
    
  