
    
      Girls ages 1 - 8 years with the McCune-Albright syndrome (MAS) and girls with other
      conditions characterized by precocious puberty due to estrogen hypersecretion from ovarian
      cysts will be eligible for this pilot study. Patients who have previously enrolled in
      Protocol 98-D-0145 (Screening and natural history of patients with polyostotic fibrous
      dysplasia and the McCune-Albright Syndrome) will also be eligible. Patients will be treated
      with letrozole, a potent, nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor, to suppress their elevated serum
      estrogen levels. We will confirm the safety and efficacy of letrozole, and study its
      effectiveness in controlling the elevated sex steroid levels, and the advanced rates of
      linear growth, bone maturation, and pubertal progression in these patients. We will also
      study the effect of decreased estrogen levels on the status of their polyostotic fibrous
      dysplasia by measuring serum and urine values for bone biomarkers, including calcium,
      phosphate, organic amino acids, and vitamin D metabolites, which are known to be abnormal in
      many patients with MAS. Patients will act as their own controls. We will compare serum and
      urine parameters of pubertal progression and bone biomarkers before, during, and after
      discontinuation of letrozole. This trial will be carried out in parallel with in-vitro and
      in-vivo laboratory studies using an animal model of fibrous dysplasia. In this model,
      osteogenic precursor cells from patient bone biopsies will be cultured in a
      hydroxyapatite/tricalcium phosphate matrix and transplanted into immunocompromised mice. We
      anticipate that our laboratory findings will complement the care of our patients, resulting
      in more effective treatment for the precocious puberty and the bone disease in children with
      MAS. Because our initial studies have indicated that letrozole is effective in treating
      precocious puberty in MAS patients, this protocol also enrolls girls who have a related
      condition, gonadotropin-independent precocious puberty without the bone disease polyostotic
      fibrous dysplasia. We also believe that this study complements the recent FDA and NIH
      mandates that children be included in the evaluation of pharmaceutical products and in
      federally funded clinical research studies.
    
  