
    
      Tregs have been studied in clinical practice for different therapeutic applications. In the
      past several years there has been a significant interest in the transplant community to
      develop tolerance in order to substantially decrease or even eliminate the need of
      immuno-suppressive regimens. A growing body of evidence recognizes the balance between
      graft-reactive effector cells and graft-protective suppressor Treg cells as the ultimate
      determinant of long-term allograft survival. As a result, there is a major interest in
      transplantation to enhance the suppressor immune response as an alternative or complementary
      approach to reach a clinical tolerogenic state and preserve graft function. Exercise improves
      baseline immune function and helps to maintain immune homeostasis. Treg cell numbers have
      shown to increase with physical activity, and this increment has been directly correlated
      with exercise intensity. These results suggest that the increased Treg frequency may
      contribute to the beneficial effects of exercise on disorders associated with autoimmune
      disease or chronic low-grade inflammation such as atherosclerosis, diabetes mellitus, chronic
      kidney disease or cancer.

      Primary Objectives: The overall purpose of this study is to determine the influence
      High-intensity interval training (HIIT) on the frequency and quality of peripheral Treg
      cells.

      Secondary Objectives: Effects of HIIT in other T cell populations. Effects of HIIT in plasma
      concentration of inflammatory and metabolic markers. Effects of HIIT in obese vs lean.

      Design: This is a prospective, single center, single-arm "pre-test/post-test" study designed
      to evaluate the safety, feasibility and initial efficacy of a 12-week HIIT regimen to
      increase the frequency and quality of peripheral Treg cells. All participants will have a
      pre-test (baseline) evaluation followed by a treatment and then a post-test.
    
  