
    
      Men with an isolated PSA recurrence after local therapy are an ideal population for the
      evaluation of novel therapies given the minimal disease burden, generally indolent natural
      history, and patients' preference to avoid the adverse effects of androgen deprivation
      therapy. Metformin has shown anti-prostate cancer activity in preclinical models and cohort
      studies. Metformin, a biguanide oral antihyperglycemic agent, abrogates hyperinsulinemia in
      individuals with and without diabetes and has shown promising anti-prostate cancer activity
      in preclinical models, epidemiologic studies, and retrospective cohorts. Several
      epidemiologic/retrospective studies have shown that metformin has a positive impact on
      overall survival among men with prostate cancer.

      These nonclinical and clinical studies have led to calls for prospective studies of metformin
      in patients with prostate cancer. This is a pilot telemedicine study of metformin in patients
      with a rising PSA ("biochemical recurrence") after definitive local therapy for prostate
      cancer.

      The current study is supported by the following rationale:

        -  A large proportion of clinical trials close prematurely due to poor accrual.

        -  Geographic inaccessibility is a barrier to clinical trial participation.

        -  Metformin is a safe and inexpensive medication that has demonstrated anti-prostate
           cancer activity in nonclinical and epidemiologic studies. Importantly, metformin has
           been shown to be safe in non-diabetic patients (e.g., patients with polycystic ovary
           disease) and does not cause hypoglycemia.

        -  Use of novel technologies may facilitate clinical trial accrual and minimize the burden
           of participation for patients. Ultimately, these approaches may also decrease the cost
           of drug development and increase the pace of progress.

      In the absence of prohibitive toxicities or disease progression (defined in 4.4), patients
      may continue treatment for the 6-month study period. This study will include a baseline visit
      for study enrollment at Mount Sinai. The remainder of the visits will be telemedicine visits
      conducted using secure video conferencing.
    
  