
    
      I. Preparatory Phase

        1. Selection of Four Educational Institutions for Intervention by Randomized Stratified
           Sampling Method.

           Mumbai is divided into four zones as being South Mumbai, North Mumbai, East Mumbai and
           West Mumbai. We shall enumerate all the institutions in these areas and by randomized
           stratified sampling we shall select one institution from every area resulting in
           selection of four educational institutions.

        2. Recruitment and Training of Staff This involves the recruitment of project personnel and
           their training. Training would involve the theoretical and practical teaching about
           health hazards and legal aspects of tobacco use, collecting information by introducing
           questionnaire, conducting survey, method of area mapping of 100 yards around the
           educational institution. They would also be trained in identifying establishments
           selling tobacco based products, identifying direct and indirect tobacco based
           advertisements.

        3. Preparation of Resource Materials and Questionnaire Formats Resource materials to
           educate the shop owners would be prepared. Questionnaires would be designed to asses the
           pre and post intervention knowledge of shop owners regarding harmful effects of tobacco
           and the anti-tobacco bill. A questionnaire to assess the impact of tobacco based
           advertisements on them would also be designed.

        4. Sector wise mapping Mapping of 100 yards of area around the selected education
           institutions will be conducted by social workers and health care workers.

      II. Activity Phase

        1. Enlisting of Tobacco/Tobacco Products Selling Establishments within 100 Yards of an
           Educational Institution

        2. Enlisting of Advertisements (direct or indirect) Within 100 yards of an Educational
           Institution The above two activities will be conducted by social workers and healthcare
           workers. They would survey 100 yards around the selected institution for area mapping
           and enlisting the hoardings or any other form of advertisements of tobacco or tobacco
           based products and shops where these products are sold.

      A. Pre-Intervention Phase

        1. Observation of compliance with the law. This would involve observation of compliance
           with the law with respect to presence of signage at the shops as per the current
           regulations.

        2. Awareness Assessment. Assess awareness of shopkeepers (selling tobacco or tobacco based
           products) about the harmful effects of tobacco and anti-tobacco law regarding sale of
           tobacco products.

      Here a questionnaire would be administered to the shopkeepers to assess their KAP regarding
      harmful effects of tobacco and tobacco based products and the law.

      B. Intervention Phase

        1. Implementing the intervention programme designed for creating awareness about harmful
           effect of tobacco (smoked and smokeless forms) and the current regulation to the
           shop-owners.

        2. Administering the questionnaire to objectively asses the impact of direct/ surrogate
           tobacco advertisements influencing student behavior and perception about tobacco and
           tobacco products.

        3. Implementing the intervention programme designed for creating awareness about harmful
           effect of tobacco (smoked and smokeless forms) and the current regulation to the
           students through interactive sessions with students in their respective educational
           institute.

      C. Post-Intervention Phase

      1. Administering the questionnaire to objectively asses the impact of intervention programme
      on the shop owners of tobacco and tobacco products selling outlets.

      III. Evaluation Phase

      Outcome measures:

        1. The proportion of direct to surrogate advertisements.

        2. Compliance of the educational institute with the Tobacco Bill.

        3. The proportion of surrogate advertisements which could be recalled with the original
           tobacco brand, by the students of the selected educational institute.

      Pre-assessment and post-assessment of the impact of the intervention programme on the
      enlisted shop-owners regarding the knowledge, attitude and practices regarding tobacco sale.
    
  