
    
      Lifestyle modification - focusing on a healthy diet, regular exercise and behaviour change -
      are the mainstay of first-line therapies in managing diabetes. There is strong evidence that
      lifestyle interventions can result in modest weight loss and improvements in clinical metrics
      such as glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c), blood pressure and cholesterol. For people with type 2
      diabetes, lifestyle modification and self-management education can lead to improved clinical
      outcomes and reduced risks of complications.

      Operationally, such interventions are often difficult to administer in the primary care and
      community setting because of lack of provider time/resources/training and difficulty in
      engaging patients. Fortunately, there is a growing body of evidence which shows that online
      programs and smartphone-based interventions can lead to improved clinical outcomes like
      weight loss and HbA1c reduction. Moreover, these interventions can be disseminated to a
      larger group of people and at a low cost. However, results from community based studies often
      fail to live up to what is achieved in clinical trials due to lack of clinician oversight and
      support. Without this support, patients often fail to engage in the intervention to the
      levels required for health benefits to materialize.

      This feasibility study will explore the use of GlycoLeap, a proprietary online lifestyle
      modification and self-management education program developed in Singapore for people with
      type 2 diabetes, as an add-on to primary care delivered through one of the SingHealth
      Polyclinics. The goal of the study is to test whether patients with diabetes who receive care
      at the clinic are amenable to such an intervention, to quantify program fidelity for those
      who do enroll in the study, and to explore the extent to which the intervention can be used
      in conjunction with primary care in efforts to improve health outcomes.
    
  