
    
      The rapid spread of COVID-19 has overwhelmed the capabilities of the Public Health System in
      major nations due to the large number of critically ill patients and patients seriously
      affected requiring intensive care.

      Reducing the viral load, along with other epidemiological measures, including social
      isolation and quarantine, may in the long run significantly reduce the R0 (Basic Reproductive
      Rhythm) of infection.

      To date, in our country there are no specific antiviral treatments approved by the regulatory
      authorities for COVID-19, and no vaccines so far exist. Symptomatic and supportive treatment
      has been the main intervention for patients with moderate to severe infection.

      The lack of a drug with a demonstrated solid antiviral efficacy warrants the need to explore
      new therapeutic options against SARS-CoV-2 / COVID-19.

      Nitazoxanide is a widely used thiazolide, approved by the FDA and ANMAT (Argentine drug
      regulatory authority) as an antiprotozoal, with a very good safety record for a variety of
      indications. NTX was shown to have extensive antiviral activity against, inter alia, animal
      and human coronaviruses. Indeed, it exhibits in vitro activity against MERS-CoV and other
      coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-2, where it inhibits the expression of viral protein N.
      Another proposed antiviral mechanism for Nitazoxanide involves PKR and eIF2α phosphorylation
      and the depletion of ATP-sensitive intracellular calcium deposits in infected cells, thereby
      inducing chronic sub-lethal stress of the endoplasmic reticulum and impairing the
      glycosylation of the structural protein.

      Exposure in clinical trials included a specific experience on patients with uncomplicated
      influenza-like illness, where the drug helped reduce the mean time for symptom relief.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of NTX (1,000mg/3 times
      per day plus standard treatment for 14 days in male and female patients (≥ 18 years and <60
      years) with COVID-19 infection, with mild symptoms, as compared to a control group treated
      with placebo. The proposed study dose regime of Nitazoxanide 1,000 mg/3 times per day (every
      8 hours) for 14 days may be modified if patients experience considerable GI adverse effects.
      In these cases, the dose may be lowered to one (1) 500 mg tablet every 6 hours (2,000 mg
      /day). Nitazoxanide has been also administered in other studies up to 4 g daily without
      significant adverse effects or changes in ECG or other laboratory values.

      The proposed treatment regimen is expected to reduce disease severity by earlier eradication
      of viral load in NTX-treated patients when compared to placebo-treated patients, thus
      preventing the dysregulation of the innate immune system caused by the viral infection and
      modifying the high mortality in older/vulnerable populations. Early virus negativization or
      viral load reduction can potentially reduce the severity of the symptoms, eventually
      preventing a liable collapse of the Health Care System and ensuring a more controlled
      response to the disease.

      Because of its known antiviral and safety profiles, and the fact that it can be orally
      administered to both adults and children, as well as its rapid availability and
      affordability, Nitazoxanide appears as an interesting alternative for such a situation.

      Statistical analysis: 1-tailed statistical test, with a 25% α value (or type I error) (p
      value <0.025) and a power (type II error, or β value) of 0.20 (power of 80%) for superiority
      of the intervention arm over the control arm. All statistical analyzes will be carried out
      using STATA, version 14.0.
    
  