
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) of young patients with
           newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) treated with conventional combination
           chemotherapy with vs without gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GMTZ).

      Secondary

        -  Compare the remission induction rates after two courses of therapy in these patients.

        -  Compare disease-free survival and OS in patients who are eligible for an human leukocyte
           antigen (HLA)-matched family donor (MFD) stem cell transplant (SCT) by virtue of their
           risk classification, with patients assigned to MFD SCT if a MFD is available, or to
           chemotherapy if a MFD is not available.

        -  Determine the outcome of patients with Down syndrome who are 4 years of age or older at
           diagnosis and treated with conventional combination chemotherapy without GMTZ.

        -  Compare the EFS and OS of patients with de novo AML treated with conventional
           combination chemotherapy with vs without GMTZ censoring MFD SCT recipients.

        -  Determine the prevalence and prognostic significance of molecular abnormalities of KIT,
           CCAAT-enhancer binding protein alpha (CEBPα) and MLL-Partial tandem duplications (PTD)
           genes in these patients.

        -  Determine the leukemic involvement of hematopoietic early progenitor and its role in
           defining response to therapy.

        -  Assess the ability of a second-generation flow cytometric assay to predict patients at
           high risk for relapse during periods of clinical remission.

        -  Examine whether GMTZ significantly improves EFS and OS in patients with higher CD33
           concentrations/intensity.

        -  Examine whether GMTZ significantly improves complete remission, EFS, and OS in each of
           the cytogenetic risk groups (high-, intermediate-, and low-risk) identified in prior
           Medical Research Council trials.

        -  Utilize fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis to identify variant patterns
           among subgroups of patients who demonstrate the same G-banded chromosomal abnormality
           (e.g., inv[16]/t[16;16], t[8;21], 11q23 abnormality) and determine whether these variant
           patterns account for the heterogeneity of responses to therapy.

        -  Examine the impact of complex karyotypes (≥ 3, ≥ 4, and ≥ 5 abnormalities) on OS and EFS
           in intermediate-risk patients for whom no high-risk or low-risk cytogenetic
           abnormalities exist.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      relapse risk (high vs intermediate vs low). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.
      Patients with Down syndrome are nonrandomly assigned to arm I (but do not undergo allogeneic
      stem cell transplant [SCT]).

        -  Arm I (standard therapy):

             -  Induction 1: Patients receive cytarabine IT at the time of diagnosis or on day 1*.
                Patients also receive cytarabine IV on days 1-10, daunorubicin hydrochloride IV
                over 6 hours on days 1, 3, and 5, and etoposide IV over 4 hours on days 1-5. After
                3 weeks of rest, all patients (regardless of remission status) proceed to induction
                2.

      NOTE: *Patients with Central Nervous System (CNS) disease receive cytarabine IT twice weekly
      until the cerebrospinal fluid is clear, followed by two additional IT treatments. Patients
      with refractory CNS leukemia after 6 doses of IT treatment are removed from the study.

        -  Induction 2: Patients receive cytarabine IT on day 1, cytarabine IV on days 1-8,
           daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 6 hours on days 1, 3, and 5, and etoposide IV over 4
           hours on days 1-5. After 3 weeks of rest, patients in complete remission (CR) proceed to
           intensification 1. Patients with refractory disease are removed from protocol therapy.

        -  Intensification 1: Patients receive cytarabine IT on day 1, high-dose cytarabine IV over
           1 hour on days 1-5, and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. After 3 weeks of rest,
           patients in remission proceed to intensification 2, followed by intensification 3.
           Patients in remission proceed to allogeneic SCT 2-8 weeks after blood counts recover.
           Patients with high-risk disease with an alternative donor proceed to intensification 2
           and 3, followed by allogeneic SCT. Patients not in remission are removed from protocol
           therapy.

        -  Intensification 2: Patients receive cytarabine IT on day 1, high-dose cytarabine IV over
           2 hours on days 1-4, and mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on days 3-6. After 3
           weeks of rest, patients proceed to intensification 3.

        -  Intensification 3: Patients receive high-dose cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1, 2,
           8, and 9 and asparaginase intramuscularly on days 2 and 9.

             -  Arm II:

        -  Induction 1: Patients receive treatment as in induction 1 of arm I. Patients also
           receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GMTZ) IV over 2 hours on day 6.

        -  Induction 2: Patients receive treatment as in induction 2 of arm I.

        -  Intensification 1: Patients receive treatment as in intensification 1 of arm I.

        -  Intensification 2: Patients receive treatment as in intensification 2 of arm I. Patients
           also receive GMTZ IV over 2 hours on day 7.

        -  Intensification 3: Patients receive treatment as in intensification 3 of arm I.

             -  Allogeneic SCT (for patients with intermediate- or high-risk disease):

        -  MFD: Patients receive a conditioning regimen comprising busulfan IV over 2 hours every 6
           hours on days -9 to -6 and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -2. Patients
           undergo allogeneic SCT on day 0. Patients receive cyclosporine IV or orally twice daily
           on days -1 to 180 and methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11. Patients receive
           graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis comprising cyclosporine IV over 1-4 hours or
           orally twice daily on days -1 to 180 and methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11.

        -  Matched alternative donor: Patients receive a conditioning regimen comprising busulfan
           and cyclophosphamide as above. Patients also receive antithymocyte globulin IV over 6-8
           hours on days -3 to -1. Patients then undergo allogeneic SCT and receive GVHD
           prophylaxis as above.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 3 years and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,012 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  