
    
      Background: The typical vaccination strategy of annual administration with inactivated
      trivalent influenza vaccine (TIV) or quadrivalent influenza vaccine (QIV) may provide
      suboptimal protection to older adults in a location with prolonged periods of influenza
      activity because of the weaker immune response of older adults to vaccination and because of
      post-vaccination waning in protection over the course of a year. We hypothesize that in a
      subtropical or tropical location with prolonged circulation of influenza viruses, the higher
      antibody titers over years achieved after receipt of annual high-dose vaccine,
      MF59-adjuvanted vaccine or recombinant haemagglutinin (HA) vaccine, or different vaccination
      strategies of their combinations with or without the standard vaccine, might lead to greater
      protection than annual receipt of standard vaccines.

      Aim: To test the immune profiles over time of older adults following different influenza
      vaccination strategies.

      Design and subjects: A 4-year immunogenicity study with a randomized controlled design among
      2200 older adults aged 65-82 years. We will enroll participants who are willing to receive
      annual influenza vaccination from the general community including community centres and
      day-care centres. Eligible individuals will be randomly allocated to ten intervention groups
      (i.e. annual standard QIV, annual MF59-adjuvanted TIV, annual high-dose TIV, annual
      recombinant HA QIV, and six combinations of their alternate annual use) consisting of four
      rounds of vaccination before each winter influenza season and followed up throughout the 4
      years. For each round of vaccination, blood samples for immunological tests will be collected
      before vaccination and 30 and 182 days after vaccination in all participants, and also at 7,
      91 and 273 days after vaccination in a subset of 10% of the participants. Acute illnesses
      among participants will be monitored by active surveillance efforts during influenza seasons.
      The vaccine formulation in each round of vaccination will be updated for each season
      according to WHO recommendations.

      Main outcome measures: Antibody titers measured by haemagglutination-inhibition assays, which
      is an established correlate of protection, in addition to other measurements on humoral and
      cell-mediated immune responses in the ten intervention groups over 4 years.
    
  