
    
      Hyponatremia is the most common electrolyte disorder encountered clinically. While acute
      and/or severe hyponatremia is commonly associated with significant symptoms, milder and more
      chronic forms of hyponatremia remain clinically inconspicuous as the brain effectively adapts
      to the low extracellular osmolality. However, recent evidence suggests that even mild
      hyponatremia is associated with subtle neurocognitive deficits, gait disturbances, falls,
      fractures, and osteoporosis, as well as increased mortality. Current therapeutic
      interventions for hyponatremia, including fluid restriction and loop diuretics lack clinical
      trial data to support their efficacy and are commonly associated with poor adherence. The
      discovery of vasopressin antagonists (vaptans) provided a new drug class targeting the most
      common mechanism of hyponatremia, i.e., elevated vasopressin. Despite the demonstrated
      efficacy of vaptans in clinical trials, their use has been limited by high cost as well as
      safety concerns related to risk of liver injury and the potential for rapid correction of
      hyponatremia. Thus, despite the significant morbidity and mortality associated with chronic
      non-severe hyponatremia, there is a paucity of definitively effective, safe, well-tolerated,
      and reasonably priced treatments.

      Small European case series have suggested that oral urea is safe and effective for the
      treatment of hyponatremia. However, urea has not been available for the treatment of
      hyponatremia in the United States until very recently. This research group recently published
      the first and only study describing the effectiveness and safety of a new American
      formulation of oral urea among hospitalized patients with hyponatremia. However, the latter
      was a retrospective study limited to hospitalized patients. Data from large clinical trials
      on the efficacy of urea for the prevention of patient-centered outcomes in those with chronic
      hyponatremia are lacking. The current proposal is a pilot study that seeks to establish the
      feasibility of recruiting ambulatory patients with chronic hyponatremia into a study of urea,
      determine the acceptability of urea to patients, and explore the effect of this agent on
      plasma sodium level (PNa), neurocognitive function, and postural stability. The investigators
      will recruit 30 ambulatory patients with chronic non-severe hyponatremia and randomize them
      to oral urea or no drug treatment for a period of 42 days. Following this initial phase, all
      participants will have a 10-day washout period, followed by a 42-day period in which
      participants initially randomized to no drug therapy will receive urea and those initially
      treated with urea will receive no drug therapy. The investigators will collect data regarding
      the ease of recruitment, participant adherence to urea, and adverse events related to its
      use. The investigators will monitor participants' PNa, neurocognitive function, and postural
      stability over the course of the study. The feasibility, acceptability, and proof of
      concept/efficacy data from this pilot study will confirm the investigator's capacity to
      conduct, and will inform the design of a large clinical trial that will assess the efficacy
      of urea for the prevention of serious clinical outcomes of chronic non-severe hyponatremia.
    
  