
    
      Outcome after hip fracture in the elderly is generally poor. According to the World Health
      Organization, fracture of the hip is associated with 20 % 1-year mortality and 50 % loss of
      function33. However, the high mortality and loss of function can be improved. For example,
      numerous studies have shown improvement in relevant outcomes when interventions such as
      improved thromboprophylaxis, care pathways and timely surgery are achieved. Up to 50 %
      decreases in mortality can be achieved with these interventions1,2,3.

      While improvements in perioperative care can improve outcome, the benefit of newer surgical
      techniques and implants is less clear. This is well demonstrated in the case of
      intertrochanteric fractures. Intertrochanteric fractures are those in which the primary
      fracture line occurs between the greater and lesser trochanter and include approximately 50 %
      of all hip fractures. Many surgical implants have been developed for this common fracture
      pattern; in general, the conventional implant is a sliding hip screw (SHS) in which a plate
      is fixed to the lateral cortex of the femur, distal to the fracture; and a large-diameter
      screw is placed in the centre of the femoral head, proximal to the fracture. The screw and
      plate slide relative to one another, permitting compression of the fracture and facilitating
      bone healing. In contrast, the newer implants are typically intramedullary nail designs
      (IMN), in which a metal nail is placed within the canal of the femur and a large-diameter
      screw is placed in the centre of the femoral head. The theoretical advantage of newer designs
      is based upon, first, an improved stability of the implant, allowing earlier and more
      aggressive mobilization; and second, a less invasive surgical procedure to minimize blood
      loss. Nonetheless, repeated trials and meta-analyses have failed to demonstrate an advantage
      to the IMN designs compared to SHS. In fact, perioperative complications seem to be higher
      using the IMN designs4,5.

      There are two primary reasons why IMN designs have not translated into improved results to
      date. First, perioperative complications, especially fractures of the femur, are more common
      with current IMN designs. Second, the supposed improved stability conferred by these devices
      may not actually be achieved. Current IMN designs retain the original concept of a single
      screw in the femoral head, which does not prevent rotation of the femoral head - a common
      reason for implant failure. As well, most current IMN designs permit unrestricted axial
      shortening of the femur, which may lead to significant leg length changes and alter gait.

      A new implant has been designed to take advantage of the inherent theoretical strengths of
      IMN designs and improve upon current design flaws. The InterTAN device (IT) has been designed
      to improve stability after fixation of intertrochanteric fractures. This device has a double
      proximal hip screw, to achieve rotational control; improved implant geometry, to improve
      immediate stability; and immediate compression to achieve stability while avoiding
      uncontrolled leg length changes. The IT device retains the percutaneous insertion technique
      of other IMN devices and simplifies insertion with redesigned instrumentation. The InterTAN
      device is the first device designed specifically to provide enhanced stability to
      intertrochanteric fractures and seems to offer significant promise compared to other IM
      designs.

      The InterTAN device has not, as of yet, been compared to conventional surgical techniques.
      According to the Cochrane Database Reviews, "Any new design should be evaluated in a
      randomised comparison with the sliding hip screw."
    
  