
    
      Introduction.

      The principal aim of the study is evaluating the accuracy of deep learning algorithm in
      differentiating between normal and abnormal terminal ileum against experienced Radiologists
      on MR Enterography images.

      The study builds on existing research, which has shown statistical methods can identify sites
      of small bowel Crohn's disease. However the process was time consuming >1hr and not fully
      automatic. Our project investigates if cutting edge "deep learning" algorithm (based on
      neural networks) coupled with increased computing power can provide accurate and timely
      information.

      The project has been designed jointly by Specialist Radiologists in Gastrointestinal imaging
      (who are aware of the challenges in imaging Crohn's disease accurately) and Imperial College
      Computer Science Department (who are experienced in developing neural networks for medical
      imaging). Input and review from London North-West Research and Development department is also
      acknowledged.

      Study design.

      Retrospective design & Recruitment.

      The study will retrospectively identify eligible patients and use a consecutive case sampling
      technique, (all eligible images will be included working backwards from most recent).

      This retrospective approach compromises between generalisability of findings being reduced
      vs. the study being carried out relatively quickly and at low cost (study has no grant
      funding).

      The investigators are confident of the generalisability of the results as a recruitment
      target of 113 normal cases and 113 cases with terminal ileal disease should cover the
      spectrum of normal and abnormal appearances (previous studies have used <50 image sets).

      Cases with normal terminal ileum on MRI are included as an approach to algorithm development
      involves comparison of imaging features of normal and abnormal terminal ileum on MRI studies.

      Non-experimental approach.

      The method uses MRI scans undertaken as part of standard clinical care. No additional imaging
      is undertaken for this study. The study results will not change the current treatment/s
      eligible patients are taking..

      Consent & confidentiality.

      As the images used for algorithm development are fully anonymized so explicit consent will
      not be obtained. This follows guidance from the General Medical Council Guidelines in 2011
      and The Royal College of Radiologists(UK) in 2017 which state anonymized recordings can be
      shared for use in research without consent.

      MRI images used for this study were acquired as part of routine standard clinical care, and
      would routinely be viewed by the Radiologists taking part in this study as part of their
      normal working practice.

      As soon as suitable patient is identified the patient's images will be copied in a fully
      anonymized form with no direct or indirect identifiers. A robust anonymization function is
      included in the Radiology image viewing program. Study subject Identifiers will be randomly
      allocated preventing pseudo-anonymization if scans from the same patient at different time
      points are included.

      No sensitive/patient identifiable data will be transferred for algorithm development during
      the study. The algorithm development is based on matching MRI pixel intensities to disease
      scores/ annotations across multiple scans. Anonymization does not affect the pixels within
      the image. Only aggregate data will be presented in publications- i.e. single case examples
      will not be published.

      Conflict of interest. The researchers on this study declare no conflict of interest.
    
  