
    
      Major affective disorders are common, severe, chronic and often a life-threatening illness.
      Major depression contributes to significant morbidity and mortality. Impairment in physical
      and social functioning resulting from depression can be just as severe as other chronic
      medical illnesses. Suicide is the cause of death in 10-20% of individuals with recurrent
      depressive disorders.

      Despite the availability of a wide range of antidepressant drugs, clinical trials indicate
      that 30% to 40% of patients with major depression fail to respond to first-line
      antidepressant treatment, despite adequate dosage, duration, and compliance. Thus, there is a
      clear need to develop novel and improved therapeutics for unipolar and bipolar depression.
      Recent preclinical studies suggest that antidepressants may exert delayed indirect effects on
      the glutamatergic system. Furthermore, a growing body of data suggests that mood disorders
      are associated with regional volumetric reductions, and cell loss and atrophy. It is thus
      noteworthy that lamotrigine, which, among other effects reduces glutamate release, has
      antidepressant effects, and a pilot study has suggested that NMDA antagonists may have
      antidepressant effects. Together, this data suggests that the glutamatergic system may play a
      role in the pathophysiology and treatment of depression, and that agents, which more directly
      reduce glutamatergic neurotransmission, may represent a novel class of antidepressants.

      Memantine (Akatinol memantine), an agent that is approved in Germany for dementia syndrome,
      Parkinson's disease has significant antiglutamatergic and neuroprotective properties, may
      prove to have antidepressant properties in depressed patients. In this study, we propose to
      investigate the potential efficacy of memantine, an agent which reduces glutamatergic output
      via open-channel block of the NMDA receptor-associated ion channel. Most importantly,
      memantine only blocks the channel during periods of abnormal, excessive activity, and leaves
      relatively spared normal neurotransmission. This finding is the basis for the minimal side
      effect profile displayed by memantine.

      Patients, ages 18 to 80, with a diagnosis of major depression (without psychotic features),
      will be randomized to double-blind treatment outpatient study to receive either memantine
      (5-20mg/day) or placebo for a period of 8 weeks. Following this acute period, patients who
      fully respond could enter a 16-week continuation phase. Acute efficacy will be determined by
      demonstrating a greater response rate using specified criteria. Approximately 112 patients
      with acute major depression will be enrolled in the study.
    
  