
    
      this is a pilot study on information obtained using a medical device marketed in accordance
      with CE standards, multicentric and prospective.

      The study participation consists of five assessments of the subjects' level of awareness.
      Each evaluation lasts a total of two hours.

      Patients will be assessed in their rooms as follows:

        -  Clinical evaluation of consciousness by the Coma Recovery Scale Revised (CRS-R), a
           clinical scale considered as the "gold-standard". Duration 45 minutes (standard care in
           routine care)

        -  15-minute break between the two evaluations.

        -  Paraclinical evaluation of consciousness by the brain-machine interface by measuring
           evoked potentials P300 auditory and vibrotactile and recording the EEG signal during a
           motor imaging task (imagine moving the right or left wrist). Duration 60 minutes.

      Instructions are given to the subject via headphones, in French. For the analysis of the
      evoked potentials, vibrotactile stimuli are delivered to the wrists and ankle of the subject.
      For auditory evoked potentials, auditory stimuli are delivered by headphones. The volume can
      be changed.

      These assessments that we will perform with the brain-machine interface are similar to the
      assessments and stimulation of awakening and awareness sessions performed by speech-language
      pathologists in the departments concerned (presentation of visual and auditory stimuli).
      CRS-R is used in routine care to assess patients' level of consciousness. There is no
      recommendation on the type of additional examination to be performed (neuroimaging, EEG,
      evoked potentials) or on their frequency for the evaluation of patients' consciousness at a
      distance from their initial brain injury.

      Evaluation by the brain-machine interface in the room makes it possible to avoid transport to
      the complementary examination services (Medical Imaging Services, Neurological Functional
      Explorations) which cause fatigue (patient whose vigilance is fluctuating) which can make the
      complementary examination non-contributory. Patients are also not assessed at a date and time
      set by a complementary examination service and room assessment allows the patient to be
      assessed in the best conditions for him/her when he/she appears to be at his/her highest
      level of consciousness and rested (after consultation with the family and/or healthcare
      team).

      Total duration of each session of a maximum of 2 hours, including the installation and
      uninstallation of the brain-machine interface.

      Patients receive their usual treatment and continue to participate in rehabilitation.
    
  