
    
      Background. Treatment with JAK-inhibitors has been shown to improve the signs and symptoms of
      rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and delay the development of radiographic damage. However, these
      remedies have been shown to increase risk of herpes zoster (HZ) infections in RA. Currently
      available live attenuated vaccine against HZ is contraindicated in patients receiving
      immunosuppressive treatments. A new subunit vaccine against HZ has recently been approved for
      vaccination of adults in Sweden. This vaccine (Shingrix) has been shown to elicit a strong
      cellular and humoral immune response in healthy adults regardless of age. Studies on the
      immunogenicity and efficacy of this vaccine in immunosuppressed patients, such as patients
      with RA, are scarce.

      Objectives. To investigate: 1) the immunogenicity of 2 doses of vaccine against HZ
      administrated 2 months apart in patients with RA treated with JAK-inhibitors for at least 3
      months compared to immunogenicity of the vaccine given to RA patients treated with or without
      other synthetic or biological disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) before the
      starting the treatment with JAK-inhibitors and healthy controls; 2) the tolerability of
      subunit vaccine against HZ i.e. whether vaccination is associated with increased disease
      activity, flare of RA or the onset of other autoimmune disease 3) long-term immunogenicity of
      two doses of the subunit vaccine against HZ; 4) the impact of smoking habits and alcohol
      consumption on the immunogenicity of vaccine and protection against HZ infection 5) the
      efficacy of the vaccine in preventing HZ.

      Methodology. Patients with RA, regularly followed at the Skåne University Hospital, section
      for rheumatology planned to start treatment with JAK inhibitors and patients already treated
      with JAK inhibitors for at least 3 months are eligible for the study and will be offered to
      participate in the study. At vaccination, the clinical examination is performed, and data on
      disease and treatment characteristics, co-morbidity, smoking and alcohol habits are
      collected. All participants are encouraged to take the notice of changes in the existing RA
      or other unexpected side effects following vaccinations. Blood samples will be collected
      immediately before the first vaccination and 6 days after the second dose of the vaccine and
      thereafter 1 and 3 years after vaccination. The levels of antibodies to glycoprotein E (gE)
      using standard ELISA will be performed on the blood samples collected at vaccination, 4-6
      weeks following the second dose of the vaccine and after 1 and 3 years. A flow-cytometric
      assay will be used for the detection of the cell-mediated immunity (number of antigen
      specific CD4+ T-cells) against the varicella-zoster virus. The prevalence of HZ among
      patients participating in the study will be compared to in-patient and out-patient register
      data on the corresponding infections among age- and sex- matched non-vaccinated controls
      using data from the regional health and care registry in the Skåne region, southern Sweden.

      Impact. Results from this project will provide the evidence whether 2 doses of the subunit HZ
      vaccine is immunogenic, safe and efficacious in patients with RA treated with JAK- inhibitors
      and which factors can influence the efficacy of the vaccine. These results can be used for
      the future recommendations on vaccination against HZ and when in relation to treatment the
      immunization should be performed in order to reach the best protection. In the long term this
      should result in decreased morbidity in HZ infections, complication of those infections and
      lower health-care costs.
    
  