
    
      Objective:

      Spinocerebellar Ataxia, type 7 (SCA7) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease
      characterized by progressive ataxia, retinal degeneration, and marked genetic anticipation.
      The objectives of this study are to 1) establish a cohort of participants with
      molecularly-confirmed SCA7 in anticipation of future clinical trials, 2) create a repository
      of plasma, DNA, and skin fibroblast samples from the accrued cohort of SCA7 participants, 3)
      formulate clinical outcome measures for future studies, and 4) acquire and perform
      preliminary analyses of data that may advance our understanding of the progression of retinal
      and neurodegeneration associated with molecularly-confirmed SCA7.

      Study Population:

      Twenty-five (25) participants, ages 12 and above, with molecularly-confirmed SCA7 will be
      accrued for this study.

      Design:

      In this natural history study, participants will be followed for at least five years. Because
      three years may be required to enroll 25 participants, this study will last up to eight
      years. All participants will undergo a standardized medical/ophthalmic history and a complete
      baseline eye examination, including non-invasive electrophysiology (e.g.,
      electroretinography), psychophysiology (e.g., microperimetry, static perimetry), and
      diagnostic imaging examinations (e.g., optical coherence tomography). In addition,
      participants will undergo a detailed neurology exam, neuroimaging (MRI, including special
      sequences) and consult with speech pathology and/or other rehabilitation services, audiology,
      and neuropsychology.

      To establish baseline, the participants will undergo two separate detailed eye examinations
      and a single neurology/neuroimaging examination within a one to two week period. Afterwards,
      they will return to the NEI clinic annually until the last-enrolled participant reaches five
      years of follow-up. Therefore, this study will require a minimum of five study visits.
      Follow-up visits will consist of a single detailed eye exam, a single detailed
      neurology/neuroimaging exam, and follow-up with appropriate consultants. Participants may be
      seen at more frequent intervals at the investigators discretion, depending on the clinical
      and research situation. Participants will be required to submit a blood sample for research,
      and they will have the option to provide a skin biopsy to facilitate research at a cellular
      level.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome for this study is determination of the amplitude and time of photopic and
      scotopic responses on electroretinogram. Secondary outcomes include changes in visual acuity,
      microperimetry, peripheral visual field, color vision, macular thickness, and neurologic
      outcome variables. Exploratory outcomes for this study include: 1) the formulation of
      clinical outcome measures for future studies and 2) the acquisition and preliminary analysis
      of data that may advance our understanding of the progression of retinal and
      neurodegeneration associated with molecularly-confirmed SCA7. Cells from skin biopsies may be
      grown in the laboratory to better understand SCA7, including the evaluation of potential
      treatments.
    
  