
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the efficacy of fluorouracil with or without IM-862 in terms of
      progression free survival in patients with previously untreated or recurrent metastatic
      adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum. II. Determine the toxicity of IM-862 and fluorouracil
      in these patients. III. Determine the efficacy of IM-862 in combination with irinotecan in
      terms of progression free survival in patients who have disease progression after receiving
      fluorouracil. IV. Obtain preliminary data on molecular markers of response and time to
      progression by determining levels of genes involved in adhesion, angiogenesis, apoptosis, and
      drug resistance prior to and during chemotherapy. V. Determine the molecular correlates for
      response and time to progression through analysis of serum and urine markers of angiogenesis,
      such as vascular endothelial growth factor and fibroblast growth factor, in patients treated
      with IM-862 in combination with fluorouracil or irinotecan. VI. Compare the quality of life
      of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, crossover study. Patients
      are randomized to one of two treatment arms: Arm I: Patients receive fluorouracil IV
      continuously on days 1-21 and IM-862 intranasally three times daily on days 1-28. Courses
      repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression. Patients who develop disease
      progression are taken off fluorouracil and IM-862, and then receive irinotecan IV over 90
      minutes weekly for 4 weeks. Courses repeat every 6 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression. Arm II: Patients receive fluorouracil as in arm I and placebo intranasally three
      times daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression.
      Patients who develop disease progression are taken off fluorouracil and placebo, and then
      receive irinotecan and IM-862 as in arm I on days 1-42. Courses repeat every 6 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression. Quality of life is assessed prior to study, and then prior to
      every course during study. Patients are followed for a minimum of 6 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 66 patients (33 per arm) will be accrued for this study within
      26-27 months.
    
  