
    
      COVID-19 patients with a severely symptomatic progression with development of an ARDS due to
      SARS-CoV-2 need prolonged intensive care treatment involving pharmacological immobilization,
      sedation and mechanical ventilation, leaving them at a very high risk for developing CIM. CIM
      is associated with increased mortality and significant consequences for recovery and the
      ability to return to normal daily life. Up to date, there are no studies investigating the
      mid- or long-term course of the novel COVID-19 disease. The present study therefore aims to
      evaluate the clinical outcome of patients with ARDS due to SARS-CoV-2 with special attention
      to the development of CIM and its underlying causes. To provide the possibility of early
      diagnosis of CIM, critically ill patients will be regularly screened for muscle membrane
      alterations using MRVC measurements.

      Objective:

      The primary objective of this project is to prospectively evaluate the incidence and severity
      of CIM in patients with ARDS due to SARS-CoV-2.

      The secondary objectives of this project include:

        1. To assess the quality of life of patients with and without CIM after ARDS due to
           SARS-CoV-2.

        2. To monitor changes in muscle excitability parameters in critically ill patients with
           ARDS due to SARS-CoV-2 in relation to a later confirmed diagnosis of CIM according to
           the current standards.

        3. To explore underlying pathophysiological processes for CIM (mitochondrial dysfunction,
           medication e.g. Neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA), sedative drugs, and metabolic
           (amino acids, inflammatory parameters)).

      Method:

      After enrolment in the study, patients will be examined for the first time within 24 hours
      after admission to the ICU, and follow-up visits will be performed at day 2, 5 and 10 or upon
      termination of therapy with NMBA, respectively. The endpoint will be at the clinical
      follow-up appointment.
    
  