
    
      Greater than 400,000 persons die suddenly each year in the US. The implantable
      cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) has revolutionized the primary prevention of sudden cardiac
      death (SCD) following myocardial infarction (MI), however, risk stratification remains
      limited and rests solely on the identification of left ventricular dysfunction. The goal of
      this study is to determine if genetic factors influence the risk of ventricular arrhythmia
      remotely after myocardial infarction.

      In order to determine if ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation remotely after
      MI is a heritable trait, we will conduct a family based case-control sibling study of
      patients who have received an ICD for ischemic cardiomyopathy. As a first step, we will
      utilize the GENECARD registry, an existing family linkage study of premature cardiovascular
      disease, to determine the prevalence of sibling concordance for ICD implantation following
      MI. Probands and siblings in the GENECARD study will be surveyed regarding their ICD history.
      The sibling recurrence risk ratio for ICD implantation following MI and subsequent ICD
      therapies will be used to estimate the sample size required to validate heritability, in a
      larger patient population. In the validation phase of this protocol, we will use a (1) single
      healthcare system database (Duke Cardiovascular Databank) and a (2) regional population-based
      registry, in order to determine concordance for ICD therapies. Patients who agree to
      participate and provide informed consent will be surveyed regarding their personal ICD
      history and that of their siblings. The prevalence of ICD therapies will be ascertained in
      the probands, siblings, and the overall cohort. Sibling concordance for ICD implantation and
      sibling concordance for subsequent appropriate ICD therapies will be used to determine the
      sibling recurrence risk ratio for appropriate ICD therapies remotely after MI.
    
  