
    
      Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder that can develop after exposure
      to a terrifying event in which grave physical harm occurred or was threatened. People with
      PTSD have persistent frightening thoughts and memories of their past ordeal and often feel
      emotionally numb, especially with people to whom they were once close. PTSD was first
      recognized in male combat veterans. Today, however, the majority of people who have PTSD are
      young women who have experienced non combat-related trauma, such as sexual or physical
      assault or a life-threatening illness or accident. The disorder can be short-lived, but PTSD
      can also become chronic, with long lasting symptoms that are often treatment-resistant,
      possibly causing severe functional disability. Frequent trauma-related nightmares and other
      debilitating sleep disruptions are examples of chronic PTSD symptoms for which an effective
      treatment has not been developed. Sertraline and paroxetine, both selective serotonin
      reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), are the only drugs approved by the FDA for treating PTSD.
      Neither of them, however, has been effective in reducing PTSD-related sleep disruption.
      Studies have shown that the drug prazosin has been effective in reducing distressing
      trauma-related nightmares in older male combat veterans. This study will evaluate the
      effectiveness of prazosin in treating post-traumatic stress disorder caused by noncombat
      trauma in individuals already being treated with SSRIs.

      Participants in this double-blind study will first undergo 12 weeks of treatment with
      psychotherapy and a standard SSRI. After 12 weeks, participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive either prazosin or placebo in addition to psychotherapy and standard SSRI treatment
      for a total of 8 weeks. Study visits will occur weekly for the first 12 weeks, and then at
      Weeks 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 during the 8-week phase. Additionally, follow-up visits will be held
      4 and 18 weeks post-intervention. PTSD symptoms, disorder severity, and frequency of sleep
      disturbances will be assessed.
    
  