
    
      Cannabis use is particularly prevalent and problematic among youth. Compared with only one in
      eleven cannabis-exposed adults, one in six cannabis-exposed youth develops cannabis use
      disorder. Moreover, youth are more prone than adults to potentially lasting adverse effects
      of cannabis use, including cognitive impairment, altered brain development, poor educational
      outcome, and diminished life achievement. Despite this, relatively little work has focused on
      developing optimally efficacious cannabis use disorder treatments, particularly among youth.
      Current evidence-based treatments convey generally small to modest effect sizes, and novel
      approaches are critically needed. Among the most promising approaches is the over-the-counter
      antioxidant medication N-acetylcysteine (NAC). Our team previously demonstrated superior NAC
      versus placebo (PBO) abstinence outcomes in youth with CUD who concurrently received the
      behavioral treatment contingency management (CM). Further work is now needed to test whether
      NAC is efficacious without a platform of CM. The proposed trial is a 12-week randomized,
      placebo-controlled trial of N-acetylcysteine for cannabis use disorder (CUD) in youth
      (N=192). Participants will be randomized to double-blind NAC or PBO, yielding two
      equally-allocated treatment groups. All participants will receive brief weekly cannabis
      cessation counseling and medication management. The primary efficacy outcome will be the
      proportion of negative urine cannabinoid tests during the 12-week active treatment, compared
      between groups. We will also serially assess cognitive task performance, examining changes in
      performance among participants who achieve abstinence versus those that do not. This proposed
      trial is the clear "next step" in the assessment of NAC as an extremely promising youth CUD
      treatment modality, and is positioned to inform researchers, clinicians, and the general
      public, addressing a critical need for optimization of youth CUD treatment.
    
  