
    
      OBJECTIVES

      Primary Objectives:

        -  To compare the overall survival (OS) of patients treated with VTX-2337 + PLD versus
           those treated with PLD alone in women with recurrent or persistent, epithelial ovarian,
           fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer.

        -  To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) between the two treatment groups using
           Immune-Related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST).

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) between the two treatment groups using
           Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1).

        -  To compare the nature, frequency and severity of drug-related adverse events (AEs)
           between the two treatment groups.

      Exploratory Objectives:

        -  To compare the best overall response rate (ORR) and duration of response (based on the
           probability of being in response function [PBRF]) between the two treatment groups using
           irRECIST and RECIST 1.1.

        -  To compare the disease control rate (DCR) between the two treatment groups using
           irRECIST and RECIST 1.1.

        -  To assess the impact of immune status and response on the clinical effects (OS, PFS,
           DCR, ORR, PBRF, AEs) of study treatment.

        -  To assess the effect of TLR8 polymorphisms and BRCA1/BRCA2 mutations on the clinical
           effects (OS, PFS, DCR, ORR, PBRF, AEs) of study treatment.

        -  To assess the effect of immune cell subsets, as measured by immunohistochemistry and
           micro RNA in primary tumor tissue (e.g. immune score), on the clinical effects (OS, PFS,
           DCR, ORR, PBRF, AEs) of study treatment.

        -  To assess whether the presence of autoantibodies to tumor-derived proteins are
           predictive of the clinical effects (OS, PFS, DCR, ORR, PBRF, AEs) of study treatment.

      OUTLINE:

      This is Phase 2 multicenter clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the
      combination of VTX-2337 + PLD compared to PLD + Placebo.

      The dosing schedule will be the same for both treatment arms, and will be based on a 28-day
      cycle. The starting dose schedule is PLD on Day 1 plus VTX-2337 or placebo on Day 3, Day 10,
      and Day 17 for the first 4 cycles. Starting with cycle 5, the dose regimen will be PLD on Day
      1 plus VTX-2337 or placebo on Day 3.

      Blood samples are collected periodically during cycle 1 for pharmacodynamics,
      pharmacogenomics, and other research studies.

      Patients will receive therapy until disease progression based on Immune-Related RECIST or
      until adverse effects prohibit further therapy. Following treatment completion, all patients
      will be followed with physical exams and histories every three months for the first two
      years, and then every six months for the next three years, and then
    
  