
    
      Objective

      The STADIA Pilot Study will be used to evaluate the feasibility of conducting a three-year
      multi-centre trial investigating the long-term safety and efficacy outcomes associated with
      transdermal nicotine use immediately following an acute coronary syndrome (ACS).

      Rationale

      Patients who initially survive an ACS are at high risk of recurrent cardiac events or
      cardiovascular death. Within the first 6 months alone, 12% of patients will die or suffer
      another ACS, while another 23% will require revascularization for angina. Patients who are
      able to quit smoking reduce their chances of suffering a recurrent ACS or cardiovascular
      death within the next year by ≥ 50%. After surviving an ACS, most patients are highly
      motivated to stop smoking. However, as nicotine is an extremely addictive psychoactive drug,
      up to 60% of patients who attempt to quit relapse. Hospitalization following an ACS provides
      an opportunity for smokers to quit, as smoking while in hospital is prohibited. However,
      abstinence while hospitalized also precipitates intense nicotine withdrawal symptoms, which
      are largely responsible for the high rates of smoking relapse. Nicotine replacement therapy
      (NRT) can ameliorate many of these symptoms and increase the chances that smokers continue to
      abstain from tobacco use after discharge. Of the available NRTs, transdermal nicotine is
      associated with the least severe cardiovascular effects, as it delivers nicotine more
      gradually (with lower peak values) than nicotine gum or inhalers. Although transdermal
      nicotine more than doubles long-term smoking cessation rates when compared with placebo, it
      is rarely prescribed by physicians in the weeks immediately following an ACS because the
      possible cardiovascular effects of nicotine after an ACS have yet to be systematically
      evaluated.

      Methods

      A total of 30 patients will be randomized within 48-hours of suffering an ACS from the Jewish
      General Hospital (Montreal, QC) and collaborating centres. Prior to randomization, all
      patients will receive standardized smoking cessation counselling. Subjects who satisfy the
      inclusion and exclusion criteria for the trial will be randomized within 48 hours of
      suffering an ACS to wear a transdermal nicotine patch on either day 1 or day 2 of the study
      period. Subjects will apply a patch the morning of their treatment day and keep it on for 24
      hours. Patients will be advised to discuss smoking cessation strategies with their treating
      physician and subsequent care will be left to the discretion of this physician. Twenty-four
      hour Holter monitoring will be used to measure heart rate, incidence of arrhythmia, and the
      duration of ischemic events at day 1 and day 2 of the study period. Systolic and diastolic
      blood pressure will be assessed via 24-hour Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM). ABPM
      will be used on day 1 and day 2 of the study period. On day 1 the study nurse will record the
      severity of nicotine withdrawal symptoms, side effects, any smoking relapses and if so, how
      many cigarettes were smoked, and any medications they are currently taking. On day 7 and 14
      patients will be contacted by telephone to determine the severity of nicotine withdrawal
      symptoms, any smoking relapses and if so, how many cigarettes were smoked and any medications
      they are currently taking. Cardiovascular events will be assessed by patient monitoring and
      by a study nurse. Nicotine withdrawal symptoms according to the Hughes-Hatsukami symptom
      scale and common nicotine patch side effects, severity-rated on a five-point scale, will be
      determined through study nurse inquiries on days 1, 7, and 14 (6). Carbon monoxide monitors
      will be used to measure levels of expired CO at baseline. Participants whose levels of
      expired CO exceed 10 ppm will be classified as smokers.

      Significance

      If shown to be safe and effective, transdermal nicotine will have a major impact on the
      secondary prevention of recurrent cardiac events on the 20,000 Canadian smokers who suffer an
      ACS each year.
    
  