
    
      Chronic non-cancer pain is a major problem in society and a common cause to seek health care.
      The suffering is complex as it, besides pain, often includes psychological symptoms and may
      decrease the ability to participate in work life. Pharmacological treatments have limited
      possibilities to ease suffering. Opioids used in this population have evidence to ease pain
      and to some extent increase physical ability when used in limited treatment periods and in
      selected patients. Medium to long-term opioid therapy, extended beyond three months, lack
      evidence of easing pain or increase physical ability.

      The current study is conducted on a specialized pain care unit (Skane University Hospital;
      Lund) and aims at taper long-term opioid therapy with support from physician and nurse and
      study the effects of tapering.

      Method: Randomized controlled study, without concealment. Waiting-list constitutes the
      control-group. Intervention means tapering with a motivated patient. Follow up at four and
      twelve months.

      Primary end-point: collected opioid prescriptions registered in The National Board of Health
      and Welfare registry expressed in milligram of morphine equivalent.

      Secondary end-point: Data will be retrieved from the Swedish Quality Registry for Pain
      Rehabilitation. The database contains participants' self-report of variables measuring the
      impact of rehabilitation on depressive symptoms, anxiety, rating of pain and acceptance to
      pain. Assessments are made prior to, at the end of and one year after discharge of the
      rehabilitation program.

      As denying tapering or participation is shown to be as common as decision to taper drugs at
      baseline an extended ethical approval was acquired also retrospective. This approval covers
      obtaining collected prescribed medication and prescribed opioid replacement therapy
      (Buprenorphine or Methadone) after one year. The study may describe the excluded population
      better this way.
    
  