
    
      In this growing context of aging societies, the number of institutionalized older adults
      tends to increase. Several reasons lead to the institutionalization of older people,
      including physical and cognitive decline. In Portugal,in the population aged over 60 years,
      there was approximately 160,287 people with dementia, which corresponds to 5.91% of the
      people covered by these age groups. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is considered as an
      intermediate state between normal cognitive ageing and mild dementia, particularly in older
      people. It is increasingly recognized as a major health problem associated with an increased
      risk for dementia. Cognitive health maintenance is essential for preventing cognitive
      impairment and delaying the onset of dementia, dependency, and (in)ability to self-care. In
      older people with cognitive decline, cognitive stimulation can be a promising intervention
      for reducing depressive symptoms and depressive vulnerability, improving their quality of
      life. On the other hand, healthy ageing has traditionally focused on disease prevention, but
      greater efforts are needed to reduce frailty and dependency, and maintain independent
      physical and cognitive function among older adults. The aging process associated with a
      sedentary lifestyle can lead to the decline of some physical capacities. Maintaining
      functional status and reducing age-related morbidity is an important part of active ageing
      policies; it promotes independent living, improves the quality of life, and reduces health
      care costs. In this way exercise programs reduce age-related decline in functional capacity
      and maintain muscle strength and mass among adults aged 65-85 years.

      The research team intend to intervene in the promotion of active ageing, including physical
      exercise and activities that promote the delay and/or maintenance of the cognitive and
      physical health of frail older people.

      In this way, a randomized controlled trial will be conducted by the research team, composed
      by two arms: experimental group (CI group) and control group. The aim of this study is to
      assess the impact of the CI program on frail older people. The evaluation of the
      effectiveness of the Combined Intervention will have the following methodology:

      - Sample Test: For sample size calculation it was used the software G*Power 3.1.9.2. Power
      analysis was based on a type I error of 0.05; power of 0.80; effect size f=0.30; and ANOVA:
      repeated measures between factors determined a total sample size of 62.Participants with more
      than 65 or more years will be recruited from two homes for the aged. Participants will be
      randomly distributed in groups of 8, in the control group and in the experimental group.
      Participants will be classified as having mild to moderate cognitive decline and risk of fall
      from mild to moderate. The control group will receive usual care.

      -Intervention: The combined intervention will be implemented over 21 weeks, 4 times a week.
      Cognitive Stimulation Program (CSP) will be applied once a week and Physical Activity Program
      (PAP) 3 times a week for 30-60 min. Participants using rolling walkers will benefit from the
      autoblocking kit mechanism for rolling walkers mechanism (ABMRW) during the execution of the
      PAP.

      -Data analysis: Statistical analysis will be performed through repeated meaures and ANOVA.
      Age, gender, and initial scores of depression and Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) will be
      introduced as covariates. Intention-to-treat analysis will be done to analyze the data of the
      people who left the study.
    
  