
    
      The Zimbabwe Vitamin A for Mothers and Babies (ZVITAMBO) project was a placebo-controlled
      randomized trial, which enrolled 14,110 mothers and their infants within 96 hours of delivery
      from one of 14 hospitals and clinics in greater Harare between November 25, 1997 and January
      29, 2000. Mother-baby pairs were eligible if neither had an acutely life threatening
      condition, the baby was a singleton with birth weight >1500 g, and the mother planned to stay
      in Harare after delivery. Written informed consent was obtained from the mother.
      Socio-economic and demographic characteristics were collected by interview and obstetric
      details of the pregnancy and delivery were transcribed from hospital records. Gestational age
      was estimated. Infant birth weight was measured using an electronic scale. Infant length,
      infant head circumference, and maternal arm circumference were measured. Arm circumference
      was measured as an indicator of maternal nutritional status rather than Body Mass Index
      because it is less influenced by fluid fluctuations during the immediate post partum period.
      Addresses were recorded for the mother's urban and rural residences (it is common for urban
      Zimbabweans to travel frequently to extended family rural homesteads), her place of work, her
      husband's place of work, and that of relative who would always know her whereabouts.

      At recruitment, study nurses collected plasma and serum from mothers and babies. Maternal
      plasma was stored at room temperature (~20° C) and other samples in a cool box (~ 10-15° C)
      before being transferred to the laboratory within 2 hr of collection.

      Mother-baby pairs were randomized to one of four treatment groups: mother received 400,000 IU
      vitamin A (as retinyl palmitate) and baby received 50,000 IU vitamin A (Aa group); mother
      received 400,000 IU vitamin A and baby received placebo (Ap group); mother received placebo
      and baby received 50,000 IU vitamin A (Pa group); and both mother and baby received placebo
      (Pp group). Treatment and placebo capsules appeared identical and both contained a soy oil
      base with vitamin E as a preservative (50 IU per maternal capsule; 10 IU per infant capsule)
      (Tishcon Corporation, Westbury, NY, USA).

      A separate team at Johns Hopkins University prepared the study capsule packets. Study
      identification numbers were randomly allocated to the treatment groups by computer in blocks
      of 12. The numbers were printed on adhesive labels and affixed to amber-colored zip-lock
      plastic bags that were packed with the assigned capsules. Capsule packets were prepared
      separately for each of the four treatment groups, and then merged into numeric order before
      shipping to Zimbabwe where series of packets were distributed to each recruitment site. As
      each mother-baby pair was recruited, the capsules in the next sequential bag were
      administered, and the associated study number assigned to the pair. Lists linking the study
      number to the treatment were kept in sealed envelopes and encrypted computer files that were
      not accessible to the Zimbabwe-based study team.

      Pairs were followed at 6 wk, 3 mo, and then 3 monthly up to 24 months at one of three study
      clinics. Home visits were attempted for defaulting pairs to either their urban or rural home
      anywhere within the Zimbabwe borders. We initially planned to follow all HIV-positive mothers
      and their infants and a ~50% random sample of HIV-negative mothers and their infants for 24
      months. However, in June 2000, economic conditions necessitated discontinuing the second year
      of follow up. This meant that 24%, 48% and 100% of the pairs were reassigned to 24 months,
      >18 month, and >12 month follow up, respectively. Follow up visits included assessment of
      recent illness, sick clinic visits, and hospitalizations by the mother or infant;
      anthropometric measures, infant dietary history, maternal sexual and reproductive health
      practices, and blood and breast milk sampling. Free clinical care included treatment of acute
      infections with appropriate antimicrobial drugs, referral to government treatment facilities
      for suspect tuberculosis, counseling and antibiotic treatment for mastitis, and oral
      rehydration solution education for diarrhea. HIV-related and psychosocial counseling was
      available throughout the study.

      For mothers and infants who died, cause of death was determined from medical records for
      infants who died in a hospital or from review of verbal autopsy information by a study
      pediatrician (infants) or study obstetrician (mothers), who were masked to treatment group,
      for infants dying at home. Multiple causes of death were permitted and were not ranked
      hierarchically, in keeping with the recommendations of an expert group convened by the World
      Health Organization.

      Maternal plasma were tested for HIV at baseline by two ELISA tests run in parallel, and by
      Western Blot when duplicate pairs of ELISA test results were discordant. Mothers who tested
      negative at baseline were retested for HIV at every blood sampling. Quality control was
      monitored by use of kits controls, inclusion of an internal QC sample on every plate, and
      participation in the quality assurance program for HIV testing of the Zimbabwe Ministry of
      Health. Serum retinol concentration was measured in a subsample of mothers and babies by
      HPLC; quality control was monitored by inclusion of standards provided by the National
      Institute of Standards and Technology (Gaithersburg, MD, USA) and participation in their
      quality assurance program Hemoglobin was measured for women enrolled from October 1, 1998 to
      the end of the study (about 60% of the total sample) by HemoCue (Mission Viejo, CA). Among
      mothers who were HIV-positive at recruitment, CD4 cells were enumerated within 48 hours of
      phlebotomy (Facscount, Becton Dickinson International, Erembodegem, Belgium), and viral load
      was measured in a subsample (Roche Amplicor HIV-1 Monitor test version 1.5, Roche
      Diagnostics, Alameda, CA, USA).

      Plasma and cell pellets were archived from HIV-exposed infants at all visits. After follow-up
      was completed, the last available specimen from each infant was tested (plasma by GeneScreen
      ELISA for samples collected ≥18 months; or cell pellets by Amplicor HIV -1 DNA test version
      1.5 (Roche Diagnostic Systems) for samples collected <18 months). If this sample was
      HIV-negative, the infant was classified as negative; if it was HIV-positive, samples
      collected at younger ages were tested to determine timing of infection.

      Education and counseling about infant feeding in the context of HIV was updated throughout
      the trial. When the trial began, information about HIV transmission through breastfeeding was
      scanty. In June 1998, new infant feeding guidelines were published by UNAIDS/UNICEF/WHO
      stating that HIV-positive mothers should be fully informed about the risks and benefits of
      infant feeding alternatives and empowered to make their best personal choice. In response, we
      modified our procedures to provide 24-hour turn-around time for maternal HIV test results.
      Study nurses were trained to counsel HIV-positive women about feeding options and kitchens
      were established for teaching safe replacement feeding. Additional funding was obtained to
      conduct formative research to inform a more effective program to educate mothers about infant
      feeding in the context of HIV. This program included group education, incorporating infant
      feeding issues into individual counseling, and integrating mother to child HIV transmission
      issues into on-going work-site education programs targeting men, which were being run by
      other organizations in Harare. The program was fully implemented within the trial by November
      1st 1999. It emphasized exclusive breastfeeding for HIV-positive mothers who chose to
      breastfeed, optimal breastfeeding techniques to avoid cracked nipples, milk stasis, and
      mastitis; prompt treatment of breast problems; and safe sex practices especially during the
      breastfeeding period. These four 'safer breastfeeding' practices were also promoted among all
      status-unknown and HIV negative women. Known HIV-positive women were counseled to stop
      breastfeeding early.

      All laboratory analyses and data management was conducted in Harare. The protocol and interim
      analyses were reviewed by an external data safety and monitoring committee.

      The study protocol was approved by the Medical Research Council of Zimbabwe, The Medicines
      Control Authority of Zimbabwe, The Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health Committee
      on Human Research, and the Montreal General Hospital Ethics Committee.
    
  