
    
      Background:

        -  Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) is the 3rd most common cause of cancer globally with an
           increasing incidence worldwide.

        -  Management of hepatic malignancies from primary Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) or
           metastatic disease involves a multidisciplinary approach of surgery and chemotherapy and
           in the case of HCC, transplant, anti-VEGF sorafenib, or local or regional image guided
           therapies.

        -  Thermal ablation (RFA or MWA) and transarterial embolization (TAE) are minimally
           invasive image guided local or regional therapies that have been extensively studied for
           decades, and more recently and to a lesser extent have been studied together as a
           combination therapy.

        -  LC Bead LUMI , a radiopaque embolic bead product (company code BTG 13-002), is an
           imageable spherical embolic product that can be visualised by X-ray based imaging (e.g.,
           fluoroscopy and CT).

        -  The beads are non-resorbable microspheres with calibrated size ranges that occlude
           arteries for the purpose of blocking the blood flow to a target tissue.

        -  LC Bead LUMITM are intended to be used for the embolization of hypervascular tumors and
           arteriovenous malformations (AVMs).

      Objectives:

      -To determine the imaging characteristics of radiopaque beads including qualitatively
      comparing virtual and actual bead perfusion in the treatment of hepatic tumors using bead
      embolization.

      Eligibility:

        -  Treatment eligibility for TAE requires agreement between the Interventional Radiologist
           reviewing imaging and feasibility of TAE and the patient's NIH primary treatment team
           who will evaluate the patient's clinical parameters to undergo anesthesia and the TAE
           and or ablation procedure.

        -  At least greater than or equal to18 years of age

        -  Patients with pathologically proven, hepatic-dominant neoplasm.

        -  The extent of hepatic metastases is <50% of total hepatic volume.

        -  Past treatment with Y90 must be 6 months from TAE treatment and liver function within
           NIH institutional limits

        -  ECOG performance status <2

        -  Patients must have normal organ and marrow function per laboratory parameters

        -  Patients with minor allergies to iodine will also be excluded.

      Design:

        -  Number of Participants: 30

        -  Recruitment Time Frame: 2 years

        -  Type of Study: Feasibility study

        -  This is a pilot study to assess the characteristics of radio-opaque bland beads during
           TAE in the treatment of hepatic malignancies. Patients may also receive thermal ablation
           treatment in conjunction with TAE if clinically indicated, although comparison of bead
           treatment with or without thermal ablation is not part of the study s aim.

        -  To compare virtual and actual perfusion characteristics of the LUMI radiopaque beads
           with CBCT and/or CT. Patients scans will be obtained per TAE standard of care schedule.
           Other imaging evaluation of this therapy may be performed at regular intervals following
           completion of treatment, and will be governed by standard conventional imaging regimen
           post treatment.

        -  The choice of which combination of imaging (CT, Cone beam CT (CBCT), or fluoroscopy) and
           when to image, will be made by the clinical care team for the patient, based upon
           multidisciplinary recommendations and NIH Clinical Center customary use and standard of
           care, and will be purely clinical decisions (not research-related).

        -  The participants will have a diagnosed hepatic malignancy, and be eligible to undergo
           transarterial embolization and thermal ablation under general anesthesia. The LC LUMI
           bead will be used in the transarterial embolization procedure.

        -  Follow up will continue for 12 months from the time of initial treatment.

        -  Patients will be evaluated in multidisciplinary GI medical oncology clinic and up to 30
           patients will be enrolled to accrue 20 evaluable patients.
    
  