
    
      Intralesional Tetracycline Injection in the Treatment of Chalazia

      Authors: Bryan R. Costin, M.D. and Julian D. Perry, M.D.

      Purpose: To investigate the therapeutic role of intralesional tetracycline injection when
      compared to observation alone in the treatment of chalazia.

      Introduction:

      The tetracycline family includes tetracycline, doxycycline, and minocycline and this group of
      compounds has a surprising number of properties including but not limited to antibiotic,
      anti-malarial, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant. Recent applications include uses both in
      sclerotherapy in a wide variety of conditions from ganglions cysts to lymphangiomas to
      ovarian cysts as well as in the reduction of hypertrophic scarring in rabbit models.1,2,3,4
      In 2009, there were approximately 130 ongoing clinical trials studying this class of drugs in
      an astounding variety of conditions from gingivitis to Alzheimer disease to brain cancer.5

      Chalazia are lipogranulomatous inflammatory lesions of the eyelid and are one of the most
      common eyelid lesions and an extremely frequent presenting complaint to the ophthalmologist.
      Chalazia often represent significant morbidity for the patients suffering from these lesions
      because they are often recurrent, can be refractory to treatment, and are disfiguring.
      Consequently, chalazia can also be a challenge to the ophthalmologist. Oral tetracyclines
      have been shown to be effective in the treatment of ocular rosacea and meibomian gland
      dysfunction (MGD), which are conditions commonly seen in association with chalazia. The
      anti-inflammatory effect of the tetracyclines is thought to be beneficial in rosacea and
      these drugs have been shown to alter the fatty acid composition of the lipid layer of the
      tear film perhaps explaining their efficacy in MGD.6

      Chalazia eventually resolve without intervention, but the process can take many months and
      patients are frequently dissatisfied with observation as a treatment modality. Often patients
      choose incision and drainage (I&D) of the lesion and this method is often successful. Another
      treatment shown to be effective in chalazion treatment is the injection of corticosteroid
      directly into the lesion, hence providing a depot anti-inflammatory effect.7 However, unlike
      corticosteroids, the tetracyclines would offer antibiotic, sclerosant, and lipid tear film
      augmentation, in addition to their anti-inflammatory effect. Further, tetracyclines are FDA
      approved for the treatment of acne8, which is defined as inflammation of pilosebaceous
      units9, and chalazia are defined as inflammation of sebaceous glands10. With these multiple
      roles in mind, we propose injection of tetracycline into chalazia to investigate its use as a
      multipurpose depot.

      Methods:

      After IRB approval, chalazia patients who wish to participate will be enrolled after the
      risks, benefits, alternatives, and personnel have been explained to them and informed consent
      has been obtained. A total of 80 subjects will be randomized to one of two groups: 40
      subjects to observation alone and 40 subjects to treatment with an intralesional injection of
      0.05 mL 2% tetracycline solution. Subjects will be excluded from the study if they are less
      than 18 years of age, are pregnant, have chalazia of less than 1 week duration, have known
      allergies to tetracycline or its derivatives, or are currently taking oral tetracyclines or
      have taken them in the past 3 months. Men, post-menopausal women, and women who have
      undergone hysterectomy, bilateral oophorectomy, or bilateral salpingectomy will not be tested
      for pregnancy. Pregnancy testing (urine or serum) will be performed on women of childbearing
      age before enrollment and the results checked prior to the administration of treatment.

      For patients with multiple lesions, either on the same or opposite eyelids, only the most
      symptomatic lesion will be enrolled in the study. Eyelid margin disease and ocular rosacea
      will be documented at the time of enrollment. Subjects will then be examined at 4 weeks (+/-
      2 weeks) post-procedure follow-up visits where data regarding lesion size, including color
      photography, lesion regression or recurrence, and a complete ophthalmic examination will be
      recorded. If subjects fail to follow up at any of these visits, telephone interviews will be
      conducted.

      At the time of enrollment, the subject's date of birth, sex, race/ethnicity, and last
      menstrual period will be determined as well as a gynecological history to determine need for
      pregnancy testing. Data collection sheets will be used to record information. Also, previous
      therapies including topical medications and previous surgeries will be reviewed. A millimeter
      ruler will be used at the time of enrollment to determine the size of the lesion. Lesion
      photographs will also be taken so that the independent chalazion photograph reviewer will be
      able to grade degrees of improvement after treatment in a masked fashion.

      When the procedure is performed, a variable pain scale will be used by the patient to
      document their level of discomfort during the injection. At the return post procedure visit,
      the lesion will be re-measured, the patient will be asked to grade the level of improvement
      and a follow up photograph will be taken for use by the masked grader. All data collection
      sheets and consents will be stored at the Cleveland Clinic in a secure location. All other
      study data will be electronic and stored only on the secure Cleveland Clinic server or
      Cleveland Clinic issued encrypted devices such as thumb drives and laptops. The occurrence of
      any minor adverse or unexpected events will be reported to the principal investigator. Any
      sentinel events will be reported to the IRB immediately.

      A decrease in lesion size by two-thirds of greater as determined by either the clinician or
      the masked photograph reviewer in either group will be considered improvement and if seen in
      lesions injected with tetracycline it will constitute treatment success.
    
  