
    
      This study aims to investigate the efficacy of simulation in neurosurgical training. This
      will be assessed using accuracy and speed tests in the placement of external ventricle drain
      catheters (EVDs). EVD placement is a relatively simple neurosurgical procedure aimed at
      inexperienced young trainees.

      This study has two arms. The recruits are inexperienced trainees and/or interns and students
      who have never performed EVD placements before. The recruits are randomly assigned (using
      computer-based randomisation) to either Arm A or Arm B.

      Recruits to Arm A undergo simulation training (computer simulation of the procedure, followed
      by simulation on a dead animal model), after which the recruits will attempt to perform an
      EVD procedure on their own, on a 3D-printed skull model that we designed.

      Recruits to Arm B will witness an EVD placement as performed by an experienced surgeon, after
      the recruits will attempt to perform an EVD procedure on their own, using the aforementioned
      3D-printed skull model. This mimics the ''see one, do one'' paradigm prevalent in surgical
      training.

      The efficacy of the simulation training will be assessed using the following criteria:

      i. Accuracy test:

      The accuracy of the catheter placement is assessed in both arms and compared to investigate
      whether there is a difference in the accuracy of the catheter placement in both arms.

      ii. Speed test:

      The speed of catheter placement is assessed in both arms and compared to investigate whether
      there is a difference in the speed of the catheter placement in both arms.

      iii. Subjective surveys

      The researchers will gauge the extent of the trainees' confidence in their surgical skills
      and their satisfaction with their training before and after completion of the simulation
      training using a questionnaire to be designed for this purpose. The trainees will assess
      their own familiarity with and confidence in the procedure using a scale from 0 ("not
      familiar with the procedure", "I have no confidence in being able to perform this procedure
      independently") to 10 ("I am an expert at this procedure", "I am able to perform this
      procedure independently with complete confidence"). This data will be collected and input
      into a statistical software (Statistical Lab v. 3, CeDiS) to analyse the difference (if any)
      in the trainees' familiarity with the procedures and their confidence in being able to
      perform them in both arms.
    
  