
    
      Children in foster care have disproportionately high rates of mental and behavioral health
      concerns. Foster caregivers have reported challenges managing such difficult behaviors. Such
      behaviors are associated with placement instability. Child Adult Relationship Enhancement
      (CARE), an evidence-based positive parenting intervention, has shown promising findings in
      the primary care setting and its curriculum has been enhanced (PriCARE). This positive
      parenting intervention offers a promising strategy to provide foster caregivers with the
      skills needed to address these behavioral problems. The objectives of this study are 1) to
      evaluate the acceptability and feasibility of PriCARE, a positive parenting intervention, in
      the foster care setting 2) to assess the efficacy of PriCARE to promote positive parenting,
      increase empathy among foster caregivers, and improve parenting efficacy and satisfaction and
      3) to identify best practices for implementation and dissemination of PriCARE in the foster
      care setting. Foster caregivers of foster children 2-10 years of age in the Philadelphia
      child welfare system will be enrolled in this study. Foster caregivers must be
      English-speaking and age 18 years or older. Foster caregivers will be recruited from CHOP
      Fostering Health Program, CHOP primary care sites, CHOP Safe Place Care Clinics, direct
      referrals from social workers and medical providers, and from referrals from Philadelphia
      foster care agencies and organizations. Forty-five foster caregivers will be enrolled in the
      study and will be assigned to the enhanced PriCARE program. Each approximately 9 hour CARE
      training group will be attended by approximately 4-12 foster caregivers without their
      children. An initial interview will be conducted prior to initiation of the PriCARE program
      and will include measures to obtain baseline data regarding demographic information,
      parenting attitudes and parenting strategies. A second interview will be conducted 4-10 weeks
      after PriCARE program completion and will include a semi-structured qualitative interview as
      well as measures of parenting attitudes and parenting strategies.
    
  