
    
      Sedentary behaviour has been deemed the "new smoking" based on multiple and potent negative
      impacts on health. Moreover, sedentary behaviour is a strong predictor of type 2 diabetes
      risk and cardiovascular disease. Previous studies have show that pulse-based meals derived
      from lentils, beans, chickpeas, and peas are effective for alleviating risk factors
      associated with diabetes and cardiovascular disease in clinical populations including older
      adults, overweight and obese individuals, and women with polycystic ovary syndrome; however,
      to date, there have been no nutrition-based interventions for alleviating risk factors for
      diabetes specifically targeting office workers exposed to long periods of sitting. Although
      people are aware of the health benefits of pulses, a major barrier to increased consumption
      continues to be a lack of knowledge on how to prepare pulse-based meals. This proposed study
      is designed to overcome this barrier. The main goal of this research study is to determine
      whether improvements in cardio-metabolic health can be realized by giving people pulse-based
      lunches and snacks to replace their regular workplace lunches and snacks. In this randomized
      controlled trial, 100 office workers from the University of Saskatchewan will participate in
      a cross-over study where they will be randomized into one of two diets for 2 months: Receive
      pre-packaged pulse-based lunches and snacks to replace their usual lunches/snacks during the
      work day OR to continue consuming their usual diets for two months. After a one-month
      washout, they will cross-over to the other condition. The primary outcome measure, Matsuda
      Index (determined by blood glucose and insulin responses to an oral glucose tolerance test),
      will be assessed before each diet phase and at the end (i.e. two months) of each diet phase.
      Secondary outcome measures (body composition, waist girth, lipids, blood pressure will also
      be assessed.
    
  