
    
      Hypotheses

      H1-1: Personalized Patient Engagement Plan will significantly affect the self-efficacy of
      patients with Type-2 Diabetes Mellitus.

      H1-2: Personalized Patient Engagement Plan will significantly affect the treatment adherence
      of patients with Type-2 Diabetes Mellitus.

      H1-3: Personalized Patient Engagement Plan will significantly affect the engagement levels of
      patients with Type-2 Diabetes Mellitus.

        1. Patients who apply to the Department of Endocrinology Diabetes Education Unit will be
           evaluated according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Health Literacy Scale for
           Turkish Diabetic Patients will be implemented and patients scoring an average of 2.5 and
           above will be invited to the study.

        2. Each patient who accepts the invitation to participate in the study will be assigned a
           number. In order to assign patients to the intervention and control groups,
           randomization will be carried out independently of the research via the link
           https://www.randomizer.org/.

        3. After randomization is completed and participants are assigned to two groups, the
           application of the research will be started. In the same session, written informed
           consent of the relevant Informed Volunteer Consent Form (prepared separately for the
           intervention and control group) will be obtained.

        4. After this stage, pre-post tests and defined interventions will be carried out for the
           intervention group. Control group will only perform pre-post tests and receive usual
           care. The number of samples is expected to be 60, 30 for the intervention group and 30
           for the control group. After these numbers are reached, post power analysis will be
           done.

      Independent variables; demographic characteristics of the patients (age, gender, marital
      status, employment status, educational status, presence of social security, economic status,
      place of residence, co-living, diabetes duration, type of treatment received, how long have
      been treated, experiencing chronic complications related to diabetes condition, acute
      complications due to diabetes, chronic disease other than diabetes, presence of diabetes
      disease in the family, monitoring status of blood sugar, regular exercise status, following
      diabetic diet status, if previously educated about diabetes disease, hospitalization due to
      diabetes condition, smoking status, alcohol use status, if receiving help to maintain
      diabetes treatment, and some parameters - body mass index, Hemoglobin A1c, total cholesterol,
      triglyceride, HDL, LDL, fasting blood sugar and satiety blood sugar) are independent
      variables.

      Statistical analysis will be performed with SPSS 23 (IBM Inc, NY, USA). Correlation and
      regression will be applied for the mean scores of the scales, the differences between the two
      groups averages will be analyzed by the significance test of the difference between the two
      averages, the significance test of the difference between the two percentages, Mann-Whitney U
      or Chi-Square tests. The level of statistical significance of the study will be p <0.05.
      Depending on the normality of the data in dependent groups, a comparison will be made with
      the t-test or Wilcoxon test.
    
  