
    
      Modern day's excessive use of screen-based media is heavily discussed in the public in terms
      of its possible harmful effects on physical and mental health among children and adults. To
      date there is little rigorously conducted research available on the effects of high use of
      todays screen-based media. Of particular notice, no controlled experimental studies in
      free-living have been carried out to study the immediate effects of screen-based media use on
      habitual physical activity patterns, sleep, and temporary stress- and emotional state.

      To undertake a large-scale randomized controlled trial of the efficacy of limiting
      screen-based media use in families of parents and children the investigators aim to conduct a
      pilot study to assess the acceptability and feasibility of the outcome measurement methods
      obtained in free-living in the participants homes and the acceptability of the prescribed
      interventions to reduce screen media use. The investigators also perform the pilot study to
      investigate the efficacy of our recruitment strategy.

      The participating families (households with children ≥4 and <18 years old) will be invited to
      answer a recruitment questionnaire sent out to their personal digital mailbox, which is a
      compulsory digital solution to receive mail from i.e. public authorities. Based on the survey
      answers eligible families (see section on inclusion/exclusion criteria) will be invited to
      participate in this pilot experiment. Families who are willing to participate will be
      randomized to one of two intervention groups after completion of the baseline measurement
      protocol. One group must reduce all recreational screen-based media use to less than three
      hours per week for a period of two weeks. Participants in this group will be asked to hand
      over their portable screen devices and in exchange they will be handed an old model Nokia
      phone. The other group must remove all screen-based media use (both work-related and
      recreational) after 6PM for a period of two weeks. The experiment does not include a control
      group. To ensure compliance to the interventions, the investigators will install an app,
      which will measure screen use on each participant's smartphone(s) and tablet(s). Furthermore,
      the investigators will connect a device to all televisions in each household, which will
      monitor television usage. To investigate the effect of the interventions all participants
      will go through a 7-day measurement protocol just before the family is randomized to one of
      the interventions and again during the last week of the intervention period.
    
  