
    
      Part A: Patients who received a high dose of anthracyclines and who completed chemotherapy
      for a minimum of 2 year and are still in remission we gathered information about their
      previous heart disease, radiation dose to the heart, bone marrow transplant, age at
      treatment, gender, elevation of serum cardiac troponin-T or N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic
      peptide measurements during anthracycline therapy, systolic dysfunction and congestive heart
      failure during anthracycline therapy. Participants had a Cardiac MRI (CMRI), echo and
      collection of serum for the the measurement of biomarkers of inflammation (C Reactive Protein
      (CRP), TNF-α, myocyte injury (Cardiac troponin (cTn), extracellular matrix remodeling,
      (Matrix Metalloproteinases (MMP), Tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs), C terminal
      propeptide of type I procollagen (PICP), C terminal telopeptide of collagen type I (CITP),
      Bone Alkaline Phosphatase, apoptosis (Caspase-3 P17 peptide), and ventricular derived B-type
      natriuretic peptide (BNP) once during the study. Part A has been completed.

      Part B: For those patients enrolled in part A they had another CMRI to validate CMRI findings
      and to study progression of cardiomyopathy overtime by comparing all CMRI derived imaging
      parameters between the first and second subject visits. Results of their standard of care
      echo will be post-processed to include the same parameters as the subjects' previous research
      echo that took place 2 years ago for comparison. Subjects had a blood draw (3mL) for for DNA
      and RNA analysis. Part B has been completed.

      Part C: Will include an additional 60 patients who received low dose anthracycline therapy
      (<300 mg/m2) and who were also identified through the cardio-oncology registry. These
      patients will undergo a CMRI, study echo, and a blood sampling: Cardiac Troponin (cTn) ,
      Matrix Metalloproteinases (MMP), Tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases (TIMPs), C terminal
      propeptide of type I procollagen (PICP), C terminal telopeptide of collagen type I (CITP),
      Bone Alkaline Phosphatase, Caspase, C Reactive Protein (CRP), TNF-α, hematocrit, and
      NT-proBNP (a more sensitive measurement of BNP). Blood draw for DNA/microRNA analysis.
      Results of the standard of care echo will be post-processed to include the same parameters as
      the original 60 subjects' previous research echocardiogram for comparison purposes. All
      subjects recruited will serve either as a "case" (because they have cardiotoxicity) or as a
      control, if they are free of cardiotoxicity. Currently enrolling for part C patients who
      received low dose anthracyclines.

      Cardiotoxicity for the overall group will be defined as global systolic dysfunction
      (indicated by an ejection fraction < 2SD below normal (Z score <-2), or decrease in global
      circumferential or longitudinal strain magnitude less than 2SD below normal. CMRI is
      considered to be the standard of care for assessment of cardiomyopathy. Based on the proven
      utility of CMRI as a screening tool for cardiomyopathy, CMRI studies will be performed as
      standard of care for assessment of global and regional myocardial function in cancer
      survivors. T1 pulse sequences for estimation of native T1 and ECV are continually being
      developed and refined, and will require further validation prior to clinical application.
      These sequences will still be considered be part of research.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS Part A. CMRI parameters will be correlated with echo parameters of
      systolic and diastolic function. Data on peak circumferential strain will be compared to
      published historic normative data. T1 relaxation values will be compared to a group of age
      matched controls with normal SF and no exposure to anthracyclines. Results are expressed as
      mean and SD for continuous data and as percentages and numbers for categorical data. Subjects
      will be classified into 3 groups as detailed previously. Differences in the means between the
      groups and between exposed and controls for all normally distributed data will be assessed by
      analysis of variance. For skewed data, the Mann-Whitney U test will be performed. Image
      quality scores for all patients will be averaged for corresponding T1 maps. Mean segmental T1
      and ventricular myocardial peak circumferential strain values and standard deviations will be
      calculated. The literature shows that T1 value is subject to a mild systematic heart rate
      dependency and a patient's height and weight has some impact on T1 values. To find and
      correct for these potential confounding factors, the relationships between T1 and heart rate,
      height, and weight will be investigated by using linear regression analysis of section data.
      In addition, the relationship between T1 mapping-derived relaxation time, left ventricular
      myocardial peak circumference strain and echocardiography parameters of systolic and
      diastolic function will be investigated by using linear regression analysis of section data.
      All statistical analysis will be performed with SAS 9.2. All tests are two tailed, and P <
      .05 is considered to indicate a significant difference. Interobserver and intraobserver
      variability of HARP strain will be performed using a paired t test and reported as a mean
      difference and 95% confidence interval.

      Serum levels of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-9 and MMP-1/TIMP ratio, PICP, CITP, Bone Alkaline
      Phosphatase and that of Caspase-3 P17 peptide will be measured as indicators of extracellular
      matrix remodeling and apoptosis, respectively and compared to CMRI and echocardiographic
      parameters of systolic and diastolic function. Serum level of a cleaved p17 fragment (p17) of
      Caspase-3, the end effector caspase for apoptosis, will be compared to published normative
      data from a group of 167 healthy subjects 68. Circulating levels of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-9 and
      TIMP-1 will be compared to published historic healthy controls 69 Serum biomarkers N-terminal
      pro-BNP (NT-pro-BNP) and Cardiac troponin will also be obtained given their known association
      with cardiac dysfunction.

      Biomarkers statistical analyses results are expressed as mean and SD for continuous data and
      as percentages and numbers for categorical data. Subjects will be classified into three
      groups as detailed previously. Differences in the means between the groups for all normally
      distributed data will be assessed by analysis of variance. For skewed data, the Mann-Whitney
      U test will be performed. The relationship between levels of Troponin, Caspase-3 P17 peptide,
      MMPS, TIMPs, PICP, CITP, Bone Alkaline Phosphatase, CRP, CK-MB, and echo parameters of
      systolic and diastolic function will be investigated by using linear regression analysis of
      section data. All statistical analysis will be performed with SAS 9.2. All tests are two
      tailed, and P < .05 is considered to indicate a significant difference.

      The interdisciplinary nature and the potential for bedside to bench translational research
      should position us to obtain pilot data based on the projected changes in our patient
      cohorts. For example, we will test whether serum P17 level in any patient groups (groups 1-3)
      is higher than that in healthy controls. However, it is possible that only the late groups
      (Group 2 or 3) will show a rise in P17 level. Similarly, only the late groups may show
      changes in serum MMPs or T1 relaxation time. If any of the change is too small to be detected
      given the sample size, we will focus on parameters exhibiting larger differences vs. healthy
      controls. This will also guide us in designing future study. The change in MMPs may reflect
      presence of diastolic vs. systolic dysfunction in the early vs. late groups. For example, it
      is possible that the early group (Group 1) will exhibit diastolic problem, manifested as a
      reduced MMP-1/TIMP-1 ratio. When significant systolic dysfunction ensues, the ratio may be
      reversed.

      Part B: All CMRI imaging biomarkers of cardiotoxicity demonstrated in the baseline pilot
      study will be compared among the first and second study visits among the high dose (≥240
      mg/m2) subjects. Frequencies and percents of the patients who exhibit the phenotype of
      cardiotoxicity as measured by cMRI will be calculated for each study visit. If the
      frequencies/percents are the same or greater in the second visit as compared to the first,
      then the use of cMRI to indicate anthracycline induced cardiotoxicity can be validated.

      Specific Aim 2: All CMR imaging parameters of athracycline induced cardiomyopathy will be
      compared between the first and second study visits among high dose (≥240 mg/m2) subjects. All
      CMR volumetric parameters including volumes, mass, and measurements of end systolic fiber
      stress as well as measurements of global and regional myocardial function, T1 maps and ECV
      will be compared between the two study visits using paired t-tests, p<0.05 will be used to
      indicate a statistically significant difference.

      Part C:

      Specific Aim 1: To compare CMR parameters of global, and regional systolic function and
      microscopic fibrosis as indicated by changes in T1 mapping-derived relaxation time and
      increase in extracellular volume matrix (ECV) to those of subjects in the high-dose group.

      Overview: The objective of this aim is to test the hypothesis that CMR imaging biomarkers of
      AIC will be less frequent among subjects exposed to low dose anthracyclines. The proportion
      of subjects that possess the anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity phenotype in both the high
      and low dose groups will be compared using Fisher's exact test. P< 0.05 will be used to
      indicate a statistically significant difference.

      Specific Aim 2: To quantitate serologic biomarkers of inflammation, myocyte injury,
      extracellular matrix remodeling and apoptosis among childhood cancer survivors treated with
      low-dose anthracyclines.

      This aim will tell the hypothesis that elevation of biomarkers of inflammation, myocyte
      injury, extracellular matrix remodeling and apoptosis will be less prevalent in survivors of
      childhood cancer exposed to low-dose anthracyclines, as reflected by lower levels of serum
      CRP, high sensitivity troponin, MMPs and Caspase-3 P17 levels.

      Overview: The objective is to characterize changes in serum levels of markers for
      extracellular matrix remodeling and apoptosis in patients at various intervals after
      anthracycline chemotherapy. Serum levels of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-9 and MMP-1/TIMP ratio, PICP,
      CITP, Bone Alkaline Phosphatase and that of Caspase-3 P17 peptide will be measured as
      indicators of extracellular matrix remodeling and apoptosis, respectively and compared to
      CMRI and echocardiographic parameters of systolic and diastolic function. Serum level of a
      cleaved p17 fragment (p17) of Caspase-3, the end effector caspase for apoptosis, will be
      compared to published normative data from a group of 167 healthy subjects (Agosto, Azrin,
      Singh, Jaffe, & Liang, 2011). Circulating levels of MMP-1, MMP-2, MMP-9 and TIMP-1 will be
      compared to normal controls. Serum biomarkers N-terminal pro-BNP (NT-pro-BNP) and Cardiac
      troponin will also be obtained given their known association with cardiac dysfunction. A
      literature review of six small studies suggest that NT-pro-BNP, and Cardiac troponin might
      also be useful markers in the early detection of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity
      (Mavinkurve-Groothuis, Kapusta, Nir, & Groot-Loonen, 2008). Of interest, in a larger study
      performed in 122 asymptomatic survivors of childhood cancer, none had abnormal cTnT levels
      and only thirteen percent had abnormal NT-pro-BNP levels (Mavinkurve-Groothuis et al.
      631-36).

      Specfic Aim 3: To compare the results of the DNA/RNA analysis between all subjects with and
      without anthracycline induced cardiomyopathy regardless of cumulative dose. DNA and RNA
      analysis will be collected for future analysis by the Jackson Lab bioinformatics core unit,
      to be analyzed based on the results of a parallel murine model of cardiotoxicity.
    
  