
    
      Rational of the study: for macular holes larger than 400 µm the rate of failure is of more
      than 20%. It is for these eyes that it is necessary to show the benefit of internal limiting
      membrane (ILM) peeling in term of vision and success rate. In order to test the benefit of
      this gesture, it is necessary to make a randomized study.

      Primary objective: To show that the percentage of success (anatomical closing, confirmed by
      OCT) at three postoperative months is higher in the ILM peeling group.

      Design of the study: Randomized multicentric study, in parallel groups, with individual
      benefit for the patient.

      Tested Hypothesis: The success rate of the surgery of idiopathic macular holes larger than
      400 µm is increased by the peeling of the MLI.

      Secondary objectives: - Percentage of success according to the effective success of peeling
      (failure, partial peeling, peeling 360°) in the peeling group of the MLI. - Gain of ETDRS
      visual acuity in the third postoperative month.- Progression of cataract - Frequency of the
      complications.

      Number of subjects and duration of the study: 80 patients older than 18 yo , presenting a
      macular hole > 400 µm, divided into two parallel groups will be included and followed up 3
      months. The estimated total duration of the study is 27 months.

      Statistical analysis: The percentages of success in the 2 groups will be compared by a Chi ²
      or Fisher exact test. The test Q of COCHRAN will be used to take into account the ordered
      character of the categories.

      Intermediate Analysis: An intermediate analysis is envisaged. The procedure of adjustment of
      the risk of Lan and DeMets will be used.

      Awaited results: To show that the success rate of the surgery of idiopathic macular holes
      larger than 400 µm is improved by ILM peeling. This category could then have a success rate
      similar to the small holes. If this difference is not proven, it will remain no justification
      to continue this procedure which represents little risk but which is not either without
      consequence.
    
  