
    
      The human body is host to complex microbial communities at different anatomical sites such as
      the gut, oral cavity, vagina, skin, and the lower respiratory tract - a site previously
      thought to be sterile. Growing evidence has implicated the role of the human microbiome in
      various diseases for example, Prevotella-enriched lung communities in HIV-positive pneumonia
      patients independently predict 70-day mortality, and Lactobacillus enriched murine gut
      microbiome alleviates asthma-like symptoms. However, despite the scale and severity of TB,
      there are limited studies on the microbiome in TB cases, the site of disease, and the effect
      of treatment, especially in the context of HIV. These key knowledge gaps preclude the design
      and evaluation of interventions that could target the microbiome and avert poor treatment
      outcomes in TB.

      To date the few microbiome studies in TB have focused on the upper respiratory tract (using
      specimens such as sputum) and gut rather than the site of disease which, in TB, is typically
      the lung. These studies have shown associations between the microbiome and state of disease.
      For example, mice colonized with Helicobacter hepaticus in the gut demonstrate poor control
      of mycobacterial growth, heightened inflammation, and severe tissue pathology in the lungs.
      The lung which is the site of disease in pulmonary TB has been widely considered sterile
      until recently and the lung microbiome remains widely understudied in TB regardless of the
      potential impact it might have in TB pathogenesis. One of the major reasons why the lung is
      understudied is the difficult in sampling the lung. The investigators will implement a
      modified bronchoscopy procedure to avoid microbial cross-contamination from neighbouring
      anatomical sites (including from diseased to healthy parts of the lungs) and to accurately
      sample the low biomass in the bronchoalveolar space. The investigators hypothesize that TB
      cases have a distinct site-of-disease lung microbiota compared to non-diseased contralateral
      tissue, characterized by an enrichment of oral anaerobic fermenters, SCFAs, and impaired
      inflammation and tissue repair biomarkers. They also expect microbial and host biomarkers to
      be altered by TB treatment. A study by one of the investigators has already demonstrated lung
      microbiomes enriched with anaerobic oral taxa are associated with lung inflammation of the
      Th17 phenotype. The products of microbial anaerobic metabolism have also been shown to
      modulate immune response to diseases. The investigators will correlate the complex microbial
      communities at the site-of-disease in TB with the microbial and host biomarkers at the
      site-of-disease.

      The study will recruit self-reporting patients with their first TB episode and Xpert MTB/RIF
      Ultra-confirmed TB from Scottsdene and Wallacedene primary care clinics in Cape Town. A total
      of 50 TB cases equally stratified by HIV status and 50 healthy household contacts (HHC) also
      stratified by HIV will be recruited. In addition to HIV-negatives, the study is recruiting an
      equal number of ART-treated HIV-positive TB cases, because there an epidemiologically
      important subpopulation with impaired pulmonary immunity. An additional 50 sick controls with
      other pulmonary diseases (Asthma, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), Cancer,
      Bronchiectasis (including post-TB) and Pneumonia) will recruited as comparator groups.
    
  