
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Interleukin-15 (IL-15) is a stimulatory cytokine with a number of desirable
           immunotherapeutic features, and clinical trials evaluating recombinant human (rh) IL-15
           are underway.

        -  In contrast to IL-2, IL-15 treatment does not stimulate activation-induced cell death of
           Tcells; potentially inhibits immunosuppressive CD4+CD25+ T regulatory cells, contributes
           to the proliferation, differentiation and activation of CD8+ T-cells and NK-cells and
           the maintenance of long-term CD8+ memory T-cells.

        -  IL-15 is active in a number of syngeneic mouse preclinical tumor models, and
           vacciniabased constructs expressing IL-15 induced long-lasting, high-avidity cytotoxic
           CD8+ Tlymphocyte response that appears to be more effective than similar IL-2 expressing
           vaccines.

        -  Pharmacology/toxicology (pharm/tox) experiments in non-human primate (NHP) rhesus
           macaques and preliminary results from the first-in-human phase I trial examining rhIL-15
           given as an IV bolus (IVB) for 12 consecutive days indicate significant stimulation and
           expansion of NK-cells and CD8+ T-cells.

        -  rhIL-15 given as an IVB at 1 mcg/kg dose level appears to be well tolerated despite the
           presence of some common cytokine-related side effects indicating that 0.1 mcg/kg/day is
           an appropriate initial dose level for a phase I safety trial of continuous intravenous
           infusion (CIV) of rhIL-15.

        -  Comparison of the pharmacokinetic and immunologic assessments from the IVB phase I trial
           with the data from both sets of NHP pharm/tox experiments suggest that CIV of rhIL-15
           may have greater potential for stimulating an anticancer cellular immune response with a
           more manageable safety profile.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objective:

      - Determine the safety, toxicity profile, dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) of rhIL-15 administered as a CIV for 10 consecutive days (240 hours) in subjects
      with metastatic unresectable cancers for which curative or palliative measures either do not
      exist or are not associated with a survival advantage.

      ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA:

        -  Patients greater than or equal to18 years-old, ECOG PS less than or equal to 1, with
           pathologically confirmed metastatic unresectable cancers for which curative or
           palliative measures either do not exist or are not associated with a survival advantage.

        -  Patients with measurable or evaluable disease, normal organ and bone marrow function.

      DESIGN:

        -  This is a single-institution, open-label, non-randomized 3 + 3 design phase I dose
           escalation study.

        -  Groups of 3 to 6 subjects will receive CIV rhIL-15 at doses of 0.1, 0.25, 0.5 1, 2, 4, 6
           and 8 mcg/kg/day for 10 days provided that DLT has not been observed.

        -  After assessments of the 10-day dosing cohorts have been completed, new groups of 3 to 6
           subjects will receive CIVrhIL-15 at doses of 3, 4 and 5 mcg/kg/day for 5 days provided
           that a DLT has not been observed.

        -  Patients with evidence of response and the absence of significant toxicities will be
           eligible for repeat cycles of treatment.

        -  Samples for correlative studies will be obtained prior to treatment and at specific
           times points during and after treatment to assess pharmacokinetics of rhIL-15, the
           effect of rhIL-15 on immune cell subset populations and pro-inflammatory cytokine levels
           in the peripheral blood and for the development of neutralizing anti-rhIL-15 antibodies.
    
  