
    
      This is a safety, feasibility and pharmacokinetic phase II study to evaluate treatment with
      ModraDoc006/r (oral docetaxel with ritonavir) in chemotherapy naïve patients with
      castration-resistant metastatic prostate cancer for whom treatment with intravenous docetaxel
      is indicated. The primary objective of this study is to determine the recommended dose
      determined as the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of docetaxel (as ModraDoc006 10 mg tablets)
      that can safely be administered in combination with ritonavir to patients with metastatic
      castration-resistant prostate cancer in a bi-daily weekly schedule without interruption and
      results in an adequate systemic exposure to docetaxel. On a predefined day of the first and
      every subsequent week, the patient will receive oral docetaxel (as ModraDoc006 10 mg
      tablets). This regime will be continued weekly (intake around the same time) until completion
      of the study, progressive disease or until adverse events, which require dose modification or
      discontinuation of therapy, are observed.

      A dose escalation design will be used to determine the recommended dose of ModraDoc006 in
      combination with ritonavir that is safe and feasible and provides an adequate systemic
      docetaxel exposure in the target population of the projected pivotal study in patients with
      CRPC. Three castration-resistant metastatic prostate cancer (CRPC) patients will be assigned
      to the starting dose level 1A of 30-20 mg ModraDoc006 in a bi-daily weekly schedule, each
      intake of ModraDoc006 will be combined with 200 mg ritonavir. If no more than one DLT has
      occurred during the first four weeks of treatment on dose level 1A (30-20 mg ModraDoc006 and
      bi-daily ritonavir 200 mg) and the pharmacokinetic results are favorable, than three
      additional patients will be added to this dose level. If no more than 1 DLT in these first 6
      patients has occurred, this will be the recommended dose and this dose level will be expanded
      until a total of 20 for toxicity evaluable patients have been treated on this dose level.

      If 2 DLTs have occurred directly in the first 3 patients or in the first 6 patients (after
      the previous described addition of 3 patients), during the first four weeks of treatment on
      dose level 1A (30-20 mg ModraDoc006 and bi-daily 200 mg ritonavir) and the pharmacokinetic
      results are favorable, the dose may be de-escalated to the next lower dose-level, depending
      on the pharmacokinetic results and the study schedule will start again from the beginning.

      If no more than one DLT has occurred in the first 6 patients during the first four weeks of
      treatment on dose level 1A and the pharmacokinetic results are not favorable, than the dose
      will be escalated depending on the pharmacokinetic results and the study schedule will start
      again from the beginning.

      If two or more DLTs have occurred in the first 6 patients during the first four weeks of
      treatment on dose level 1A and the pharmacokinetic results are not favorable, the dose will
      be altered according to the type of DLT.
    
  