
    
      Gastrointestinal function (GI) is an important determinant in the outcome of critically ill
      patients, with up to 62% of patients exhibiting at least one GI symptom for at least 1 day.
      Unlike the upper gastrointestinal dysfunction, which can be diagnosed early because of
      abdominal distension, nausea, and feeding intolerance, acute lower gastrointestinal
      dysfunction (ALGID) is a kind of more common complication which more easily neglected due to
      atypical symptoms. Once ALGID developed, critical patients could not get enteral nutrition
      (EN) normally, as early EN support is often essential and standard on critically ill patients
      when feasible. It also causes colonic bacteria reflux to the ileum and jejunum, leads to
      ischemic necrosis or colon perforation, and increases the incidence of various adverse
      events.

      Dietary fiber (DF) plays an important and helpful role in GI. It undergoes partial or total
      fermentation in the distal small bowel and colon, leading to the production of short chain
      fatty acids (SCFA) and gas. It also helps to conduct slower and delayed gastroenterology
      absorption, and reduce luminal flow. To date, many research and evidences exist for
      DF-supplemented EN reduces the incidence of colonic dysfunction in non-intensive care unit
      studies. However, until recently, it still lacks guidelines on how to conduct DF-supplemented
      EN rationally in critically ill patients.

      Pectin, a representative DF, is a gelatinous substance derived from the cell walls of fruits
      and some plants and contains galacturonan, consisting of mostly long-chain D-galacturonic
      acids combined into units by α-1,4 linkages. As a kind of soluble dietary fiber, pectin has
      been proved of controlling glucose and blood lipids. It slows rapid infusion of the liquid
      meal into the gut by delaying gastric emptying. Studies showed that 90% of ingested pectin
      can be found in the terminal ileum. In view of all the former studies data and on the basis
      of investigators' clinical observation, investigators postulate that early application of a
      sufficient amount of pectin ahead of EN, may promote ALGID recovery in critically ill
      patients, and exert its effect.

      Investigators designed this prospective randomized controlled trial to test whether EN
      feeding with or without a pectin start would be safe or with advanced clinical outcomes.
      Investigators speculated that pectin start EN could nourish the digestive tract in critically
      ill patients, and it is superior to traditional EN feeding for the delivery of early
      nutritional support.
    
  