
    
      Chemotherapy is the primary treatment option for patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC),
      leading to a 5-year survival of about 20% in limited disease (LD), and less than 5% in
      extensive disease (ED). Although initial tumor response rate to chemotherapy is very high (up
      to 96% for LD and up to 65% in ED), SCLC relapses in approximately 4 months in ED and 12
      months in LD. Despite the administration of second-line chemotherapy, the overall median
      survival of patients with limited and extensive disease is approximately 18 and 9 months,
      respectively. In the setting of second-line therapy, response rates to chemotherapy range
      between 15 and 25%, with median survival in the range of 4-6 months. Second-line therapeutic
      options include cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and vincristine (CAV) given every 3 weeks or
      topotecan, which have similar response rates, time to progression and survival in the two
      treatment arms (topotecan 24%, 13 and 24.7 weeks; CAV 18%, 12 and 22 weeks, respectively).
      However, both treatments have substantial toxicities, with 9% of patients on trial
      withdrawing for toxicity reasons. Treatment-associated mortality was as high as 4.7%
      (possibly and definitely related), and many patients required transfusion support. Thus,
      while these treatments have acceptable activity second-line, more active and less toxic
      treatments are required for this patient population.

      The next generation of anti-angiogenic drugs aims to improve clinical efficacy by targeting
      multiple angiogenic factors. This approach was validated by a recent analysis of BIBF 1120,
      which inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGFRs), platelet-derived growth
      factor receptors (PDGFRs) and the fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFRs). BIBF 1120
      resulted in growth inhibition of tumours in syngeneic rats and human tumour xenografts in
      nude mice. It also displayed a favourable cellular duration of action and pharmacodynamic
      profile and was well-tolerated. These data complement early-phase clinical data suggesting
      that BIBF 1120 might be an effective anti-angiogenic agent. Some preclinical studies have
      showed that fibroblast growth factor-2 induces proliferation and chemoresistance in SCLC
      cells. In addition, the selective fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) inhibitor PD173074
      blocks H-510 and H-69 SCLC proliferation and clonogenic growth in a dose-dependent fashion
      and prevents FGF-2-induced chemoresistance. BIBF1120 is a novel, orally available, potent
      triple angiokinase inhibitor that predominantly blocks the FGFR in addition to vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and platelet-derived growth factor receptor (PDGFR).
      Therefore, the investigators will conduct a phase II trial to evaluate the efficacy of
      BIBF1120 in patients with recurrent SCLC.
    
  