
    
      Hypothesis: The treatment of (sublingual buprenorphine) SL-BUP + (extended release
      naltrexone) XR-NTX will significantly reduce both (alcohol use disorder) AUD and
      (post-traumatic stress disorder) PTSD symptoms.

      Primary Inclusion Criteria: Treatment-seeking individuals with comorbid AUD and PTSD

      Subject Completion Target: A total of 90 male and female, treatment-seeking individuals with
      comorbid AUD and PTSD screened, enrolled, and randomized to treatment group

      Study Protocol:

      Screening: Potential participants are pre-screened by phone to ensure they meet basic study
      criteria. During informed consent and screening processes, participants receive thorough
      pre-enrollment education and the commitment to and feasibility for follow-up are confirmed.
      Screening visit is separate (at least 2-day interval) from Baseline visit. A participant who
      is otherwise meeting eligibility criteria except for taking an excluded medication can
      undergo a medically supervised discontinuation and 5-day washout of medication(s). At any
      point in the screening process and based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria listed
      above, the participant may be deemed eligible and proceed to baseline visit or investigator
      may exclude a participant and refer him/her for appropriate treatment.

      At baseline, participants are randomized to receive either treatment A (buprenorphine 2mg SL
      with naltrexone 380mg IM) or treatment B (SL placebo and IM placebo) in a double-blind
      fashion. The treatment allocation ratio for the treatment vs. placebo regimens is 1:1.

      At Screening, Baseline and Follow-up, an independent rater at each site performs the Timeline
      Follow Back (TLFB), Clinician Administered PTSD Scale for DSM-5 (CAPS-5), and Columbia
      Suicide Severity Rating (CSSR) assessments. Safety endpoints, adverse events (AEs), vital
      signs, and laboratory measures are tracked for each subject to assess study drug safety.
    
  