
    
      Creighton University Medical Center is 334-bed Level I Trauma Center that hosts a wide
      variety of surgical and trauma patients. Many of these patients, including and especially
      those with pre-existing cardiac morbidities, develop symptoms of congestive heart failure
      (CHF) following trauma or surgical intervention because of a combination of physiological
      factors including third spacing followed by self-diuresis, and decreased contractility post
      injury. Normally, following the onset of CHF, surgeons begin treatment based on their
      clinical judgment of hemodynamic parameters and radiographic findings. CHF is known to
      increase morbidity, mortality, hospital length of stay and overall expenditure to the health
      care system and preventative measures and directed treatment modalities have potential to
      improve patient care and healthcare economics.

      BNP, also known as beta-natriuretic protein or CHF peptide, is a cardiac neuro-hormone
      synthesized by the cardiac myocytes. It is released as a preproBNP peptide of 134 amino acids
      and is cleaved into proBNP (108 amino acids) and a signal peptide of 26 amino acids. ProBNP
      is subsequently cleaved into BNP (32 amino acids) and the inactive N-terminal proBNP peptide
      (NBNP; 76 amino acids). The effects of BNP are vasodilation, natriuresis and diuresis1.

      Left ventricular end-diastolic wall stress (EDWS) measurement and ejection fraction are well
      established surrogates to predict the onset of CHF but require the invasive procedure of
      cardiac catheterization.

      The mainstay of the treatment of CHF is diuretic drugs to try to remove excess fluid from the
      patient. In this project we plan to identify patients at risk for CHF and divide them into
      two groups. In one group BNP will be used to guide diuretic dosage and in the other
      conventional clinical parameters will be used.
    
  