
    
      Inclusion criteria for PANDAS subjects are:

        -  Ages 4 -40 years

        -  Presence of DSM-IV-R obsessive compulsive disorder or tic disorder and at least two of
           the following:

             1. Anxieties e.g. new onset separation anxiety

             2. Sensory abnormalities (tactile/auditory/visual defensiveness or visual
                misperceptions)

             3. Behavioral Regression (e.g. new onset impulsivity, hyperactivity, meltdowns)

             4. Deterioration in school performance or in handwriting

             5. Emotional lability and/or depression

             6. Urinary symptoms (frequent urination or enuresis)

             7. Sleep disturbances

             8. Anorexia

        -  Sudden onset of symptoms or episodic course of symptom severity following infections.

        -  Symptoms are of moderate severity with Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale (Y-BOCS)
           (or with the children's version for subjects below 16 years of age) of more or equal to
           16 and/or Yale Global Tic Severity Scale (YGTSS) of more or equal to 21 and with
           significant impairment (CGI of moderate or worse).

        -  Laboratory documentation of infection as documented by at least two of these: positive
           throat culture, documented rise in one or more anti-GAS antibody titers such as
           anti-streptolysin O, anti-streptococcal DNAaseB.

      Exclusion criteria for all subjects are: non-tic neurologic disorder, presence of immunologic
      disorder, presence of serious medical illness, IgA deficiency (< 20mg/dL), hyperviscosity
      syndromes, psychotropic therapy.

      Interventions:

      All patients will be treated with sertraline (to a maximum of 200 mg/day. This study will
      involve a 12 week double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trial with benzathine
      penicillin G (1.200.000 U every 3 weeks) or azithromycin (500 mg/week) in case of penicillin
      allergy. Non-responders patients will be treated with IVIG (2 g/kg of body weight over 5
      days, for 5 consecutive months)

      Outcomes:

      Primary Outcome Measures:

        -  Significant reduction of OC/tic symptoms severity, as assessed by YBOCS/YGTSS, compared
           to placebo, after antibiotic prophylaxis. [ Time Frame: 6 months ]

        -  Significant reduction of OC/tic symptoms severity, as assessed by YBOCS/YGTSS, compared
           to placebo, after IVIG treatment. [ Time Frame: 6 months ]

      Secondary Outcome Measures:

        -  The degree of treatment response is expected to correlate with the percentage reduction
           in antibodies titers following IVIG administration. [ Time Frame: 6 months]

        -  The degree of treatment response is also expected to correlate with decreased
           inflammation in specific regions of the brain, as demonstrated by macroscopic changes
           and microstructural alterations on MRI and serum and CSF cytokines and chemokines [ Time
           Frame: 6 months ]

      Expected impact:

        -  To clarify the utility of antibiotic and IVIG therapy in PANDAS and how the IVIG produce
           their effects.

        -  To individualize the treatment.

        -  To disseminate new data for the treatment of PANDAS.
    
  