
    
      In the first period (part I), 100 women with SUI will be recruited in this study and
      randomized to intervention or control group after stratified by the moving direction of PFM
      during contraction of TrA. All subjects will be evaluated pre- and post- 4-month
      intervention. The measurements included basic data and comprehensive urogynaecological
      history, women's observations, quantification of symptoms, clinician's measures and quality
      of life.

      Women in the control group will receive customary information of PFM exercise and they can
      decide by themselves to receive an intensive pelvic floor muscle training after control
      period or not. The intervention group will follow a specially designed exercise course
      including diaphragmatic breathing, tonic activation, muscle strengthening, functional
      expiratory patterns and impact activities. They will be individually trained by a physical
      therapist for 30-60 minutes eight times during intervention period.

      In the second period (part II), another 100 women with SUI will be recruited in this study
      and randomized to intervention or control group. All subjects will be evaluated pre- and
      post- 4-month intervention. The measurements included basic data and comprehensive
      urogynaecological history, women's observations, quantification of symptoms, clinician's
      measures and quality of life.

      Women in the control group will receive customary information of PFM exercise and they can
      decide by themselves to receive intensive pelvic floor muscle training after control period
      or not. The intervention group will received intensive pelvic floor muscle training. They
      will be individually trained by a physical therapist for 30-60 minutes eight times during
      intervention period.

      Descriptive and inferential statistics will be completed using SPSS for windows, version
      11.0. Descriptive statistics will be computed for subject demographics. Normality will be
      evaluated by using the Shapiro-Wilk test for all variables. The confounding factors between
      two groups will be tested by the independent t-test or Chi-square test. A two-way mixed
      analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Friedman test will be used to assess possible difference
      between pre- and post- intervention and two groups. The Chi-square will be used to assess the
      discount dependent variables.
    
  