
    
      Background: The administration of fluids in the perioperative period is a routine clinical
      practice that sometimes underestimates the repercussion of its correct administration.

      According to the guidelines of the Spanish Society of Anesthesiology, Resuscitation and
      Therapy of Pain (SEDAR), the objective of perioperative fluid therapy is to maintain the
      organism with an optimal state of tissue perfusion and hydration.

      This goal is not always easy to carry out. The continuous changes in surgical and anesthetic
      techniques and the appearance of new fluids and monitoring devices make it difficult for the
      anesthesiologist to carry out all these changes in his daily clinical practice. For this
      reason, SEDAR and other international scientific societies have recently published guidelines
      on the management of fluid therapy in the perioperative period, with the intention of
      facilitating the decision making of the anesthesiologist in their usual clinical practice
      based on current evidence. Also adding the recent withdrawal and commercial suspension of a
      special type of fluid such as Hydroxyethylstarch.

      Hypothesis: Fluid therapy in the surgical environment is administered in a protocolized
      manner and in accordance with the recommendations of the different clinical practice
      guidelines.

      Objectives: To evaluate the management of fluid therapy by anesthesiologists in adult
      patients during the perioperative period of scheduled and urgent surgery, taking into account
      the types of fluids administered, the monitoring used and the application of guided therapy
      protocols by objectives.

      Methods: A multicenter prospective observational cross-sectional study - 24-hour Prevalence
      Cut off is proposed to evaluate the fluid therapy administered by anesthesiologists in
      surgical patients. The study will be carried out simultaneously in all hospitals that decide
      to participate throughout the Spanish territory and the follow-up period will be a maximum of
      24 hours. Two different intersemanial days will be chosen to include the maximum number of
      episodes and types of surgeries.

      Relevance: The clinical practice guidelines with their recommendations or suggestions offer a
      safety tool for patients based on current scientific evidence, hence the importance of its
      correct implementation. Sometimes problems of dissemination of information or limitations in
      the application of the same can cause that these objectives are not met.

      From the Section of Hemostasis, Transfusion Medicine and Fluid Therapy of the SEDAR, it is
      intended to assess the implementation and follow-up of the recommendations and / or
      suggestions issued in the different clinical practice guidelines for the correct management
      of Fluid Therapy in the perioperative setting by performing of this study. This will allow
      locating the points of improvement in the usual clinical practice on perioperative fluid
      therapy and will contribute on the one hand to the implementation of the different clinical
      practice guidelines and, on the other hand, it will serve as a base material for the
      development of future lines of research.
    
  