
    
      It is under debate what level of mean arterial pressure is the most appropriate for organ
      perfusion in septic shock. The kidneys are usually used for end-organ evaluation of
      appropriate perfusion and appropriate blood pressure level. What "adequate blood pressure"
      means is today unclear.

      The purpose of this study is to chart the renal perfusion, oxygenation and function, and
      moreover to evaluate renal effects of 3 different levels of mean arterial pressure, in early
      phase of septic shock.

      Patients will be included within the first 24 hrs after admission to the ICU diagnosed with
      septic shock. The patients will be sedated, mechanically ventilated and in need for
      norepinephrine for adequate blood pressure levels.

      After 60 mins of steady state at MAP 75 mmHg, norepinephrine will be adjusted achieve MAP of
      60 and 90 mmHg respectively, MAP being held at each level for 30 mins. At the end of each 30
      mins period, central and renal hemodynamics will be measured, blood and urine samples will be
      collected.

      Central hemodynamics will be measured by, and blood samples collected via a pulmonary
      catheter and an arterial line.

      Renal hemodynamics will be measured using a renal vein catheter for retrograde thermodilution
      giving at hand renal blood flow (RBF), renal vein blood samples and urine collection provides
      extraction of Cr-EDTA for filtration fraction (FF) and glomerular filtration rate (GFR),
      renal oxygen consumption, and renal oxygen extraction as a measure of balance between renal
      oxygen delivery and consumption.

      Via renal vein catheterisation and retrograde thermodilution, the study group have the unique
      possibility to actually evaluate renal blood flow, renal oxygenation and renal function in
      humans in vivo.

      After finishing the data collection, analysis will be made to answer the question: which MAP
      is the most optimal concerning RBF, GFR and renal oxygenation in patients with septic shock?
    
  