
    
      The STOPP (Screening Tool of Older People's potentially inappropriate Prescriptions) criteria
      are a previously clinically validated set of suggested medications to avoid in patients aged
      65+ with certain characteristics (e.g. benzodiazepines should be avoided in those with a fall
      history). These have previously been translated into point of care reminders that can be used
      with the OSCAR Electronic Medical Record (EMR) so that physicians are notified of potentially
      inappropriate prescriptions when a patient's chart is opened. This two phase explanatory
      study will examine if those STOPP based point of care prescribing alerts as presented to
      physicians in the OSCAR EMR can change potentially inappropriate prescribing patterns in
      primary care physicians.

      PHASE 1:

      A cluster randomized control trial in private primary care physician offices. The
      intervention is at the level of the physician and consists of activating the set of STOPP
      based alerts for the physician so that they see them during their workflow. These alerts will
      be triggered and displayed to physicians at the point of care. The alerts will suggest the
      physician consider Potentially Inappropriate Prescriptions (PIPs), as defined by STOPP. The
      control group will not have the alerts presented. (STOPP criteria are described in the full
      proposal, attached).

      The primary outcome measure is a composite indicator:

        -  Δ in Number of PIPs in patients >64yo with a visit during the intervention

      Number of patients >64yo with a visit during the intervention

      Phase 1 Data Analysis: The outcomes will be measured using the University of British Columbia
      (UBC) Department of Family Practice's research network infrastructure. The network has been
      designed and successfully tested in a previous study (UBC ETHICS H13-02531). This network
      connects to OSCAR EMRs and, with permission from the physician, is able to answer practice
      level questions WITHOUT collecting patient level data. The practice level queries for
      potentially inappropriate prescriptions will be distributed to the practices through the
      network and only the aggregate answers (not patient level data) will be returned for
      analysis. For example, one of the STOPP recommendations is to not use a non-cardioselective
      beta blocker in patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). The research
      network would be able to query the physician practices before and after the intervention and
      receive counts back on the number of patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
      (COPD) who are also on a non-cardioselective beta-blocker.

      PHASE 2:

      Will seek to qualitatively explain the findings from phase 1 with the physician participants.

      This will consist of one to two, two-hour, semi-structured discussion group(s) with family
      physicians from the intervention group. The discussion group will seek to understand specific
      issues with the Phase 1 tool. The discussion group will move through the following steps: (a)
      consent; (b) participants provide overall impressions of the tool; (c) review preliminary
      results from Phase 1; (d) specific feedback on how to improve the tool. The focus group will
      be audio recorded and qualitatively analyzed through the lens of pragmatic content analysis
      to better understand perceptions of the Clinical Decision Support (CDS) tool and its
      integration into workflow. There may be 2 discussion groups to allow for broader
      participation if scheduling is an issue and it may be a remote discussion group, depending on
      location of physician participants.
    
  