
    
      Background:

      Individuals with chronic illness often are at risk for developing neurobehavioral impairments
      due to effects of the disease and/or associated treatments.

      The National Cancer Institute (NCI) Neurobehavioral Group has been collecting neurobehavioral
      data obtained from the longitudinal psychometric testing of infants, children, adolescents,
      and adults with various chronic illnesses enrolled on IRB-approved protocols at the NIH since
      the 1980 s, many of which are now closed. In addition, we continue to collect neurobehavioral
      data obtained from assessments of individuals enrolled on current IRB-approved protocols.

      The neurobehavioral test data from these evaluations, as well as demographic information,
      medical values, neurologic findings, and neuroimaging abnormalities, are stored in the
      neuropsychological database currently located on the secure NIH mainframe computer system.

      Investigating the neurobehavioral functioning of children with chronic illness is important
      for identifying and monitoring the effects of the disease and treatments over time,
      determining possible at-risk subgroups, evaluating response to therapy, and recommending
      educational and rehabilitative interventions. In addition, the data may be used to compare
      various aspects of neurobehavioral functioning among different illness groups healthy
      controls, and validate novel methodologies to better assess selected domains of functioning,
      such as a pediatric quality of life (QOL) scale for children with chronic illnesses with CNS
      involvement.

      Objective:

      To describe the neurobehavioral functioning of individuals with chronic illness based on the
      analysis of stored data collected from IRB-approved protocols, consisting of retrospective
      data collected on protocols that are now closed and data collected prospectively on current
      and future protocols.

      Eligibility:

      Data obtained from infants, children, adolescents, and adults administered neurobehavioral
      assessments as part of a past, current, or future IRB-approved protocol.

      Design:

      No data will be collected specifically for this protocol. Retrospective data previously
      collected from individuals receiving neurobehavioral assessments as part of past IRB-approved
      protocols or prospective data that already will be collected as specified in current or
      future IRB-approved protocols and stored in the secure NCI Neurobehavioral database will be
      used for data analysis as outlined in this protocol.

      Cross-sectional or longitudinal data will be selected from the database for statistical
      analysis based on the objective being studied. Since different objectives may be studied
      using various types of data, a variety of statistical analyses will be conducted to examine
      the stored data depending on the objective being studied.
    
  