
    
      The CONSORT statement will be used as a guide for this study. This work will be a parallel
      group study, randomized, with active control, with an allocation ratio of 1: 1.

      This study was submitted to the Research Ethics Committee of the Pontifical Catholic
      University of Minas Gerais. Participants will be recruited in the Master's Degree in
      Orthodontics at PUC Minas, based on inclusion criteria.

      Interventions:

      Palatal expanders of the HYRAX type, with bands on the first permanent molars or second
      deciduous molars will be used for patients in both groups. The hooks for the use of Class III
      elastics will be welded on the vestibular of the upper molar bands. In the experimental
      group, the expander will be anchored mesially and bilaterally in mini-implants, in a
      technique known as rapid maxillary expansion assisted by mini-implants (MARPE). The control
      group will be active, with conventional dento-mucus-supported HYRAX expanders. All expanders
      will be manufactured by the same orthodontic technician.

      Both groups will be treated with maxillary protraction with a Petit-type face mask at night
      (12 hours a day). The direction of the elastics for the maxillary traction force will be
      between 15˚ to 30˚ below the occlusal plane, providing a force between 400 and 500 g per
      side. During the day (12 hours a day), patients will use a lower expansion plate with an
      occlusal stop, which will be activated once a week (0.25 mm), with hooks in the region of the
      lower canines for the use of Class III elastics. size 3/16 "(150g). The time-frame of the
      experiment will be 6 months.

      Results (primary and secondary) The primary outcome will be the degree of anterior movement
      of the maxilla after treatment). Secondary outcomes will be changes in other cephalometric
      variables and treatment time.

      Conical beam computed tomography (CBCT) will be performed at the beginning and at the end of
      the treatment. Teleradiographies will be extracted from the CFFCs and cephalometric
      measurements will be obtained by the investigator (V.E.) using the Dolphin Image software
      (Austin, USA). Traditional cephalometric measurements will be used to describe the changes
      before and after treatment.

      Calculation of the sample size As no study in the orthodontic literature used the same
      protocol used in this study, the sample size will be estimated by G * Power (version 3.0.8),
      with 95% power; significance level of 5%; two-tailed. For point A, sagittal movements of 2.6
      +/- 1.5 mm in the RME group and 5.8 +/- 2.3 mm in the RME group with constriction, a minimum
      sample size of 11 in each group will be necessary to detect a significant difference between
      groups. For ANS, sagittal movements of 2.1 +/- 1.3 mm in the RME group and 4.8 +/- 2.5 mm in
      the RME group with constriction, a minimum sample size of 16 in each group will be necessary
      to detect a significant difference between groups. Therefore, 16 will be the minimum sample
      size for each group. The sample size will be increased by 40%, resulting in 22 patients for
      each group, in case there is a withdrawal or the need to use a different protocol.

      Randomization (random number generation, allocation hiding, implementation) Patients will be
      recruited and allocated to the control group (RME) or the intervention group (MARPE)
      according to the sequence of participation. Simple randomization will be applied.

      Blinding The blinding of investigators or participants will not be possible because the
      expanders in the two groups will be different. Operators and patients will easily know which
      group they are in. However, blinding will be used during cephalometric analysis. All image
      exams will be hidden by opaque tape and replaced with research numbers and then mixed
      together before analysis. The investigator will not know the clustering of the CT scans,
      which will look similar.

      Statistical analysis (primary and secondary results, subgroup analyzes) All statistical
      analyzes will be performed using the software (version 18.0; PASW Statistics, Chicago,
      Illinois). Descriptive statistics will include the means and standard deviations of age,
      total treatment time, maxillary prostration time, cephalometric values and changes in values
      in each group. The 1-sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov test will be used to test the normality of
      distributions for all times and differences in cephalometric values. Independent t-tests will
      be used to compare the two groups, including total treatment time, protraction time and
      changes in cephalometric values; the t-tests will be used for the values that show "equality
      of variances not assumed" between the groups (SNA and Nasio perpendicular). The level of
      significance will be 0.05, with two-tailed test.

      Error of the Method All locations and measurements of the points will be checked twice
      carefully at the end of the initial plots and measurements. Not all images will be traced
      twice. However, to evaluate the tracing errors, 20 scans will be chosen at random. Plots,
      locations and measurements will be made twice, two weeks apart and then subjected to the
      Dahlberg formula. The error of the method will be determined by the Dahlberg formula, where n
      = 20 and d will be the difference between the measurements in 2 moments.
    
  