
    
      Type I diabetes affects the body's ability to respond to low blood sugar (hypoglycemia).
      Repeated episodes of hypoglycemia may affect an individual's autonomic system, and leads to
      hypoglycemia associated autonomic failure (HAAF) in around two-thirds of individuals. This
      study is looking at healthy, non-diabetic individuals who are susceptible to developing HAAF
      and their response to either naloxone nasal spray alone or in combination with diazoxide in
      improving their body's ability to respond to episodes of low blood sugar, and in preventing
      the development of HAAF.

      The body's response to episodes of hypoglycemia is measured using a procedure called a
      hypoglycemic clamp. Each phase of this study involves three clamp procedures over a period of
      2 days. During the clamp procedures, glucose (a sugar) and insulin (a hormone produced in the
      pancreas that regulates the amount of glucose in the blood) are infused with an intravenous
      catheter, and blood samples are collected periodically throughout the procedure to measure
      blood sugar levels and the levels of several hormones, including epinephrine, that are found
      in the body and are related to glucose metabolism. The rates of endogenous glucose production
      (a measure of the body's production of sugar) will be measured. Additionally, the level of
      awareness of hypoglycemia symptoms will be monitored using a standardized questionnaire.

      Both hypoglycemia and stress activate the body's opioid system. Recently published data has
      shown that blocking opioid receptors with naloxone may increase the body's ability to respond
      to hypoglycemia.The body's response to hypoglycemia affects many systems, and acting on
      several of these systems may help the body to respond more effectively to episodes of low
      blood sugar, and to prevent the development of HAAF. Studies have shown that potassium
      channels in the hypothalamus, a part of the brain, have an important role in detecting
      hypoglycemia. Diazoxide activates potassium channels in the cells of the brain that respond
      to changes in sugar (glucose) that occur in the body, and may also reduce the development of
      hypoglycemia associated autonomic failure. Additionally, certain glucose-responsive cells in
      the brain have opioid receptors that are combined with potassium channels which may respond
      to both diazoxide and naloxone which may work together to more effectively increase the
      body's ability to respond to episodes of low blood sugar and prevent HAAF.
    
  