
    
      The patients that had received SRP surgery between January-July 2019, divided into two groups
      according to the status of receiving SPGB before the surgery. The SPGB was done after the
      patient anesthetized and performed by the operating surgeon using a transnasal endoscopic
      approach through the posterior and over the middle turbinate tail in the pterygopalatine
      fossa. The patient was placed in the supine position with head extension. The prepared
      solution (4 cc % 4 lidocaine and 1 cc 8 mg dexamethasone) was delivered by a Mucosal
      Atomization device (LMA MADgic™ Laryngo-Tracheal Mucosal Atomization Device, US). 2,5 cc of
      the prepared solution was given to each side of the nose. The surgery was started 10 minutes
      after the application of SPBG, to allow sufficient time for the block to develop.

      The open septorhinoplasty technique was done to all patients. The operations were done by the
      same two otorhinolaryngologists. Control group patients did not receive SPBG and had the
      surgery only. POP scores were questioned at both groups and postoperative analgesic protocols
      were the same.

      POP was questioned by an anesthesiologist with a numeric rating scale (NRS) (0 = no pain, 10
      = most severe pain) at the 30th minute(t1), 1st hour(t2), 4th hour (t3), 12th hour (t4) and
      24th hours (t5) and analgesia was managed according to the NRS scores. If the NRS score was >
      4, the patient was given Paracetamol 1000mg intravenously, and if the score was still >4
      after 30 minutes the patient was given Tramadol 50 mg intravenously. Tramadol was used as
      rescue analgesia.

      PONV was also evaluated. The data of nausea and vomiting were collected by direct questioning
      by the anesthesiologist at the same times with NRS questioning.

      POP scores, the amount of postoperative rescue analgesics that was used, and PONV scores in
      the first 24 hours were compared between the groups.

      Mean arterial pressure (MAP), and the dose of Remifentanil that was used during the operation
      were also compared between the groups.
    
  