
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Economically disadvantaged Southeast Asian men were targeted because of their higher than
      average smoking prevalence rate, their extraordinary increased numbers, and the relative
      paucity of strategies to reach this hard-to-reach group.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Trained, lay S.E. Asian counselors (cadre) were the primary agents for this study's
      assessment, intervention, and follow -up of smoking cessation behaviors. Seven reasons for
      using this approach were cited, including the potential generalization of this approach to
      other populations.

      Over the six year demonstration and education research study period, the investigators:
      collected baseline data on smoking and smoking cessation behaviors; designed ethnically
      approved strategies for the cessation and maintenance of smoking cessation behaviors based
      upon findings from the baseline assessment; implemented ethnically approved strategies for
      smoking cessation; maintained smoking cessation after initial quitting; and evaluated the
      effectiveness of the intervention.

      On the macro level, an equal number of randomly selected subjects (E1) allocated equally
      among the three ethnic groups in one county were compared to an equal number of control
      subjects in geographically separate counties. On the micro level, E1 subjects were also
      compared to control subjects (C1) in the intervention county. All subjects were
      longitudinally followed. The standard for successful cessation was biochemically verified
      through salivary cotinine tests at one year of self-reported abstinence.

      Among the study's features were the community-based (versus academic or clinical) nature of
      lay change agents, the deliberate integration of baseline data and scientific principles with
      ethnic values in the intervention approach, and a research design that allowed for both macro
      and micro comparisons of the intervention with control conditions.
    
  