
    
      The United States is experiencing an epidemic of opioid-related overdose deaths. Office-based
      buprenorphine treatment could expand access to treatment to the many opioid users who are not
      in treatment and who are at great risk for opioid overdose. However, office-based
      buprenorphine has two limitations that Investigators will address in this application: 1)
      Patients prescribed buprenorphine by office-based providers can divert the buprenorphine for
      illicit use. 2) Many people in need of buprenorphine treatment do not initiate and remain in
      office-based buprenorphine treatment. Investigators will use Video Directly Observed Therapy
      (DOT) and incentives to enhance office-based buprenorphine treatment. Video DOT is an
      innovative, mobile health platform that patients can use to record and submit videos of
      patients taking medication that are then viewable on a secure, web portal for providers to
      confirm medication adherence. Video DOT could facilitate adherence to buprenorphine treatment
      and safeguard against diversion. The addition of incentives could engage out-of-treatment
      opioid users into treatment and increase treatment retention. Incentive interventions, which
      provide incentives to patients meeting therapeutic goals, have been highly effective in
      promoting a wide range of health behaviors and have firm theoretical and empirical
      foundations. Incentive interventions can promote treatment engagement in individuals with
      substance use disorders, including out-of-treatment opioid users. Investigators propose to
      develop and pilot test a novel combination of Video DOT and incentives to promote
      buprenorphine treatment engagement and adherence in out-of-treatment opioid users. The Video
      DOT+ intervention will provide an incentive for linking to buprenorphine treatment and
      facilitate retention in treatment by providing incentives for maintaining daily buprenorphine
      use as verified by the Video DOT system. The incentives will be integrated into the Video DOT
      platform and delivered remotely to reloadable credit cards to allow for the entire
      intervention to be delivered via mobile technology and to facilitate easy dissemination of
      the Video DOT+ system. A randomized pilot study is planned over 3 years. Out-of-treatment
      opioid users (N=64) will be referred to buprenorphine treatment and randomly assigned to a
      Usual Care (Control) group or Video DOT+ group. Video DOT+ participants will receive the
      Video DOT+ intervention being developed and evaluated in this project. Investigators will
      assess participants every 4 weeks throughout a 24-week intervention period and at 12 weeks
      after the intervention ends. The primary outcome measure will be buprenorphine treatment
      adherence during the 24-week intervention. Secondary measures will include buprenorphine
      treatment engagement (linkage and retention), opioid use, risk of opioid overdose, and
      post-intervention effects. The project will allow for the development and preliminary
      evaluation of a novel intervention to promote buprenorphine treatment engagement and
      adherence in out-of-treatment opioid users. Ultimately, Investigators would like to develop
      and disseminate an effective and scalable intervention that can enhance office-based
      buprenorphine treatment and thereby combat the opioid overdose epidemic.
    
  