
    
      With VHA's infrastructure dedicated to efficient telehealth delivery into patient homes, the
      delivery of a behavioral intervention for chronic migrane, CM, via the telehealth platform is
      primed to address barriers of in-person care delivery and holds considerable promise to reach
      and improve Veteran headache-related quality of life. Therefore, the goal is to evaluate an
      adapted bundle of EB implementation strategies to increase adoption of a Telemedicine-based
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) program (TENACITY) for CM in 2 VA HCoEs (VA Connecticut
      Healthcare System [VACHS], a large, multi-disciplinary HCoE, and Birmingham VA Medical Center
      [BVAMC], a smaller VA Headache Consortium Center. The HCoEs are charged with improving
      headache care throughout the VA, not just within an individual VAMC. As part of this study, a
      non-HCoE will also participate, providing an opportunity for the TENACITY study to extend
      this virtual specialty headache care to Veterans without headache specialty care. Dallas VA
      Medical Center, also known as the North Texas Health Care System [NTHCS] will participate as
      a third site.

      The investigators will determine whether TENACITY can be efficiently delivered through the
      vehicle of telehealth by conducting a pilot randomly controlled trial (RCT) comparing a)
      TENACITY to b). usual care plus education.

      The investigators will recruit Veterans diagnosed with chronic migraine headaches until the
      investigators have reached approximately 150 eligible Veterans participants across the 3
      VAMCs. The investigators will randomize eligible Veterans to participate either in the
      TENACITY intervention (n=75) or treatment as usual(n=75).

      The specific aims are threefold:

      Aim 1: To develop a bundle of evidence-based practice (EBP) implementation strategies to
      engage 3 VA Medical Centers [2 Headache Centers of Excellence HCoEs and 1 general neurology
      service] and facilitate their local adaptation and implementation of Cognitive Behavioral
      Therapy (CBT) (TENACITY) through the vehicle of telehealth services.

      Hypothesis 1a. HCoE clinical providers will report high acceptability, appropriateness and
      fidelity of TENACITY at 3 months and maintenance at 6 months.

      Hypothesis 1b. TENACITY reach, adoption, and implementation will vary by HCoE local context
      as evaluated by the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) inner settings.

      Aim 2. To conduct a pilot RCT and determine the preliminary efficacy and feasibility of
      TENACITY compared to usual care in outpatient, in person facilities across 3 VA HCoE sites.

      Hypothesis 2: Veterans receiving TENACITY will experience a statistically significant
      reduction in routine clinical headache metrics: headache frequency [headache days per month]
      (primary outcome), headache-related impairment and psychological symptoms (secondary
      outcomes) compared to usual care at 3 and 6 months.

      Aim 3: The investigators will conduct exploratory cost analysis of TENACITY from the
      Veteran's perspective, using inputs from the pilot RCT, and a two-year budget impact analysis
      from the VHA's perspective, incorporating the costs of implementation as well as direct costs
      (and cost-savings,) of providing the TENACITY intervention over all HCoEs to VHA.

      Hypothesis 3: TENACITY will be cost-effective and provide value to Veterans and VHA.
    
  