
    
      The study will use a factorial randomized controlled design to assess the comparative
      effectiveness of the following interventions among 8 community health centers and 550
      patients with:

        -  Health plan enhanced intervention plus traditional provider education: Health plans will
           enhance case management support, monitor medication fills, and increase passive
           guideline dissemination. Traditional provider education will consist of implementation
           of the PACE asthma education program. Note that all participants and clinics will
           receive this intervention. In effect, this will be the base active comparator arm of the
           study.

        -  Home visit intervention: Community health workers will provide in-home tailored asthma
           support: assess asthma self-management knowledge and skills, conduct a home
           environmental assessment focused on asthma triggers, and conduct follow-up visits to
           support patient actions to improve asthma control based on unified asthma management
           plan.

        -  Enhanced clinic intervention with system integration: Clinics will implement a
           multi-component intervention that includes decision support, audit and feedback,
           provider and staff education, team-based care, and training and feedback in implementing
           office spirometry and allergy testing. EHR enhancements and clinic systems redesign will
           support this work. The EHR will also provide a platform for sharing a common asthma
           management plan and enhancing communications among care team members (clinicians, CHWs,
           plan case managers).

      All four intervention groups will receive enhanced health plan intervention + provider
      education. The four study arms will receive the following additional different interventions:
      (a) usual clinic care; (b) a + home visit, (c) enhanced clinic care + system integration, and
      (d) c + home visit.
    
  