
    
      Lyme disease is the most common vector borne disease in the United States. Although
      antibiotic therapy is clinically effective in treating the symptoms of Lyme disease for most
      patients early in the course of disease, a significant number of patients who receive therapy
      report persistent symptoms. The cause of persistent symptoms after antibiotic therapy for
      Lyme disease is an area of great controversy. Recent studies have shown that the organism
      (Borrelia burgdorferi) may persist in animals after antibiotic therapy and can be detected by
      using the natural tick vector (Ixodes scapularis) to acquire the organism through feeding
      (xenodiagnosis). Whether this occurs in humans is unknown. Currently available tests for
      human Lyme disease do not allow determination of persistent infection after antibiotic
      therapy.

      In this proposal, the utility of xenodiagnosis for identifying persistence of B. burgdorferi
      in treated human Lyme disease will be tested in up to 120 subjects with various stages of
      Lyme disease with 30 healthy adults to serve as controls. Subjects will be followed for
      approximately 3 months. In Objective #1, subjects who have the characteristic erythema
      migrans (EM) rash and have been treated with antibiotics early (within 3 weeks of infection)
      in the course of Lyme disease will be tested. After completion of antibiotic therapy, 25-30
      larval Ixodes ticks will be allowed to feed on the subject and biopsies of the EM site will
      be performed. Repleted ticks will be collected and tested for the presence of B. burgdorferi.
      In Objective #2, similar studies will be performed, but enrollment will target subjects with
      elevated C6 (region 6 of the VlsE surface protein of B. burgdorferi) antibody levels. In
      Objective #3, patients with persistent symptoms after antibiotic therapy will be evaluated.
      As an attempt to increase the chances of a positive xenodiagnosis in humans, patients with EM
      who are in the first 2 days of antibiotic therapy and patients with untreated Lyme arthritis
      will also be evaluated. Evidence that B. burgdorferi can be recovered by xenodiagnosis after
      antibiotic therapy in subjects with continued symptoms would change the current paradigm for
      potential mechanisms of disease and provide researchers and clinicians a tool for identifying
      patients with persistent infection. In Objective #4 we will assess the safety of the planned
      xenodiagnostic procedure in humans. All individuals who underwent xenodiagnosis under the
      study will be assessed for adverse events.
    
  