
    
      Globally, 3 billion people do not have the eyeglasses they need to earn, learn, travel safely
      in traffic and participate in civic life. Among these, 1.1 billion people lack a simple pair
      of reading glasses to correct impaired near vision, called presbyopia. Presbyopia, the
      essentially universal decline in unaided near vision that occurs with aging, is the world's
      most common cause of vision impairment. Loss of accommodation (ability to change focus from
      distance to near) due to presbyopia can begin as early as age 30 years, commonly becomes
      functionally apparent by 40, and is essentially complete by 55, meaning that presbyopia is
      most common at the height of the working years.

      Study Plan: This is a randomized trial designed to assess the impact of free spectacles on
      workplace productivity among Indian textile workers.

      Research question: Will providing free glasses to presbyopic Indian textile workers increase
      work productivity?

      Design: Investigator-masked, multi-center randomized controlled trial

      Rationale: Although presbyopia is safely, effectively and inexpensively treated with glasses,
      rates of optical correction in LMICs are as low as 10%. The global productivity loss due to
      uncorrected presbyopia has been estimated to exceed US$25 billion, and presbyopia is shown to
      be associated with significant impairment in activities of daily living. Few trials have been
      published which address the question of whether healthcare interventions can improve work
      performance as well as workplace retention, especially among persons over the age of 40 in
      low and middle-income countries (LMICs). The largest reported effect sizes among such trials
      was the PROSPER trial, which showed that providing inexpensive near vision glasses increased
      the daily weight of tea picked among presbyopic, mostly-female Indian agricultural workers by
      more than 5 kg (21.6%) compared to those in the control group. Costs were low, over half of
      pickers aged >= 40 years met criteria to receive glasses, and wearing compliance reached
      nearly 90%. There is interest to understand if these results from the agricultural setting
      can be extended to other financially-important sectors.

      Methods : The investigators will enrol 500 textile workers aged 30 years and above with
      uncorrected presbyopia who are employed by Shahi Exports Private Limited in Karnataka, India.
      Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to Intervention and Control Groups (1:1).
      Intervention group participants will receive free reading glasses within a week of undergoing
      a vision screening at the factory. Control group participants will receive reading glasses at
      the end of the assessment period (three months after vision screening).

      The main outcome 3 month later will be work productivity; secondary outcomes are change in
      skill grade, change in monthly wage, participants' adherence with spectacle wear,
      self-assessed self-efficacy score and change of quality of life scores. The intervention
      cost-effectiveness will be studied.
    
  