
    
      The specific aim of this study is to compare postexercise central blood pressure after
      continuous and aerobic interval exercise. It is hypothesized that aerobic interval exercise
      will produce a longer duration postexercise hypotensive response compared to continuous
      exercise. 14 healthy, inactive (defined as less than 60 minutes of moderate to vigorous
      physical activity per week, as characterized by accelerometry) men aged 18-45 yr, who have
      high normal BP or stage 1 hypertension (systolic BP (SBP) 120-159 mmHg or diastolic BP (DBP)
      80-99 mmHg) according to JNC 8 established guidelines, will be included in this randomized
      cross-over design study. Each subject will complete three conditions in a randomized order:
      aerobic interval exercise, continuous exercise, and non-exercise control.

      For the aerobic interval exercise condition, subjects will be equipped with a heart rate (HR)
      monitor and asked to perform an interval exercise bout on a cycle ergometer. To warm up,
      subjects will cycle at a work rate associated with 50% HRmax for 10 minutes. Wattage will
      then increase and subjects will do four 4-minute intervals at a work rate associated with
      90%-95% HRmax, separated by 3 minutes of active recovery at a work rate associated with 50%
      HRmax. Subjects will be given a 5-minute cool-down period at a work rate associated with 50%
      HRmax. After the exercise, subjects will remain in the lab for 4 hours and their blood
      pressure will be measured every 10 minutes using the Oscar 2 with SphygmoCor ambulatory blood
      pressure system, and cardiac output measured in 10-second averages using the PhysioFlow.
      During this time, subjects will remain seated with their body posture maintained constant.

      For the continuous exercise condition, subjects will be equipped with a HR monitor and asked
      to perform a continuous exercise bout on a cycle ergometer. To warm up, subjects will cycle
      at a work rate associated with 50% HRmax for 10 minutes. Wattage will then increase and
      subjects will perform a 30-minute exercise bout at a HR that elicits 75%-80% of their
      measured HRmax. Work rate will be adjusted, if needed, to keep HR within this value. Subjects
      will be given a 5-minute cool-down period at a work rate associated with 50% HRmax. After the
      exercise, subjects will remain in the lab for 4 hours and their blood pressure will be
      measured every 10 minutes using the Oscar 2 with SphygmoCor ambulatory blood pressure system,
      and cardiac output measured in 10-second averages using the PhysioFlow. During this time,
      subjects will remain seated with their body posture maintained constant.

      For the non-exercise control condition, subjects will be asked to come to the laboratory for
      4 hours and have their blood pressure will be measured every 10 minutes using the Oscar 2
      with SphygmoCor ambulatory blood pressure system, and cardiac output measured in 10-second
      averages using the PhysioFlow. During this time, subjects will remain seated with their body
      posture maintained constant.
    
  