
    
      Study Objectives and Purpose:

        1. To assess the feasibility of 18F FDOPA PET/MR in the setting of IPD.

        2. To correlate and compare pattern of dynamic and/or static 18F-FDOPA uptake in the
           striatum with MR findings.

        3. To compare the different variables between the contra and ipsilateral hemispheric side
           of predominant motor involvement in patients with asymmetric motor disturbances.

      Materials and Methods:

      Study Design: This is a prospective, pilot, cohort

      Study population:

      Patients diagnosed with IPD suffering from asymmetrical motor signs.

      Participant recruitment:

      Eligible consecutive patients, satisfying the inclusion criteria, will be identified and
      recruited by neurological clinics.

      Informed consent: Before enrollment, written informed consent will be obtained from each
      patient.

      Participant Sampling: All patients fulfilling inclusion criteria and providing informed
      consent will be consecutively enrolled.

      Imaging diagnostic PET/MR protocol All scans will be performed in the department of Nuclear
      Medicine at Tel-Aviv Assuta Medical Center using a PET/MR scanner (Biograph mMR, Siemens AG,
      Erlangen, Germany) in accordance with the manufacturer's guidelines.

      Patients are required to fast at least 4 hours prior to arrival to the department. Upon
      arrival an intravenous catheter will be placed for radiopharmaceutical and gadolinium
      administration. Patients will receive an intravenous injection of 10 Millicurie (mCi) of
      18F-FDOPA on the PET MR table and scanning will begin immediately. Dynamic PET parameters
      will be acquired along with the different MR sequences. MR of the brain will include the
      following sequences: T1, T2 and T2 fluid attenuated inversion recovery sequence (FLAIR),
      susceptibility-weighted sequences (SWI), blood-oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signals for
      resting-state functional imaging. In addition, perfusion of the brain will be evaluated with
      and without gadolinium.

      For contrast-enhanced sequences the investigators use Dotarem (gadoteric acid)(0.2 ml/kg ,0.1
      mmol/kg at 2ml/s, 20ml saline flush) The total scan time will be about 45 minutes.

      Data collection:

      For eligible patients, the following data will be recorded at baseline.

        1. Baseline parameters: date of birth, sex, age at diagnosis and (motor) symptoms onset.

        2. Detailed medical history.

        3. Physical examination.

        4. List of medications (and doses for anti PD and psychiatric medications)

        5. Hoehn and Yahr stage.

        6. Evaluation using the Movement Disorders Society - performed by neurologist.

      MR findings:

        -  Abnormal structural findings of the brain.

        -  DTI measurements in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neuron tracts.

        -  Iron overload in the SN.

        -  Comparison of resting-state brain networks in patients with asymmetrical motor signs
           with normal maps

      PET findings:

        1. Visual assessment and quantitative measurements of static F-DOPA (e.g.,Standardized
           Uptake Values (SUV) SUVmax and SUVmean) will be performed in the putamen and caudate
           nucleus bilaterally.

        2. Measurements of dynamic F-DOPA parameters when available ( e.g., time to peak, peak
           value etc.) will be measured.

      Statistics Patient characteristics will be summarized using descriptive statistics.
      Quantitative variables will be presented as mean and SD, qualitative variables will be
      presented as frequencies.

      Pearson correlation coefficient will be used to measure the strength of the relationship
      between the PET and the MR parameters.

      A t-test will be used to compare the mean values of the different parameters. Sample size:
      This is a pilot study for which a sample size of 40 patients is required.
    
  