
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurological disorder that is increasingly
      prevalent with age, with the incidence rising from approximately 4 people per 10,000 in their
      forties to 2 in 100 over the age of eighty. Besides motor symptoms, such as tremor, rigidity,
      bradykinesia, and postural instability, PD patients often experience a variety of non-motor
      symptoms, such as fatigue, depression, sleep disturbance, and dementia.

      Although symptomatic treatments exist to partially compensate for motor dysfunction, no
      neuroprotective treatment has yet been established to slow PD progression, which inevitably
      renders patients incapable of living independently. Compared to age- and sex-matched
      controls, PD patients are about 5 times more likely to require nursing home care and this
      care costs about 5 times more than average nursing home care. This, combined with the
      European demographic shift toward an increasingly larger fraction of aged individuals,
      creates a social and economic challenge to develop new medications to slow the progression of
      PD.

      Our understanding of the aetiopathogenesis of PD has rapidly developed in the past two
      decades, but this has not yet translated into any clinically established neuroprotective
      treatment that slows disease progression. There is a growing consensus that the failure of
      previous efforts is mainly due to the aetiopathogenic diversity of PD and the estrangement of
      existing preclinical models from clinical PD. For example, it is known that mutations in
      mitochondrial genes can cause monogenic PD and biochemical evidence indicates that in a
      proportion of cases, idiopathic PD is associated with detectable mitochondrial dysfunction.

      Therefore, the investigators focus is on monogenic forms of PD that involve mitochondrial
      abnormalities as a primary (e.g., Parkin, PINK1), or secondary (e.g., LRRK2, GBA1)
      phenomenon, in order to extrapolate to idiopathic PD (IPD) patients with and without
      mitochondrial dysfunction (Mito-IPD and Amito-IPD, respectively). Biochemical pathways
      focusing on, but not restricted to mitochondrial function, will be assessed using a variety
      of techniques including biochemical assays on blood, urine, CSF and tissue samples. The
      investigators will explore both the relevance and measurement of specific biochemical
      pathways in Parkinson's and related disorders

      The main overall objective is to stratify PD patients based on dysfunction in biochemical
      pathways related to PD. This will aid in developing new candidate neuroprotection compounds
      to slow the progression of neurodegeneration.
    
  