
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare tumor proliferation in patients with newly diagnosed prostate cancer eating fat-
           and/or flaxseed-modified diets.

        -  Compare differences in histopathological markers associated with prostate cancer (rates
           of apoptosis, extent of high-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia) among patients
           in these diet groups.

        -  Compare changes in serum prostate specific antigen among patients in these diet groups.

        -  Compare changes in hormone-related factors (total serum testosterone and free androgen
           index, insulin-like growth factor [IGF], and IGF-binding protein-3) among patients in
           these diet groups.

        -  Compare the effects of diet on nutritional biomarkers (levels of lignans in the urine
           and ejaculate, fatty acid profiles of erythrocytes and prostatic tissue) in these
           patients.

        -  Determine associations between dietary modification and changes in dietary biomarkers,
           hormonal intermediates, and study endpoints in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to Gleason score (less
      than 7 vs at least 7) and race (black vs non-black). Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 diet
      groups.

        -  Arm I (Flaxseed-supplemented diet): Patients are instructed to incorporate ground
           flaxseed into their daily diets.

        -  Arm II (Low-fat diet): Patients are instructed on ways to achieve a diet with no greater
           than 20% of total energy from dietary fat.

        -  Arm III (Flaxseed-supplemented, low-fat diet): Patients are instructed as in arm I and
           arm II.

        -  Arm IV (Control diet): Patients are contacted weekly, but do not receive dietary
           counseling until after surgery.

      All patients ingest the diets for at least 3 weeks and complete diet diaries until surgery.
      After surgery, all patients receive dietary counseling.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 160 patients (40 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  