
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      Phase I: To determine the MTD (Maximum Tolerated Dose) and select optimal biological doses
      (OBD) of NT-I7 in HGG patients with severe lymphopenia

      Pilot Study: To test the effect of NT-I7 on CD4 counts compared to control

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        1. To evaluate the optimal biological dose of NT-I7

        2. To evaluate the effect of concurrent dexamethasone

        3. To evaluate the duration of effect on CD4 counts (up to 6 months)

        4. To evaluate the total lymphocyte counts over time and serial T cell lymphocyte subtypes
           and the effect on T cell repertoire (up to 6 months)

        5. To evaluate the serial cytokine levels (up to 6 months)

        6. To evaluate the impact of adjuvant temozolomide on NT-I7 effects on CD4 counts

        7. To evaluate anti-drug antibodies

        8. To evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of NT-I7 after intramuscular administration in
           this patient population

        9. To evaluate the safety and toxicity of NT-I7 in patients with high grade glioma

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups depending on their use of dexamethasone.

      GROUP A: Patients not on dexamethasone (or equivalent of an alternative corticosteroid), or
      on a dose lower than a physiologic dose (=< 0.75 mg daily)

      GROUP B: patients who require dexamethasone (or equivalent of an alternative corticosteroid)
      => 4 mg daily

      Patients must have been on the group assignment dose of corticosteroids for at least 5 days
      prior to the dose of NT-I7. Corticosteroid dose changes prior to the start of treatment are
      allowed as long as they do not alter patient's group assignment.

      PHASE I TREATMENT PLAN

      All patients (both Groups A and B) will be given a single dose of NT-I7 by intramuscular
      injection starting at 60 μg/kg, within one week after completing concurrent RT+TMZ and before
      starting adjuvant TMZ treatment, during the standard post-radiation break. Following this
      period, as per standard treatment, patients will go on to receive adjuvant temozolomide on
      Days 1-5 of 28-day cycles for 6 cycles. There should be about six weeks between the study
      injection and the start of adjuvant temozolomide; thus the start of adjuvant TMZ will be
      approximately two weeks later than the usual start, which is 4 weeks post-end of radiation.
      Patients who are delayed from receiving or are not able to receive adjuvant TMZ treatment may
      continue on study; adjuvant TMZ treatment is not a requirement for participation.

      PILOT STUDY TREATMENT PLAN

      GROUP A: participants will be given either a placebo (NT-I7 diluent) or one dose of NT-I7 at
      the Phase I Group A OBD by intramuscular injection within one week after completing
      concurrent RT+TMZ and before starting adjuvant TMZ treatment, during the standard
      post-radiation break.

      GROUP B: participants will be given one dose of NT-I7 at the Phase I Group B OBD by
      intramuscular injection within one week after completing concurrent RT+TMZ and before
      starting adjuvant TMZ treatment, during the standard post-radiation break.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  