
    
      Background:

      Total hip replacements is a cost effective treatment of a symptomatic degenerative hip
      disease. Cemented total hip replacements are the most common implants in Sweden (Swedish hip
      registry, 2009).

      Wear of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene has been a issue with regard to implant
      survival. At the time of the shift of the millennium highly cross-linked polyethylene was
      introduced to the markets. Experimental studies had shown reduction of wear in hip simulator
      studies (McKellop,1999). Subsequently the intention is to reduce osteolysis and implant
      loosening. Single surgeon pilot studies in the 1970 (Wroblevski et al. 1996, Oonishi 1998,
      Grobelaar 1999) were the first clinical series with good results leading to the development
      of 2nd generation highly cross-linked polyethylenes which is now the almost exclusively used
      PE worldwide. So far medium term clinical evaluation and laboratory assessment have showed
      reduced wear and good mechanical properties (Digas et al. 2003, 2004, 2007, Röhrl et al.
      2005, 2007, D´Antonio et al. 2005)

      Production of highly crosslinked polyethylene (HXLPE) consists of several steps. First the PE
      material is crosslinked by being subjected to either gamma irradiation of various intensity
      or electron beam irradiation. The second step is to remove the free radicals created during
      the irradiation. This is done either by annealing (i.e. warming up the PE to just under its
      melting temperature) or melting (i.e. warming up the PE to above its melting temperature).
      Finally, the implant is sterilized either by gamma irradiation or Ethylene Oxide and packed
      in vacuum or inert atmosphere.There are some possible drawbacks and challenges in the process
      of cross-linking polyethylene with regard to preserving the mechanical properties and
      elimination of free radicals (Kurtz et al. 2006, Currier et al. 2007).

      Submelt annealing preserves mechanical properties but on the other hand cannot eliminate all
      free radicals existing in the PE. Retrieval-studies of some 2nd generation highly
      cross-linked polyethylenes manufactured in this way have shown signs of oxidation. The
      in-vivo oxidation has been located in the non articulating area such as the circumference of
      the acetabular liner. It has been discussed that the femoral head may protect the
      polyethylene against oxidation, and hence prevent the possible negative consequences of
      remaining free radicals (Currier et al 2007).

      Melting the polyethylene eliminates all free radicals but alters the mechanical properties.
      This has led to PE cracks and implant failure in some clinical studies (Furmanski et al.
      2009), whereas it has not been seen in other.

      Finally, wear particles of highly crosslinked polyethylene are more often in the submicron
      size compared to conventional PE. Although these particles have a higher biological activity
      (Fisher et al. 2006), results of recent studies show however, that the overall risk for
      osteolysis and aggressiveness of highly cross-linked particles is reduced (Galvin et al.
      2007).

      Because of differences in the manufacturing processes of highly crosslinking PE between
      manufacturers (i.e. different GUR used, type of irradiation, intensity of irradiation,
      postirradiative treatment, type of sterilization and packing, etc, etc) all highly
      crosslinked polyethylenes differ somewhat from each other. One can not extrapolate results of
      in vitro or in vivo wear studies of one manufacturer to another. Also, because of these
      manufacturing differences, fixation characteristics may differ between the various types of
      HXLPEs. Therefore it is imperative that all new highly crosslinked polyethylenes are
      subjected to clinical studies of their wear and fixation performance using high accuracy
      methods before being used extensively.

      Methods:

      A prospective randomized study comparing acetabular components made of HXLPE or conventional
      PE in total hip arthroplasty. The study will be conducted at Department of Orthopaedics, Umeå
      University, Umeå, Sweden.

      Aim of study The aim of the study is to compare the wear and migration of a 2nd generation
      polyethylene from Link with conventional polyethylene in an all-poly cemented acetabular cup
      of the Lubinus brand using radiostereometric analysis (RSA) with 5-year follow-up.

      Hypothesis The H0-hypothesis is that the difference with in wear between HXLPE and
      conventional PE will not increase up to 5-year follow-up.

      Material Patients (age 50 years and above) with primary osteoarthritis between 2013 and 2014
      at the orthopaedic department at the county hospital (Lycksele) affiliated to Umeå University
      hospital, Sweden. Patients were treated with a cemented total hip arthroplasty. At surgery,
      after the acetabulum was reamed, randomization was performed by opening of a consecutively
      numbered sealed envelope informing whether a cup made of HXLPE or conventional PE should be
      inserted. The envelopes were kept far away from the operation theatre and were opened by a
      research nurse contacted by telephone. Randomization was stratified for gender. Within each
      stratum there was block randomization with 6 permutations in each block.

      Patients have been followed for 5 years postoperatively.

      Implants • Acetabular cup Intervention: Link-Ticona GUR 1020 HXLPE, 32 mm inner diameter
      (Trade name Lubinus® X-LINKed® )

      Control: Link-Chirulene GUR 1020 UHMWPE, 32 mm inner diameter (Trade name Lubinus ® UHMWPE)

      • Femur stem Test and control: Lubinus® SP II®, CrCo femoral head, 32 mm diameter

      Radio Sterometric Analysis (RSA) Radiostereometric analysis measurements will be performed 5
      years postoperatively.

      Wear will be measured as penetration of the femoral head into the polyethylene in the
      proximal, proximo-medial (2D pm), proximo-posterior (2D pp), and proximo-medial-posterior
      (3D) directions. Since the penetration during the initial 3 months represents polyethylene
      yield or bedding in, wear measurements will be reported from 3 months and up to 5 years
      postoperatively.

      Quality of cup fixation will be measured as rotations of the cup around the three cardinal
      axes in relation to acetabulum with the postoperative examination as reference.

      The RSA measurements will be analysed at Umeå University Hospital. Patient data will be saved
      in a specific research database at Umeå University Hospital following specific guidelines
      from the national data security committee.

      Ethical approval The study has been approved by the Ethics Committee of Umeå University (Dnr
      2011-173-31M, 2018-34-31M).

      Sample size With a mean difference in wear at 2 years of 0.1 mm or more (SD ± 0.1) between
      the groups (p< 0.05), 25 patients in each group will give a power of > 80%. In order to cater
      for losses during the follow up a total of 57 patients will be enrolled.

      Scientific Value All new materials should be monitored closely and introduced in small study
      groups using a high precision measurement technique. Many markets require such tests before
      acceptance for general use is given. The new highly crosslinked polyethylene from Link-Ticona
      is not equivalent to current highly crosslinked polyethylenes on the market, and one can not
      extrapolate wear results from these other designs.
    
  