
    
      * BACKGROUND

      The syringe is an ancient device designed principally to inject medications. However, because
      of the inherent biomechanics of the human hand and the interaction of the hand with the
      piston, the syringe is very stable and easily controlled the injection phase, but is
      extremely unstable and difficult to control in the aspiration phase. New reciprocating
      technology that accommodates the biomechanics of hand function has great promise of improving
      the stability and safety of hand-held devices, including procedure syringes.

      * EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN AND METHODS

      The study design is a randomized study to directly compare the performance and the outcome of
      syringe and needle procedures accomplished either with a standard syringe or the new
      reciprocating procedure device (RDP). Over a 5 year period, 820 subjects who require and
      assent to a syringe procedure for their usual and customary care will be randomized to either
      a conventional syringe or the reciprocating syringe. The following syringe procedures will be
      studied: 1) local anesthesia, 2) centesis (arthrocentesis, paracentesis, thoracentesis,
      amniocentesis, pericardiocentesis), 3) aspiration and puncture (aspiration of bursa, cyst,
      abscess, shunt, bone marrow, and other syringe aspiration procedures), 4) injection of a
      therapeutic or diagnostic substance into a joint, bursa, vessel, or other body structure, 5)
      fine needle biopsy with syringe vacuum of a mass or tissue, 6) irrigation procedures (wound,
      bladder, and other irrigation procedures), and 7) vascular access (introduction of a wire,
      catheter, or sheath into a blood vessel), and 8) with and without ultrasound guidance.

      In a subject with multiple individual procedure sites, or requires multiple separate
      biopsies, each will be randomized between the two syringes, and each biopsy or fluid sample
      will be analyzed separately (as is medically appropriate). The physicians who will perform
      the syringe procedures will be those physicians who usually perform the syringe procedures
      and are credentialed to do so. Outcome data collection will occur first by one of the
      investigators observing the procedure and collecting the data by real time interview and by
      chart review including cost analysis. Outcome data will include effectiveness (preprocedural
      pain, pain at 2 weeks post procedure, and pain at 6 months postprocedure), procedure time,
      patient pain, operator satisfaction, trauma to tissues, complications, diagnostic yield,
      overall medical care costs and hospital stay. Retrospective review of 30 charts of the device
      used clinically has also been approved (2006). Analysis of data will be performed by a
      statistician blinded to treatment group.

      *SIGNIFICANCE: The proposed study will be the first to study the clinical performance
      characteristics of a medical device that incorporates the new reciprocating technology
      designed to take advantage of the inherent biomechanical stability characteristics of the
      human hand. The preclinical studies presented in the preliminary data demonstrate markedly
      enhanced device performance characteristics, and much greater control and stability, strongly
      suggesting that reciprocating devices will be safer, more effective, more economical, and
      provide better patient outcomes.
    
  