
    
      Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) regimens greatly reduce the likelihood that high-risk
      uninfected men who have sex with men (MSM) will contract HIV infection. Although this
      protective benefit has been unequivocally established in clinical trials, the number of
      high-risk men on PrEP remains far below the threshold needed to substantially reduce HIV
      incidence. This is especially true outside of the country's largest cities. Novel approaches
      are needed to increase PrEP use among high-risk racial minority MSM in these neglected
      cities.

      This study will recruit 36 sociocentric social networks of high-risk young racial minority
      MSM, 18 networks per city (total n=36 networks x 14 anticipated recruited members per network
      = 504 participants). Participants will complete measures assessing baseline PrEP use;
      knowledge, attitudes, perceived norms, intentions, and stage of readiness for PrEP; sexual
      risk practices and substance use; and prior or current ART use. Participants will also
      complete measures used to identify each network's leaders.

      Networks will be randomized in equal numbers in each city to comparison or intervention
      conditions. All study participants will receive individual baseline counseling about risk
      reduction and PrEP, with referral offered to clinics prescribing PrEP. Members of the 18
      experimental condition networks will also receive the social network PrEP intervention being
      tested in the study. In it, cadres of leaders in each network-selected based on their
      leadership position within the network and their own openness to PrEP-will attend a 5-session
      intervention that trains, engages, and supports network leaders in communicating to friends
      accurate information about PrEP and its availability; corrects PrEP misconceptions and
      negative stereotypes; endorses PrEP use and its benefits; and strengthens friends' attitudes,
      intentions, perceived peer norms, and self-efficacy regarding PrEP as a personal HIV
      protective strategy. Two additional booster sessions spaced monthly will support maintenance
      of leaders' efforts in talking with friends in their network about the benefits of PrEP, as
      well as where and how to access it.

      At 6- and 15-month followup points, all study participants will complete the same behavioral
      measures that were administered at baseline, as well as measures of intervention exposure.
    
  