
    
      Registry procedures

        -  Letters will be sent from the centers themselves to the homes of all the people
           diagnosed with Parkinson's disease who meet the inclusion criteria. The letters will
           contain information about the study and how to join the study, a stamped addressed
           envelope and the informed consent form. Those interested may sign up for the study by
           telephone, by sending a letter in a stamped addressed envelope (provided by the research
           team) or in person at the reception of the participating centers. Subsequently, a member
           of the research team will evaluate if the potential participants meet the inclusion
           criteria by means of a brief interview in the health center. Once it has been
           established that participants fulfill the inclusion criteria, they will be given a
           document with the dates of the sessions that they must attend.

        -  The healthcare professionals helping the participants in data collection will be blinded
           to intervention assignment. Two researchers will be in charge of data monitoring.

        -  Data will be compared with findings from papers.

        -  The sample size necessary to detect medium to large differences in the primary outcome
           of the project, quality of life, was calculated. The parameters used for the calculation
           of the sample size by group will be published in a paper.

        -  Analysis of quantitative data will be performed on an intention to treat basis and for
           that SPSS (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences) version 23.0 will be used. A
           descriptive analysis of the sociodemographic data will be made. For the quantitative
           variables, the means of central tendency and standard deviations will be calculated.
           Non-parametric tests (χ² tests) and parametric tests (paired student t tests) to compare
           patients with family members at each measurement points, unpaired student t tests to
           determine any significant differences between the two groups at baseline (Time 0) and
           the measurements at Time 1 and Time 2 will be used. Also, repeated measures of
           covariance (ANCOVA, analysis of covariance) will be used to compare differences between
           the two groups in the main variables.
    
  