
    
      Once the initial investigations are done, an oral treatment is started on the first cycle if
      medically indicated.

      At mid-cycle, patients undergo a transvaginal ultrasound looking for follicles' maturation.
      This ultrasound's goal is to detect ovulation and plan the IUI. If no follicle is detected,
      the transvaginal ultrasound is repeated later. If there is no luteinizing hormone (LH) peak
      detected upon ovulation urine test, there will be an ovulation induction with human chorionic
      gonadotropin (hCG) based depending on patient's age, number and size of detected follicles.
      Subcutaneous hCG or intramuscular hCG can be used. A cycle can be cancelled if there is no
      ovulation or if there is ovarian hyperstimulation.

      During ovulation, semen analysis is performed, looking at sperm volume, sperm concentration
      and mobility. Then, semen is treated with a density gradient or with centrifugation. Isolated
      sperm are diluted in 0.5 to 1 mL of media and maintained in an incubator at a 37 ยบ C
      temperature until insemination. The laboratory performs a second analysis on the washed semen
      in order to obtain the most accurate measures. If donor's semen is used, the andrology
      laboratory prepares the specimen and then processes with the semen analysis.

      Patients are inseminated the day after a spontaneous LH peak or 24-36h after ovulation
      induction. For those who are randomized to the intervention group, a pozzi tenaculum forceps
      will be applied and clamped horizontally to the anterior cervical labrum with only a single
      click and mild traction will be applied in another to decrease the uterocervical angle. When
      no tenaculum is applied, motion will be mimicked without actual tissue prehension. Patients
      randomized to the control group will only have a tenaculum forceps applied in cases where the
      IUI is not feasible otherwise by the gynecologist. Indeed, it is sometimes necessary, when
      the cervical anatomy does not allow for easy pass of the catheter, for a pozzi tenaculum
      forceps to be used in order to insert the insemination catheter properly in the uterine
      cavity. In that case, tenaculum use will be recorded in the patient's file. No cervical
      insemination is allowed. Insemination is performed with flexible catheters and care is taken
      to avoid touching the uterine fundus with the catheter tip. There are multiple catheters
      available in the gynecology clinic, namely catheters The Curve (Cooper Surgical, Berlin),
      Shapeable IUI Catheter (Thomas Medical, Indianapolis) and Mini space (Laboratory C.C.D.,
      Paris). After the intervention, patients are instructed to lie flat for 10 minutes after
      which they go home until next appointment.

      Intercourse is allowed following IUI treatments. Patients are instructed to perform a urinary
      pregnancy test at home to weeks after the IUI, which will be provided to them. If the test is
      positive, patients are scheduled for a transvaginal ultrasound on week #7 of amenorrhea to
      confirm proper intrauterine pregnancy evolution. When pregnancy is confirmed, patients are
      referred to an physician for obstetrical follow-up.

      In case of treatment failure, patients go on with ovulation induction or stimulation for the
      next cycle as previously prescribed by the gynecologist at mid-cycle ultrasound, if
      indicated. Dosages of ovarian stimulation medication may be modified, at physician's
      discretion, in order to optimize response to treatment according to the usual indications
      (ovarian hyperstimulation, side effects, poor response, etc.) Patients will be followed for 3
      cycles and, if need be, can receive subsequent IUI treatments outside research protocol.
    
  