
    
      Falls are the leading cause of both fatal and nonfatal injuries among older adults in the
      United States. Past research suggests that individuals taking four or more prescription
      medications are at increased risk for falls. CNS-active drugs (e.g., benzodiazepines), in
      particular, have been associated with increased risk. Research also suggests that
      interventions to reduce inappropriate medications can reduce the risk of falls. This finding
      comes primarily from multifaceted interventions, however, and the impact of medication
      modification, by itself, remains largely unknown.

      This study is using a a randomized controlled clinical trial design to evaluate a falls
      prevention program targeting community-dwelling older adults through community pharmacies.
      The study focuses on individuals at high risk for future falls. Individuals in the
      intervention group receive an in-depth consultation concerning their current medications,
      conducted by a community pharmacist. The consultation is designed to elicit
      medication-related problems (e.g., orthostatic hypotension, daytime sedation). Problems
      identified during the consultation, and therapeutic recommendations designed to address these
      problems, are communicated to the prescribing physician. With physician approval, appropriate
      modifications are made to the patient's medication regimen. The primary study endpoints are:
      time to first fall and proportion of individuals who fall during the one-year follow-up
      period.

      Two primary hypotheses will be tested.

        1. Compared to individuals in the control group, individuals in the intervention group will
           experience a 30% reduction in the hazard of falling (hazard ratio=0.70) for time to
           first fall following randomization.

        2. Compared to individuals in the control group, 25% fewer people in the intervention group
           will experience a fall during the one-year follow-up period.

      If the intervention is effective in reducing falls, these effects should be mediated by
      improvements in the overall quality of medication use. Thus, we will also assess effects of
      the intervention on: change in the number of inappropriate medications prescribed and change
      in the number of CNS-active medications prescribed.

      One secondary hypotheses will be tested.

      1. Compared to individuals in the control group, individuals in the intervention group will
      experience a 40% reduction in the use of high-risk medications during the one-year follow-up
      period.
    
  