
    
      This study is designed to answer four questions:

        1. Which brain regions are activated in humans by the rewarding properties of ethanol
           administration?

        2. How does ethanol administration affect the brain response to visual cues known to evoke
           positive or negative emotion?

        3. Do individuals who regularly drink in ethanol in large amounts (heavy drinkers) differ
           from individuals who do not regularly drink large amounts of ethanol (social drinkers)
           in how ethanol affects brain function?

        4. Does ethanol administration affect the brain regions activated in a risk-taking task in
           social drinkers and heavy drinkers?

      In order to determine which brain regions are activated by the rewarding properties of
      ethanol administration, we propose to use Blood Oxygenation Level Dependent (BOLD) fMRI
      techniques to test the hypothesis that during the time of rising and peak BAC, mesolimbic,
      mesocortical, and nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) terminal areas of the brain will show
      significant increases in cerebral blood flow. Healthy, subjects who are not seeking treatment
      for an alcohol use disorder will be given intravenous (IV) ethanol or placebo infusions on
      separate days. An ethanol infusion will delivered at rates calculated to produce a BAC of
      0.08 plus or minus. An ethanol infusion will delivered at rates calculated to produce a BAC
      of 0.08 plus or minus 0.005 g/dl at 15 minutes. Then the rate of the infusion will be
      adjusted so that for the next 30 minutes (second phase) BAC will be maintained at the target
      level of 0.08 0.005 g/dl. On the placebo day, subjects will receive a saline infusion at the
      same set of rates as used during their ethanol infusion. Continuous multi-slice fMRI data
      will be collected during each infusion. During each infusion, BOLD response to visual stimuli
      designed to evoke emotion will also be examined. In addition, we will compare the BOLD
      response of healthy social drinkers to that of healthy heavy drinkers. We will also compare
      the BOLD response elicited by risk-taking during the ethanol infusion to that during the
      placebo infusion in both social and heavy drinkers.
    
  