
    
      Introduction:

      Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare disorder associated with poor survival.
      Endothelial dysfunction resulting from 1) genetic susceptibility, and 2) a triggering
      stimulus that initiates pulmonary vascular injury, the two-hit hypothesis, appears to play a
      central role both in the pathogenesis and progression of PAH. Inflammation appears to drive
      this dysfunctional endothelial phenotype, propagating cycles of injury and repair in
      genetically susceptible patients with idiopathic PAH (IPAH) and patients with
      disease-associated PAH. However, despite mounting evidence of vascular inflammation in
      patients with PAH, detailed phenotypic studies are lacking on the temporal evolution of this
      process and its contribution to right ventricular (RV) and pulmonary vascular remodeling. We
      hypothesize that a detailed characterization of the temporal evolution of vascular
      inflammation in PAH and its impact on RV and pulmonary vascular function will add prognostic
      value to traditional measures of disease severity and suggest novel therapeutic targets for
      future research.

      Objectives:

      Patients with IPAH and disease-associated PAH will be recruited to the NIH and enrolled in
      this natural history study investigating the ability of circulating markers of vascular
      inflammation as well as high-resolution cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to
      accurately stage severity of disease and/or predict clinically relevant outcomes.

      Methods:

      The total population for the study will be 150 PAH subjects and approximately 55 age and
      gender matched controls (i.e. each healthy volunteer is matched to less than or equal to 3
      PAH subjects).

      PAH subjects will undergo 1) standard clinical examinations including 6-minute walk distance
      and echocardiography; 2) cardiopulmonary exercise testing; 3) markers of coagulation and
      fibrotic disease; 4) plasma profiling of inflammatory

      markers; 5) gene expression profiling of peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMCs); 6)
      high-resolution MRI-based determination of pulmonary vascularand RV structure and function
      and 7) Cardiac CT scan.

      Plasma markers of endothelial inflammation, PBMC expression profiles, and high-resolution
      cardiac MRI will also be studied in age and gender matched controls to define normal ranges
      and variability for each of these novel assessments. Comparison of these results to PAH
      subjects at baseline will be used to determine the degree to which these investigative tests
      distinguish PAH patients from healthy subjects. Likewise, baseline clinical evaluations of
      PAH subjects will be used to examine whether any novel test (inflammatory markers, or cardiac
      MRI), accurately classifies patients according to their disease severity. In addition, these
      tests will be investigated prospectively for their ability to predict PAH disease
      progression. Disease progression will be defined prospectively as a decrease in the 6-minute
      walk distance of greater than or equal to10% from baseline or clinical worsening requiring an
      escalation in therapy, hospitalization due to right heart failure, transplantation or death.

      Additional plasma will be collected from PAH subjects and age/gender matched control
      subjects. This material will be used to probe for new biomarkers and inflammatory factors
      using discovery based approaches (i.e. Proteomics and pulmonary artery endothelial cell
      bioassay).
    
  