
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether endogenous cellular immunity to a particular tumor-specific
      mutated p53 or ras protein is present in patients with tumors expressing mutant p53 or ras.
      II. Determine whether vaccination with antigen-presenting cells pulsed in vitro with
      synthetic peptide corresponding to the tumor's p53 or ras mutation in the presence of
      sargramostim (GM-CSF) can induce or boost patient cellular immunity to the mutated peptide in
      this patient population. III. Assess the type and characteristics of the cellular immunity
      generated. IV. Determine whether in vivo-primed T-cells generated against the p53 or ras
      mutation, expanded in vitro with corresponding peptide, and infused with subcutaneous
      interleukin-2 can enhance the activity of specific cytotoxic T-lymphocyte immune response
      and/or tumor response in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment regimens. The first 5 patients accrued are
      assigned to Regimen A. Three weeks after all 5 patients are enrolled, additional patients are
      accrued and assigned to Regimen B. All patients undergo peptide hypersensitivity testing with
      the peptide they will be treated with prior to each vaccination. Regimen A: Two days prior to
      each vaccination, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) are harvested. PBMC are incubated
      for 48 hours with either patient-specific mutant p53 or ras peptide fragments and
      sargramostim (GM-CSF). The antigen-presenting cells (APC) are irradiated prior to use. APC
      are reinfused on day 0. Treatment repeats after 3 weeks and then every 6 weeks for a total of
      4 vaccinations. Regimen B: Patients are vaccinated with APC as in Regimen A. PBMC are
      harvested prior to the first APC vaccination and 1 week after the second, third, and fourth
      APC vaccinations. PBMC are incubated for 7 days with either peptide the patient was
      vaccinated with (mutant p53 or ras peptide fragments) and interleukin-2 (IL-2). The
      peptide-activated lymphocytes (PAL) are reinfused over 1 hour 2 weeks after each APC
      vaccination. Patients receive IL-2 subcutaneously 5 days a week for 2 weeks beginning 4 hours
      after each PAL infusion. Patients in both regimens with stable or responding disease continue
      treatment every 6 weeks. Patients achieving complete response continue treatment for up to 1
      additional year. Patients are followed at 1 and 2 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 70 patients (5 per Regimen A, 28-65 per Regimen B) will be
      accrued for this study.
    
  