
    
      Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disease of unknown etiology and is
      characterized by a multifaceted clinical presentation and disease course. Female predominance
      is a well-known characteristic of SLE, particularly during the reproductive years. Sex
      differences are another peculiarity of SLE with respect to clinical manifestations and
      outcomes. Previous studies have recognized male patients with lupus as a distinct minority;
      such patients often exhibit a poorer prognosis, especially involving the renal,
      cardiovascular, and neurologic systems. Higher mortality rates in male than in female
      patients with SLE have also been reported. Andrade et al reported that multiple conditions
      (for example, severe skin lesions, serositis, thrombotic events, and seizures) are more
      frequent in males than females.

      Lu et al investigated the frequency of renal failure and end-stage renal disease among both
      genders and found out that these conditions were more prevalent among males. Another study
      shows no difference in complications and prognosis between both genders.

      The results of these previous studies may not be applicable to all ethnic groups. For
      example, Mok et al studied the males in the local Chinese population had different disease
      features in term of clinical features at diagnosis, rate, and severity of relapse, organ
      damage and cumulative damage score. They found through a retrospective review that at the
      time of diagnosis, there was a trend, however not statistically significant, that males had
      less Raynaud's, alopecia, arthritis, anti-Ro antibody, but more thrombocytopenia and discoid
      lesions. Also, a significantly higher number of males had impaired renal functions.

      There are few studies that have assessed the differences between male and female Egyptian
      patients with SLE according to the presentation, complication, prognosis, and mortality. One
      of these studies shows a more aggressive disease detected in male patients. This was evident
      by a higher prevalence of nephritis, fever, cutaneous vasculitis in male patients. on the
      other hand, alopecia and arthritis were significantly higher in females.
    
  