
    
      The prevalence of postnatal depression(PND) in Asian countries ranges from 3.5% to 63.3%
      where Malaysia and Pakistan have the lowest and highest, respectively. Risk factors for
      postnatal depression have been clustered into biological/ physical (e.g., Vitamin B
      Deficiency), psychological (e.g., antenatal depression), obstetric/ paediatric (e.g.,
      unwanted pregnancy), socio-demographic (e.g., poverty), and cultural factors (e.g.,
      preference of infants' gender).

      Cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) is the best-studied form of psychotherapy in patients who
      have had Postnatal Depression, in reducing depressive symptoms. This study is planned to
      explore the effect of culturally adapted Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (CaCBT) based Guided
      self-help (using the book, Khushi Aur Khatoon) compared with treatment as usual in improving
      depression in PND patients. Participants visiting Zainab Panjwani Memorial Hospital -
      Karachi, who meet the entry criteria will be randomly allocated to one of the groups, i.e.,
      CaCBT (Intervention group) or TAU (Control Group) in a 1:1 ratio. after taking written
      informed consent.

      With a 5% significance level and 90% power, it was calculated that 48 subjects per group will
      be required for the trial, with a total number of 96. To accommodate for upto 30% of drop
      out, we plan to recruit 140 participants in the study.

      Participants will be assessed at baseline and 8 weeks (end of therapy) from baseline. Primary
      outcome measure will be the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS). The secondary
      outcome measures include Bradford Somatic Inventory (BSI) and World Health Organization
      Disability Assessment Schedule (WHO DAS 2.0). We will also measure satisfaction with the
      treatment at the end of therapy using a visual analogue scale from the intervention group.

      We will follow the CONSORT guidelines for reporting of randomized controlled trials. The
      analyses will be carried out on an intention-to-treat basis using SPSS version 25.
      Comparisons for an intention to treat analysis participants will be included in the groups to
      which they are randomized regardless of how long or even whether they received the treatment
      allocated to them or not. Missing values will be imputed using the last observation carried
      forward (LOCF) method. Both Chi-Square and t-test will be used for baseline comparisons. End
      of therapy scores on various outcome measures between the Intervention and the Control groups
      will be compared using an Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) to adjust for baseline scores.
    
  