
    
      This Phase I study will evaluate the blood stage P. falciparummalaria vaccine candidate
      BSAM-2/Alhydrogel +CPG 7909 in adults in the US and Mali. BSAM-2 contains a mixture of two
      proteins found on the surface of merozoites, AMA1 and MSP1(42). The study is open label, dose
      escalating in the US, and will be single-blinded and randomized with a comparator vaccine
      (Euvax B - Hepatitis B) in Mali. All volunteers will receive three doses of vaccine, given at
      0, 2, and 6 months and administered in the deltoid muscle. The US arm of the study will be
      conducted at the Center for Immunization Research (CIR), in Washington DC. Fifteen (15)
      healthy volunteers will receive 40 (micro)g BSAM-2/Alhydrogel +500 (micro)g CPG 7909 at CIR,
      followed by another 15 who will receive 160 (micro)g BSAM-2/Altlhydrogel +500 (micro)g CPG
      7909. Safety data to at least one week after the second vaccination from all US volunteers
      will be reviewed by a Safety Monitoring Committee prior to vaccinating volunteers in Mali.
      The highest safe dose will be administered in Mali after safety data in US adults have been
      reviewed by the SMC. The Mali arm of the study will be conducted in Bancoumana. Thirty (30)
      volunteers will be randomized to receive either BSAM 2/Alhydrogel +CPG7909 or the licensed
      comparator vaccine. The primary objective of the study is to demonstrate safety and
      reactogenicity of the vaccine in both malaria naive and semi-immune adults. Secondary
      objectives are to determine the antibody response of the combination vaccine to the AMA1 and
      MSPl(42) proteins, as measured by antibody levels and parasite growth inhibition. Study
      endpoints are the incidence of local and systemic adverse events, antibody responses to AMA1
      and MSP1(42) proteins, and in vitro growth inhibition of falciparum parasites. Exploratory
      immunologic analyses will also be conducted.
    
  