
    
      A phase II study in relapsing glioblastomas (GBM) using concurrent intraarterial carboplatin
      chemoradiation therapy.

      BACKGROUND - Contemporary treatment of GBM brain tumors involves a first-line treatment in
      which the patient receives a surgical procedure followed by a combination of radiation and
      temozolomide-based chemotherapy1. Unfortunately, this regimen improves patient survival only
      modestly, with a progression-free survival (PFS) of 6 months, and an overall survival of 14
      months. Glioblastoma remains an incurable disease characterized by relapse and disease
      progression. There is no established second-line treatment for relapsing GBM, and the most
      used (BCNU chemotherapy) results in a PFS of only 2 months. As the investigators have shown,
      treatment can be considerably improved by circumventing the limitation of chemotherapeutic
      agents(CA) to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and enter the central nervous system (CNS).

      The investigators have focused its research on 3 essential aspects of GBM treatment: 1)
      alternate delivery approaches to bypass the BBB; 2) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to
      characterize tumor blood supply and predict therapeutics delivery to the tumor; 3)
      synergestic interplay of radiation and platinum drugs to improve brain tumor therapy. This is
      the first study to ever attempt bridging these 3 aspects within the same project.

      Alternate delivery approaches to bypass the BBB.

      Although different approaches have been tested in the researcher's lab to bypass the BBB, the
      most applicable to the clinic is the intraarterial infusion of chemotherapy (IA). It allows
      to circumvent the BBB via the first pass effect, resulting in a local plasma peak
      concentration increase of the CA by up to a 5-fold factor, maximizing CNS drug exposure. It
      also decreases systemic distribution of the CA thereby reducing toxicities and side effects.
      Over the last 15 years, the principal investigator has treated more than 720 patients using
      this IA approach, 422 of which had glioblastoma. This is the largest of such series. Based on
      this extensive experience, the investigators have convincingly shown that the procedure is
      safe and well tolerated. Using IA carboplatin in GBM relapse, a response in 70% of patients,
      and a 22 months overall survival + an increase in PFS to 5 months has been observed. This
      represents an impressive survival increase of 9 months. Time is ripe to improve these results
      in hope to cure this hard-to-treat cancer someday; hence the 2 additional measures discussed
      next.

      MRI characterization. MRI is routinely used to monitor GBM response to treatment. It could
      also help us guide treatment and predict responses. Indeed, the investigators have recently
      developed a novel MRI sequence that enables the simultaneous measurement of cerebral blood
      flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV) and vessel permeability; these surrogates are all
      relevant to predict delivery of therapeutics to CNS tumors. This sequence has been tested and
      has met strict quality criteria. This will help decide the artery into which IA chemotherapy
      is delivered, and predict CA delivery and possibly tumor response.

      Synergistic interplay of radiation and platinum drugs. Radiotherapy is the most effective
      single-treatment modality for GBM tumors, but it controls the disease only transiently. A way
      to improve treatment consists of coupling radiation with a potent radiosensitizer.
      Carboplatin (Ca), a platinum (Pt) drug, is ideally suited for this7. Our group has
      demonstrated that the addition of Ca to ionizing radiation produced significantly more DNA
      strand breaks. In numerous cell lines, combining radiotherapy and Ca was found to increase
      cell death. In a mouse model, the investigators observed a maximum antitumor effect with
      Pt-Ca administration at 4 h or 48 h prior to irradiation. This timing correlated to the
      highest levels of Pt bound to DNA. Concurrent Pt-Ca and radiation treatment represents a
      common modality for treating a variety of cancers. Unfortunately, since this class of drug
      does not readily cross the BBB when administered via the standard iv routes, they are not
      used to treat GBM.

      After years of interdisciplinary collaboration, the investigators demonstrated the following
      key factors in our pre-clinical F98-Fischer GBM model: 1- the use of the IA route increased
      Ca accumulation into the nucleus of tumor cells by a whooping 20-fold factor compared to the
      iv route. 2- While testing for 5 different Platinum compounds administered to the CNS by
      different routes, radiotherapy, IA carboplatin + radiotherapy was by far the best therapeutic
      modality in terms OS.

      AIM - To conduct a phase I/II clinical study in which: (1) patients with relapsing GBM will
      be treated with a novel IA chemoradiation with Ca. (2) the new MRI sequence will be used to
      maximize the intraarterial catheter position in relation to individual tumor vasculature.
      Moreover, the investigators will assess whether the sequence can serve as a predictor of Ca
      delivery to the CNS, tumor response and patients survival. (3) Using tumor sample of each
      patient, to proceed to in vitro analysis of efflux pumps expression levels, DNA-bound Ca
      levels, and in vitro radiation linked to cell death study to predict in vivo tumor response.
      With this structuring and translational project, the investigators ultimate goal is to
      personalize GBM treatment for each patient based on the MRI and in vitro biological data.

      HYPOTHESES - (1) IA Ca will show strong synergy with radiation and will act as a potent
      radiosensitizer. (2) MRI data analysis on blood flow, volume and vessel permeability will
      predict the extent of delivery of Ca to the tumor and the level of hypoxia affecting
      radiation effectiveness. Hence, this should allow to predict response to treatment. It will
      also help maximize the catheter position in the cerebral vascular tree. (3) In vitro
      intracellular penetration of carboplatin and radiation testing, as well as expression of
      efflux pumps will predict treatment effectiveness and time-correlate Ca binding to DNA with
      cell entrance flux. Putting together these data will allow correlating clinical and
      radiological response to quality of life (QOL), and to delivery surrogates for the IA
      infusion and intracellular penetration of carboplatin.

      STUDY DESIGN: IA carboplatin and radiation - Patients with GBM progressing after the first
      line of treatment will be eligible. In this phase I/II trial, all patients will be treated at
      recurrence; a surgery will be performed for cytoreduction during which tumor samples will be
      collected, followed by a combination of radiation and IA Ca. A dose escalation protocol with
      consideration of the cumulative biologically effective dose and the normalized total dose
      will be used to determine the optimal re-irradiation dose in terms of acceptable toxicity and
      efficacy. We will use 10 fractions of radiation over 2 weeks. This will allow to benefit from
      the protective effects of fractionation (normal tissue repair), while being tolerable in the
      preservation of QOL. Escalation scheme from 1.5Gy/fraction up to 3.5Gy/fraction will allow us
      to control for neurotoxicity. A 12 weeks observational period has been planned between each
      escalation to detect any undesired toxicity. Toxicity will be graded according to the
      National Cancer Institute (NCI) common toxicity criteria and grade III or IV will be
      considered significant. Pending the occurrence of such toxicity, the patient will be
      withdrawn from the study. Moreover, 3 instances of a grade III or IV toxicity will halt the
      escalation scheme. The prior radiation dose level will then be considered as the established
      safe level, and 10 more patients will be accrued at this level.

      Combined with radiation, patients will receive 2 treatments of IA carboplatin12 (400 mg/m2),
      4 hours prior to the first and the sixth radiation fraction (of a total of 10). IA treatments
      will then be continued on a monthly basis as a single treatment modality for consolidation,
      up to a total of 12 months, or until progression.
    
  