
    
      Today, to understand pathogenic mechanisms involved in periodontitis remains a challenge to
      identify biomarkers or therapeutic targets to improve prevention and screening, as well as
      the effectiveness of periodontitis treatments. The aim is to characterize, in vivo, specific
      molecular markers reflecting the activity of the pathology, which could lead to

        -  improve the knowledge of the pathogenesis of periodontitis;

        -  determine target molecules involved in tissue destruction;

        -  determine molecular profiles of patients at local and systemic risk;

        -  determine therapeutic targets

      The research focuses on the characterization of the immuno-inflammatory response involved in
      periodontitis. A characterization of the mediators or cells involved will be performed from
      biological samples (gingival fluid, unstimulated saliva, gingival explants). The gingival
      fluid is composed of serum inflammatory exudate and inflammatory mediators produced locally
      in the periodontal pocket. Unstimulated saliva is a biological fluid composed in part of the
      gingival fluid that drains into it. It has the advantage of being easier to collect (larger
      quantity, collection by any health professional).

      This is a non-interventional, cross-sectional, multicenter, prospective, open-label,
      non-randomized study to collect tissue, crevicular, salivary, and serum samples as part of
      the patient's routine care in oral medicine departments to form a biological collection. The
      samples and the clinical data of the patients (excel file with anonymized data and locked by
      a password) will be transferred to UR2496 for their analysis.

      Patients will be recruited in the oral medicine departments of AP-HP hospitals (Charles Foix
      (Ivry/seine) and Henri Mondor (Créteil)) by periodontists in two groups (cases =
      periodontitis and controls = healthy periodontium but patients requiring surgical care).

      The time-line of the research is consistent with the usual patient management in oral
      medicine departments. Inclusion period is 12 months. There is no specific follow-up due to
      the research.

      Gingival tissue sampling during surgery of patients will be performed after their inclusion.
    
  