
    
      Background: Health and well being of children are inextricably linked to the physical,
      emotional and psychological of their parents. Maintaining the health and well-being of
      parents is a precondition for the best optimal care of their children with Autism Spectrum
      Disorder (ASD). The overall aim of the current study is to evaluate the effectiveness of an
      educational program on parenting stress and coping mechanism among parents of children with
      ASD in Jordan.

      Methods: A cluster randomized controlled trial will be conducted in 4 private centers for the
      treatment of Autistic Disorder in Amman, Jordan. Inclusion criteria: father or mother of a
      child who diagnosed for the period of three years since the initial time of diagnosis, father
      or mother who provides care and living together with the child, father or mother has the
      ability to read and write Arabic, father or mother age above 20 years old,and center provides
      caring just for ASD child with age 12 years and younger. Exclusion criteria: father or mother
      whose child had other chronic or illnesses (e.g, type 1 diabetes, down syndrome, learning
      disabilities, fetal alcohol syndrome), foreign father or mother of a child with ASD residents
      in Amman, father or mother who previously participated in the intervention research (e.g,
      Cognitive Behavior Therapy, Mindfulness-Based Intervention), father or mother of a child who
      takes any pharmacologic management of ASD (e.g,Risperdal, Ritalin), father or mother with
      more than one child diagnosed with ASD,and center doesn't include a suitable classroom for
      implementing the intervention program. The educational intervention program will deliver to
      the intervention group as a one-day event in four sessions. Whereas, the control group will
      receive education about the communicable disease among childhood. With an estimated effect
      design of 1.3, a cluster size of 4 and 20% non-completion, the trial will need to enroll 200
      participants. The primary outcomes of the current study are parenting stress and coping
      mechanism scores, which will be assessed using the Parent Stress Index-Short Form and Brief
      COPE, respectively. parenting stress and coping mechanism scores will be assessed at
      pre-intervention, post-intervention and follow-ups at week 8.

      Results: The parenting stress and the coping mechanism will be compared between the
      intervention and control groups using A 2×3 repeated measure ANOVA.

      Conclusions: Hypothesize that primary outcomes will improve significantly after the
      intervention compared to the control group. The finding from this study will determine the
      effectiveness of the educational program on parenting stress and coping mechanism among
      Jordanian parents of children with ASD. If proven to be effective, the educational program
      can serve as a part of therapeutic plan support to reduce parenting stress and improve coping
      mechanism.
    
  