
    
      This was a randomized (1:1), open-label, multi-center, active-control, parallel-group study
      to compare the efficacy of 7.5 mg meloxicam i.m. once daily compared with 7.5 mg meloxicam
      tablets once daily p.o. in patients with osteoarthritis over a time period of 7 days.

      The primary endpoint: Pain on active movement,

      The secondary endpoint:

        -  Pain at rest

        -  Patient status with regard to change of arthritic condition assessed by the
           patient/investigator

        -  Patient's assessment of arthritic condition

        -  Onset of action

        -  Time to maximum pain relief

        -  Paracetamol consumption

        -  Withdrawals due to inadequate efficacy

        -  Final global assessment of efficacy by the patient/investigator

      Safety endpoints

        -  Local tolerability assessment of the injections by the patient/investigator

        -  Patient's /Investigator's assessment of overall tolerability

        -  Number, nature and severity of adverse events

        -  Laboratory investigations

        -  Withdrawals due to safety reasons

      Patients eligible for the trial who met all inclusion and exclusion criteria and who gave
      their informed consent were randomized to one of two treatment groups (i.e. meloxicam ampoule
      or meloxicam tablet).

      The study period totaled 8-14 days included screening, randomisation, study drug
      administration, and 7-day follow-up. The relevant assessment were performed on the day of
      randomisation and 7-day follow up.

      Study Hypothesis:

      The null hypothesis of interest is that the primary endpoint for meloxicam ampoule is
      inferior to oral meloxicam. The alternative is that meloxicam ampoule is noninferior to the
      oral meloxicam .

      Comparison(s):

      The primary endpoint of the study was to assess pain on active movement by VAS prior and
      after the treatment.
    
  