
    
      This project proposes to evaluate the efficacy of Screening and Brief Interventions (SBIs)
      for reducing college students' PSM misuse through two different routes of screening and
      intervention across 9 colleges and universities spanning the United States. The research will
      consist of studies designed to 1) conduct focus groups to refine feedback materials (Study
      1); 2) Conduct screening through the Registrar's student lists and implement a randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) of a web-based PSM intervention at all sites (Study 2); and 3) Conduct
      screening and RCT through a university counseling center and healthcare center utilizing
      in-person and web-based PSM interventions compared to control.

      Study 1 consists of conducting up to 5 focus groups of 8-12 people to elicit feedback
      regarding the Personalized Feedback Tool and make refinements prior to carrying out Study 2.

      In Study 2, students from 9 college campuses are screened for past year PSM misuse. Those
      meeting study criteria are invited to complete a web-based baseline survey and are randomized
      to either receive the web-based personalized feedback intervention (PFI) or to assessment
      only control. Participants complete follow-up assessments at 6 and 12 months post-baseline to
      evaluate intervention efficacy. The investigators hypothesize that participants who receive
      the PFI will reduce PSM misuse assessed at 6 and 12 month follow-ups. The investigators
      further expect reductions in perceived benefits of PSM and perceived descriptive norms for
      PSM, and increases in use of alternative behaviors to support academic success, and expect
      these changes will mediate impacts on PSM use at follow-ups. Secondary effects of the
      intervention on alcohol and marijuana use are also anticipated, and these reductions are
      expected to partially mediate PSM outcomes. Finally, PSM motives and demographics as
      potential moderators of intervention efficacy will also be explored.

      Lastly, Study 3 entails conducting screening and a RCT through a university counseling center
      and healthcare center. Eligible students will be randomized to one of 3 conditions: in-person
      PFI, web-based PFI, or control. Both of the interventions aim to reduce perceived benefits of
      PSM, normative perceptions of PSM, and increase alternative behaviors, thereby reducing PSM
      and other substance use (specifically marijuana and alcohol). Participants complete a
      follow-up assessment at 6 months post-baseline to evaluate intervention efficacy. The
      investigators hypothesize: 1) both web- and in-person PFI will be more efficacious than
      control, 2) the in-person intervention will be more efficacious than web at 6 month
      follow-up, and 3) reductions in perceived benefits and norms of PSM and increases in
      alternative behaviors will mediate efficacy of both interventions, as will reductions in
      alcohol and marijuana use. Demographics and PSM motives will be explored as moderators of
      overall and differential efficacy.
    
  