
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) confers a substantial risk of mortality and morbidity from stroke
      and thromboembolism, and this common cardiac arrhythmia represents a major healthcare burden
      in Europe. Stroke prevention is central to the management of AF patients, with oral
      anticoagulation (OAC) using well-controlled adjusted dose vitamin K antagonists or novel OACs
      being recommended for patients with AF with ≥1 stroke risk factors. Also, the 2012 focused
      update of the ESC guidelines strongly advocates a clinical practice shift so that the initial
      decision step now is the identification of 'truly low risk' patients, essentially those
      age<65 without any stroke risk factors (both male and female), who do not need any
      antithrombotic therapy. The ESC guidelines only recommend use of the CHA2DS2-VASc score for
      stroke risk assessment, and the 'low risk' patients are defined as those with a CHA2DS2-VASc
      score=0 (males) or score=1 (females). Subsequent to this initial step of identifying the low
      risk patients, effective stroke prevention (which is essentially OAC) can then be offered to
      AF patients with ≥1 stroke risk factors, with treatment decisions made in consultation with
      patients and incorporating their preferences. Despite these recommendations, a substantial
      number of patients with AF is not treated with OAC. On the other hand, patients with AF and
      low risk are being "overtreated", receiving OAC despite a CHADS-VASc score of 0. Therefore,
      this registry will determine, if patients with non-valvular AF are treated ac-cording to
      current guidelines.

      Apixaban is an oral factor Xa inhibitor, which has been tested in a number of indications. In
      the AVERROES study in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation deemed not suitable for
      treatment with a vitamin-K antagonist apixaban compared to aspirin reduced the incidence of
      stroke and systemic embolism without increasing bleeding complications. In the large
      ARISTOTELE study apixaban was superior to warfarin, it re-duced the primary endpoint of
      stroke and systemic embolism caused less bleeding and reduced all-cause mortality.
      Subsequently apixaban has been approved by the European health authorities for the use in
      patients with atrial fibrillation. It is therefore of interest to determine use of apixaban
      in real life with respect to patient selection, adherence to therapy and midterm efficacy and
      safety.
    
  