
    
      Fatigue is a major problem in cancer patients. Methylphenidate is a drug currently FDA
      approved for the treatment of attention deficit disorder and narcolepsy (sleep disorder).
      Methylphenidate has shown a benefit in improving thinking and decreasing drowsiness and pain
      in cancer patients taking opioids (pain killers). Methylphenidate has also shown a rapid
      response in treating depression.

      Participants in this study will at first have an evaluation of their fatigue, ability to
      sleep, and they will answer a set of general symptom questions. It will take about 20 minutes
      to complete the evaluation. Participants will have a blood test called TSH
      (thyroid-stimulating hormone) performed to rule out the possibility of thyroid dysfunction as
      cause of fatigue.

      The study will last for 7 days. Participants will be able to take up to four methylphenidate
      tablets a day on an as needed basis for fatigue. Participants will keep a daily diary where
      they will record their fatigue rating (0-10) before and 2 hours after taking methylphenidate.
      The research nurse will contact participants daily by phone (in person for in-patients) to
      make sure the daily diary is being filled out, to ask about side effects of treatment, and to
      ask participants to rate their fatigue at four times during the past day and about any
      possible causes of fatigue.

      On the 7th day of treatment, participants will be evaluated in the palliative care clinic or
      by telephone. Evaluation of fatigue, ability to sleep, and general symptoms along with an
      evaluation of side effects and effectiveness of methylphenidate will be performed. The
      evaluation will take about 15 minutes to complete. If participants develop intolerable side
      effects while on study, the medication will be stopped and they will be removed from the
      study.

      If participants find the drug beneficial and wish to continue taking it, they will be given a
      prescription for methylphenidate and can be followed as an outpatient in the palliative care
      clinic. Participants who choose to continue the medication will be evaluated at the end of 4
      weeks for fatigue, ability to sleep, and general symptoms along with an evaluation of side
      effects and effectiveness by phone or in the clinic. The evaluation will take about 15
      minutes to complete.

      This is an investigational study. The use methylphenidate is investigational. A total of 36
      patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at UTMDACC.
    
  