
    
      The principal objectives of this project are:

      Objectives Primary Objectives

      To determine the role of fasting normoglycemia achieved with long term (6 months) intensified
      insulin therapy in:

        -  Reduction of angiographic restenosis (> or=50%) after peripheral angioplasty

        -  Increase in the rate of primary clinical success at follow-up defined as continued
           relief of ischemic rest pain, reduction in severity of claudication with persistent
           hemodynamic success and/or symptomatic improvement of at least one category according to
           Rutherford criteria, healing of ulceration, and freedom from unplanned surgical
           amputation or bypass surgery

        -  Definition of the beneficial effect of normoglycemia in insulin mediated nitric oxide
           (NO) modulation of neointima formation through its action on inflammation and/or matrix
           remodelling Secondary Objectives

        -  To determine whether fasting normoglycemia achieved with intensified insulin therapy is
           able to reduce or avoid planned or unplanned major amputation as limb loss above the
           metatarsal level and minor amputation, as transmetatarsal amputation or removal of more
           distal parts of the lower extremity and/or the performance of less extensive amputation
           than initially intended through 6 months

        -  To evaluate the reduction of Major Adverse Cardiovascular Event (MACE) defined as the
           occurrence of death, or repeat target vessel revascularization

        -  To find new risk profiles of systematically detectable indices able to define the
           patients at the highest risk to develop restenosis

        -  To correlate angiographic and clinical indices of restenosis with endothelial
           activation/apoptosis, inflammation and matrix remodelling risk profiles

        -  To define the association of candidate genes variants and the degree of restenosis

        -  To understand the impact of fasting normoglycemia achieved with intensified insulin
           therapy on endothelial progenitor cells isolation and gene expression involved in the
           process of vascular repair and in the inhibition of neointimal hyperplasia

      This is a randomized, open-label, clinical trial comparing two regimens of insulin therapy
      (intensified insulin therapy vs standard care) to determine if fasting normoglycemia achieved
      with intensified insulin therapy is able to reduce the incidence of angiographic restenosis
      at 6 months after peripheral angioplasty.

      Seventy consecutive patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and peripheral arterial disease
      (PAD) defined at angiographic evaluation and/or clinical manifestations, will be admitted to
      our Institute to undergo PTA procedure. After the procedure, suitable patients will be
      screened to enter the study.

      One week following hospital discharge after PTA procedure, patients will return to the
      Diabetology Outpatients Clinic to be randomly assigned to receive intensified insulin therapy
      or standard care. Prestudy treatments could be diet alone, oral antidiabetic agents, or
      once-daily insulin and oral antidiabetic agents.

      Two groups will be evaluated

        -  Intensified insulin therapy: three administrations of regular insulin or short acting
           insulin analogues before meals combined with long-acting insulin analogue glargine in
           the evening. The treatment goal will be a fasting blood glucose level of 5.5 mmol/L (99
           mg/dl) and a HbA1c<6.5% at the end of the follow-up.

        -  Standard care: treatment will be once-daily long-acting insulin and oral antidiabetic
           agents to achieve HbA1c levels of < 7.0% at the end of the follow-up.

      Routine visits will be scheduled after 1, 2, 4 weeks and then at 2, 4 and 6 months.

      All patients will be asked to monitor blood glucose levels each morning and document
      hypoglycemia and 1-day six point glucose profiles (before and 2 h after breakfast, lunch and
      dinner) before each clinic visit.

      In the intensified insulin therapy arm, patients will be contacted by telephone every week to
      target fasting glucose levels at 5.5 mmol/L through a titrated regimen.

      The following titration regimen will be followed, according with (48):

      Mean of self-monitored FPG values Increase of long-acting insulin dosage (UI) >180 mg/dl (>10
      mmol/l) 8 140-180 mg/dl (7.8-10 mmol/l) 6 120-140 mg/dl (6.7-7.8 mmol/l) 4 100-120 mg/dl
      (5.6-6.7 mmol/l) 2 72-100 mg/dl ( 4.0-5.6 mmol/l) no changes <72 mg/dl (<4.0 mmol/l) decrease
      2 Ethics Approval The protocol is in accordance with the guidelines contained in the
      "Declaration of Helsinki 2" and with the current national legislation.

      The protocol, the site's informed consent form and any other written information provided to
      the patients prior to any enrollment will be approved by the local Ethics Committee and the
      principal investigator will take responsibility to ensure that this procedure will be
      followed. If, during the study, it is necessary to amend the informed consent form, the
      investigator will be responsible for ensuring the local Ethics Committees reviews and
      approves these amended documents before to enter new subjects into the study.

      Discomforts of patients included in the studies are in all cases mild and temporary. Risks
      involved in participating in all the studies are limited. Considering the potential benefits
      related to preventing restenosis after peripheral angioplasty in diabetic patients, we
      believe that these investigations are justified.

      Utilization of drugs in this project will be subject to Institutional and National Safety
      Regulations to ensure the safety of workers and to prevent damage to the environment and
      community.

      Experimental design During the hospitalization period, before procedure, from patients
      suitable to enter into the study, blood samples will be drawn before breakfast for evaluation
      of plasma glucose, serum insulin and plasma FFA. Samples will be drawn to evaluate gene
      polymorphisms, circulating endothelial progenitor cells isolation and to study
      insulin-mediated nitric oxide signalling pathway.

      At the time of angiographic and angioplastic procedure, blood samples will be drawn from
      femoral arterial and venous districts for the evaluation of indices of endothelial
      activation/apoptosis, inflammation and matrix remodelling. A venous sample will be taken for
      endothelial progenitor cells isolation and gene expression evaluation.

      After the procedure of peripheral angiography and angioplasty, in Outpatient Clinic, before
      randomisation, all patients will perform a baseline physical examination and blood samples to
      evaluate both the metabolic parameters to define the degree of glucose control and indices of
      endothelial activation/apoptosis, inflammation and matrix remodelling and DNA isolation.

      At the time of this visit, patients will be randomly assigned to intensive insulin treatment
      for 6 months or to standard care for glycemic control, added to their usual cardiovascular
      treatment. A similar diet and physical activity program will be planned for both groups. At
      2, 4 and 6 months, a physical examination and blood samples to evaluate both the metabolic
      parameters to define the degree of glucose control and indices of endothelial
      activation/apoptosis, inflammation and matrix remodelling will be repeated. Samples will be
      drawn to evaluate circulating endothelial progenitor cells and to study insulin-mediated
      nitric oxide signalling pathway and its modulation by prolonged strict fasting normoglycemia.

      After 6 months or before in the presence of symptoms, they will perform an angiographic
      control and evaluated for the presence of restenosis. At this time, blood samples will be
      drawn from femoral arterial and venous districts for the evaluation of indices of endothelial
      activation/apoptosis, inflammation and matrix remodelling. A venous sample will be taken for
      endothelial progenitor cells isolation and gene expression evaluation. During the
      hospitalization period,blood samples will be drawn before breakfast for evaluation of plasma
      glucose, serum insulin and plasma FFA.
    
  