
    
      Neuromuscular blocking agents can be used to secure a good surgical field, but it can also
      cause delayed extubation or postoperative pulmonary complications. Traditionally, rocuronium
      which is a commonly used non-depolarizing agent is usually reversed by cholinesterase
      inhibitors such as neostigmine or pyridostigmine. These drugs act by increasing the
      concentration of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction (a competing antagonist), not by
      direct antagonists. Consequently, there is a risk of pulmonary complications when
      cholinesterase inhibitor is not used appropriately. Use of sugammadex can reverse
      neuromuscular blockade (NMB) quickly, thereby being helpful for spontaneous deep breathing
      postoperatively. In a previous study, the moderate neuromuscular blockade was not guaranteed
      during surgery because intraoperative train-of-four (TOF) monitoring was not used and the
      outcome was focused on the correlation between reversal agent and the overall incidence of
      postoperative pulmonary complications. However, in the present study, TOF ratio or
      post-tetanic count (PTC) was repeatedly measured during surgery, thereby the intensity of
      intraoperative NMB being maintained. Moreover, lung compliance was repeatedly measured during
      surgery and the correlation between the intensity of intraoperative NMB and postoperative
      atelectasis which is evaluated by quantitative technique was also investigated.

      Particularly in thoracic surgery, one lung ventilation is usually required for the surgical
      procedure. During one-lung ventilation, the compliance of ventilated lung is decreased and
      resistance can be increased, thereby the risk of atelectasis being increased. Furthermore,
      after thoracic surgery, although patients were encouraged to deep breathe, it is difficult to
      take a deep breath because of various factors. (i.e. pain, chest tube, long retracted time,
      postoperative interstitial edema, etc.) Therefore, postoperative atelectasis is much more
      important in patients undergoing thoracic surgery than other types of surgery.

      For preventing postoperative atelectasis, the intraoperative intensity of neuromuscular
      blockade can be a crucial factor. Because deep neuromuscular blockade provides a good lung
      compliance during mechanical ventilation, peak inspiratory pressure can be decreased, thereby
      reducing the risk of ventilation-induced lung injury, particularly in one lung ventilation
      situation.However, there has been still lack of quantitative evidence that deep block is
      superior to moderate block in the thoracic surgery with one-lung ventilation

      For assessment of postoperative atelectasis, plain chest radiography may be used. However,
      plain chest radiography can provide only a qualitative assessment of atelectasis. Computed
      tomography can assess the whole lung by its density (HU) and enables a quantitative
      assessment of postoperative atelectasis. Moreover, it can indicate the location of
      atelectasis more clearly than plain chest radiography, thus provide detailed information
      about postoperative lung state. To assess the effect of maintaining deep block and sugammadex
      reversal on the postoperative atelectasis, using chest CT can provide a much more
      quantitative and valuable information than conventional chest radiography.
    
  