
    
      Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) is an enzyme that regulates immune responses by
      degrading tryptophan, which is required for efficient T-cell activation. IDO1 expression is
      limited in normal tissues but is induced by IFN-gamma in inflammatory tissues, to prevent
      excessive T-cell activity. The investigator's collaborators previously reported that IDO1 is
      expressed in many human tumours, and that pharmacological inhibition of IDO1 leads to immune
      rejection of IDO1+ mouse tumours. Based on these results, IDO1 inhibitors are now in clinical
      development. A first inhibitor, Epacadostat, showed encouraging results combined with anti-
      Programmed Cell Death -1 (PD-1) antibodies. Tumoural expression of IDO1 can be induced by
      IFN-gamma, which is produced by tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL), and represents a
      mechanism of adaptive immune resistance. However, other tumours express IDO1 in the absence
      of TIL and Interferon-gamma (INF gamma). This seems to be particularly frequent in
      endometrial carcinoma. This constitutive IDO1 expression prevents T-cell infiltration and
      represents a mechanism of intrinsic immune resistance. The investigator's collaborators
      recently showed that constitutive tumoural expression of IDO1 was triggered by
      cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) and mediated by autocrine prostaglandin-E2 (PGE2) signaling via the
      Protein Kinase C (PKC) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) pathways. Constitutive IDO1
      expression was reduced by COX-2 inhibitors in vitro. Celecoxib is a well-known and widely
      used anti-inflammatory drug. It is a specific inhibitor of COX-2. In vivo, celecoxib induced
      immune rejection of IDO1-expressing human tumour xenografts, while reducing IDO1 expression
      and promoting T-cell infiltration. These preclinical results suggest that COX-2 inhibition in
      patients carrying tumours expressing IDO1 constitutively will decrease IDO1 expression,
      increase T-cell infiltration and might increase responsiveness to anti-PD-1/ Programmed Cell
      Death Ligand-1(PD-L1) therapy and thereby exert enhanced anti-tumour activity. The
      investigators wish to obtain clinical evidence that celecoxib can induce these first two
      effects
    
  