
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the safety of BLP25 liposome vaccine (tecemotide) and bevacizumab after
           definitive chemoradiotherapy and consolidation chemotherapy in patients with newly
           diagnosed, unresectable stage IIIA or IIIB nonsquamous cell non-small cell lung cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the overall survival and progression-free in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  To evaluate the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Step 1:

        -  Chemoradiotherapy: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and
           carboplatin IV over 15-30 minutes once a week for 6 weeks. Patients also undergo
           concurrent definitive radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6½ weeks. Patients with complete
           response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) proceed to consolidation
           chemotherapy.

        -  Consolidation chemotherapy: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin
           IV over 15-30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with CR, PR, or SD
           proceed to maintenance therapy.

      Step 2:

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive a single dose of cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30
           minutes 3 days before the first dose of bevacizumab and BLP25 liposome vaccine. Patients
           then receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and BLP25 liposome vaccine
           subcutaneously on days 1, 8, and 15 of courses 1 and 2 and on day 1 of every other
           course beginning in course 4. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 34 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  