
    
      Beginning in 2001, a phase-1 equivalent feasibility and safety evaluation of intramyocardial
      injection of autologous CD133+ bone marrow cells during elective CABG surgery was conducted
      at Rostock University. No procedure-related adverse events were observed and there was some
      improvement of myocardial contractility and perfusion. It was decided to proceed with a
      controlled efficacy testing, comparing the outcome of standard CABG surgery with that after
      CABG and CD133+ cell injection. The results of that study indicate that the additional cell
      injection yields a better left ventricular contractility than CABG alone (LVEF = 47.1±8% vs.
      41.3±9% at 6 months). Although this result is encouraging, the trial had several limitations
      that hamper interpretation of the data. Most notably, no sham-injection of placebo material
      was performed in the control group, and standard 2D echocardiography served as the only
      measurement of global LV contractility. A more stringent efficacy testing is needed before
      large-scale clinical multicenter trials are justified.

      Therefore, a prospective, full blinded, randomized, and placebo-controlled trial will be
      conducted at Deutsches Herzzentrum Berlin Berlin (DHZB), employing current state-of-the art
      measurement of global and regional LV contractility by cardiac MRI. The following hypothesis
      will be tested: "Patients who undergo CABG & CD133+ cell injection do not have a higher LV
      ejection fraction than patient who undergo CABG alone, measured 6 months after the
      operation". A power analysis based on the previous trial results indicated that 29 patients
      per group need to be enrolled so as to reject the null-hypothesis with sufficient statistical
      power. A total of 60 patients will therefore be enrolled in the study and will be randomized
      to undergo either CABG surgery and injection of placebo or in conjunction with
      intramyocardial injection of autologous CD133+ enriched bone marrow cells. Bone marrow will
      be harvested one day prior to surgery and a CD133-enriched cell product (or placebo) will be
      prepared on-campus. The following day, bypass surgery will be performed and the study
      substance will be injected in the border zone of the infarcted myocardium. Random allocation
      will be performed in the cell production facility, so that neither the patient nor the
      surgeon nor any of the persons involved in follow-up examinations will know whether the cell
      product or placebo was administered. The primary outcome parameter (LVEF at 6 months) will be
      measured by cardiac MRI, and secondary outcome parameters include myocardial perfusion,
      exercise capacity, and quality-of-life assessment.
    
  