
    
      The risk of thrombotic complications after implantation of drug-eluting stents (DES) in
      coronary arteries may be increased in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) or metabolic
      syndrome (MS). It is recommended that all patients take an association of aspirin and
      clopidogrel for several months after DES implantation to reduce this risk. However, the
      biological efficacy of current antiplatelet therapies has not been studied prospectively and
      specifically in DM or MS patients.

      In the present study, we will study the biological efficacy of an association of aspirin and
      clopidogrel (600 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg maintenance dose) using an assay measuring
      ex vivo shear-induced platelet aggregation (SIPA), along with other assays measuring platelet
      activation and aggregation, in order to better describe the heterogeneity of response to
      antiplatelet agents in patients with DM, MS or no DM/MS.

      All patients with stable coronary artery disease and successful DES implantation in native
      coronary arteries (including high risk features, eg, left main stenosis, bifurcations or
      in-stent restenosis) will be eligible. They will be stratified at entry according to their
      metabolic status (DM, MS, or no DM/MS). Measurements will be performed both 6-24 hours after
      clopidogrel loading dose (acute effects) and 4 months later under clopidogrel maintenance
      dose (chronic effects).

      Study end-points:

      A. Primary biological end-point: To compare SIPA levels in DM vs. MS vs. no DM/MS patients.

      B. Secondary biological end-points:

        -  To compare the results of other tests of platelet aggregation/activation (light
           transmittance aggregometry in response to ADP and arachidonic acid; flow cytometry
           measurements of VASP phosphorylation, platelet expression of P-selectin and GPIIbIIIa,
           and circulating levels of platelet microparticles and leukocyte-platelet aggregates;
           PFA-100 occlusion time; circulating levels of thromboxane B2) and circulating levels of
           other markers of atherosclerosis (CRPhs, von Willebrand factor, PAI-1, fibrinogen, and
           soluble CD40L) in DM vs. MS vs. no DM/MS patients.

        -  To compare the acute (6-24 hours after clopidogrel loading dose) and chronic (4 months
           later) results of all the above mentioned tests. These comparisons will be performed in
           the overall population and in each group (DM, MS, no DM/MS).

      C. Secondary clinical end-points: To study the relationship between SIPA levels (and the
      other tests of platelet aggregation/activation) and the occurrence of:

        -  Periprocedural myocardial infarctions

        -  Major adverse cardiac events (cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction or
           ischaemia-driven target vessel revascularization) at 4 and 12 months after stent
           implantation.

      We anticipate our study may help improve our knowledge of the efficacy of current
      antiplatelet therapies in DM and MS patients treated with DES.
    
  