
    
      Women who will be referred to the maternity ward of both hospitals for a checkup and have the
      inclusion criteria will be offered admission for at least 24 hours to have complete rest
      aiming to increase the placental blood circulation of the uterus, which by itself can improve
      the amniotic fluid level. Patients will be randomly allocated into two groups according to a
      trial sequence determined via a computer generated random table. The trial sequence is hidden
      into opaque sequenced envelopes as each envelope contains an assignment for a single patient.
      Patients in first group will receive 2 liters of isotonic saline through intravenous infusion
      over a period of 4 hours using a rate of 250 ml per hour in addition to sildenafil citrate
      therapy (Viagra®) as 25 mg 3 times daily and the same fluid regimen will be used in control
      group but without sildenafil citrate treatment. During hospital course maternal monitoring
      will be done using maternal vital signs for early detection of any manifestations of fluid
      overload while fetal monitoring will be done using non-stress test and all patients less than
      34 completed weeks will receive dexamethasone in a total dose of 24mg to enhance fetal lung
      maturity in case expedited delivery is needed. Fasting will also be recommended during fluid
      therapy in case any emergency interference is required then all patients will resume their
      usual daily diet and fluid intake. All patients will then undergo sonography after 24 hours
      for reassessment of amniotic fluid index and those who will show an improvement of at least
      20% will be discharged home and for those who still show no results the same regimen will be
      repeated. Discharged patients in first group will be asked to continue sildenafil citrate
      therapy (Viagra®) as 25 mg 3 times daily plus a daily oral fluid intake of 2 liters while
      those in the control group will be asked only to have 2 liters daily oral fluid. Outpatient
      monitoring in both groups will depend on twice weekly non-stress test and once weekly
      amniotic fluid index and biophysical profile. Readmission and inpatient therapy using same
      protocol in each group will be indicated at any time if amniotic fluid index reduced to ≤ 5
      cm. All patients also will be instructed to undergo periods of bed rest and, also they will
      be educated to count fetal kicks and to report immediately to the hospital if being
      unsatisfactory.

      Patients in both groups will be monitored till they will go into spontaneous labor or till
      delivery will be indicated. The primary outcome measure will be the values of amniotic fluid
      index before and after therapy in each group and between both groups. The secondary outcome
      measures will be mode of delivery, gestational age at birth, fetal birth weight, and fetal
      and neonatal outcomes (Apgar scores, umbilical artery acid-base analysis at birth, and the
      need for transfer to the neonatal intensive care unit) which will be analyzed for the study
      and control groups.
    
  