
    
      A recent clinical study published in 2014 on the New England Journal of Medicine found that
      often even an initial modest body weight reduction can favourably modify apnea events and
      severity during the night, with the latter that can be reduced by about 30% (AHI) for a 10%
      weight reduction compared to the initial weight [1]. However, considering the average AHI
      data reported by the authors, which do not include post-treatment information, statistical
      elements at our disposal are insufficient to assess the "effect size". Therefore, a sample of
      65 patients per group will be needed for the evaluation of the primary endpoint (statistical
      significance of 5% [two-tailed], 80% power, "effect size" 0.25, calculated using the G* Power
      software, Düsseldorf, Germany). A total of 144 patients will be enrolled (24 patients per
      participating site) on the baseline assumption of a dropout of 10%. Most drop-outs may result
      from CPAP use and, in particular, discomfort experienced by the patient with tube and facial
      mask, difficult acceptance because of psychological reasons (shame or negative expectations
      in terms of partner judgment), or subjective feeling of claustrophobic suffocation or
      anxiety. The expected drop-out for KMED with the Ketocompleat protocol is 15%. Indeed, in
      Schiavo et al [8] study, most patients (86%) showed high acceptability of the Ketocompleat
      ketogenic protocol prescribed in the four weeks of preoperative treatment, and the only side
      effect reported was mild headache with associated modest halitosis, especially during the
      initial treatment days, which, however, did not prevent patients from continuing with the
      protocol.

      Experiment design and patient randomization

      Spontaneous, prospective, comparative and multicentre trial including 144 patients with
      severe OSAS (polysomnogram with AHI≥30) suitable for gastric bypass surgery, and randomized
      into 2 groups:

      GROUP 1: 72 morbidly obese patients (12 patients per participating site) with severe OSAS and
      suitable for gastric bypass surgery, who underwent 4 weeks of CPAC treatment (these patients
      will not be required to change their eating habits) according to the standard; GROUP 2: 72
      morbidly obese patients (12 patients per participating site) with severe OSAS and BS
      candidates who underwent CPAC + KMED treatment for 4 weeks.

      Randomization will be conducted via permuted-block design (PBD), with stratification of
      patients based on age, gender, and enrollement site (24 patients per participating site, 12
      per study group) Preoperative ketogenic micronutrient-enriched diet: The ketogenic diet has
      been used for many years in clinical settings [9]. Given its safety and effectiveness in
      determining weight loss, associated with optimal adherence and patient compliance, the
      ketogenic diet has recently been used by several obesity surgery centers in the preoperative
      management of obese patients who are candidates for BS [8, 10-11]. The validated Ketocompleat
      protocol [8] will serve as the KMED of choice. In particular, the protocol will provide a
      diet with ketogenic characteristics that patients will have to follow for breakfast, snack,
      lunch and snack, and replacement of the evening meal with the Ketocompleat ketogenic
      supplement. Figure 1 shows a daily diet sample.

      In short, to ensure that all patients follow the same diet, the investigator will use the
      software (https://www.eatthismuch.com) to develop two ketogenic diet plans (plan 1, days
      1-14; plan 2, days 15-28), containing specific amounts of foods to be consumed. Each
      ketogenic plan will comprise: 1150 to 1250 kcal/day, of which 4% carbohydrates, 71% fat, and
      25% proteins. The composition of the supplement to use for the trial (Ketocompleat, MVMedical
      Solutions, Serravalle, Republic of San Marino) is shown in Table 1. Ketocompleat is a
      supplement included in the Ministry of Health's food supplement register (code 94721); given
      its carbohydrate-free formulation, it can easily be associated to a low-carbohydrate
      ketogenic diet. The diet plans and the Ketocompleat supplement will be provided free of
      charge to all trial participants by MVMedical Solutions, which will have no role in designing
      trial and patient enrollement in the different participating sites, or in processing any
      trial-related data.

      Patient adherence to the prescribed preoperative diet will be confirmed through the following
      scientifically validated tests: 3-Day Estimated Food and Records and 72-h Recalls [8], while
      the presence of ketone bodies in the urine (Ketur-Test, Roche Diagnostic, Milan, Italy)
      associated with weight loss will be used as the patient compliance index. The Ketur test will
      be performed in outpatient mode during the weekly diet check.

      Polysomnography

      Polysomnography is a sleep study that collects a variety of parameters and conditions, such
      as oxygen saturation, heart rate, presence (or absence in the case of apnea) of airflow
      through mouth and nose, presence (or absence) of thoracic and abdominal movements, position
      held by the subject during sleep, and snoring during sleep. By analysing these data, it will
      be possible to define: number of episodes of haemoglobin desaturation during sleep
      (desaturation index per hour - ODIindex), presence or absence of apnea during sleep,
      differentiating between true apnea true (absence of air flow) and hypopneas (air flow
      present, though substantially reduced), determination of "obstructive" "central" or "mixed"
      apnea/hypopnea, hourly frequency of apnea/ hypopnea ( apnea/hypopnea events per hour or AHI
      index), which allows defining the degree of severity of the disorder (disease stage), AHI in
      supine and non-supine position (often this datum documents greater apnea frequency in the
      supine position compared to data relating to the patient in lateral decubitus), and snoring
      time during sleep. In order to evaluate the clinical advantage offered by the combination of
      the two preoperative strategies (CPAP and ketogenic diet therapy) compared to CPAP
      preoperative treatment alone, for the reduction of the surgical risk in morbidly obese OSAS
      BS candidates, patients of both groups will undergo polysomnography before the trial and
      after 4 weeks of CPAP alone or combined CPAP + KMED treatment. The tolerance interval for PSG
      execution at the end of the treatment is 7 days; otherwise, patients will be considered
      drop-outs.

      CPAP-type ventilator prescription CPAP use is the gold standard for the treatment of sleep
      apnea syndrome. The CPAP device consists of a small fan connected to the patient through a
      tube and a facial mask (nasal or oronasal). This device provides continuous air flow that
      maintains the airways open, preventing the collapse (closing) of the critical points
      responsible for respiratory obstruction during sleep, thus avoiding or limiting sleep apnea.
      Patients with severe OSAS who are BS candidates will be treated with CPAP only at night
      (Group 1), or CPAP at night + KMED daily (Group 2), for 4 weeks.

      Preoperative investigations and after 4 weeks of CPAP or CPAP + KMED treatment

      In the BS Centers participating in the trial, both experimental groups will undergo the
      following evaluation:

        -  Complete blood count with WBC differential, triglycerides, total cholesterol, HDL
           cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, GOT, GPT, ΥGT, nitrogen, creatinine, urea,
           iron, ferritin, ketone bodies, baseline glucose, baseline insulin, and CRP

        -  Body weight, height and BMI calculation

        -  Waist and hip circumference

        -  Chest X-ray

        -  Blood gas analysis

        -  Spirometry

        -  Polysomnography

      Laboratory/instrumental clinical analyses, polysomnography and CPAP will be performed in the
      sites participating in the project; data obtained will be evaluated by a Pneumologist, while
      the statistical analysis will be entrusted to a Biostatistician.

      Inclusion criteria: patients of both sexes with BMI ≥35 with severe OSAS; age between 18-65
      years; non-smokers or who have quit smoking for at least 3 months.

      Exclusion criteria: kidney and/or liver conditions that would make a KMED diet unsuitable
      (creatinine levels >1.8 mg/dL or liver enzyme levels (glutamic pyruvic transaminase [GPT] or
      glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase [GOT]) less than three times over the upper normal
      threshold, and psychological problems that would make CPAP treatment problematic. Patients
      with obesity >60 BMI.

      Primary endpoint: evaluate the effect of combined (CPAP + KMED) therapy vs CPAP on the AHI
      after 4 weeks. Secondary end points: evaluate CRP levels, arterial pressure and lipid panel
      (total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides) in the two study groups.
    
  