
    
      The study is a randomized double-blinded study comparing ceftaroline to standard of care
      therapy with cefazolin and vancomycin as surgical prophylaxis for high risk orthopedic and
      cardiac surgeries. Study participants will be enrolled from those undergoing cardiothoracic
      surgery involving sternotomy and those undergoing prosthetic joint replacement of either hip
      or knee. Consenting patients will be randomized 2:1 to receive either ceftaroline or
      cefazolin/vancomycin. This study will be blinded by the use of placebo vancomycin infusions
      and placebo cephalosporin infusions. Study participants will be enrolled from 2 populations
      of patients; those undergoing cardiothoracic surgery with sternotomy and those undergoing
      prosthetic joint replacement of either hip or knee.

      Subjects will be identified by the primary surgical service. Adult subjects 18 years and
      older will be notified of the study and if agreeable will be interviewed by a study
      coordinator who will explain the study and study procedures and determine eligibility.
      Informed consent will be obtained from potential participants. Enrollment and consent may be
      obtained up to seven days prior to surgery.

      Consented participants will have a detailed history performed with particular reference to
      prior surgical infections, risk factors such as diabetes, smoking, prior skin infections and
      obesity. Participants will undergo a physical examination. Patients will be assessed for
      nares colonization with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) as per the primary
      surgeon's standard procedure. Patients identified as positive for MRSA colonization will be
      decolonized with mupirocin. Female participants will have a serum beta-human chorionic
      gonadotrophin (HCG) assay performed to exclude pregnancy.

      Consented participants will be randomized 2:1 to receive either ceftaroline or
      cefazolin/vancomycin, the current regimen for high risk individuals. Randomization will be
      performed by a blinded individual using a randomization program. Within each group,
      participants will be allocated in the 2:1 ratio.

      On the day of surgery, all patients will be evaluated for changes in medical history, vital
      signs recorded and bilateral nares swabs obtained for Staphylococcal screening for both MRSA
      and methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA) carriage. All patients will receive
      pre-operative toweling of the operative site with chlorhexidine, and a surgical skin
      preparation of chlorhexidine/alcohol (Duraprep).

      Consented participants will receive two blinded infusions. Study infusions will be prepared
      by an unblinded pharmacist to match the active medications. Placebo and study medication will
      be matched in volume and appearance. Dosing of vancomycin and cefazolin will be weight based
      up to 120 kg at 15 mg/kg and 25 mg/kg respectively. ceftaroline will be administered at a
      dose of 600 mg in individuals with estimated creatinine clearance of greater than 50 ml/min
      and 400 mg for those with creatinine clearance rates of 30-50 ml/min. Vancomycin or placebo1
      will be started 120 minutes prior to incision and completed within 60 minutes prior to
      surgery. The cefazolin or ceftaroline will be started 60 minutes before surgery and completed
      30 minutes prior to incision. Each participant will thus receive 2 infusions at T-120 and
      T-60 minutes from time of skin incision.

      Patients will be redosed with antibiotics between 1.5 to 2 half-lives (cefazolin or
      ceftaroline at 4hrs hours post skin incision and vancomycin/placebo 1 at 12 hrs) in prolonged
      procedures. One post-operative dose of of cefazolin/ceftraroline will be given in the
      recovery room 4 hours after skin incision for those patients who were not redosed during the
      procedure for orthopedic procedures and 2 doses will be administered for cardiothoracic
      procedures.

      Pharmacokinetic substudy:

      Because of the variation in the pharmacokinetics previously identified for patients
      undergoing extracorporeal circulation, we will perform a pharmacokinetic analysis on a subset
      of 50 patients in the cardiac surgery arm of the study to allow data on at least 30 patient
      receiving ceftaroline. Plasma samples will be collected at the start of infusion (time = 0,
      Sample #1), end of infusion (time = 30 minutes, Sample #2), 15 minutes post infusion (Sample
      #3), at the time of skin incision (Sample #4) at commencement of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB)
      (Sample # 5), at completion of CPB (Sample # 6) and at the time of skin closure (Sample #7).
      Samples will be analyzed by high pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) to determine
      ceftaroline levels using known plasma standards with appropriate quality controls.

      Patients will undergo a wound inspection by study personnel prior to discharge from hospital.
      Microbiological cultures will be obtained from all surgical site infections. All isolates
      will be reported out. Patients will be interviewed and examined at day 30 for the presence of
      evidence of surgical site infection at any operative site. Subjects will be questioned with
      regard to the presence of fever, redness or drainage or other manifestations of infection.
      Physical examination findings by the surgical team at prior post-operative visits will be
      reviewed and correlated with the data obtained from the subject. The primary end point will
      be the development of a surgical site infection within 30 days of surgery.

      30 day surgical site infection rates at either the primary surgical site or any remote
      surgical site (e.g. vein donor site for CABG procedures) will be used as the principal
      outcome measure. Surgical site infections will be characterized as superficial (above the
      fascia) or complex (deep (extending below the fascia) and organ involving), Secondary
      endpoints recorded will include (i) other infections, viz. pulmonary, UTI, line related);
      (ii) Drug related, viz., rash, itching; and (iii) nausea, vomiting and (iiii) return to OR.
    
  