
    
      Design:

      Monocentric double-blind experiment

      Scientific background:

      Vitamin B-complex is water-soluble and essential for humans. Vitamin B deficiency is
      associated with neurologic diseases, heart insufficiency, diminished hormone production and
      maldigestion. Due to the fact that literature search did not reveal distinct information
      about natural versus synthetic Vitamin B-complexes this study was initiated to investigate
      bioavailability and long-term effects of natural Vitamin B-complexes in comparison to
      synthetic Vitamin B-complexes.

      Vitamin B complex was filled in hydroxypropylmethylcellulose capsules (size 0,
      ivory-coloured). Daily dose = 3 capsules in the morning with 250ml water.

      Blinding/Randomization:

      The person in charge for manufacturing and blinding arranged an identical packaging of both
      verum as well as synthetic Vitamin B-complex. Each package consists of 126 capsules per
      subject and period. Each product was tagged with the subject-number and period (period I and
      period II).

      Study-subjects were blinded by the person in charge for randomization through a sealed
      envelope. The allocation was in the relation of 1:1 between group A (verum in period I and
      synthetic Vitamin B-complex in period II) and group B (synthetic Vitamin B-complex in period
      I and verum in period II). The ultimate subject list was forwarded to the person in charge
      for randomization after the run-in phase.

      Method:

      Blood sampling:

      Blood (max. 20ml) was collected in a seated position from an antecubital vein.

      Time schedule:

      Run-in-phase: 3 weeks (no supplementation) Determination of inclusion criteria, nutrition
      advice, randomization.

      Phase I: 6 weeks (supplementation) Group A - natural Vitamin B-complex supplementation every
      day Group B - synthetic Vitamin B-complex supplementation every day

      Blood sampling:

      First day:

      Fasting value (basic) - Vitamin B-complex supplementation - After 1.5 hours After 4 hours
      After 7 hours

      End of first supplementation:

      After 6 weeks

      Wash-out period: 2 weeks (without supplementation)

      Phase II: 6 weeks (supplementation) Group A - synthetic Vitamin B-complex supplementation
      every day Group B - natural Vitamin B-complex supplementation every day

      Blood sampling:

      First day:

      Fasting value (basic) - Vitamin B-complex supplementation - After 1.5 hours After 4 hours
      After 7 hours

      End of second supplementation:

      After 6 weeks

      Wash-out period II: 6 weeks (without supplementation) Final exam - last blood sampling

      Drop-out-criteria:

      Drawback Compliance (<80% of Vitamin B-complexes) Supplementation of Vitamin B-complexes
      during run-in-phase or wash-out periods

      Primary-target parameters:

      Serum concentrations for vitamins B1, B2, B6, B9 and B12

      Secondary-target biomarkers:

      Serum concentrations for Total antioxidants, total peroxides, peroxidase-activity,
      polyphenols and homocysteine.

      Biometry:

      Comparison of interventions in a cross-over approach descriptive and exploratory.

      Group comparison: Parametric and non-parametric cross-over comparison Gaussian distribution -
      (Kolmogorov-Smirnov-test with Lilliefors-significances, alpha =10%).

      Effect size: Two-sided 95%-confidence intervals

      Analysis:

      Intent-to-treat-analysis Per-protocol-analysis Full analysis set

      Vitamin B and Homocysteine analysis was done in a routine laboratory. Antioxidants (TAC),
      peroxidase-activity (EPA), peroxides (TOC) and polyphenols (PPm) were measured by the use of
      commercially available microtitre assays at a wavelength of 450 vs. 620 nm. In case of PPm a
      wavelength of 766nm was used.

      Implausible values will be scored as missing values. Missing values are not substituted.

      Presentation of results:

      Minimum-Median-Quartiles-Maximum-Mean-Standard deviation. Box Plots, Bar graph, tables.
    
  