
    
      lenalidomide has been investigated in combination with both lenalidomide and bortezomib
      regimens. "Investigational" means that the drug is still being studied and that the study
      doctors are trying to find out more about it; such as the safest dose to use, the side
      effects it may cause, and if the drug is effective for treating relapsed and/or refractory
      multiple myeloma.

      Lenalidomide is a drug that alters the immune system and it may also interfere with the
      development of tiny blood vessels that help support tumor growth. Therefore, in theory, it
      may reduce or prevent the growth of cancer cells. Lenalidomide is approved by the Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of specific types of myelodysplastic syndrome
      (MDS) and in combination with dexamethasone for patients with multiple myeloma (MM) who have
      received at least 1 prior therapy. MDS and MM are cancers of the blood. It is currently being
      tested in a variety of cancer conditions. In this case it is considered experimental because
      the FDA has not approved this combination. Your will receive 25mg of lenalidomide on days
      1-21 every 28 days.

      Vorinostat is a drug that interferes with the life sustaining functions of the tumor cells.
      It has already received regulatory approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      for the treatment of T-cell non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma in the United States. The usage of
      vorinostat in Multiple Myeloma is experimental (investigational) and has not been approved by
      the FDA, but studies in combination with proteasome inhibitors (bortezomib) and
      immunomodulatory (lenalidomide) agents are ongoing. You will receive either 400mg of
      vorinostat on days 1-7 and 15-21 every 28 days.

      Dexamethasone is a steroid that is known to cause cell death in multiple myeloma.
      Dexamethasone is FDA approved for the treatment of multiple myeloma and many other disease
      states. You will receive either Dexamethasone 40mg for those less than 75 years of age or
      20mg for those aged 75 years and above on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 every 28 days In this research
      study the investigators are looking to evaluate the safety and efficacy of vorinostat when
      combined with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in treating relapsed and/or refractory multiple
      myeloma, refractory to lenalidomide.
    
  