
    
      Indocyanine green (ICG) is a water-soluble, non-toxic tricarbocyanine dye, extracted
      principally by hepatic parenchymal cells and excreted almost entirely into the bile without
      enterohepatic circulation. Clinically, its elimination rate is used primarily to measure
      hepatic function and liver blood flow. ICG studies are also used in ophthalmic angiography
      and the determination of cardiac output.

      Beginning about 1959, the first human clinical studies were reported wherein an indocyanine
      green (ICG) bolus was injected into a vein, and then blood samples were withdrawn over a
      period of time and analyzed for ICG concentrations. This method is referred to hereinafter as
      the serial blood sampling method. These blood samples are sent to a clinical laboratory for a
      multi-step process of centrifuging, separation and spectrophotometric measurements of ICG
      levels. The laboratory-based measured levels of residual ICG levels are then used to
      determine the ICG clearance rate and R15 value or residual amount of dye remaining after 15
      minutes, expressed as a percentage of the initial concentration.

      As an alternative to the time- and labor-consuming serial blood sampling method, a
      non-invasive technique was first reported nearly 20 years ago. In the first published
      clinical study, Ishigami reported the use of a pulse dye densitometry (PDD) method to
      transcutaneously detect the rate of clearance of ICG from the bloodstream to be referred to
      hereinafter as dynamic liver function testing.

      PDD expresses ICG elimination in terms of the indocyanine green plasma disappearance rate
      because only relative ICG concentration changes are assessed. The results of this noninvasive
      method have been shown to correlate with those obtained by the invasive method used in
      critically ill patients (hemodynamically unstable and stable), and in patients after liver
      surgery.

      ICG elimination rate after liver transplantation measured by either invasive or noninvasive
      ICG methods is widely used to evaluate graft function. Studies have shown that ICG
      elimination, measured on the day of transplantation, reflects graft function and can be used
      to predict graft viability and the expected survival of the patient. Sequential measurements
      of ICG elimination between days 0 and 28 of transplantation, have been shown to predict
      clinical outcome in the early postoperative period after living donor transplantation. All of
      the studies have shown that the ICG elimination rate is an accurate test for evaluating liver
      dysfunction, but lacks the ability to differentiate the underlying causes of the hepatic
      dysfunction.

      Unlike all currently existing PDD methods for performing liver function testing, LFT Dye
      Monitor System employs a more sensitive method for the transcutaneous measurement of ICG
      concentration level in the blood using NIR fluorescence, with a sensor that is attached
      loosely to the scaphoid fossa of the ear. Thus, the chemical properties of ICG dye to
      fluoresce when properly excited are used in the LFT system to enable much lower
      concentrations of ICG to be detectable.
    
  