
    
      Neuroendocrine tumors (NET) are rare neoplasms, which frequently present metastatic and
      incurable at diagnosis. In this context, few effective therapies exist. When the disease
      becomes refractory to standard therapies, treatments with limited efficacy (eg, surgical
      debulking, cytotoxic chemotherapies, interferon alpha) that could lead to important adverse
      events are used. Therefore, clinical studies that test new therapeutic strategies in NET
      patients with refractory disease are needed. Treatment with radiopharmaceuticals have been
      studied in NET and showed to be promisor. As an example, is the treatment with Lutetium177
      octreotate, disponible in Brazil for decades, and one of the most active therapeutic options
      to NET.

      The radiopharmaceutical MIBG-I131 (metaiodobenzylguanidine linked to Iodine131) is the first
      treatment choice for patients with paraganglioma/pheochromocytoma (PggF), a rare type of
      neuroendocrine neoplasm originated from neural ganglia. Patients with this neoplasia are
      submitted to scintigraphy with MIBG-I131, a norepinephrine analog whose transporter protein
      is highly expressed in this tumor. If the uptake is positive, patients receive treatment with
      therapeutic doses of MIBG-I131. The disease control with this intervention could last two
      years. Old and small studies suggested that MIBG-I131 could also have an activity in other
      NET besides PggF. Gastrointestinal (GI) or lung NET could have a positive expression on
      MIBG-I131 scan in up to 50% of the cases. With this rationale, retrospective series reported
      that MIBG-I131 could offer clinical benefit in patients with GI NET, with disease control in
      up to 80% of the cases. However, the literature regarding therapeutic MIBG-I131 to NET not
      PggF is scarce, heterogeneous regarding population, methods of response assessment, doses of
      the radiopharmaceutical, and short follow-up time. Therefore, due to the absence of effective
      therapeutic options for patients with metastatic well-differentiated NET refractory to
      standard treatments, the evidence that NET can have a positive expression on MIBG-I131 scan,
      and that small retrospective studies with a low level of evidence suggest a benefit for
      control disease and improvement of symptoms, the investigators proposed a phase II study of
      MIBG-I131 to well-differentiated GI or lung NET patients with positive MIBG-I131 scan.
    
  