
    
      To evaluate the efficacy and safety of external physical vibration lithecbole for the
      treatment of residual stone after the operation of RIRS，thereby improving stone clearance
      rate. Investigators will do a multi-centers randomized controlled trial(RCT)，and
      investigators plan to perform this study in 10 hospitals，which are the First Affiliated
      Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University of China, Department of Urology, The Second
      Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University of China, Jiangsu Province Hospital, Hubei
      Province Hospital, Zhongshan Hospital, Tongji Hospital,Hubei provincial people's
      Hospital,Guilin 181 Hospital，the People' Hospital of Huzhou，The People' Hospital of Shaoyang.

      Investigators plan to beginning their study August 2015 and end July 2016. One hundred and
      eighty patients with postoperative residual stone after RIRS will be enrolled in this study.
      By simple random sampling technique, all the patients will be assigned to the segment of
      natural stone row group or physical row of stone group, compared two groups of patients with
      stone clearance rate and complications, Investigators hope that through this test, improve
      stone clearance rate after RIRS.

      The principle of extracorporeal physical vibration:

      A Simple harmonic motion technology in multi-direction was applied. The Lateral acceleration
      was provided by the physical vibration device in the base through the harmonic vibration wave
      in the horizontal direction, which induces the urinary stone separate with the kidney or
      ureter, and expands a moving space for the stone. Meanwhile, an axial effect was produced to
      push the stone by the physical vibration device in the handle through the harmonic vibration
      wave in the multi- direction. Finally, with the help of changing the position and direction
      of the extracorporeally physical vibration machine, the urinary stone was discharged from the
      urinary collecting system.

      Number:

      180cases(90 cases in control group, 90 cases in EPVL group)

      Grouping methods:

      In this trial, investigators use equilibrium randomization methods that generate random
      numerical code table, according to the table, patients are randomly assigned to different
      groups.

      Evaluating indicator Stone-free rate in 5 weeks after RIRS. Incidence rate of complications
      and adverse reactions after EPVL(fever, hematuria).

      Trial method; Cases selection and grouping: in 1 week after RIRS, the imaging KUB(abdominal
      plain film), patients with radiolucent calculus need to be examined by CT demonstrate the
      presence of residual fragments, and the cases that meeting inclusion criterion are randomly
      assigned to groups, and the ureteral stent should be removed in 2 weeks;

      Laboratory testing: blood routine, urine routine, renal function , coagulation function;
      Strat the treatment of EPVL before the removal of ureteral stent.

      Methods of control group(group1):

      RIRS without EPVL Patients should be reexamined respectively in 1 and 2 weeks after RIRS, and
      the ureteral stent should be removed in 2 weeks;

      Patients should follow the measures below:

        1. the amount of fluid intake is more than 2000ml/d

        2. increase physical activity

        3. rest in position on uninjured side, patients with lower renal calyx calculus need to
           invert body;

      Follow up timing: respectively in 2 ,3 and 5 weeks after RIRS.

      Methods of EPVL group(group2):

      Preparation before EPVL: the amount of fluid intake is about 1000-2000ml, start the treatment
      of EPVL when patient's bladder is filling;

      Record: patients' information, outcome of treatment (examined by KUB right after EPVL); Start
      the treatment of EPVL;

      Patients should follow the measures below:

        1. the amount of fluid intake is more than 2000ml/d

        2. increase physical activity

        3. rest in position on uninjured side, patients with lower renal calyx calculus need to
           invert body;

      Patients should be reexamined in one week, meanwhile removing ureteral stent or perhaps
      undergoing the treatment of EPVL once again.

      Follow up timing: respectively in 1,2 and 4 weeks after EPVL..

      Follow up project Laboratory testing: routine urinalysis; Imaging examination: KUB or kidney
      CT scan (radiolucent calculus) Complications and adverse reactions. Data gathering Fill in
      follow up table data; Radiological images; IVP(intravenous pyelography) or kidney CT scan;
      Reexamined by KUB (radiopaque calculus) or CT (radiolucent calculus) right after RIRS,
      respectively in 2 ,3 and 5 weeks after RIRS. If stones have been eliminated completely in
      patients with radiolucent calculus before or at the fourth week of follow-up, investigator
      must provide kidney CT scan.
    
  