
    
      Patients with peripheral neuropathy and healthy volunteers will be recruited in this study.
      Peripheral neuropathy is defined according to the neuropathic symptoms and signs. Informed
      consent will be approved by the Ethical Committee of the National Taiwan University Hospital
      and obtained from each subject.

      To assess the severity of different neuropathic symptoms, such as spontaneous ongoing and
      paroxysmal pain, evoked pain, paraesthesia, and dysaesthesia, patients with neuropathic pain
      will fill out the Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory. Each subject will receive detailed
      sensory examination to evaluate the integrity of sensory fibers. To measure thresholds of
      thermal and vibratory sensations, we will perform quantitative sensory testing by the method
      of level using a Thermal Sensory Analyser and Vibratory Sensory Analyser (Medoc Advanced
      Medical System, Minneapolis, MN, USA) following an established protocol. We will use a
      contact heat stimulator to deliver thermal stimulation. Noxious and innocuous heat
      temperatures will be applied within the right foot dorsum. Several pretests will be applied
      before CHEP recording to eliminate expectation effects. To avoid sensitization and
      desensitization, low intensity stimuli will precede high intensity stimuli at each block.

      Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) will be performed on a 3-T MR machine (Sonata;
      Siemens, Erlangen, Germany). A high resolution T1 weighted scan of the entire brain in
      trans-axial orientation will be obtained to provide anatomical information for the
      superimposed functional activation maps. Echo Planar Imaging will be used for the acquisition
      of the functional data. Each imaging session will be consisted of one high-resolution
      anatomical scan and three functional scanning runs, with 5-min intersession interval. During
      the scanning, several thermal stimuli will be applied by CHEP stimulator to the right dorsal
      foot. To avoid sensitization, the stimulation site will be changed slightly after each
      stimulus. After 12-s stimulation, the temperature will be cooling, with a subsequent 36-s
      interstimulus interval. After each fMRI session, subjects will be asked to rate the intensity
      and unpleasantness of received pain stimulus. The average rating values will be indicated
      after the scan on a computer driven visual analogue scale ranging from 0 to 10 (0, no pain;
      1, slight intense; 2, mild intense; 3, moderate intense; 4, slight pain; 5, mild pain; 6,
      moderate pain; 7, moderate-strong pain; 8, strong pain; 9, severe pain; 10, unbearable pain),
      and the intensity and unpleasantness of received pain will be assessed using the Short-Form
      McGill Pain Questionnaire.

      All data will be processed using the Statistical Parametric Mapping software (SPM2). fMRI
      data series will be realigned and resliced with sinc interpolation to correct for motion
      artifacts. Scans with sudden head movements of more than 2 mm will be omitted. To enable
      intersubject analysis, the functional data will be coregistered to the anatomical scan and
      transformed into a reference space according to the MNI template of SPM2 by normalization
      using sinc interpolation. The resampled voxel volume of the normalized images is 2 x 2 x 2
      mm. Subsequently, data will be smoothed with an isotropic Gaussian kernel of 8 mm full-width
      at half maximum to reduce high frequency noise and to account for anatomical variances.
      Condition-specific effects will be estimated with the general linear model using a boxcar
      approach convolved with the hemodynamic response function. High pass filtering will remove
      low frequency noise and low pass filtering will account for serial autocorrelations of the
      data.

      We will analyze the data on an individual (subject per subject) basis and across subjects
      (group analysis) using a cross-subjects variance (random effect analysis). Data from each
      stimulation will be pooled for group statistical comparisons. A single design matrix,
      including 3 sessions of all subjects, will be generated due to the limited number of
      experiments representing a fixed-effects model analysis. Statistical parametric maps will be
      generated as t-contrasts and corrected for multiple comparisons according to the random field
      theory with P < 0.05. The threshold for the Z maps is 3.09 (P < 0.001) for individual subject
      analysis. Significant clusters have to show a minimum extension volume of 10 voxels.
    
  