
    
      Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of blindness in the elderly.[1]
      The disease is categorized into early, intermediate, or advanced stages based on the severity
      of symptoms. The advanced stage, including GA and CNV, involves central region of the retina,
      which leads to a gradual or rapid loss of photoreceptors and central vision.

      The macular pigment (MP) consists of xanthophyll, which is formed from the yellow carotenoid
      lutein, zeaxanthin, and meso-zeaxanthin.These pigments play an important role in protecting
      the retina against oxidative stress through different mechanisms[6]. Many studies have shown
      a various association of AMD and MP.Blue Mountain Eye Study revealed low dietary intake of
      lutein and zeaxanthin is associated with a higher risk of AMD. However, dry and wet subtypes
      of AMD may have different etiologies and risk factors. Little is known whether longitudinal
      study of macular pigment optical density (MPOD) is related to AMD progression.

      A comprehensive ophthalmologic examination including fundus photography,OCT and MPOD was
      performed at baseline, and semiannually thereafter for 3 years. Fundus reflectance (VISUCAM
      500, reflectance of a single 460 nm wavelength) was used to measure the MPOD levels.
      Associated risk factors including body-mass index (BMI), smoking, diet, and cardiovascular
      diseases were documented. Drusen characteristics (size, type, area), pigmentary abnormalities
      (increased pigment, depigmentation, geographic atrophy), and presence of abnormalities
      characteristic of neovascular AMD were graded. For estimations of AMD progression , a 9-step
      severity scale that combines a 6-step drusen area scale with a 5-step pigmentary abnormality
      scale is used.

      In this study, we are going to investigate a 3-year study of incidence and progression for
      AMD and associated risk factors, in a population-based cohort of Chinese aged 45 years and
      older living in the city of Wenzhou.
    
  