
    
      The following research questions will be examined:

      Primary research questions:

        1. Is there a difference between participants in patient-driven digital psychological
           treatment, compared to standardized internet CBT, in perceptions of how much they've
           been able to control their treatment (measured with a questionnaire developed by the
           researchers for this study)?

        2. What is the effect of patient-driven digital psychological treatment, compared to
           standardized internet CBT, on frequency of completers and completed modules among adults
           with anxiety disorders?

           Secondary research questions:

        3. What is the effect of patient-driven digital psychological treatment, compared to
           standardized internet CBT, on the experience of empowerment, (measured by the
           "Empowerment Scale"), for adults with anxiety disorders?

        4. What is the effect of patient-driven digital psychological treatment, compared to
           standardized internet CBT, on anxiety (measured with GAD-7), depression (measured with
           MADRS-S), general disability (measured with WHODAS 2.0) and steps in "valued direction"
           (measured with "Bull´s Eye compass") for adults with anxiety disorders?

           Associations:

        5. Is there a correlation between perceptions of how much one has been able to control the
           treatment (measured with a questionnaire developed by the researchers for this study),
           feelings of being able to cope with one's mental illness (measured with Patient
           Enablement Instrument), how satisfied participants are with their treatment (measured
           vid CSQ-8), perceptions of empowerment (measured with the "Empowerment Scale") and
           changes in anxiety symptoms (measured with GAD-7)?

        6. Does perceptions of how much participants have been affected by the pandemic of Covid-19
           in their daily life correlate with anxiety symptoms (measured with GAD-7) 3 months after
           termination of treatment?

           Mediation:

        7. What is the mediating effect of empowerment, measured by the "Empowerment Scale", on
           changes in anxiety symptoms (measured with GAD-7)?
    
  