
    
      Specific Aims Retrospective studies have established a strong correlation between reports of
      life stress and depression. Investigators have begun to further explore this relationship by
      examining the role of gene x stress interactions in the pathogenesis of depression. In a
      recent landmark study, Caspi and colleagues (2003) reported an interaction between a
      serotonin transporter promoter polymorphism and life stress in the development of depression.
      This finding has been replicated in some but not all follow up studies. Despite the initial
      promise of these results, the ability to draw definitive conclusions is compromised by
      significant study design limitations: 1) retrospective design 2) a focus on acute rather than
      chronic stress 3) substantial variation in the character and intensity of stress between
      subjects. Medical internship is a period filled with predictable and high levels of chronic
      uncontrolled stress. Rates of depression among interns are elevated compared to the general
      population. In this study, we aim to utilize the predictable and consistent stress of
      internship to investigate the relationship between stress, genes and depression with a
      prospective study design that bypasses some of the pitfalls of previous studies.

      Goal 1) Assess the prevalence and development of depression among medical interns

      Although small studies have assessed the point prevalence of depression among medical
      residents, no study has prospectively followed the development of depressive symptoms through
      residency. We will collect baseline psychological profiles of incoming interns prior to the
      commencement of residency duties and subsequently assess for depressive symptoms at 3-month
      intervals throughout internship. This data will allow us to:

        1. Assess the point prevalence of depression among interns in a large sample.

        2. Determine the change in depressive symptoms through the course of the intern year

        3. Evaluate stable psychological factors that associate with the development of depression
           in the face of life stress.

      Goal 2) Evaluate the presence of genotype x stress interaction among this sample

        1. There is conflicting evidence concerning the presence of an interaction between the
           serotonin transporter promoter polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) and life stress in the
           development of depression. We will assess the presence and strength of this interaction
           in the sample of medical interns using a study design that avoids many of the pitfalls
           affecting previous studies.

        2. We will explore novel putative interactions between stress and genetic variants in
           additional genes including BDNF, CRH, COMT, serotonin 1A and serotonin 2A receptor
           variants in the development of depression.

      Goal 3) Evaluate the relationship between serum endothelial and immune factors and the
      development of depressive symptoms under stress.

      The identification biomarkers that predict the onset of depression can facilitate more timely
      and accurate identification of individuals at high risk for the disorder. Unfortunately
      appropriate studies are lacking, largely because it is difficult to know exactly when a
      depressive episode will occur. Medical internship represents a rare situation where we can
      prospectively predict when a cohort of individuals shift will shift from a low stress
      environment to a high stress environment and thus predict when this cohort will experience a
      dramatic increase in depressive symptoms.

      Goal 4) Examine the temporal relationship between hair cortisol levels, stress exposure and
      development of depressive symptoms.A novel technique allows us to assess chronic HPA axis
      activity by measuring cortisol in the growing hair, providing an integrated measure of total
      cortisol secretion over extended periods of time (1-3 months).

      By incorporating this novel method into an established longitudinal study of a chronic
      stressor that dramatically increases rates of depression, we have a unique opportunity to
      determine a) whether cortisol levels prior to stress exposure predict risk of depression in
      response to the stressor (b) whether cortisol rise in response to stress exposure precedes
      and perhaps contributes to development of depressive symptoms or whether cortisol elevations
      in depression develop after symptom onset and perhaps reflect a consequence of depression.
    
  