
    
      For patients in whom a spinal fusion is indicated, the posterior lumbar interbody fusion
      (PLIF) may be recommended to restore stability to the affected spinal segment1. Pioneered by
      a Dr.Cloward in the 1940s to treat painful intervertebral discs damaged by degeneration, PLIF
      involves removal of the entire nuclear portion of the disc and subsequent replacement with
      multiple blocks of transplanted bone. The purpose of the fusion is to eliminate or reduce the
      amount of the motion at the affected site, and, therefore, the source of pain.

      Four major intervertebral cages have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      for use in humans: the Brantigan Interbody fusion Cage, the Ray Threaded Fusion Cage, the
      Bagby and Kuslich cage, and, most recently, the Trabecular Metal™ Cage. Comprised of 98
      percent tantalum and 2 percent vitreous carbon, Trabecular Metal™ has the highest coefficient
      of friction of any implant material on the market, allowing for optimal initial implant-bone
      fit. Furthermore, the unique porous structure of Trabecular Metal™ provides significantly
      more space for tissue ingrowth to occur, facilitating a more cohesive implant-bone interface
      as well as long-term stability of the implant.

      Long-term follow up data on the efficacy of the Brantigan Interbody fusion cage, Ray Threaded
      Fusion cage, and Bagby and Kuslich cages are limited, with the most rigorous studies (i.e.
      controlled prospective studies) typically providing outcomes approximately 2 years
      post-surgery. Overall, these studies show that, while existing intervertebral cages have made
      significant advances in terms of addressing the disadvantages associated with traditional
      bone grafting/fixation techniques, problems continue to persist. Through comprehensive and
      accurate clinical evaluation of the Trabecular Metal™ intervertebral cage, the Research Team
      hopes to document advances in the PLIF technique, thereby informing current research as well
      as clinical practice.

      The primary goal of the proposed research is to gather data on the clinical efficacy of the
      Trabecular Metal™ Posterior Lumbar Interbody Fusion (PLIF) cage with pedicle screw
      instrumentation for the treatment of one-level lumbar spine fusions. Based on this pilot
      data, we hope to establish a level of acceptable clinical performance for the Trabecular
      Metal™ cage, a benchmark against which subsequent investigations can be compared.

      Direct surgical exploration is considered the most reliable method for accurately determining
      fusion success, both from a structural and functional perspective, following spinal fusion
      surgery. Unfortunately, this method is highly invasive, costly and seldom used. Furthermore,
      surgical exploration does not provide any longitudinal information as to the stability of the
      implant, including the monitoring of any occurrence of migration.

      In contrast, Roentgen Stereophotogrammetric Analysis(RSA)can detect the presence or absence
      of mobility between intervertebral segments (i.e. functional stability of the fusion) with a
      high degree of accuracy. RSA is a radiographic technique that uses small tantalum balls
      implanted into the patient's bone to measure micromotion (<1 mm) at the bone - implant
      interface, something which is not possible to do reliably using regular x-ray techniques. RSA
      provides a method for detecting inferior implant designs or cement formulations using only a
      small number of patients before release of these products into large clinical trials.

      RSA has been in use for several decades,and its safety is well documented.A computerized,
      digital RSA system has recently been installed and calibrated at our center. Its measurement
      capabilities have been rigorously validated, and it is currently being used to assess a new
      knee implant design. Expansion of the system to include spine RSA can be easily accomplished.
    
  