
    
      Study Overview: Potential subjects who are clinically stable COPD patients with 30% ≤ FEV1 <
      50% (COPD GOLD criteria stage 3), will be enrolled. Following consent procedures, interested
      participants will be screened for eligibility. Eligible subjects will be invited to the test
      facility for four (4) visits. During the first visit, baseline measurements will be made. In
      the subsequent three (3) sessions, subjects will be asked to perform two (2) tests (BiPAP
      Equivalency Test and Activity of Daily Living Simulation). Baseline evaluation techniques
      will include spirometry, a Six Minute Walk Test (6MWT) (which produces a Six Minute Walk
      Distance, or 6MWD), and finally, a baseline treadmill test. Prior to the baseline treadmill
      test, Borg Scores will be measured. The subjects will then be asked to walk at a comfortable
      speed on the treadmill. The incline will be increased each minute by either 1% (Baseline 6MWD
      < 250m) or 2% (Baseline 6MWD >250m) until they reached a Borg score of 7.

      In subsequent visits, subjects will be randomly assigned each of six tests including:
      treadmill tests that repeat the baseline treadmill test with a) the prototype BREATHE device,
      b) a standard BiPAP system, or c) a placebo inhaler used during recovery; and Glittre ADL
      tests where the subject either has access to the BREATHE device a) withheld, b) during
      recovery, and c) during test performance and recovery. The primary endpoint in each of these
      tests is the recovery time (return to 0 Borg, "No difficulty breathing"). SpO2, heart rate,
      respiration rate, and total test times will also be recorded during each test.

      BiPAP Equivalency Test: Subjects will perform exercise tests identical to the treadmill tests
      from the baseline test. However, in these tests, after they reach a Borg score of 7, they
      will be allowed to recover with a) the prototype BREATHE system, b) a standard BiPAP machine,
      and c) a placebo inhaler until they are fully recovered (Borg: 0).

      Activity of Daily Living Simulation: Subjects will be asked to complete Glittre-ADL tests.
      This test is a standard COPD functional performance instrument. At the beginning of each
      test, participants will be instructed to rise from a chair and walk 10 meters, ascending a
      2-step rise about half-way along that distance, to reach a shelving unit. The shelves will be
      positioned at shoulder and waist height. The participant will move 3 cartons, each weighing 1
      kg, from the upper to the lower shelf and then to the floor.

      The sequence is then reversed so that each carton is returned to the top shelf before the
      participant returns to the starting position at the chair. At that time the participant sits
      down and then immediately rises to begin the next lap. The test ends when the participant
      completes 5 of these laps. Participants are told to perform the test as quickly as possible.
      Rests are allowed but participants are told to resume activity as soon as possible. During
      the test, participants will wear a backpack filled with a 2.5 (women) or 5 kg (men) weight.
      The 2.5 kg weight simulates the weight of a supplemental oxygen unit, which can be exchanged
      for the weight when appropriate. This allows the addition of oxygen for future tests without
      affecting the integrity of the test.

      Three different Glittre-ADL tests will be completed. In these sessions, the BREATHE system
      will a) not be available, b) be available for use during post-exertion recovery, and c) be
      available for use throughout the test and recovery period. Borg scores will be measured after
      each minute of exercise and every 30 seconds during seated recovery until the subject is
      fully recovered (Borg: 0).
    
  