
    
      The annual incidence of patients initiating chronic hemodialysis (HD) will double
      (~100K→~200K) over the next decade. Despite several advances, HD mortality rates remain
      extremely high and have not dramatically changed over the past several years. The United
      States Renal Data System (USRDS) is the largest epidemiological database of patients with
      end-stage renal disease (ESRD) throughout the US, and studies utilizing the USRDS and similar
      studies emanating from large dialysis providers have served as the benchmark for guiding the
      care of all dialysis patients in the US While these databases have been an excellent resource
      for testing hypotheses, lack of concomitant blood samples has prevented a large-scale
      clinical trial testing of hypotheses necessitating biological samples. To overcome this
      limitation, we established a 'USRDS-like' clinical trial with the largest US dialysis
      provider to prospectively acquire research quality demographic data and concomitant
      biological samples to test two specific aims:

      AIM 1: HD patients are profoundly vitamin D deficient, yet ~60% of incident hemodialysis
      patients in the US are not treated with active vitamin D. Vitamin D is linked with
      cardiovascular health, and although higher serum vitamin D levels are associated with
      improved survival in different settings (e.g., cancer, infection), no large study has
      examined whether baseline vitamin D levels are associated with HD mortality. Measuring serum
      vitamin D levels among HD patients is sporadic since the utility of this measurement as it
      relates to dialysis mortality is unclear.

      Hypothesis: Higher vitamin D levels at initiation of HD are associated with lower risk of
      90-day and 1-year mortality among patients who do not receive vitamin D therapy.

      AIM 2: Among diabetic non-HD patients, blood levels of HbA1c predict all cause and
      cardiovascular related mortality. Diabetes is the leading cause of ESRD in the US (~50% of
      all ESRD patients) and mortality rates of diabetics on HD are ~10-20% higher than
      non-diabetics. Leading Nephrology thought leaders and regulatory bodies (tied to
      reimbursement and quality control) suggest HbA1c levels must be routinely checked in diabetic
      HD patients. Importantly, the association between HbA1c levels and all-cause and
      cardiovascular mortality among HD patients is unclear (in contrast to non-HD data), and
      erythropoietin therapy and shortened red-cell survival (common in HD patients) render
      measurements of HbA1c less meaningful.

      Hypothesis: Elevated HbA1c levels (among diabetics) at the initiation of HD are associated
      with increased 90 day mortality, however, HbA1c measurements performed thereafter, e.g., at
      90 days following the initiation of HD, are not associated with subsequent 1 year survival.

      These aims are examined in a prospective cohort study (of incident HD patients living
      throughout the US (>1000 centers) with detailed demographic data updated daily, and research
      quality blood samples collected every 3 months from the initiation of chronic HD. We
      initiated this "USRDS-like" study to overcome one of the largest limitations of existing
      epidemiological dialysis datasets - lack of concomitant biological samples in a nationally
      representative cohort. The study will be available for data sharing and patient protection
      measures are in place.
    
  