
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. This is done because no one knows if one study
      group is better, the same, or worse than the other group. You will have an equal chance of
      being assigned to either group.

      If you are in Group 1, you will receive 1 radiation treatment a day for 10 days in a row (not
      counting weekends or holidays). You will receive a higher total dose of radiation than Group
      2.

      If you are in Group 2, you will receive 1 radiation treatment given on 1 day.

      Radiation Therapy:

      You will lie on a table for the radiation treatment(s). Each treatment will last about 30
      minutes.

      Length of Treatment:

      You may receive 1 or 10 radiation treatments, depending on which group you are in. You will
      no longer be able to receive radiation therapy if intolerable side effects occur or if you
      are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      At Months 3, 6, 9, 12 and every 3 to 6 months after the start of radiation therapy, you will
      have x-rays, a bone scan, CT scan, or MRI to check the status of the disease.

      At Months 3, 4, and 6 and then every 3 months after that for at least 3 years, you will
      complete the questionnaires about the pain, your pain relief, and your quality of life. The
      questionnaires can be filled out at a clinic visit or sent back in the mail.

      This is an investigational study. Radiation therapy is delivered using FDA-approved and
      commercially available methods. It is investigational to compare the number and size of
      radiation doses.

      Up to 300 participants will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 300 participants will
      be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  