
    
      At the first appointment the following information will be collected to determine eligibility
      for the research study. If participation is determined, a second visit will be scheduled at
      the end of the visit or the potential participant will be provided with a suggestion to speak
      with their primary care physician for other treatment options.

      A measurement of height and weight will be taken, questionnaires regarding medical history,
      including asthma symptoms and control, and questionnaires about family background information
      (e.g., family income, size of family, employment, and marital status).

      In addition, information concerning the following conditions will be collected and may
      exclude participation: dietary restriction or a medical condition that makes mild energy
      restriction or physical activity potentially dangerous, diagnosed with a major psychiatric
      disorder such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or autism, has used systemic corticosteroids
      within 3 months, or prescription weight loss drugs within 6 months.

      The second appointment will happen one to two weeks before the start of the treatment
      program. During this visit the following will happen:

      A measurement of height and weight, and waistline, questionnaires and complete an interview
      about asthma management and quality of life, and a test for lung function both pre and post
      albuterol. At the end of the visit an accelerometer will be provided to wear for 7 days in a
      row. The accelerometer will measure how much exercise is done each day.

      At the end of this visit, the participant will be randomly assignment to either the
      experimental Childhood Health and Asthma Management Program (CHAMP) group or the health
      education group.

      The CHAMP group will receive tailored asthma education and behavioral skills focused on
      improving asthma and weight management.

      The health education group will receive tailored asthma education and general health
      education on a variety of topics.

      Each of the treatment programs will last for 6 months.
    
  