
    
      Chronic thrombo-embolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) is thought to represent the
      consequence of failure of thrombus resolution after the establishment of thrombosis within
      the elastic pulmonary arteries. Thrombotic material becomes fibrosed, with occlusive vascular
      remodeling and the development of a secondary small vessel arteriopathy, termed the
      two-compartment model. This results in an increase in pressure and vascular resistance in the
      pulmonary vasculature and leads eventually to right heart failure.

      It has been demonstrated that 2 year survival for CTEPH patients with mean pulmonary arterial
      pressure(mPAP) >50 mm Hg was only 20%, however, preliminary data from Sheffield Teaching
      Hospitals suggest that survival is significantly better than this. Until recently surgery was
      the only treatment for CTEPH in selected patients. Studies have shown the 10 year survival in
      patients with CTEPH after PEA surgery was 74%. More recently, for patients with inoperable
      CTEPH, drug therapy has been shown to improve exercise capacity. Despite recent publications
      the natural history and mechanisms underlying CTEPH are poorly understood.

      The main area of research focus in this study will be improving understanding of the natural
      history of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. The purpose of this research
      protocol is to conduct a retrospective review of patients with CTEPH diagnosed at the
      Sheffield Centre between 2001 and 2014 to understand more about the natural history of
      disease including prognostic indicators. The Sheffield Service has one of the largest cohorts
      of CTEPH in the world (>650 diagnosed cases since 2001). Approximately half of these patients
      undergo curative surgery with pulmonary endarterectomy. However, a significant proportion of
      patients with operable disease decline surgery and a significant proportion of patients have
      disease that is too distal for surgery, so called distal CTEPH. There is a relative paucity
      of data on i) the natural history of this disease, ii) an understanding of the relative
      contribution of obstruction and distal vasculopathy to elevations in pulmonary vascular
      resistance iii) the effects of distal CTEPH on right ventricular function and iv) how distal
      CTEPH differs from idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH).

      The second part of this study will focus on understanding disease mechanisms utilising MR
      imaging techniques and using the Sheffield PH Biobank resource to understand differences in
      the IPAH and distal CTEPH cohorts. The Sheffield PH Biobank has samples and detailed
      phenotypic data on over 400 treatment naïve patients with all forms of pulmonary hypertension
      with serial sampling and long term follow up providing a unique resource to make detailed
      comparisons across all forms of pulmonary hypertension.
    
  