
    
      Oral and maxillofacial tumors posing an important fact as a demanding challenge for surgeons
      causing face disfigurement which require post-ablation reconstruction. One of the most
      challenging procedure facing reconstructive surgeons lies in mandibular defects after tumor
      resection causing facial disharmony affecting aesthetics and function.

      Free flaps are considered the gold standard for the reconstruction during oncologic surgery
      combining a high success rate with low donor site morbidity. Various techniques have been
      practiced and performed in mandibular defect reconstruction. Hidalgo introduced the fibular
      graft as an option, offering many Assorted advantages: as it provides a sufficient source for
      bone and soft tissue harvesting; long reliable vascular pedicle; moreover, only minor donor
      site morbidity may be involved and flap harvesting require no patient reposition.

      Mandibular reconstruction using FFF has become the gold standard. However, flap contouring
      remain an issue and imprecise with inconvenient or suboptimal final results regrading
      aesthetic and even more consuming time and efforts owing to poor planning when performed
      traditionally. Recently, with newly introduced technology and virtual planning, the process
      has become more uniform and reproducible thus enhancing final outcome improving patient life.

      Prefabricated cutting guides may be used may be not, however it still in debate regarding its
      benefits and worth for patient and surgeon. believing that ability of CAD/CAM technology to
      achieve Aesthetic and operation time improvement with more detailed evaluation in patients
      undergoing mandibular reconstruction using free fibular flap with CAD/CAM customized cutting
      guide.

      Our priori-hypothesis is that utilization of CAD/CAM-assisted with customized osteotomy guide
      is not related to an altered result regarding aesthetic outcome and operation time in patient
      undergoing mandibular reconstruction using free fibular flap. In order to test this
      hypothesis, we will compare aesthetic outcome and operation time in group of patients receive
      FFF by CAD/CAM-assisted with customized osteotomy guide to the results of another group of
      patients receive FFF but without customized osteotomy guide. only model will be performed as
      conventional method helping in pre-shaping of reconstruction plate which is another
      well-established concept of management of mandibular defect.
    
  