
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is characterized by hypoxemic respiratory failure
      that can be lethal in 30 to 60% of patients. Its pathophysiological landmark, diffuse
      alveolar damage, is associated with alveolar inflammation, epithelial injury and alveolar
      fluid clairance impairment.

      Several preclinical studies have shown that early sevoflurane inhalation improves gas
      exchange, reduces alveolar edema and attenuates pulmonary and systemic inflammation in
      experimental models of ARDS.

      To date, no clinical trial has assessed the effects of early sevoflurane inhalation in ARDS
      patients.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The purpose of this prospective, randomized, controlled study is to evaluate the effects of a
      48-hour sevoflurane inhalation strategy on gas exchange and both systemic and pulmonary
      inflammation in the early phase of ARDS.

      After inclusion, ICU patients with moderate to severe ARDS (according to the Berlin
      definition of ARDS criteria; JAMA 2010) will be randomized into two groups :

        -  a "conventional group", in which intravenous sedation with midazolam will be
           administered

        -  a "sevoflurane group", in which patients will inhale sevoflurane during a 48
           hour-period, through dedicated devices Arterial blood gases will be analyze before
           randomization and at 24, 48, 72, 96, and 120 hours.

      Bronchoalveolar lavages (BAL) and blood samples will be assessed before randomization and at
      48 hours, in order to measure tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα), interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6,
      IL-8 and sRAGE levels. Duplicate assays will be performed with Multiplex (TNFα/interleukins)
      or ELISA (sRAGE).

      During the 48-hour treatment period, bispectral index (BIS®) values ranging from 40 to 50
      will be targeted and neuromuscular blocking agents (cisatracurium) will be administered in
      both groups. Protective ventilation strategies will be applied, as well as other guidelines
      or recommendations on the management of ICU patients with ARDS.
    
  