
    
      Introduction There are currently no valid estimates of the occurrence of dementia in Norway.
      Estimates in use range from 70.000 to 104.000, with the highest estimate being 50 percent
      greater than the lowest. This makes it difficult to plan today's health services and estimate
      future needs.

      To enable good planning of services to people with dementia, it is important that people with
      dementia to be evaluated and diagnosed for their illness. An early diagnosis seems to improve
      prognosis for the course of the disease. The proportion of undiagnosed people with dementia
      differs in the studies done on this and it is unclear which factors that may explain why many
      remain undiagnosed for their dementia disease.

      The aim of this study is to provide knowledge that is crucial for planning good health and
      care services for older people with cognitive impairment and dementia. We will make valid
      estimates for the prevalence of dementia and the most common subtypes of them in Trøndelag
      and transfer these figures to estimates to Norway as a whole, by age, gender and severity of
      disease. We will investigate whether there are differences in dementia prevalence between
      males and females and educational groups. Furthermore, there will be made a survey of the
      proportion of people without dementia diagnosis among those with dementia, and examine the
      factors associated with a lack of diagnosis.

      Method The data collection was a collaboration with the Health Survey in Nord-Trøndelag when
      this was carried out for the fourth time (HUNT4) in the period 2017-2019. All persons over
      the age of 70 living in 23 municipalities in Nord-Trøndelag and a district in Trondheim
      municipality (Trøndelag) were invited to an assessment at a field stations or by home visits
      (including institutionalized care), in the study parts called HUNT4 70+ and HUNT4 Trondheim
      70+. The participants were offered a survey of cognition and function in everyday life. To
      get more information on cognitive function an interview with next of kin were made for
      participants with possible cognitive impairment.

      A diagnostic work-up group of scientific and clinical experts (geriatrics, old age psychiatry
      or neurology) assessed the cases and made the research-based diagnosis. Standard diagnostic
      criteria according to the DSM-5 was applied for all the dementia diseases. The new estimates
      from Trøndelag will be used to estimate the occurrence of dementia in Norway as a whole, by
      age, sex and severity of dementia. Furthermore, the proportion of people without dementia
      diagnosis among those with dementia will be examined. Information about known dementia
      diagnosis from dementia assessment in municipality or specialist health service will be
      obtained by linking to registered data. The investigators will further investigate whether
      there are differences in dementia prevalence between males and females and educational groups
      and look at factors associated with a lack of diagnosis. Information from the earlier waves
      of HUNT (1-4) will be used to get information on health and risk factors for dementia from
      the study population.
    
  