
    
      Objective: To assess whether an intervention designed to improve the social support for
      caregivers effectively decreases caregivers burden and improves their quality of life.

      Methodology:

      Design: Controlled, multicentre, community intervention trial, with patients and their
      caregivers randomized to the intervention or control group according to their assigned
      Primary Health Care Team (PHCT).

      Study area: Primary Health Care network (9 PHCTs). Study participants: Primary informal
      caregivers of patients receiving home health care from participating PHCTs.

      Sample: Required sample size is 282 caregivers (141 from PHCTs randomized to the intervention
      group and 141 from PHCTs randomized to the control group.

      Intervention: a) PHCT professionals: standardized training to implement caregivers
      intervention. b) Caregivers: 1 individualized counselling session, 1 family session, and 4
      educational group sessions conducted by participating PHCT professionals; in addition to
      usual home health care visits, periodic telephone follow-up contact and unlimited telephone
      support.

      Control: Caregivers and dependent patients: usual home health care, consisting of bimonthly
      scheduled visits, follow-up as needed, and additional attention upon request.

      Data Analysis. Dependent variables: Caregiver burden (short-form Zarit test), caregivers
      social support (Medical Outcomes Study), and caregiver reported quality of life (SF-12)
      Independent variables: a) Caregiver: sociodemographic data, Goldberg Scale, Apgar family
      questionnaire, Holmes and Rahe Psychosocial Stress Scale, number of chronic diseases. b)
      Dependent patient: sociodemographic data, level of dependency (Barthel Index), cognitive
      impairment (Pfeiffer test)

      Discussion:

      If the intervention intended to improve social and family support is effective in reducing
      the burden on primary informal caregivers of dependent patients, this model can be readily
      applied throughout usual PHCT clinical practice.
    
  