
    
      Many patients with metastatic prostate cancer who succumb to the disease are initially
      diagnosed with localized prostate cancer, where treatment has the potential to be curative.
      For men initially diagnosed with high risk or locally advanced prostate cancer, nearly 50%
      develop recurrence after primary therapy and can eventually progress to life-threatening
      metastatic disease. Combined androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) with ionizing radiation (IR)
      is the current mainstay of therapy for such men with high-risk prostate cancer. While it is
      likely that undetected, microscopic disseminated disease leads to the inability to cure in
      some men, there is also emerging evidence that escalating local therapy may still have
      benefit. It has been reported that metastasis-free survival and overall survival were
      significantly improved in men with high-risk localized prostate cancer treated with external
      beam radiotherapy (EBRT) with brachytherapy boost compared to men treated with EBRT alone, or
      with radical prostatectomy. The observation that enhanced IR-based local therapy could
      improve outcomes supports the notion that it is not microscopic systemic disease alone that
      leads to treatment failures of high-risk prostate cancer, but that more aggressive local
      management could still play a significant role.

      A key question in the management of high risk prostate cancer is how can the investigators
      predict whether a patient with local or metastatic prostate cancer will have complete
      response with current IR-based therapy paradigms, or if patients would benefit from more
      aggressive dosing regimens despite a potential for increased adverse effects. A major
      limitation to developing effective strategies for predicting treatment response to
      conventional vs. more aggressive dosing regiments has been a paucity of tissues from patients
      undergoing radiation therapy, including at baseline and during follow up, as well as a lack
      of the molecular, cell biological, and biochemical states of the cancer and
      microenvironmental cells in such tissues. The availability of such tissues and data can
      accelerate the discovery process of identifying novel biomarkers and therapeutic strategies
      for patients with prostate cancer.

      Thus, a more comprehensive understanding of the tissue microenvironment at base line and
      following radiation therapy may inform improved strategies in radiation dosing, as well as
      complementary neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatments to achieve complete response in
      organ-confined disease in the future. Such an understanding of the tissue and biological
      response of prostate cancer to radiotherapy may also provide insights to enhance IR-based
      therapy of metastatic and oligometastatic disease, for both palliative and perhaps
      life-prolonging intent.

      The primary goal of this tissue collection protocol is to establish a framework for the
      acquisition and banking of biospecimen collected from men undergoing brachytherapy. Biopsy of
      the prostate is an invasive procedure; however, in this tissue collection protocol, biopsies
      are acquired intraoperatively while patients are prepped for brachytherapy seed placement,
      thus minimizing the discomfort as well as the inconvenience of the biopsy procedure for
      patients. A subset of these patients will choose to have a 2 year confirmatory biopsy to
      detect the absence or persistence of disease. Biopsy cores collected 2 years post-IR therapy
      will also be included in the investigators' correlative studies. These biopsies will provide
      a valuable resource for molecular and pathological assessments. To extract the maximal amount
      of information from these biopsy specimens, the investigators will utilize comprehensive
      genomic, pathological, and biochemical analyses including DNA-seq, RNA-seq, methylome
      analysis, single cell sequencing, immunohistochemistry (IHC)/immunofluorescence (IF). The
      investigators will also collect and maintain a database of the clinicopathological parameters
      and follow up information for these specimens. The biobank will thus represent a bank of
      tissues as well as the correlative measurements on those tissues.
    
  