
    
      A growing public health and oncology nursing concern is the likelihood of colorectal cancer
      (CRC) survivors experiencing decline in long-term physical and mental functional status
      following cancer diagnosis and treatment. Prior to receiving treatment, cognitive impairment
      in processing speed, spatial working memory, and verbal memory has been noted in 45% of CRC
      patients relative to 15% of healthy controls (HC). Following adjuvant chemotherapy, cognitive
      function is more impaired in CRC patients who received chemotherapy (Ctx+ group) compared to
      CRC patients not receiving chemotherapy (Ctx- group) and HC participants. These studies show:
      (1) CRC patients are at a high risk for cognitive impairment and (2) Ctx+ patients are more
      likely to decline in cognitive function during treatment. These cancer and
      chemotherapy-related changes in cognitive function have been associated with several quality
      of life factors, including physiological and concurrent symptoms, and physical and mental
      functional status. In contrast, the neural mechanisms of cognitive impairment in CRC patients
      is related to changes in the Executive Function Network (EFN). The EFN promotes long-range
      communication between frontal and parietal cortical regions, and is associated with
      attentional control processes. The empirical goals studying CRC patients are two-fold: (1)
      Develop a core set of cognitive function, event related potential (ERP) measures from
      electroencephalogram (EEG), and resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI)
      measures to elucidate the relationship between impaired attentional control and EFN
      dysfunction and (2) Increase understanding of the link between neurocognitive impairment with
      concurrent symptom severity and impact on functioning. The investigators propose a
      longitudinal, prospective cohort pilot design to study post-operative CRC patients scheduled
      to begin adjuvant chemotherapy (Ctx+ group). Comparison groups will include post-operative
      CRC patients not receiving chemotherapy (Ctx- group) and healthy controls demographically
      matched to Ctx+ participants (HC group). All participants (N=60; 20 per group) will complete
      an additional 1-hour study visits at baseline and 24-weeks to collect rsfMRI measurements
      Ctx+ patients will complete baseline assessment after surgery but before starting
      chemotherapy, CTx- patients will complete baseline assessments 4-6 weeks after surgery and HC
      after matched and consented.
    
  