
    
      This pilot study is a randomized, care-as-usual (CAU)-comparator, unblinded clinical trial of
      an occupational therapy (OT)-led in-home intervention designed to help older adults
      successfully return to and remain in their homes following discharge from a hospital or
      post-acute care facility (e.g., skilled nursing or inpatient rehabilitation facilities). This
      intervention is called CAPABLE Transitions. In total, 60 adults (36 in the intervention arm,
      24 in the CAU arm) aged 65 years and older recently discharged from a hospital or post-acute
      care facility and admitted to a Medicare-certified home health agency (CHHA) with and without
      dementia will be recruited. Study recruitment will occur over three waves, which will enable
      enhancement and optimization of the study protocol and procedures in-between recruitment
      waves. This pilot study's main outcomes relate to the feasibility of the study. These
      outcomes include study recruitment and retention, fidelity to and perceived benefit of the
      intervention, and data completeness with regard to clinical outcomes (e.g., home time,
      quality of life, and health care utilization).

      This study will recruit English-speaking adults aged 65 years and older who live in the
      Rochester region and are admitted to a CHHA following a hospital or post-acute care facility
      stay. There are two treatment groups. The intervention group will receive CAPABLE Transitions
      as well as CHHA CAU services. The CAU group will receive CHHA CAU services, which can include
      nursing, health aide, medical social work, and occupational, physical, and speech therapy
      services. CHHA clinicians will determine the types and duration of CHHA services that the
      study participants receive; these services will be completely independent from the research
      study.

      Assessment interviews will be conducted at baseline as well as at three and six month
      follow-up. Interviews will assess sociodemographics, health and functioning, mental health
      and cognitive functioning, home environment, medical services use, and intervention feedback.
      Information also will be extracted on medical conditions, medications, communication with
      providers, and services utilization from participants' medical records.
    
  