
    
      This study is a preplanned prospective observational substudy of a randomised controlled
      trial (RCT) with the primary aim to compare time to intubation when using two different
      supraglottic airway devices (SAD) as conduit for bronchoscopic intubation: the Ambu® AuraGain
      LMA as compared to the i-gel LMA (reference: I-gel vs AuraGain for Bronchoscopic Intubation
      Through SGA (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT04680169)).

      We will include all physicians who provide the airway management in the RCT.

      The primary objective is to assess technical competence/performance by using a global rating
      assessment scale (GRS) and a procedure checklist. We will use an Objective Structured
      Assessment of Technical Skills (OSATS)-inspired GRS that previously have been validated for
      fiberoptic intubation and a novel clinical checklist developed for the procedure.
      Secondarily, we will examine potential predictor variables in multivariate analyses

      Airway management will be video recorded. Two anaesthesiologists specialists (assessors), not
      otherwise involved in the trial and not employed at the hospital, will watch the video
      recordings of each case of airway management, i.e., the complete airway management provided
      by a responsible physician participant for each of the included patient participants.

      For each case of airway management, they will access the physician's technical performance
      during the attempt to perform bronchoscopic endotracheal intubation through a SAD.

      Assessors will complete a checklist during the procedure. Each item is dichotomously
      evaluated: done correctly (score=1)/done incorrectly or not performed (score=0). The
      checklist score represents the sum score for the 30 items (potential sum score range 0-30).

      Assessors will evaluate the physician's technical performance using a validated GRS, scored
      from 8 to 40, for each case of airway management. The GRS is based on 8 items. Each item is
      scored from one (poor) to five (superior). A score of three is considered 'competent' for
      each item. The GRS score represent the sum score for all items.
    
  