
    
      The Milkscreen Test for alcohol in Breast Milk is intended for use by lactating mothers as a
      rapid qualitative detection for the presence of alcohol in their breast milk prior to
      offering the breast milk to their nursing infant. This study will obtain data to demonstrate
      the sensitivity and specificity of MilkScreen™ compared to the reference method, Gas
      Chromatography (GC) for alcohol content and will additionally provide validation of the
      usability of the device by for over-the-counter use.

      The study will enroll approximately 50 lactating mothers who will come into a center in small
      groups in a contrived social setting like a wine tasting. Upon completion of informed consent
      and demonstration of meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria, subjects will be tested with
      disposable breathalyzer test and baseline breast milk samples provided. The baseline breast
      milk samples will be tested with the test article by the subject. Aliquots from the same
      samples will be prepared for testing by an outside lab with GC and with the test article.

      Subjects will be asked to provide baseline demographics such as height and weight, days since
      birth of child, race/ethnicity, and information about any prescription or OTC drugs, herbal
      compounds or vitamins they have taken in the previous 72 hours.

      Subjects will be provided with up to 3 standard alcohol drinks over the course of a two hour
      period. At prescribed time intervals following consumption, subjects will be asked to provide
      a breast milk sample and to submit to a breathalyzer test. Each breast milk sample will be
      tested by the subject with the test article following the labeling instructions only and the
      sample will also be aliquoted into tightly sealing, low head space samples containers for
      method comparison testing by an outside lab on GC and again with MilkScreen™.

      Subjects will be asked to drink at least one drink, but may ingest up to two additional
      alcoholic beverages. Each subject's intoxication state will be monitored before each
      additional drink is provided and will not be allowed to consume additional drinks if their
      BAC as measured by the disposable breathalyzer device exceeds 0.10% (100 mg/dL). All drinks
      will be measured for consistency and subjects will be asked to self report whether they
      finished their drink at the point when samples are taken. Subjects will be provided with
      transportation using designated non-drinking drivers.

      Samples of breast milk taken both prior to and following the ingestion of alcohol will be
      coded and thereby blinded to the lab. The lab will run both GC and MilkScreen™ testing on
      each sample and report the results as paired. This data will be analyzed to demonstrate that
      the MilkScreen™ Home Test for Alcohol in Breast Milk has sufficient sensitivity and
      specificity as compared to the reference method, GC, to support the test article's intended
      use.

      Subjects will be asked to complete a questionnaire on the usability of the labeling
      instructions on MilkScreen™ Home Test for Alcohol in Breast Milk to demonstrate that
      consumers can use the directions properly to test their breast milk for the presence of
      alcohol and properly interpret the results.
    
  