
    
      -  Interventional, Allocation: Open label, Primary Purpose: Treatment

        -  Diagnosis and treatment for which the device is required:Patients with advanced
           obstructive coronary artery disease and severe disabling refractory angina despite
           optimal medical therapy. No revascularization option available.

        -  Why this unlicensed device is chosen over a licensed device or conventional therapies
           for this particular patient? Patient currently treated with optimal medical therapies
           that include: long acting nitrates, beta blockers, and calcium channel blockers. The
           patient is not amendable to re-do bypass graft surgery, not amendable to percutaneous
           coronary intervention, as determined by recent coronary angiography.

      There is no other licensed device that can effectively ameliorate refractory angina and
      reduce the number of angina episodes and improve quality of life.

      -The current device has been used in 25 patients to date. Safety information at 6 months had
      been published (JACC 2007;49:1783). Extended safety and efficacy information at 3 years had
      been reported in March 2010 (ACC Annual Scientific conference). The device has not been
      associated with any procedure-related adverse events during the follow-up period.

      Risks (theoretical):•Coronary sinus dissection at the time of implantation. •Coronary sinus
      perforation and acute cardiac tamponade requiring drainage. •Device migration and
      embolization. •Late coronary sinus occlusion These risk were not reported in patients who
      receieved the device. Benefits: •Reduce angina severity. •Improve quality of life. •Reduction
      in the intensity of medical therapy with decrease side effects. •Reduced incidence of
      hospital admissions, emergency room visits and outpatient clinic visits for refractory
      angina. •Improved left ventricular function, and reduced LV end diastolic pressure. These
      patients have poor quality of life. They are disable and unable to work or to perform basic
      daily activities. Cannulation of the coronary sinus presents procedural risks similar to that
      of pacemaker electrode insertion, a procedure which is frequently performed in Interventional
      cardiology. For these particular patients with poor quality of life, the offered technology
      can potentially make them more active, more productive, and less dependent on medication and
      the health system.
    
  