
    
      This trial will be conducted on patients from the out patient clinic in the fixed
      prosthodontics clinic, Faculty of Oral and Dental Medicine, Cairo University.

        -  Adherence session will take place in the presence of the patients in the initial visit.
           This include that the patients will be informed by Abou El-Enein Y about the study steps
           and maintenance of oral hygiene instructions. Participant will be asked by Abou El-Enein
           Y if they have any problem like pain.

        -  Motivation and enforcing the maintenance of oral hygiene measures by Abou El-Enein Y.

      The visits will be designed as follow:

        -  st visit: (Y.A) will call participants before tooth preparation procedure for
           preoperative records, face to face adherence reminder session, clinical examination,
           radiograohic examination, pre-operative photographing, Impression taking for study cast
           analysis and waxing up. Each participant will be asked to sign consent form written in
           patient native language.

           2nd visit: Tooth preparation for either e-max crown retained with fiber reinforced
           composie post or e-max endocrown, secondary impression and temporarization.

           3rd visit: Try in of the restoration.

           4th visit: Participants will be called again for final cementation.

           5th visit: Follow up.

      Sample size: 12 in each group to be able to reject the null hypothesis that the rates for
      case and controls are equal with probability (power) 0.8. This number is to be increased to
      16 in each group to compensate for possible losses during follow up.

      Recruitment: The patients fulfill inclusion criteria will be selected from dental clinics of
      the Fixed Prosthodontics Department - Cairo University (internal recruitment).

      Screening of patients will carried out until target number is reached (consecutive sampling).

      Methods: Assignment of interventions:

      Sequence generation: Radi I (R.I) will allocate participants in two different groups with 1:1
      allocation ratio by using computerized sequence generation (www.randomizer.org).

      Implementation: IR will be responsible for provide allocation generation and save it in the
      envelopes in secured place until the date of performing procedure.

      Plans to promote participant retention & complete follow up: Telephone numbers of each
      patients and address will be taken and included in study, then phone calls and messages will
      be sent to remind patients before each appointment.

      Data management: Guindy J (G.J) will enter all data electronically. Patient files are to
      stored in numerical order in a secured place in locked cabinets. G.J and Z.A will have access
      to data . Categorical data will be described as numbers and percentages. Data will be
      explored for normality using Kolmogrov-Smirnov test and Shapiro-Wilk test. Comparisons
      between two groups for normally distributed numeric variables will be done using the
      Student's t-test while for non normally distributed numeric variables will be done by
      Mann-Whitney test. Comparisons between categorical variables will be performed using the chi
      square test. A p-value less than or equal to 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant. All tests will be two tailed. Statistical Methods will be done using IBM SPSS
      advanced statistics (Statistical Package for Social Sciences), version 21 (SPSS Inc.,
      Chicago, IL).

      Data Monitoring: Z.A will be responsible of data monitoring if any lost or delete occurs, in
      that case: back up data will be taken from (G.J) to provide hard copy for the requested data
      for Z.A.

      Harms: If 50% of the patients showed any unfavorable signs as sever pain, irreparable
      fracture or shade changes which might affect the results. Then the treatment will be
      considered as stopped guidelines which necessitate stopping the treatment and interim
      analysis will be performed.

      Consent: Researcher will discuss the trial with all patients. Then patient can have an
      informed discussion with the researcher. Researcher will obtain written consent from patients
      willing to participate in the trial. All consent forms will write in Arabic language
      (Appendix 1.1).

      Access to data: The supervisors (Z.A and G.J) will give access to the data sets. All data
      sets will be protected by password. To ensure confidentiality, Participant study information
      will become confidentially.

      Ancillary and post-trial care: All patients will be followed up 2 years even after the trial
      ends to report success of the treatments.

      Dissemination policy: Study results will be published as partial fulfillment the Requirements
      for PHD degree in fixed prosthodontics.Topics suggested for presentation or publication will
      be circulated to the authors.

      Data collection: The following assessment surveys (clinical evaluations) will done for both
      groups: All patients will be recalled after 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. For each recall
      examination, evaluator will performed the direct clinical evaluation using modified USPHS
      criteria for margin integrity and gross fracture. In addition, questionnaires will be used to
      evaluate patients' satisfaction and potential postoperative discomfort
    
  