
    
      Hyperglycemia is commonly encountered following cardiac surgery, whether a patient has a
      history of diabetes or not. Hyperglycemia has been associated with increased perioperative
      morbidity and mortality; several studies have demonstrated that glycemic control utilizing
      insulin protocols improves operative mortality, lowers operative morbidity (mediastinitis,
      atrial fibrillation), and improves long-term survival. However, the optimal target for serum
      glucose has not been established in post-CABG patients.

      Methods:

      All CABG patients will be consented prior to surgery. Inclusion criteria for non-diabetic
      patient is a random fingerstick blood glucose (FSBG) above >150 mg/dL prior, during, or
      immediately following surgery. All patients with history of diabetes mellitus (Type 1 or Type
      II) will be immediately eligible for inclusion.

      Following CABG surgery, if the patient was started intra-operatively on an insulin infusion,
      then that patient will be randomized to one of two treatment target groups: Group 1 [Blood
      Glucose (BG): 80 mg/dL-120 mg/dL] or Group 2 [BG: 121-180 mg/dL]. The randomization design
      will be a 1:1 allocation of patients between the two groups, with both diabetic and
      non-diabetic patients enrolled in both arms of the study. Patients will be maintained on an
      electronic-based protocol of intravenous insulin for a minimum of 72 hrs postoperatively.
      Patients remaining in the CVICU greater than 72 hrs will have their intravenous insulin
      continued until transfer to the step-down unit.

      The Glucommander© will be programmed to adjust the insulin drip to one of these two target
      groups. The nursing staff will not be blinded to treatment group allocation. The primary
      endpoint with be a composite of operative death, major adverse cardiac events (MACE: death,
      myocardial infarction, re-vascularization), STS Defined Major Morbidity (re-operation,
      Cerebrovascular accident, Deep Sternal Wound Infection/Mediastinitis, Prolonged Ventilatory
      Support (> 24 hrs), Acute Renal Failure), and prolonged inotropic support. The pre-specified
      sub-group analysis will compare perioperative outcome of patients with diabetes vs
      non-diabetic patients.

      Hypothesis:

      Our hypothesis is that the perioperative outcome of Group 2 [BG: 121 - 180 mg/dL] will not be
      inferior to Group 1 [BG: 80-120 mg/dL]. We anticipate significantly more hypoglycemic events
      in Group 1.
    
  