
    
      Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) and other pulmonary nontuberculous mycobacteria (P-NTM) are
      ubiquitous organisms that cause isolated pulmonary disease in otherwise healthy patients with
      yet undefined susceptibilities. Patients typically present with a history of chronic cough,
      eventually progressing to hemoptysis, fever, and hypoxia. With half or more of all patients
      failing standard three-drug therapy, this is an insidious disease with a poor prognosis.
      Under the natural history protocol of nontuberculous mycobacterial infection (NTM;
      #01-I-0202), 46 patients with diagnosed pulmonary MAC disease, 20 patients with M. abscessus
      disease, and 14 with other types of mycobacteria (M. fortuitum, M. massiliense, M.
      mucogenicum and M. chelonae) are being studied.

      Numerous studies have suggested that a dysregulation in cytokine production may make these
      patients susceptible to mycobacterial infection. Cytokines are particularly important in the
      activation of macrophages, which help to clear mycobacterial infection. Interferon gamma 1b
      (Actimmune) and GM-CSF (Leukine) are two cytokine therapies that have been approved in the
      treatment of chronic granulomatous disease and post-transplantation hematopoietic
      reconstitution, respectively. A number of in vitro studies suggest that either or both of
      these therapies may help to clear MAC infection. Given the poor outcomes of therapy and the
      persistent, debilitating nature of the disease, new therapies are desperately needed, and
      many are being tried without benefit of scientific foundation. Currently, there are no
      prospective trials that show any effect of these drugs in the lung delivered subcutaneously.
      This protocol proposes to perform a pilot study to evaluate the effects, if any, of these
      macrophage stimulating cytokines in the context of ongoing pulmonary mycobacterial infection.

      Aims:

      To determine the local and systemic effect, if any, of adjuvant IFN gamma and GM-CSF in P-NTM
      patients.

      Methods:

      Fifteen patients will be randomized into three treatment groups of five patients each. The
      first group will receive a standard drug regimen, based on the 1997 ATS guidelines. The
      second and third groups, in addition to receiving the standard therapy, will also receive
      three months of (IFN{gamma}) and GM-CSF, respectively. All patients will undergo bronchoscopy
      with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) at the beginning of the study, after, after three months,
      and at six months.

      In addition to obtaining traditional subjective and objective clinical measures, both
      proteomic and genomic analysis of the BAL will be performed to determine if cytokine therapy
      effects any detectable change in the lungs, In vitro studies on type II alveolar macrophages
      culled from these patients before and after cytokine therapy will also be performed.
    
  