
    
      Hypothesis The use of a less intensive prednisone regimen may be sufficient for therapeutic
      control in patients with post-COVID-19 organizing pneumonia, in relation to the established
      standard regimen.

      Objectives The objective of the NORCOVID study is to identify the optimal treatment regimen
      with corticosteroids in post-COVID19 patients diagnosed with NO. Specifically, the primary
      objective of this multicenter randomized trial is to evaluate whether treatment with a less
      intensive regimen of corticosteroids produces a non-inferior therapeutic effect than the
      established control regimen. Secondary objectives are to evaluate the effect of treatment on
      secondary efficacy variables and on safety. DLCO, respiratory function tests, 6MWT test, need
      for rescue, radiological tests, complications, mortality and the WHO ordinal scale will be
      evaluated.

      Study population: inclusion and exclusion criteria

        -  Inclusion criteria 1) Patients over 18 years of age 2) Diagnosis of COVID-19 pneumonia
           that would have required hospital admission 3) Diagnosis of post-COVID-19 organized
           pneumonia 4) Without any contraindication to the study drug 5) That, properly informed,
           voluntarily agree to participate in the study after knowing its objectives and risks and
           give their consent.

        -  Exclusion criteria Patients will not be randomized if: 1) They do not authorize their
           participation 2) Patients with contraindications to receiving corticosteroid treatment
           3) Impossibility of understanding the requirements of the study, in the opinion of the
           investigator. 4) Expected survival less than the duration of the study in the opinion of
           the investigator. 5) Clinical evidence of active infection, including but not limited to
           bronchitis, pneumonia, sinusitis, urinary tract infection, and / or cellulitis. 6)
           Patient who is subject to receiving a lung transplant during the study period. 7)
           Impossibility of conducting lung function studies. 8) Poorly controlled diabetes
           mellitus (glycosylated Hb> 10%). 9) Pregnancy or breastfeeding 10) Have any
           contraindication to the study drug 11) Are participating in another intervention study.

      Products evaluated and administration regimens.

      The product evaluated will be Prednisone orally in two administration schedules:

        1. Control Group: Prednisone 0.75mg / Kg / d 4week; 0.5mg / Kg / d 4 weeks; 20mg / d 4
           weeks; 10mg / d 6 weeks; 5mg / d 6 weeks (6m).

        2. Experimental Group: Prednisone 0.5mg / Kg / d 3 weeks, 20mg / day 3 weeks; 15mg / day 2
           weeks; 10mg / day 2 weeks, 5mg / day 2 weeks and discontinue.

      Main variable - The main variable will be the change in pulmonary diffusion, in terms of
      predicted DLCO (%), between the baseline value and that obtained at 6 months, comparing the
      two treatment groups adjusting for the baseline value using a model of Repeated measures with
      random effects (mixed model for repeated measurements: MMRM).

      Secondary variables

        -  DLCO in original units (DLCO10s mLmin - 1mmHg - 1)

        -  Percentage of patients with values <80% predicted

        -  Respiratory function tests

        -  6-Minute-Walk Test (6MWT) test

        -  Need for rescue

        -  Computed Axial Tomography Test

        -  Complications related to the evolution of the disease (serious and non-serious)

        -  Complications related to corticosteroid treatment (serious and non-serious)

        -  Complication of any kind (serious and non-serious)

        -  Mortality from any cause

        -  Ordinal variable of clinical improvement recommended by the WHO R&D Blueprint expert
           group15 for the acute phase. The worst score obtained during the study will be evaluated
           at each visit and as a summary measure.
    
  