
    
      Heart failure (HF) is nowadays an important health problem and associated with high use of
      resources and healthcare cost, but the prevalence of heart failure is increasing due to
      better care and treatment of HF and to the aging of the population. Epidemiology of HF is
      changing and shifting towards a higher prevalence of patients with HF with preserved ejection
      fraction. Moreover, the outcome of HF is grim. The mortality rate is high and
      hospitalizations are frequent and associated with worse outcomes. The majority of studies
      that analyzed HF outcomes have focused on HF hospitalizations. However, in patients with HF,
      all-cause hospitalizations can affect up to 23-58% of the patients at 1-year follow-up and
      non-cardiovascular hospitalizations are associated with risk of subsequent mortality similar
      to cardiovascular hospitalizations. Despite the evidence that all-cause hospitalizations are
      detrimental in HF patients, few studies have analyzed whether the factors associated with
      all-cause and HF-hospitalizations are different in HF patients.

      However, the characteristics and outcome of HF patients are not well described in developing
      countries like Egypt. Documenting patients' characteristics and the outcome might improve
      management of comorbidities associated with heart failure patients in Egypt as well as the
      disease outcome, However, characteristics and outcome of HF patients are not well described
      in developing countries like Egypt. Documenting patients' characteristics and the outcome
      might improve management of comorbidities associated with heart failure patients in Egypt as
      well as the disease outcome, However, characteristics and outcome of HF patients are not well
      described in developing countries like Egypt. Documenting patients' characteristics and the
      outcome might improve management of comorbidities associated with heart failure patients in
      Egypt as well as the disease outcome However, characteristics and outcome of HF patients are
      not well described in developing countries like Egypt. Documenting patients' characteristics
      and the outcome might improve the management of comorbidities associated with heart failure
      patients in Egypt as well as the disease outcome
    
  