
    
      This resubmission responds to "PAR-16-365-Pilot Clinical Trials for the Spectrum of
      Alzheimer's Disease and Age-related Cognitive Decline (R01)". It will examine the efficacy of
      hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) in improving cognitive functioning in cognitively impaired
      elderly with diabetes (T2D), who have high risk for dementia. It is a collaboration of the
      Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, NY, the University of Wisconsin, the Sagol Center
      for Hyperbaric Medicine and Research at Asaf Harofeh Medical Center, Israel-one of the
      world's largest and busiest hyperbaric units-and the Sheba Medical Center, Israel.

      HBOT is a treatment in which oxygen-enriched air (up to 100%) is administered to patients at
      a pressure above the ambient atmosphere. The combined action of hyperoxia and hyperbaric
      pressure leads to significant improvements in tissue oxygenation, resulting in
      cerebrovascular benefits with improved ischemic damage and cerebral blood flow. Recently, the
      researchers of this group published compelling evidence from clinical trials indicating HBOT
      neurotherapeutic effects in stroke, with better cognitive function and elevated brain
      activity in SPECT. New preliminary data suggests potential neurotherapeutic effects of HBOT
      on T2D elderly with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), showing better cognitive performance and
      brain activity. The researchers propose a randomized controlled clinical trial examining the
      short (12 weeks) and long-term (12 months) efficacy of HBOT. The researchers will test
      hypotheses that HBOT compared to a sham condition improves cognitive function and increases
      cerebral blood flow and glucose utilization in MCI patients with T2D. Such patients are at
      high dementia risk and enriched in cerebrovascular disease, and thus have high potential for
      benefitting from HBOT. Aim 1 examines the potential beneficial effects of HBOT on cognition
      (with a primary composite measure of executive functions and episodic memory, both affected
      by T2D). Aim 2 examines effects of HBOT on ischemic injury which will be measured by CBF at
      the level of capillaries in gray matter (by MRI arterial spin labeling), and in macrovessels
      (by a novel 4D Flow MRI technology developed by the researchers of this group). Aim 3 focuses
      on effects of HBOT on cerebral glucose utilization using [F18]FDG-PET. Finally, Aim 4
      investigates mediation by the biomarkers, i.e. whether their inclusion in a mediation model
      will attenuate the effect of HBOT on cognition, suggesting them as underlying mechanisms.
      This study will be performed in Israel, where there is optimal infrastructure and expertise
      for all the study components at significantly lower costs. HBOT can be widely deployed in the
      US so if successful, this pilot study will provide the basis for a multi-center large-scale
      clinical trial for definitive evidence of its benefits to cognition in T2D patients at high
      dementia risk. Despite advances in the understanding of risk factors and the pathologic basis
      for dementia, treatments are of very limited effects. As the proportion of elderly increases,
      the accelerating prevalence of T2D and dementia amplifies this application's public health
      impact.
    
  