
    
      After induction of anesthesia lung ultrasound will be performed and arterial blood gases
      (ABG) will be taken.

      All patients in both groups will receive maintenance fluid in the form of crystalloids
      (ringer acetate) 4 ml/kg/H. Then fluid boluses will be given according to each group:

      Group c (cvp): will receive 250 ml albumin 5% boluses to maintain CVP around 5 cmH2o Group P
      (ppv): will receive 250 ml albumin 5% boluses to maintain PPV below 13% as detected from
      invasive blood pressure monitor.

      For all patients in both groups: blood transfusion will be indicated with decreased HB% level
      below 7 mg/dl in arterial blood gases. Other blood product (FFP, platelets and
      cryoprecipitate) transfusion will be guided by lab results and clinical status of patient.
      Plasma will be transfused if INR > 1.5 and platelets will be transfused if count < 50, 000

      Lung ultrasound will be performed to diagnose EVLW. A Philips C5 ultrasound system (frequency
      5Hz; Philips Medical Systems, Suresnes, France) with an ordinary echo probe will be used.
      Chest ultrasound will be performed using the 12 regions method. Intercostals spaces on each
      side will be examined anteriorly (midclavicular line), laterally (anterior axillary line) and
      posteriorly (posterior axillary line) Four ultrasound aeration patterns a. Normal aeration
      (N): 0 score ; line sliding sign associated with respiratory movement or less than 3 B lines
      ; b. Moderate loss of lung aeration: score 1 ; a clear number of multiple visible B-lines
      with horizontal spacing between adjacent B lines ≤ 7 mm (B7 lines) c. Severe loss of lung
      aeration: score 2; multiple B lines fused together that were difficult to count with
      horizontal spacing between adjacent B lines ≤ 3 mm (B3 lines); and d. Pulmonary
      consolidation: score 3; hyperechoic lung tissue, accompanied by dynamic air bronchogram.

      The final LUS of the patient was the sum of each regional ultrasound score (ranging from 0 to
      36).
    
  