
    
      Patients with acute respiratory failure require mechanical ventilation to help them breathe
      until they recover from their acute illness. Although mechanical ventilation is necessary to
      sustain life in such situations, it can induce weakness of the respiratory muscles which may
      lead to prolonged dependence on the ventilator. Prolonged dependence on mechanical
      ventilation is associated with increased mortality, morbidity and costs to the healthcare
      system. Thus, a main goal of assisted mechanical ventilation is to reduce the patient's
      respiratory distress while maintaining some respiratory muscle activity. To attain this goal,
      the amount of ventilator assistance should theoretically be adjusted to target normal or
      reasonable levels of respiratory effort.

      Modes of Mechanical Ventilation:

      Proportional assist ventilation with load-adjustable gain factors (PAV+) is a mode of
      mechanical ventilation which delivers assistance to breathe in proportion to the patient's
      effort. The proportional assistance, called the gain, can be adjusted by the clinician to
      maintain the patient's respiratory effort or workload within a reasonable range. This is the
      only mode of ventilation which allows for measurement and targeting of a specific range of
      respiratory muscle activity by the patient.

      Pressure support ventilation (PSV) is a mode of ventilation which is considered the current
      standard of care for assisting breathing of patients during the recovery phase of acute
      respiratory failure. Several studies have shown short term advantages of PAV over PSV,
      including improved patient-ventilator synchronization, improved adaptability to changes in
      patient effort, and improved sleep quality.

      Goal of this Randomized Controlled Trial:

      To demonstrate that for patients with acute respiratory failure, ventilation with PAV+, being
      more physiological, will result in a shorter duration of time spent on mechanical ventilation
      than ventilation with PSV.
    
  