
    
      The females included in the study will be separated into 2 groups in the randomisation plan.
      One group will be instructed by a physiotherapist to perform pelvic flor exercises, and the
      other group will be instructed by the same physiotherapist to perform dynamic lumbopelvic
      stabilisation exercises. After a demonstration by the physiotherapist of how both exercises
      should be performed, the women will be requested to perform the exercises under the
      supervision of the physiotherapist. The pelvic flor exercise will be in the form of
      contraction-release for rapidly contracting muscle fibres, and for slowly contracting muscle
      fibres, slow contraction by counting to ten, hold for a count of ten, then gradually relax by
      counting to ten. The exercises will start as 5 sets of 10 repetitions per day, then each week
      the number of sets will be increased by 5 to reach 30 sets per day, and the exercises will be
      continued at this rate of 30 sets per day.

      The women who will perform the dynamic lumbopelvic stabilisation exercises will be taught the
      basic movement, starting with co-contraction of the transversus abdominis (TA) muscle and
      other muscles together with diaphragm breathing, and continuing the exercises with upper and
      lower extremity movements together with TA and multifidus contraction. Initially the exercise
      position is held for 5-10 secs with 10 repetitions, and as the program advances the time of
      holding the position will be extended to 30-45 secs. Throughout the study, the women will be
      followed up to ensure the exercises are performed. The exercises will be applied for
      approximately 30 mins once a day for a period of 10 weeks.

      The Q-Tip test will be used in the evaluation of uretero vesical junction (UVJ) mobility. A
      cotton swab lubricated with lidocaine gel will be used in the test. The cotton swab will be
      placed from the external urethral meatus and will be slowly pushed towards the bladder until
      resistance is felt. This point where resistance is met will be accepted as the UVJ. During
      the test, the angle will be measured during maximal strain by drawing the labia to the sides.

      The patients diagnosed with stress urinary incontinence and included in the study will be
      taught the lumbopelvic stabilisation and pelvic floor exercises in the clinic under the
      guidance of the physiotherapist.

      Study procedure:

      In literature, the physiological effects of the exercises have been reported to emerge 2
      weeks after starting and complaints reduce in 6-8 weeks. Therefore the patients will be
      instructed to perform the lumbopelvic stabilisation exercises at home, once a day for
      approximately 30 mins for a period of 10 weeks. Similarly the pelvic flor exercises will be
      performed for 10 weeks, once a day lasting approximately 30 mins. On 2 days a week, the women
      in both groups will perform the exercises under the guidance of the physiotherapist in the
      clinic. In this way, the necessary follow-up will be applied that the women are performing
      the pelvic flor muscle exercises and the lumbopelvic stabilisation exercises correctly and
      completely.
    
  