
    
      There is growing recognition that no single strategy will be sufficient to eliminate
      transmission. In light of evidence that neither existing biomedical interventions nor any
      existing behavioral interventions will be sufficient to control the HIV epidemic in South
      Africa, the proposed study will combine a biomedical intervention with an evidence-based
      behavioral intervention (i.e., the Women's Health CoOp) to maximize the efficacy of both
      strategies. If this combination intervention proves efficacious, there is a high likelihood
      that it can be widely implemented, be sustainable and have a substantial public health impact
      by reducing the exceedingly high HIV incidence in South Africa.

      The overarching goal of the proposed research is to determine whether this enhanced
      combination prevention strategy targeting vulnerable AOD-using women is more efficacious than
      current standard practices. The specific aims of the proposed study are:

      Aim 1: To expand the WHC outreach strategies to reach more alcohol and other drug (AOD) -
      using vulnerable women in Pretoria, South Africa.

      Aim 2: To test whether adding WHC to standard Treat, Test, and Retain (TTR) practices results
      in more HIV-positive AOD-using women getting medical evaluations (e.g., cluster of
      differentiation 4 (CD4), viral load), starting treatment, staying in treatment and in greater
      reductions in risk behaviors (e.g., AOD use, condom use, victimization) among all
      women-positive or negative.

      The study uses a geographical cluster randomized design. Hotspots (i.e. places where sex
      workers and drug using women congregate) in the city of Pretoria and the surrounding areas
      were mapped using geographic information system (GIS) software. Fourteen hotspots were
      identified and geocoded. The entire area was divided into 14 zones, each of which included a
      hotspot. Seven matched pairs of zones were created based on socio-economic conditions and
      estimates of the numbers of sex workers and drug-using women residing in them. Zones within
      pairs were randomized to the TTR arm or the WHC+ arm. Participants are recruited by outreach
      workers and their intervention condition is based on the zone from which they were recruited.
      At study enrollment/baseline, eligible participants complete a questionnaire and baseline
      HIV, drug and pregnancy testing. Follow-up data collection will be conducted at 6-months and
      12-months post-baseline.
    
  