
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the optimal way to deliver boron phenylalanine (BPA) with or without
           mannitol in terms of route (intravenous vs intraarterial), blood-brain barrier
           disruption, and dose for use in subsequent therapeutic trials of boron neutron capture
           therapy (BNCT) in patients with high-grade glioma.

        -  To evaluate the toxicity profile of BPA administered intravenously or intra-arterially.

        -  To evaluate the pharmacokinetic behavior of BPA using samples of blood, urine, tumor
           tissue, normal brain tissue, extracellular fluid, and cerebrospinal fluid.

      Secondary

        -  To produce indicative treatment plans using BPA administered either intravenously or
           intra-arterially with or without mannitol to support the design of combination studies
           using BPA and thermal neutrons for BNCT.

      Tertiary

        -  To evaluate the micro-distribution of boron resulting from the different routes of
           administration using secondary ion mass spectroscopy (SIMS).

        -  To store surplus tissues removed during the trial for possible future studies.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

        -  Stage 1 (Route and Blood Brain Barrier Disruption [BBBD]): Patients receive one dose of
           boron phenylalanine intravenously (IV) or intra-arterially (IA) over 2 hours. Some
           patients may receive mannitol IA over 30 seconds before receiving boron phenylalanine.
           Patients then undergo planned biopsy of the tumor. Some patients may then undergo
           immediate surgical debulking of the tumor.

      Boron distribution data is analyzed to determine the optimal administration schedule.
      Patients in stage 2 receives boron phenylalanine via the optimal route established in stage
      1. If addition of mannitol is found to be beneficial, then mannitol is used in stage 2

        -  Stage 2 (Dose-escalation): Patients receive 1 or 2 doses of boron phenylalanine IV or IA
           (as determined in stage 1) over 2 hours on day 1. Patients may also receive mannitol IA
           as in stage 1.

      Tumor tissue, normal brain tissue, and cerebrospinal fluid are collected during biopsy and/or
      surgery. Some patients undergo blood, urine, extracellular fluid sample collection
      periodically for pharmacokinetic studies. Tumor tissue will be stored for future studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 7 days and then once a month.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK
    
  