
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Locally advanced pulmonary and mediastinal cancers invading vital structure such as heart,
      great vessels, or carina cancer are generally considered as unresectable and incurable.
      Complete resection in healthy tissue may be compromised due to the proximity of the tumors to
      vital organs [1, 2]. Palliation with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy is the principal means
      of treatment [1, 2]. In highly selected patients with specific anatomic conditions, complete
      R0 resection for locally advanced tumor has been reported with prolonged survival and, on
      occasion, resulted in cure [3-5]. Complex cardiac resections or reconstructions, replacement
      of the thoracic aorta, or the common pulmonary artery can only be approached with cardiac
      arrest and total circulatory support by standard cardio-pulmonary bypass (CPB) [6,7];
      extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is a well- established technique for the
      management of respiratory or hemodynamic disturbance during lung transplantation.
      Technological advances in pumps, cannulae, and oxygenators and growing experience for
      thoracic surgeon during lung transplantation have led to the use of ECMO during conventional
      thoracic surgical procedure [8,9].

      A theoretical possibility of enhancement of metastasis due to ECMO or CPB has been reported
      [10] although no clear evidence exists ; nevertheless, due to the lack of data about this
      aspect, many cardio-thoracic surgeons are skeptical about the use of intraoperative CPB or
      ECMO .

      The aim of this protocol is to assess the presence or not and possibly the amount of CTC
      before and after surgery in the peripheral blood of patients undergoing thoracic resection
      with (experimental arm) or without (control arm) intraoperative support of ECMO or CPB.

      Study design and duration Prospective, double arm , observational study.

      Ten consecutive patients - with thoracic malignancies undergoing resection with planned
      intraoperative cardiorespiratory support - will be enrolled. Before surgery peripheral blood
      samples will be collected (as subsequently described) to search the presence and the amount
      of CTC. The patients will then undergo surgical procedure with intraoperative ECMO or CPB
      support. After the procedure peripheral blood samples will be collected as previously
      reported to search for CTC.

      Ten consecutive patients, presenting the same neoplastic diseases of the experimental arm and
      with same extension but not requiring intraoperative ECMO or CPB support will be enrolled in
      the control arm, receiving the same blood sample collection before and after surgery, to
      assess the presence and the amount of CTC.

      The two groups will be than compared in terms of preoperative and postoperative CTC presence
      and amount.
    
  