
    
      Between 2003 and 2006, the investigators conducted an exploratory, prospective and
      comparative research study, taking each person as their own control, to evaluate the benefits
      of the type of emotional regulation developed by the Tipi association on a population
      suffering from phobias.

      - Participants Phobias can be categorized by type, as defined in the DSM IV, the standard
      reference during the study period (American Psychiatriy Association, 2000) : agoraphobias,
      social phobias, specific situational phobias (claustrophobia, transport phobia), phobias
      linked to the natural environment (heights, water, fire), to animals (spiders, snakes,
      amphibians, tentacled shellfish) and other types of specific phobias (fear of physical
      contact, being dirtied, contaminated, vomiting), phobia of blood - injections - medical
      techniques - accidents.

      The investigators aim to conduct a prior and systematic verification with each person to
      confirm that their fears were phobias as defined in the DSM IV (American Psychiatriy
      Association, 2000). The phobia must be diagnosed by a doctor or psychiatrist. Each people
      must provide a medical certificate that evidenced the diagnosis in writing.

      All people must read an information form on "Understanding your emotions" All participants
      must have suffered from their phobias for a long time. They have to describe their treatment.

      Everybody in the study population have to provide a short-written report on the effects of
      the session(s) 1 week, 1 month, 3 months and 12 months after the session.

        -  Intervention (see below)

        -  Follow-up During the one-year follow-up period, the patient was requested to send a
           written self-assessment of his situation and the change and/or disappearance of his
           phobia. If the investigators didn't receive the person's assessment, the investigators
           followed-up with a mail and a phone call.
    
  