
    
      Recently coronary computed tomographic angiography (CTA) has become increasingly popular as a
      means of investigating asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients, instead of stress-rest
      myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI), despite the absence of long-term prognostic data. With
      its high negative predictive value, CTA has become useful for exclusion of CAD in patients
      with chest pain syndromes. However, the clinical management of a patient with an abnormal CTA
      is not well defined. Further, several caveats remain regarding the use of coronary CTA.
      Despite the anatomic data provided by CTA, it does not yield information regarding the
      functional consequences of the obstruction. Moreover, this technique may miss small vessel
      disease because of limited resolution and may not be useful in the presence of significant
      vessel calcium or coronary stents. Most importantly, there is no long-term data regarding the
      prognostic ability of coronary CTA in the initial evaluation of patients at intermediate risk
      of coronary events. An abnormal CTA result often leads to additional functional testing or
      invasive coronary angiography. The major drawback of performing two or more tests in tandem
      is that it greatly adds to cost that can be prohibitive in lower and middle income countries.
      Therefore, there is a need to determine if either stress MPI or CTA performed initially,
      results in meaningful differences in costs without adversely affecting clinical outcomes.

      The primary objective of this pilot study is to compare the efficacy (in terms of reduced
      additional non-invasive or invasive testing) and costs of a strategy of initial stress-rest
      MPI, to a strategy of initial coronary CTA in the management of asymptomatic or mildly
      symptomatic patients who are at intermediate risk of coronary events (death or nonfatal MI)
      by the Framingham criteria.
    
  