
    
      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of a non-invasive, low intensity and risk,
      brain stimulation technique known as transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on the
      way people learn in a computer administered cognitive task. This will be achieved by
      comparing participants' performance on this task after receiving placebo 'sham' tDCS in one
      experimental session, and real 'treatment' tDCS in another experimental session. Neither the
      researcher administering the session or the participant will be aware of which form of tDCS
      is being used. Previous research indicates that tDCS of the left dorsolateral prefrontal
      cortex brain region stimulates the release of a chemical neurotransmitter, dopamine, that is
      linked to reward and punishment processing, and implicated in conditions such as addiction
      and Parkinson's disease.

      The computerized cognitive learning task presents participants with pairs of six different
      symbols and asks them to choose one of these. In the first half of the task, participants
      receive visual feedback (correct or incorrect; +$0.10 or -$0.10) and the symbols are
      preprogrammed to be rewarded or punished for. In the second part of the task, participants
      are tested on the same task but do not receive feedback.

      Further, the effect of participants' personality characteristics (specifically extraversion
      and impulsivity), as well as eye-blink-rate, on cognitive learning performance will be
      investigated, as this is known to be influenced by tDCS. Past research suggests that people
      may respond differently to tDCS based on individual differences in these personality traits,
      that are linked at a brain circuits level. Participants will be assessed on extraversion and
      impulsivity personality traits using pen and paper, self-report questionnaires. Similarly,
      eye-blink-rate is linked to the aforementioned brain neurotransmitter, dopamine, and will be
      assessed by manually counting of blinks in a video recording of the participant focusing on a
      stationary point.
    
  