
    
      This project, using home monitoring for the signs and symptoms of heart failure, aims to
      empower patients to be actively involved in their care and provide rapid access to healthcare
      services and advice when needed. This innovative programme will be tested to see if it
      reduces the risk of re-admission to hospital. In addition economic evaluation will assess
      whether this represents good value for money in terms of the health benefits it provides.

      After fulfilling the inclusion criteria and being consented into the study, the patients will
      be randomised into either the control or intervention group in a 1:1 ratio.

      Intervention Group:

      Prior to hospital discharge the patient and carer/family will be shown how to use the HomMed
      Telemonitoring equipment. Within two working days of discharge the equipment will be
      installed in their home by the study nurse who will remind them of its use. They will be
      provided with a written management plan and advice regarding self-monitoring.They will be
      asked to monitor signs and symptoms of their disease daily using the HomMed telemonitoring
      system connected to their home phone line.

      The data will be reviewed every working day by a study nurse and examined for variance from
      the agreed parameters. If clinically significant changes are noted a standard protocol will
      be used to guide the management.

      Control group:

      Within two working days of discharge the study nurse will visit patients in the control group
      and provide them with a written management plan and advice regarding self-monitoring. They
      will receive usual care for that centre which will consist of a recommendation to visit their
      GP on hospital discharge and a subsequent review in the outpatient clinic. Informal support
      offered through the hospital heart failure nurse will continue and this contact will be
      recorded.

      Within both groups the Hospital Anxiety and Depression (HAD) questionnaire, the Minnesota
      Living with Heart Failure(MLWHF) tool and the Euroqol (EQ-5D) questionnaire will be completed
      at randomisation, and again at 3 and 6 months following hospital discharge. They will be
      asked to return completed questionnaires in a pre-paid envelope.

      Data on patients' use of healthcare services will be collected from both groups using a
      combination of retrospective questionnaires and prospective health diaries, which will be
      returned at 3 and 6 months after randomisation.

      Drug optimisation will be assessed through review of medication prescription, and drug
      utilisation through patient self-report.These data will also be collected at 3 and 6 months.

      Patients within both groups will be involved in the study for a period of 6 months.
    
  