
    
      Background This research is designed through randomization, control, and double-blind trial
      to explore the clinical effectiveness of intravenous laser irradiation of blood for knee
      degenerative arthritis; and to explore the changes in body's balance function. Furthermore to
      establish a new way of clinical rehabilitation therapy. The research will further study the
      special expression of blood cells after the treatment and as well as the molecular mechanism
      of low-energy intravenous laser therapy on hematopoietic stem cells. fold of the sun. The
      light accelerates blood and cells circulation in the human body, so that protein molecular
      structure would promote changes. Pain control is indicated in such treatment, but still
      lacking evidence of improving the symptoms of degenerative knee arthritis.

      Purpose This research is designed through randomization, control, and double-blind trial to
      explore the clinical effectiveness of intravenous laser irradiation of blood for knee
      degenerative arthritis; and to explore the changes in body's balance function. Furthermore to
      establish a new way of clinical rehabilitation therapy. The research will further study the
      special biomarker to investigate the mechanism of low-energy intravenous laser therapy for
      osteoarthritis.

      Method The investigators plan to recruit 20 patients who are between the ages of 50 to 75
      years old, but younger than 75 years old. The participants are required to have clear
      conscious and be able to communicate. Their symptoms of degenerative arthritis could be one
      or both knees which last more than six months; with knee pain greater than 4 points when
      walking. The treatment group will receive an intravenous helium-neon laser phototherapy. A
      vein indwelling needle will be placed in their veins located in the upper elbow, and the
      laser fiber catheter will be introduced through the indwelling cannula. The power is set
      between 2.5 ~ 3.0Mw, 60 minutes each time, once a day for five consecutive days. The steps
      for the control group are the same, except that the output power is adjusted to zero
      intensity. This plan will be explained to the patient in detail during the outpatient visit
      and patients will sign the consent form upon agreement. Before intravenous laser irradiation,
      three days, one month, and three months after the therapy, 20 ml of autologous peripheral
      venous blood need to be drawn for basic blood tests and biomarker tests. At the same time,
      the clinical functions of patients will be evaluated, including visual analogous scale,
      Lequesne 's severity index, WOMAC scale, and balance function test.
    
  