
    
      Genetics explain about 70% of the inter-individual variance of bone mineral density (BMD) but
      maintenance and acquisition of bone mass strikingly depend on environmental factors as diet,
      calcium intake (in both quantitative and qualitative terms), and physical activity (PA).
      Among these, the biomechanical load generated by different kinds of PA represents the most
      important physiological stimulus able to increase bone mass and density.

      Bone is a metabolically active tissue that undergoes to continuous remodeling throughout the
      coupling of resorption (operated by osteoclasts) and formation (operated by osteoblasts).
      Osteocytes, the quiescent form of osteoblasts, regulate the activity of the other two cell
      types and directly respond to load. Under normal conditions, resorption and formation are
      strikingly coupled and this guarantees an equilibrium between old bone matrix removal and new
      matrix deposition. This equilibrium is dependent upon several hormones and local mediators
      (e.g., cytokines, myokines, adipokines). Physiological (e.g., growth, aging, PA) and
      pathological conditions (e.g., metabolic diseases, bed rest, drugs) inbalance this
      equilibrium towards one side and, hence, affect bone mass. Regarding PA, for example, it is
      known that weight-bearing aerobic activity has positive effects on BMD and, hence, it is
      considered a preventive strategy against post-menopausal bone loss.

      Differently from radiological imaging, that gives information about established architectural
      changes happened at a specific site in bone, biochemical and molecular markers of bone
      turnover give an instantaneous picture of the metabolic status of bone cells and, possibly,
      their immediate response to a stimulus.

      Other than the bony response, PA activates several endocrine responses and particularly, the
      whole set of responses needed for managing the energy stores and to save the most nobile
      functions (e.g., brain, hearth). Hence, bone is subjected to the endocrine regulation of
      energy usage but, as recently discovered, being it the primary mechanosensor of load, it acts
      itself as an endocrine organ able to signal to other tissues and organs the changing
      environmental conditions.

      Although several molecular aspects about the effects of PA on bone metabolism and the
      bone-energy cross-talk, a number of unresolved questions still exists. The study of different
      physiological models (i.e., athletes belonging to different disciplines) might allow the
      identification of common mechanisms regulating the response to PA and, from another side, to
      understand the physiological response to different stresses applied onto the muscle-skeletal
      apparatus.

      The general aim of this study is to investigate the effects of different kinds of
      professional physical activity on bone metabolism and the relationship between bone
      metabolism, energy metabolism, hormone profile, and organ functionality.

      The primary aim is to deepen the knowledge of the molecular mechanisms by which PA modulates
      bone metabolism. Specifically, this study will evaluate the bony effects of specific kinds of
      PA, over the time (over an entire season, over consecutive seasons, during different phases
      of a season), as well as the direct comparison of the bony effects of different kinds of PA
      and training.

      Secondary aims are:

        -  to contextualize the modification of bone cell metabolism within the whole-body
           homeostatic profile. Particularly, markers of the energy metabolism and the inflammatory
           status (hormone, myokines, adipokines, cytokines, chemokines) will be evaluated.

        -  focused case-control studies will be conducted by including as little-active control the
           people belonging to the technical staff of the cooperating teams.

      This is a perspective monocentric pilot study with different components:

        -  longitudinal perspective: repeated evaluations over the time

        -  case-control: comparison among different populations of athletes and technical staff
           Being based on already planned blood drawings (as independently decided by the team
           physicians), and since the researchers will use only waste material derived from these
           sample, the overall implant of the study is observational.
    
  