
    
      Adolescents are increasingly abusing and becoming dependent on heroin and other opioids. The
      number of emergency room visits related to heroin among 12-17 year olds rose almost 600%, and
      the self-reported prevalence of heroin use among this group more than doubled in the last
      decade. As a result of the increased availability of high-potency, low-cost heroin, many
      adolescents initiate heroin use by snorting it; however, many often then progress to
      injection of heroin. Despite the critical need to identify efficacious treatments for this
      population, virtually no research has been conducted to systematically characterize or
      evaluate treatment interventions for adolescent heroin and opioid abusers. We recently
      conducted the first controlled study funded by NIDA to systematically evaluate the efficacy
      of several pharmacotherapies as detoxification agents along with intensive behavioral
      interventions in the treatment of this population. The purpose of this study is to evaluate
      ways to further improve on the promising outcomes from our initial study via combined
      behavioral-buprenorphine treatment for opioid-dependent youth. The primary aim is to examine
      if improved treatment outcomes can be achieved if the duration of buprenorphine
      detoxification is lengthened (when the rate of decrease in buprenorphine dose is slower,
      withdrawal symptoms may be of reduced intensity and youth are provided with a greater
      opportunity to learn new skills and behaviors addressing how they might best discontinue
      their opiate use, prevent relapse, and meet treatment goals). A secondary aim is to examine
      if the provision of monetary voucher-based incentives contingent on consumption of the opioid
      antagonist, naltrexone, reduces rates of relapse to opiate use in adolescents
      post-detoxification compared to when no such incentives are provided. This analysis may
      provide critical empirical information regarding how to best prevent relapse to opioid use
      among opioid-dependent youth. Another secondary aim is to identify significant predictors of
      treatment outcome. We will thus conduct an exploratory evaluation of demographic, baseline
      drug use, psychological and other history variables that may predict successful treatment
      outcomes. This work may help inform the refinement of treatment interventions for various
      sub-populations of opioid-dependent youth. Outcome measures will include opiate and other
      drug abstinence, retention, opiate withdrawal symptoms, HIV risk behavior, family
      relationships, as well as a variety of other secondary outcome measures. We plan to collect
      these measures at intake, during treatment and at several post-treatment follow-up
      timepoints. Overall, this research will contribute new empirical information that will inform
      the development of effective treatment interventions for the largely unstudied and rapidly
      expanding population of opioid-dependent youth.
    
  