
    
      Nearly half of the adult population, 114 million Americans, are diagnosed with diabetes or
      pre-diabetes, making it one of the most important public and personal health problems.
      Diabetes is the 7th leading cause of death in America and a contributing factor in many more
      deaths and lost days of productivity. Its complications include vascular disease,
      cardiovascular disease, stroke and dementia. The cost of diabetes care and its complications
      lead to $176 billion in direct medical costs and $69 billion in reduced productivity. With an
      over 2-fold increase in diabetes prevalence in the past two decades and an estimated 1.5
      million new cases expected annually, it is clinically and economically critical for this
      condition to be managed appropriately.

      Diabetes treatment programs focus on controlling hyperglycemia (random glucose > 200 mg/dL)
      without causing hypoglycemia (glucose < 70 mg/dL). Glucose control is determined in a number
      of ways in current clinical practice. Immediate and fasting blood sugars are determined in
      routine chemistry tests. The standard measure of long-term diabetes control, HbA1c testing,
      provides a reliable reading of average blood glucose levels over a 2-3-month period. In
      patients with high HbA1c levels, HbA1c measurement guides management decisions and helps the
      clinician bring the long-term glucose levels under control in poorly controlled diabetic
      patients. Random blood sugars and HbA1c is limited in that they do not reflect glycemic
      control in intervals greater than the past few hours and 2-3 months. In particular, they do
      not provide an indication of frequent, temporary increases in blood glucose, termed glycemic
      excursions, which have been independently associated with several health complications. Since
      it takes months for HbA1c levels to stabilize, HbA1c levels are also not helpful for patients
      starting medication or changing drug therapy.

      1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG) is a molecule found in the blood and is a validated indicator of
      glucose excursions and short-term (1-2 weeks) hyperglycemia. In healthy patients without
      diabetes, or those with well-controlled diabetes, 1,5-AG is maintained at a steady state in
      the blood. However, during glycemic excursions, the molecule is actively purged from the body
      through the urine. Cleared by the FDA in 2003, the GlycoMark assay measures 1,5-AG levels in
      the blood. Low levels of 1,5-AG indicate the presence of potentially harmful glycemic
      excursion over the last 1 to 2 weeks, which may have been missed during random blood glucose
      testing and not sensitively detected by HbA1c.

      GlycoMark testing provides clinical details on peak glucose levels, daily spikes, and
      response to drugs, including short term effects, of hypoglycemic agents that are otherwise
      not available, giving physicians a more complete understanding of their patient's glycemic
      control. This information may be clinically useful to help physicians make better management
      decisions, improve diabetes outcomes, avoid complications and reduce unnecessary spending.

      This study is a pre-post, two-round randomized controlled study of a nationally
      representative sample of primary care physicians randomly assigned to a control or
      intervention arm. Enrolled participants will be asked to care for a sample of CPV® simulated
      patients. The simulated patients are adults aged 18-75 who present with diabetes, different
      levels of glycemic control and various co-morbidities. Participants randomized into an
      intervention-arm will receive educational materials and 1,5-AG test results when caring for
      their patients in round 2. Investigators will assess the participants' ability to identify
      and address glycemic variability and hyperglycemia and evaluate whether physicians who have
      access to GlycoMark take steps to optimize glycemic control and reduce unnecessary resource
      utilization.
    
  