
    
      The increased incidence of T2DM and CVD with the AAPs has been assumed a consequence of
      weight gain. However, accumulating evidence of weight-independent effects derived from in
      vitro and rodent studies suggests a direct effect of some AAPs on the pancreatic B-cell and
      the liver. We have recently completed the first of two studies supported by an NIH grant
      which provides evidence for a direct effect of olanzapine on metabolism, independent of
      weight gain or psychiatric disease. Findings from the first study indicate that short-term
      administration (9-days) of olanzapine compared to aripiprazole, another AAP as well as
      placebo dramatically increases post-prandial insulin levels in healthy control subjects
      independent of weight gain; providing evidence of tissue specific effects of the drug in
      humans. We also found that the increase in insulin was not accompanied by an increase in
      plasma C-peptide concentrations suggesting that olanzapine may decrease hepatic insulin
      extraction. Decreases in hepatic insulin extraction can be mediated through muscarinic
      blockade and in fact, data from our laboratory demonstrates that atropine (the muscarinic
      antagonist) inhibits hepatic insulin extraction in humans. Blockade of muscarinic receptors
      is consistent with the receptor binding profile of olanzapine which shows a higher receptor
      antagonism for muscarinic receptors compared to other AAPs. In addition, we also found
      significant increases in glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) and decreases in insulin sensitivity
      following olanzapine administration compared to aripiprazole and placebo. The proposed study
      follows up on these findings with a study designed to investigate the mechanisms contributing
      to the olanzapine-induced post-prandial hyperinsulinemia and GLP-1. The overall hypothesis of
      this study is that olanzapine blocks peripheral muscarinic receptors, leading to a
      compensatory increase in vagal efferent activation which contributes to an increase in
      insulin secretion.
    
  