
    
      This pilot study aims to demonstrate whether remote ischaemic preconditioning (RIC),
      delivered as a nonpharmacological treatment via repeated inflations and deflations of a limb
      blood pressure cuff, can reduce subclinical myocardial injury from anthracycline
      chemotherapy. Chemotherapy cardiotoxicity is the dose limiting constraint in anthracycline
      chemotherapy regimens, and conventional drug treatments to prevent and treat it are limited
      by important interactions with blood pressure, kidney function or bone marrow function. The
      lifetime cancer risk is between 1 in 2 and 1 in 3 in the general population. Cancer treatment
      and survival has improved steadily 50% of patients now survive their initial cancer
      diagnosis, but approximately 25 to 50% of survivors will have abnormal cardiac function over
      the next twenty years. Historically, anthracycline chemotherapy dosing has been stratified to
      limit the incidence of clinical heart failure to around 5%. More recent studies have reported
      at least one third of anthracycline chemotherapy patients demonstrate a significant rise in
      Troponin levels as a blood biomarker of subclinical myocardial injury as well as documented
      evidence of biomarker rise even after a single cycle of chemotherapy, and thus the absolute
      threshold for myocardial injury may be lower and thus more prevalent than these conservative
      figures.

      In standard dosing regimens, chemotherapy may be delayed or suspended in cancer patients
      based on the simplified measure of ejection fraction (EF) as a measure of cardiac systolic
      function. Conventional heart failure treatments such as betablockers or ACE inhibitors are
      usually prescribed only after a significant fall in EF, even though myocardial injury occurs
      long before this imprecise measurement changes. RIC has been shown to reduce myocardial
      injury and improve outcomes in elective and emergency percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI) and elective coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). The common biochemical
      pathways in ischaemia reperfusion and anthracycline-induced cardiac myocyte injury suggest
      that RIC may be an unexplored nonpharmacological treatment to reduce myocardial injury for
      cancer patients.

      This pilot study aims to demonstrate the effectiveness of RIC as an elegant noninvasive,
      nonmedicinal treatment to reduce myocardial injury in cancer patients, and therefore poses no
      significant ethical issues. RIC is known to be a safe intervention with no known significant
      adverse effects. Some patients have reported mild discomfort during cuff inflation. A small
      number have experienced minor skin bruising at the cuff site which is transient. There are no
      known long term adverse effects of RIC,

      Recruitment Patients will be identified by their usual oncology team, and referred to the
      cardiology team based solely on known inclusion and exclusion criteria, which will ensure
      this process is free from undue influence.

      The benefits of the study include an increase in the scientific understanding of how RIC may
      lead to a reduction in myocardial injury, as well as longitudinal documentation of myocardial
      injury in the form of blood biomarkers, ECG changes, metabolic changes, and novel imaging
      markers in cancer patients undergoing a common form of chemotherapy.
    
  