
    
      Colorectal cancer is a major cause of death worldwide and is ranked third in incidence and
      deaths from cancer in the USA for men and women. Incidence and mortality have been decreasing
      steadily in past decades, with 5-year survival for patients diagnosed in 1996-2002, being
      about 65%.

      Although curative surgical resection is possible in 70-80% of patients at diagnosis, almost
      half of them will develop local or/and metastatic recurrence and will die of the disease.

      There are currently three active cytotoxic agents that have been shown to be effective in the
      treatment of advanced colorectal cancer: 5-Fluorouracil combined with Leucovorin (5-FU/LV),
      Irinotecan and Oxaliplatin. During the last few years, the median overall survival of
      patients with advanced CRC has been substantially increased from 12 months to about 21-22
      months, when combination of these chemotherapeutic agents are administered. Combinations of
      5-Fluorouracil/Leucovorin (5-FU/LV) either as bolus (Roswell Park) or infusional
      administration (De Gramont schedule) r weekly infusional (AIO regimen), combined with
      Irinotecan or Oxaliplatin accepted as the mainstay of first line treatment.

      The advent of targeted therapy further expanded treatment options for patients with mCRC.In
      particular, inhibition of Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) and angiogenesis by
      blocking Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) using monoclonal antibodies, led to
      further improvement in the outcome of patients with mCRC.

      EGFR is expressed by most CRCs. Cetuximab (Erbitux) is a chimeric monoclonal antibody that
      specifically targets EGFR. In combination with Irinotecan, Cetuximab is approved for the
      treatment of EGFR-expressing mCRC, that has failed prior Irinotecan-based therapy, suggesting
      that Cetuximab may circumvent Irinotecan resistance.

      Bevacizumab (Avastin) is a monoclonal antibody against Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor
      (VEGF). In CRC, increased VEGF expression correlates with invasiveness, vascular density,
      metastasis, recurrence and prognosis.

      In a phase 2 trial of treatment of CRC, the addition of bevacizumab to FU/LV increased the
      response rate, the median time to disease progression, and the median duration of survival.
      Recently, it has been shown in randomized phase 2 trials that bevacizumab, when combined with
      irinotecan plus bolus FU/LV in the first line treatment of metastatic CRC, and with
      oxaliplatin plus continuous FU/LV (FOLFOX) in second-line treatment leads to an increased
      median survival, progression-free survival (PFS), and response rate compared with cytotoxic
      chemotherapy alone.
    
  