
    
      The approval of buprenorphine (combined with naloxone as Suboxone速) by the FDA enables
      physicians in the United States to provide pharmacotherapy treatment to opioid-dependent
      patients in private medical settings. Buprenorphine's wide acceptance and implementation by
      physicians has been slower than expected, however, and this may be due in part to the nature
      and necessity of providing comprehensive treatment for opioid-dependent patients. Lessons
      learned from methadone maintenance make it clear that simply providing opioid substitution
      does not address the behavioral components of dependence. While there is no lack of
      behavioral treatment facilities for substance abuse in the United States, what is lacking is
      an integrative approach to the treatment of opioid dependence using pharmacotherapy in
      conjunction with proven behavioral treatment strategies. Following a two-week stabilization
      and baseline period, this project will randomize 240 participants into 4 behavioral treatment
      groups featuring cognitive behavioral therapy and contingency management therapy. A
      universal, manual-guided psychosocial standard of care for buprenorphine pharmacological
      treatment allows for ethical inclusion of a "no-CBT or CM therapy" condition and closely
      resembles the current standard of psychosocial care delivered with opioid treatment using
      Suboxone速. Behavioral therapies will be delivered for 16 weeks (to study week 18) in
      conjunction with continued care with Suboxone速. An additional 16 weeks of treatment using
      Suboxone速 (to study week 34) will ensue during which no CBT or CM therapies are provided. All
      participants enter a buprenorphine taper and return at study week 52 for long-term follow-up
      evaluations. Outcomes for the trial include illicit drug use (urine drug samples collected
      three times per week during the first 18 weeks), drug craving, retention (days in the
      protocol), psychiatric status (depression, mood), HIV risk behaviors, and treatment
      feasibility ratings. Results will be used to recommend strategies to optimize buprenorphine
      treatment outcomes and promote integration of pharmacotherapy and psychosocial/behavioral
      treatment strategies for physicians and for behavioral treatment facilities treating
      opioid-dependent patients.
    
  