
    
      Background/Readiness: The objective of this proposal is to maximize locomotor outcomes of
      patients following incomplete spinal cord injury (iSCI) through identification of
      rehabilitation strategies that maximize recovery. Specific training parameters, such as
      provision of large amounts of stepping, appears to facilitate locomotor function in patients
      with iSCI, although other factors may be critical. In this proposed phase II randomized
      clinical trial, the overarching hypothesis is that the "intensity" of locomotor practice,
      defined as power output and estimated using cardiopulmonary measures, is critical to
      maximizing walking outcomes. Performance of high intensity locomotor training increases the
      cardiovascular and neuromuscular demands, which results in physiological changes that
      facilitate greater locomotor performance in individuals with and without neurological injury.
      There are, however, limited data supporting its utility in patients with iSCI. Recent
      findings suggest a role for high-intensity stepping training in variable contexts, with gains
      in peak locomotor capacity as compared low-intensity variable training. Additional changes in
      cardiopulmonary function and neuromuscular coordination provide a mechanistic rationale for
      the utility of this strategy. Such changes are likely due to increased central (volitional)
      activation, and are in sharp contrast to the long-standing notion that high intensity
      training impairs motor function in neurological injury.

      Despite these data, genotypic variations suggest specific caveats related to high intensity
      training. For example, many patients possess a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) variation
      in the brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene that may impact the activity-dependent
      BDNF expression thought to contribute to neuroplasticity underlying improved performance.
      This single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) can influential declarative memory, with recent
      data suggesting a potential impact on motor recovery after neurologic injury. Previous
      studies indicate limited BDNF increases in patients with this SNP during high intensity
      exercise, although the effects of locomotor recovery with repeated high-intensity training is
      unclear Hypothesis/Specific Aims: The primary hypotheses are that high intensity variable
      stepping can markedly improve locomotor performance as well as neuromuscular and
      cardiopulmonary function as compared to lower-intensity training in patients with chronic
      motor iSCI. It is believed that genotypic variations in the ability to synthesis activity
      dependent BDNF may modify the effects of high intensity training. Specific Aim 1: Test if
      high intensity stepping training in variable contexts results in greater locomotor gains as
      compared to lower intensity interventions. Specific Aim 2: Test the effects of these training
      strategies on neuromuscular and cardiopulmonary impairments. Specific Aim 3: Test the effects
      of the presence of the BDNF SNP on locomotor improvements in patients following
      high-intensity activities Study Design: This phase II, stratified, assessor- blinded
      randomized clinical trial will assess the effects 2 months (up to 30 sessions) of high- vs
      low-intensity variable stepping training on ambulatory patients with chronic (> 1year) motor
      iSCI. Participants referred from outpatient therapy settings will undergo evaluation of
      locomotor performance, cardiopulmonary capacity, and neuromuscular coordination and
      impairments prior to and following each training paradigm, with 2-month follow-up
      assessments.

      Clinical Impact: The application of high-intensity locomotor training in the clinical
      rehabilitation of patients with iSCI is extremely limited, despite data regarding the
      potential benefits in neurological intact individuals and patients with stroke. The clinical
      application of high-intensity training represents a simple, readily modified training
      parameter that can be readily implemented, and is in stark contrast to current clinical
      practice and challenge traditional dogma in rehabilitation medicine.
    
  