
    
      Participants between 7 and 12 years of age diagnosed with ADHD according to the DSM-5
      criteria were included in the study. The ADHD diagnosis was based on a Korean version of the
      Diagnostic Interview Schedule for Children Version IV (DISC-IV), which is a structured
      interview tool, and these diagnoses were confirmed by multiple child and adolescent
      psychiatrists. If participants did not meet the ADHD diagnostic criteria of DSM-IV and
      DISC-IV, they were assigned to the Neurotypical (NT) group. Based on the results of the
      DISC-IV test, participants were assigned to the ADHD or Non-Other Specified (NOS) group.
      Patients who met the diagnostic criteria of ADHD in DSM-IV, but whose score did not exceed
      six, and had a score of more than three in the attention deficit or hyperactivity/impactivity
      scale of DISC-IV were included in the NOS group. Children with a history of brain damage,
      neurological disorders, genetic disorders, substance dependence, epilepsy, or any other
      mental disorder were excluded from participation. Children with an IQ of 70 or lower
      according to the Korean-Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (Fourth Edition) or who were
      receiving drug treatment were also excluded from this study. The EEG recordings were
      performed using a SynAmps2 direct-current (DC) amplifier and a 10-20 layout 64-channel
      Quick-Cap electrode-placement system (Neuroscan Inc., NC, USA). The EEG data were digitally
      recorded from 19 gold cup electrodes placed according to the international 10-20 system. The
      impedances were maintained below 5 kΩ, and the sampling rate was 1000 Hz. The investigators
      use the linked mastoid reference and two additional bipolar electrodes to measure horizontal
      and vertical eye movements. During the recording, each participant laid in a dimly lit,
      electrically shielded, sound-attenuated room. Resting EEG recordings were recorded after
      three minutes with the participants' eyes closed.
    
  