
    
      This study is a cooperative project between Academia Sinica (AS), China Medical University
      Hospital (CMUH) and Chiayi Christian Hospital (CCH) and aims to identify genetic components
      associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), which is significant for the population of
      non-aboriginal Taiwanese. AS provides funding, designs the study protocol, and coordinates
      the project, including subject recruitment, collection of phenotype information and
      bio-specimen and quality assurance. CMUH and CCH are the study sites and are responsible for
      subject screening and recruitment, bio-specimen collection and packaging as well as
      phenotypic information collection. The study objective is to carry out a collaborative
      association study on T2DM in non-aboriginal Taiwanese.

      A genome-wide case-control association study will be adopted. Approximately five thousand of
      T2DM subjects whose age is equal to or above twenty will be recruited by study physicians in
      the out-patient-department in CMUH and CCH. In addition, relatives of T2DM subjects with a
      positive family history, in which at least three family members are affected with T2DM within
      five generations, will be recruited by study nurses. An age-, sex-, and ethnicity-matched
      control will be selected randomly from the Cell Bank and Genetic Database on Non-Aboriginal
      Taiwanese. After obtaining informed consent, the medical history questionnaire and family
      background will be completed by the subjects. The subjects will be invited for a health
      check-up which include blood pressure, body weight, body height, waist circumference and hip
      circumference, as well as an ophthalmic check-up. A 15 ml of blood will be drawn from the
      subject for measurements of Cholesterol, HDLc, LDLc, TG, Fasting Plasma Glucose, Insulin,
      HbA1c, CBC without differential count, Electrolytes (Ca2+ , Na+, K+, Cl-), BUN, Creatinine,
      SGOT, SGPT, C-peptide, Uric Acid and CRP, as well as DNA extraction. A urine sample
      collection will also be requested from the subject for evaluation of urine protein, ketone
      body, glucose, micro albumine and creatinine.

      This genome-wide association study aims to investigate the disease causing variants/genes of
      T2DM and diabetic subphenotypes as well as the underlying mechanisms in T2DM pathogenesis.
      Hopefully, early diagnostic markers and new therapies will be developed based on the genetic
      etiology and toward the personalized medicine in the future.
    
  