
    
      The primary PK parameters are Cmax and AUC(0-∞). The PK parameters for bevacizumab will be
      calculated using standard noncompartmental methods. An analysis of covariance model will be
      used to analyse the log-transformed primary PK parameters (AUC[0-∞].and Cmax) and AUC(0-t).
      The model will include a fixed effect for treatment and body weight as a covariate.

      All other PK parameters will not be subject to inferential statistical analysis. Estimates of
      geometric mean ratios together with the corresponding 90% confidence intervals will be
      derived for the comparisons of the PK parameters as follows:

        -  MB02 versus EU Avastin®

        -  MB02 versus US Avastin®

        -  EU Avastin® versus US Avastin®

      PK similarity will be achieved if the 90% confidence intervals (CIs) for the
      biosimilar-to-reference ratios of PK endpoints (AUC[0-∞] and Cmax) fall within the predefined
      0.80-1.25 acceptance similarity criteria for all 3 pairwise comparisons; MB02 versus
      EU-approved Avastin®; MB02 versus US-licenced Avastin®; and EU-approved Avastin® versus
      US-licenced Avastin®.

      All AEs will be listed and summarised using descriptive methodology. All observed or
      patient-reported AEs will be graded by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03. The incidence of AEs for each treatment
      will be presented by severity and by association with the study drugs as determined by the
      Investigator (or designee). All safety data will be listed and summarised as appropriate

      Immunogenicity data (overall anti-drug antibody [ADA] incidence and titers, and neutralising
      ADA results) will be listed. A summary of the number and percent of subjects testing positive
      for ADA or neutralising antibodies before the dose of MB02, EU Avastin®, or US Avastin® (Day
      1) and at scheduled postdose assessments will be presented by treatment arm.
    
  