
    
      Intensive care patients in whom a large number of medical devices are applied during the
      treatment and care process are at risk for medical device-related pressure injuries.One of
      the most common medical tools applied to these patients is the nasogastric tube.These tubes,
      which are applied to provide nasal decompression and enteral nutrition, cause pressure
      injuries in the nasal mucosa and nasal wings of the patients.These wounds prevent the patient
      from feeding, delay the healing process by causing the nasogastric tube to be pulled, delay
      the healing process, cause the patient to experience discomfort and pain by re-inserting the
      tube from the other nostril, and increase the cost of treatment and care.Guidelines for
      prevention of pressure injuries, which include evidence-based recommendations, report that
      these wounds can be prevented with evidence-based skin care interventions and hydrocolloid
      dressings. This study was planned as a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial to
      determine the effect of evidence-based skin care interventions and hydrocolloid dressings in
      preventing nasogastric induced pressure injuries in critically ill patients. In the
      literature, there is no study evaluating the effect of evidence-based skin care and / or
      hydrocolloid dressings on pressure injuries caused by nasogastric tube. Therefore, a study
      demonstrating that hydrocolloid dressing reduce pressure injuries to the nasal arch due to
      non-invasive mechanical ventilation were referenced in the sample calculation. In the sample
      selection, it was determined that the rate of pressure injury (n: 27/49) developed more in
      those who did not use hydrocolloids than those who were used (n: 6/73). In the sample
      calculation made in the G * Power (3.1.9.2) program, it was determined that a total of 56
      patients, including at least 28 patients in each study group, should be included in the
      sample. It was predicted that 20% of the sample could be lost during the data collection
      process, and in this study, which was planned with three arms (control, skin care,
      hydrocolloid dressing), it was determined that the research sample should be 102, with at
      least 34 patients on each arm. The patients included in the study will be assigned to the
      experimental group (skin care, hydrocolloid dressing) and control group by balanced block
      randomization method according to the randomization list in a ratio of 1: 1:1. In the study,
      block randomization was performed by a statistician based on the patients age. The final
      evaluation of the patients included in the study will be made on the day of the wound in
      those with pressure sores. In other patients, it will be performed on the 18th day of the
      nasogastric tube, considering the literature data that pressure injuries occur within 2-7 and
      11 ± 6.17 days after tube insertion. For those whose nasogastric tube is removed before the
      18th day, the last follow-up will be done on the day the tube is removed. For the
      implementation of the study, permission was obtained from the ethics committee of Republic of
      Turkey Ministry of Health, Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency Ethics
      Committee, and work permit was obtained from Necmettin Erbakan University Meram Medical
      Faculty Hospital Chief Physician. Patients/patient guardian included in the study sample will
      be informed before the study that the purpose of the study and participation in the study is
      in line with the principle of volunteering, and "Informing and Consent of Volunteers Consent
      Form" will be signed.

      Data collection tools;

        -  Personal Information Form,

        -  The form containing the characteristics of the treatment and care process in the
           Intensive Care Unit

        -  The form containing the features associated with the nasogastric tube,

        -  A chart recording the state of nasogastric tube pressure injury, the area of occurrence
           and its stage, Independent variables

        -  Identifying features of patients,

        -  Evaluations and follow-ups during the treatment and care process,

        -  Interventions to prevent nasogastric tube pressure injury (routine clinical care,
           evidence-based skin care interventions, hydrocolloid dressing) Dependent variables

        -  Pressure injury originating from nasogastric tube Evaluation of the Data In the
           evaluation of the descriptive data obtained from the research, number, percentage,
           average and standard deviation will be used; The conformity of the data to normal
           distribution will be determined by Kolmogorov-Smirnov test and normal distribution
           curve, Skewness and Kurtosis test, and when the data show normal distribution,
           parametric tests will be used, and nonparametric tests will be used in the analysis of
           data that do not conform to the normal distribution. Significance will be evaluated
           within the confidence interval of 95%, p <0.05 will be taken.

      İmplementation of the research Patients who are 18 years of age or older, who have a
      nasogastric tube inserted after admission to the intensive care unit, and whose nasogastric
      tube stay is planned to be at least 48 hours will be included in the sample group.

      Participants in the experimental group( evidence-based skin care), evidence-based skin care
      interventions in the guidelines to prevent medical device-related pressure injuries will be
      applied twice daily to the nasal mucosa and nasal wing under the nasogastric tube.

      Participants in the experimental group( hydrocolloid dressing), hydrocolloid dressing will be
      applied daily to the nasal mucosa and nasal wing of the patients under the nasogastric tube
      to prevent pressure injuries caused by medical devices.

      Participants in the control group will be given no intervention , these patients will receive
      the routine care(dressing change and nasal skin cleaning once a day) applied in the intensive
      care unit.
    
  