
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of a 4-week sedentary behavior reduction
      intervention on objectively measured sedentary behavior of overweight or obese adults. The
      proposed study is a pilot, proof-of-concept randomized controlled trial that will randomize
      participants to either the 1) Immediate Intervention group, which will receive coaching calls
      + a mHealth intervention for the first four weeks of the study and then will receive only the
      mHealth intervention for the remaining 4 weeks or the 2) Delayed Intervention Control group,
      which will act as an assessment-only condition for the first 4 weeks and then will receive
      the coaching calls + mHealth intervention for 4-weeks. This design has two phases: Phase 1,
      which is a randomized controlled feasibility pilot and the primary study focus, followed by
      Phase 2, which is an exploratory phase, allowing replication of the intervention (in the
      Delayed Intervention Control group) and extended follow-up (in the Immediate Intervention
      group).

      The study outcomes to be investigated in Phase 1 include:

        -  1) the change in total % sedentary time from baseline to the 4-week assessment,
           comparing the average proportion of objectively-measured time spent sitting during the
           waking day across the previous week in the Immediate Intervention group (which will have
           received the 4-week coaching calls + mHealth sedentary behavior reduction intervention)
           with the average proportion of objectively-measured waking sedentary time across the
           previous week in the Delayed Intervention Control group (which will have received
           assessment only during this period).

        -  2) the change in blood pressure, comparing the Immediate Intervention group (which will
           have received the 4-week coaching calls + mHealth sedentary behavior reduction
           intervention) with the Delayed Intervention Control group (which will have received
           assessment only during this period).

        -  3) Process data on participant recruitment to the study, and, among those randomized to
           the Immediate intervention, engagement with the intervention (e.g., response rates to
           the texts, completion of intervention phone calls, etc.), and participant evaluation of
           the intervention.

      The study outcomes to be investigated in Phase 2 include:

        -  1) Objectively measured sedentary behavior in the Immediate Intervention group 4 weeks
           post-treatment (i.e. at 8-week assessment), allowing quantification of maintenance of
           sedentary behavior reduction following the termination of coaching calls.

        -  2) Objectively-measured sedentary behavior and blood pressure at 8 weeks post
           randomization in the Delayed Intervention Control group (i.e. following implementation
           of the 4-week coaching calls+ mHealth intervention), allowing assessment of whether
           intervention effects are reproducible.
    
  