
    
      With the growth of the investigators diabetic and geriatric populations today, greater demand
      is being placed on the medical arena to treat their complications. There is currently no
      effective treatment for diabetic neuropathy which is one of the leading reasons for the
      development of diabetic ulcerations with high peak plantar pressure. An optical pedobarograph
      has been used to help study the pressures under the foot.[24] By minimizing high peak plantar
      pressures through autologous fat transfer, pain and skin lesions have the potential to be
      minimized.

      Restoring the plantar fat pad with autologous fat grafting has the potential to improve foot
      function, decrease foot pain, bone pain, and nerve pain in the sensate foot and potentially
      decrease the incidence of foot ulceration in diabetics. It also serves to increase shock
      absorption during gait. Research has shown greater viability and cellular function with fat
      grafts processed using the Coleman technique than with other techniques.[25] It is the
      investigators aim to implement the Coleman technique to increase pedal shock absorption on a
      long term basis. Increasing shock absorption is prophylactic for reducing calcaneal
      contusions and stress fractures. By limiting an antalgic, compensatory gait, this will limit
      injury to the patient's superstructure and/or the contralateral foot and leg, ultimately
      improving the patient's overall systemic health.

      By minimizing high peak plantar pressures through autologous fat transfer, more severe
      diabetic complications may be minimized. Heel fat pad augmentation may reduce ulcer formation
      and/or reformation, and reduce the subsequent comorbid conditions of osteomyelitis and
      amputation. Typically, ulceration due to bone prominence may be best treated by surgical
      resection of the prominent bone. However, there exists a population of diabetics that will
      have a greater chance of developing an acute Charcot event post-surgery or transfer lesions
      that will ultimately break down. Transfer lesions and re-ulceration is considered a common
      complication after diabetic foot ulcer surgery.[26] Also some patients may not be medically
      stable making an aggressive osseous surgical procedure inadvisable. If autologous fat
      grafting does prove to be effective in the foot, it could become a concomitant procedure
      performed with osseous procedures for a target population of diabetics to limit transfer
      lesions and ulceration post operatively.

      If the proposed aims are achieved, patients will be able to have long lasting reconstruction
      of the heel fat pad with a minimally invasive procedure using autologous tissue. The ultimate
      costs of maintaining specialized extrinsic padding, shoe gear, and issues with patient
      compliance can be reduced or eliminated. It could potentially save the medical arena the
      costs of treating diabetic ulcerations and the resultant complications. The need for other
      fillers such as silicone which can migrate and involve lymph nodes can be eliminated, as can
      the need for repeat injections of other temporary fillers which are currently used without
      any evidence-based medicine. This project will improve scientific knowledge, technical
      capability, and clinical practice in both the field of plastic surgery and podiatry. Not only
      will it influence these fields, but augmenting the heel fat pad has the potential to benefit
      diabetics, geriatric patients, Wounded Warriors with amputations whom have differential
      loading of their remaining lower extremity, athletes, and cosmetic patients who would like a
      more active lifestyle than their current foot pain allows.

      Determining the intrinsic fat properties that lead to a consistent and high fat retention
      rate can have an enormous impact on the current clinical field of fat grafting. Over 80,000
      autologous fat grafting procedures were documented in 2013 by The American Society for
      Aesthetic Plastic Surgery.[27] Determining the factors related to fat retention can aid
      surgeons in determining the potential amount of fat that may be necessary for optimizing
      retention, and potentially avoid need for recurrent treatments. Further on, this data would
      also allow bioengineers to specifically develop fillers using the constituents known to be of
      importance for the final retention. This project will increase scientific knowledge,
      technical capability, and improve clinical collaboration between Foot and Ankle Specialists,
      Plastic Surgeons, and Adipose Stem Cell Biologists.
    
  