
    
      1. Sample size calculation, randomization and patients safety. The required sample size is
           calculated from previous studies on the incidence of postoperative pulmonary
           complications. A two group chi-square test with a 0.05 two-sided significance level will
           have 80% power to detect the difference (in primary outcome) between conventional
           mechanical ventilation strategy (25%) and open lung approach mechanical ventilation
           strategy (12.5%) when the sample size in each group is 126. In consideration of a 10%
           loss rate, 280 cases to be included in this trial.

           Research will be carried out in two stages. Completely-randomized design was used in the
           first stage, and randomized block design in the second stage. The interim analysis will
           be performed when 100 patients (first stage) have successfully been included and
           followed-up. The Data Monitoring and Safety Group (DMSG) will provide recommendations
           about stopping or continuing the trial to the principal investigator. The DMSG will
           recommend stopping the trial, if significant group-difference in adverse events is found
           at the interim analysis (p<0.025), or if postoperative pulmonary complications occur
           more frequently in the intervention group (p<0.025). If the intervention has a strong
           trend for improving postoperative pulmonary complications (p<0.018) at the first stage,
           termination of the study is considered.

        2. Protocol drop-out. Anesthesiologists are allowed to change the ventilation protocol if
           there is any concern about patient's safety. The level of PEEP can be modified according
           to the anesthesiologist in charge if the systolic arterial pressure (SBP)< 80 mmHg and
           SBP drop ≥30% baseline values for more than 3 minutes despite intravenous fluid infusion
           and/or start of vasopressors, if dosages of vasopressors are at the highest level
           tolerated, if new arrhythmias develop which are unresponsive to treatment suggested by
           the Advanced Cardiac Life Support Guidelines. If there is pneumothorax or hypoxemia
           (SpO2 < 90% for more than 3 minutes）, if there is need of massive transfusion (>8 units
           packed red blood cell) to maintain hemoglobin >7 mg/dl, if the duration of
           pneumoperitoneum is less then 1h or mechanical ventilation time is less then 2h, if
           there is a surgical complication (such as severe hypercapnia, unexpected conversion to
           open surgery, unplanned reoperation in 24h after surgery, unplanned ICU admission for
           surgical reasons) or if patient die during operation, then the patient will be dropped
           out of the study. All drop-out cases will be included in the safety analysis.

        3. Trial settings for intraoperative ventilation. Patients in the conventional mechanical
           ventilation strategy group will have a tidal volume of 6 to 8 ml per kilogram Predicted
           Body Weight (PBW), zero PEEP and no recruitment maneuver. Patients in the open lung
           approach mechanical ventilation strategy group will have a tidal volume of 6 to 8 ml per
           kilogram PBW, a PEEP level of 6 to 8 cm of water and recruitment maneuvers. Recruitment
           maneuvers consist of a stepwise increase of tidal volume （as detailed below） and will be
           applied immediately after tracheal intubation and every 30 min thereafter until the end
           of surgery.

           In each group, anesthesiologists will be advised to use an inspired oxygen fraction
           (FIO2) between 0.4 to 0.5 and to maintain oxygen saturation ≥ 92%. The inspiratory to
           expiratory time ratio will be set at 1:2, with a respiratory rate adjusted to maintain
           normocapnia (end-tidal carbon dioxide concentration of 30-50 mmHg).

           PBW is calculated according to a predefined formula with: 50 + 0.91 x (centimeters of
           height - 152.4) for males and 45.5 + 0.91 x (centimeters of height - 152.4) for females.
           In each group, patients will be ventilated using the volume-controlled ventilation
           strategy using an anesthesia ventilator: 1. Avance® (Datex-Ohmeda, General Electric,
           Helsinki, Finland) 2. Tiro® (Dräger, Lübeck, Germany)

        4. Recruitment maneuvers.

           Stepwise increase of tidal volume will be used as a method of recruitment maneuvers in
           this trial. Recruitment maneuvers should not be performed when patients are hemodynamic
           unstable, as judged by the attending anesthesiologist. Recruitment maneuvers will be
           performed as follows:

           4-1. Peak inspiratory pressure limit is set at 45 cmH2O. 4-2. Tidal volume is set at 8
           ml/kg PBW and respiratory rate at 6 breaths/min, while PEEP is set at 12 cmH2O.

           4-3. Inspiratory to expiratory ratio (I:E) is set at 1:2. 4-4. Tidal volumes are
           increased in steps of 4 ml/kg PBW until a plateau pressure of 30-35 cmH2O (if tidal
           volume reach the biggest volume of the ventilator and plateau pressure cannot reach
           30-35 cmH2O, then PEEP is set at 16 cmH2O for a plateau pressure of 30-35 cmH2O).

           4-5. Three breaths are administered with a plateau pressure of 30-35 cmH2O. 4-6. Peak
           inspiratory pressure limit, respiratory rate, I: E, and tidal volume are set back to
           settings preceding each recruitment maneuver, while maintaining PEEP at 8 cmH2O.

        5. Definitions for postoperative complications. All definitions for postoperative
           complications refer to the IMPROVE trial and the PROVHILO trial.

        6. Composition and responsibilities of the DMSG. Members of the DMSG are the management
           team of anesthesia department in the research hospital. The DMSG will be responsible for
           safeguarding the interests of trial participants, assessing the safety and efficacy of
           the intervention during the trial, and for monitoring the overall conduct of the trial.
           To enhance the integrity of the trial, the DMSG may also formulate recommendations
           relating to the selection or recruitment of participants, and the procedures of data
           management and quality control. The DMSG will be advisory to the principal investigator.
           The principal investigator will be responsible for reviewing the DMSG recommendations,
           decide whether to continue or terminate the trial, and determine whether changes in
           trial conduct are required. Any DMSG members who develop significant conflicts of
           interest during the course of the trial should resign from the DMSG.

        7. Data management. Data will be collected and recorded into case report forms (CRFs) by
           researchers under the supervision of DMSG members. Data manager will scan handwritten
           data first and then enter data into electronic database. Source data verification will
           be performed using a cross-check method by researchers when 7-days follow-up have
           successfully been completed.

           All adverse events, serious adverse events, unexpected or possibly related events will
           be recorded in the CRF and reported to the DMSG.

        8. Statistics. Statisticians will be in blind state for data analysis. Analysis will be by
           intention-to-treat comparing the primary outcome measure at 7 days in the two groups by
           chi-squared test (or Fisher's exact test as appropriate). Continuous variables will be
           compared using the One-way analysis of variance or the Mann-Whitney U test. Categorical
           variables will be compared using the chi-square test or the Fisher's exact test. The
           time-to-event curves will be calculated with the use of the Kaplan-Meier method. All
           analyses will be conducted using the SPSS 16.0 statistical software.
    
  