
    
      The aim of the SEARCH-AF trial is to evaluate a novel diagnostic tool for detecting
      post-operative atrial fibrillation or flutter (POAF/AFL) in cardiac surgical subjects during
      the early, sub-acute post-operative period. Its primary objective is to test whether enhanced
      cardiac rhythm monitoring with an adhesive, continuous monitor results in higher rates of
      atrial fibrillation or flutter (AF/AFL) detection at 30 days after randomization for
      post-cardiac surgical subjects who are at risk for developing post-operative atrial
      arrhythmias, when compared to usual care.

      The study design is an open-label, two-arm randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing a
      strategy of enhanced cardiac rhythm monitoring vs. usual care in 396 post-cardiac surgical
      subjects who are at risk for developing POAF/AFL.

      The primary endpoint is the proportion of subjects with a cumulative AF/AFL burden of ≥6
      minutes or documentation of AF/AFL by a 12-lead ECG within 30 days after randomization.
      Clinical endpoints will be adjudicated by an independent committee of physicians.

      The study population involves post-cardiac surgical subjects at high risk of stroke, defined
      as having a CHA2DS2-VASC score of ≥4 or CHA2DS2-VASC of ≥2 with additional risk factors for
      developing POAF/AFL. These subjects must not have a history of AF/AFL pre-operatively.

      Subjects who meet inclusion criteria will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the
      following 2 arms: (i) Enhanced cardiac rhythm monitoring (intervention group) or (ii) Usual
      care (control group). Subjects in the intervention group will receive up to 30 days of
      continuous cardiac rhythm monitoring with the Medtronic SEEQ™ mobile cardiac telemetry system
      or the CardioSTAT (Icentia Inc.) cardiac rhythm monitoring device. Monitoring will begin on
      the day of randomization. Subjects in the usual care group will not undergo protocol-mandated
      cardiac rhythm monitoring during the first 30 days after randomization.

      All subjects will have a follow-up visit at 31-90 days after hospital discharge and at 6±1
      months after surgery. At 6±1 months, all subjects will undergo 14 days of continuous cardiac
      rhythm monitoring with the SEEQ™ mobile cardiac telemetry system or the CardioSTAT (Icentia
      Inc.) cardiac rhythm monitoring device. A telephone follow-up will be performed for all
      subjects at 9±1 months after surgery.
    
  