
    
      Poor medication adherence (a) results in poorer treatment outcome and (b) accounts for $100
      to $290 billion in U.S. healthcare costs annually. Therefore, interventions that target
      medication adherence are increasingly crucial for patient care and cost-effectiveness. Mobile
      technologies such as smartphones are increasingly ubiquitous and affordable in the U.S., and
      can be integrated to augment medication adherence. mSMART is a smartphone application that
      targets medication adherence in substance users. The study team has developed and assessed
      mSMART in a Stage Ia trial among 9 non-treatment seeking cigarette smokers. mSMART provides
      psychoeducation about medication (e.g., dosage, benefits, side-effects), assessment of
      medication compliance and characteristics associated with substance use, provides reminders
      to take medications, and conducts real-time medication event feedback intervention. The aim
      of the current study is to extend findings from the Stage Ia trial assessing preliminary
      feasibility and acceptability of mSMART for cigarette smokers. In the proposed study, the
      investigators will conduct a Stage Ib for the continued development of mSMART in an
      occupational wellness setting. This will also include a study of the feasibility,
      acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of mSMART for treatment seeking cigarette smokers
      undergoing a quit attempt in an occupational wellness program. A sample of 60 cigarette
      smokers prescribed varenicline (Chantix) will be randomized to either a control condition
      (i.e., use of MEMS Cap, a smart pillbox that records instances that the pill bottle is
      opened) or treatment condition (i.e., use of MEMS Cap and mSMART) over a 12 week treatment
      period. The primary hypothesis is that the treatment group will achieve higher levels of
      medication adherence assessed via MEMS Cap. The secondary hypothesis is that the treatment
      group will also yield lower levels of salivary cotinine at week 12 assessment, indicating
      higher rates of smoking abstinence relative to the control group. Findings from the current
      study will inform the continued development of mSMART as an intervention to enhance substance
      use treatment outcome, including other forms of substance use besides cigarette smoking.
    
  