
    
      At present, the third generation of platinum-based regimens (NCCN clinical practice
      guidelines recommended the use of vinorelbine or gemcitabine, or Taxol, etc.) is the
      first-line treatment for advanced lung cancer patients. Its effective rate is 20-30%, the
      median survival time is 7-9 months, 1-year and 2-year survival rate is 31-36% and 10-13%
      respectively. The efficacy has reached the platform and it is difficult to have more
      breakthroughs. Epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) such
      as Iressa and Erlotinib have proved effective in first or second line therapy for advanced
      non-small cell lung cancer(NSCLC).First-SIGNAL and IPASS research have laid first-line status
      for gefitinib in treatment of NSCLC and the progression-free survival time was maintained at
      9-10 months. EGFR-TKIs treatment is simple, well tolerated, drug side effects, etc. There are
      also a rash, diarrhea and other adverse reactions, affecting the quality of life of patients
      with serious or even give patients a great deal of pain.Literature and our preliminary
      studies have shown that traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) can prolong survival time and
      improve quality of life QOL, but high-level evidences are needed.

      The investigators perform a randomized, double-blind controlled, prospective study in
      Advanced Pulmonary Adenocarcinoma patients with stage Ⅲa～Ⅳ. Patients are randomized over
      observational group (TCM granules plus first-line targeted therapy and TCM granules plus
      second-line targeted therapy ), and control group (TCM placebo plus first-line targeted
      therapy and TCM placebo plus second-line targeted therapy). The investigators will observe 6
      months and after that regular follow-up will be arranged. The primary efficacy assessments
      are: PFS (progression-free survival）; Secondary efficacy assessments are: (1) OS(overall
      survival); (2) Objective response rate; (3) TTP（Time-to-Progression）; (4) QOL (Functional
      Assessment of Cancertherapy-lung, FACT-L4.0 scales;Lung Cancer Symptom Scale,LCSS); (5)other
      efficacy assessments are: 1) TCM symptoms changes; 2) Toxicity, side effects and security of
      the treatments will be assessed at the same time. The investigators expect that integrated
      TCM combined with targeted therapy has a better efficacy on prolonging progression-free
      survival time, overall survival, improving QOL of patients than that of targeted therapy.
      Therefore our study can provide evidences for optimizing and promoting integrated TCM
      combined with Western Medicine treatment.
    
  