
    
      Study Outline

      Patients will be referred to the study from their physician, who will have the patients
      medically cleared for participation.

      The patients will then undergo additional screening for the study. A study physician will
      review all study procedures with potential participants, including the potential side
      effects. Patients will be shown the facilities and informed of being monitored at all times.

      Patients will be randomized using a randomization and assigned to one of two groups: cannabis
      (15.76% CBD; 3.11% Δ-9 -THC) vs "placebo" cannabis (0.0% CBD/ 0.01% Δ-9-THC).

      Participants will visit the Marijuana Research Laboratory, 3-5 days a week over 6 weeks to be
      administered 1-2 cannabis cigarettes over the course of a 2-3 hour session. Two cannabis
      conditions will be tested: Placebo (0.01% THC; 0.00% CBD) and CBD:THC (15.76% CBD; 3.11% THC)
      provided by the National Institute on Drug Abuse.

      Participants will undergo baseline measurements of mood, and physical symptoms and will then
      be given 2 NIDA (National Institute on Drug Abuse) cannabis cigarettes, which can be consumed
      as smoking or with a vaporizer in a ventilated room. After the 90 minutes of cannabis
      availability end, participants will be asked to remain in the laboratory for an additional 45
      minutes to allow the effects of the cannabis to wear off.

      Participants will undergo baseline measurements of mood, and physical symptoms and will then
      be given the equivalent of 2 NIDA cannabis cigarettes. Cardiovascular and subjective effects
      measures of mood, abuse liability and drug tolerability will be collected at baseline, at the
      end of the 90 minutes of cannabis availability and at the end of the session. Detailed
      measures of food intake (caloric content, macronutrient intake) will be recorded beginning
      immediately after cannabis administration and for the duration of the session. In addition to
      visual analog scales, participants will be asked to complete measures of mood and cannabis
      effects at screening, before, during and after the session. Participants will be assessed at
      the end of the session by an experienced clinician.

      Opioid use: Participants will be asked to provide the number of opioid medications taken as
      follows: 1) at baseline (in the week prior to starting sessions); and 2) at each session,
      participants will be asked about opioid use since the previous session. The amount of opioids
      used will be converted to oral morphine equivalents and tallied for each day.

      Food intake: Participants will be asked to complete a daily food diary for the duration of
      the study. Detailed measures of food intake (caloric content, macronutrient intake) will also
      be recorded during the cannabis sessions. Participants will also be weighed weekly.

      PET (Positron Emission Tomography) scans: As part of their clinical care, patients receive a
      PET/CT scan using the radiotracer [18F]FDG with a low dose CT for attenuation correction and
      anatomic localization. This data will be requested from the PET center, with the participants
      consent, in order to assess the extent of esophagitis in the two groups.
    
  