
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most widespread complication encountered after cardiac
      surgery, associated with prolonged hospitalization, morbidity, mortality, and an annual cost
      of more than $1 billion to the American healthcare system.

      AF has been reported to predict postoperative stroke, congestive heart failure, and late AF
      among patients undergoing mitral valve surgery. Postoperative AF (POAF) occurs in 62% of
      patients undergoing combined aortic valve and coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery, in
      49% of patients undergoing aortic valve surgery alone, in 42% of patients undergoing mitral
      valve surgery, and in 32% of patients undergoing CABG surgery alone. These figures are
      expected to rise in the future, given that the patients undergoing cardiac surgery are
      getting elder and that the incidence of AF in the general population is markedly
      age-dependent.

      POAF peak incidence occurs on the 2nd and 3rd postoperative days (PODs). Seventy percent of
      patients develop this arrhythmia before the end of the 4th POD and 94% before the end of the
      6th. Although generally well-tolerated and seen as a temporary problem related to surgery,
      POAF can be life-threatening, particularly in elderly patients and those with left
      ventricular dysfunction.

      Recent guidelines for the prevention and management of POAF were jointly published in 2006 by
      the American College of Cardiology, the American Heart Association (AHA), and the European
      Society of Cardiology. These guidelines recommended (i) preoperative treatment with an oral
      beta-blocker drug for prevention of POAF as a class IA indication, and (ii) preoperative
      administration of amiodarone for patients at a high risk for POAF as a class IIA indication.

      Amiodarone is associated with several complications, both cardiac, and extracardiac; among
      the cardiac complications, it is predominantly related to increased risk of bradycardia and
      hypotension, particularly when (i) administered intravenously, (ii) using average daily doses
      exceeding 1 g, and (iii) initiating prophylaxis during the postoperative period.45 Among the
      most severe extracardiac complications, amiodarone is associated with thyroid toxicity, lung
      fibrosis, and corneal damage, which may be aggravated by the drug's delayed onset of action
      (2 - 3 days) and long elimination half-life time (up to 6 months).

      Currently the common practice for management of POAF is treatment with intravenous Amiodarone
      until return to sinus rhythm, following which the drug is given orally. Our protocol involves
      continued treatment with amiodarone for 30 day post-discharge from the hospital in a dose of
      200mg per day.

      This protocol is a common practice in many cardiac surgical departments worldwide,
      nevertheless, it is not evidence-based protocol and it was never examined as such.

      This study is a randomized placebo controlled trial, to evaluate the requirement for
      post-discharge treatment with oral Amiodarone.
    
  