
    
      The clinical picture in schizophrenia involves changes in perception, cognition, and affect
      such as delusions, hallucinations, and disorganized thinking and disorders of attention,
      memory, and executive thinking. A clinical differentiation, which is widespread in practice,
      divides the psychopathological disorders of schizophrenic patients in the clinical core areas
      into positive and negative symptoms.

      The term negative symptoms was introduced by Hughlings-Jackson, who made the distinction
      between florid-psychotic or positive symptoms and "defect" or negative symptoms. The term
      "positive symptoms" usually includes delusions, hallucinations and formal thinking disorders.
      The latter are often explained in recent research tradition as a separate "disorganization
      syndrome". Negative symptoms also appear in the context of other psychiatric and neurological
      disorders, for example in patients with depression, Parkinson's and craniocerebral traumas.

      Negative symptoms, according to Frith and Done, essentially signify a "deficit of willed
      action" or, more generally, a pathological deficit of activity and reactivity. To establish a
      border between idiopathic, i.e. primarily due to schizophrenia, outlasting ("trait") negative
      symptoms and secondary, temporary ("state") negative symptoms Carpenter and colleagues
      introduced the concept of the deficit vs. non-deficit form of schizophrenia. Negative
      symptoms constituting the deficit syndrome include affective flattening, limited emotional
      range, loss of interest, speech depletion, diminished purposefulness, and social
      listlessness. These symptoms are considered to be primary negative symptoms if they persist
      beyond the onset of an acute psychotic episode and have been established by differential
      diagnosis that they are not or at least not entirely secondary to the presence of depression,
      the side effects of antipsychotic treatment or other circumstances. While primary negative
      symptoms are currently largely immune to any type of treatment, secondary negative symptoms
      may remit spontaneously or after appropriate treatment.

      Men are more frequently and stronger affected by negative symptoms than women. Also, the
      negative symptoms manifest themselves earlier in the course of the disease and are associated
      with stronger cognitive impairments than in women. However, the extent of men's deficits
      varies little during further psychotic episodes, while women tend to have a progressive
      profile. Recruitment for the current study will take into account the prevalence.

      The positive symptoms can be treated very effectively with medication and stabilization can
      usually be achieved within a few weeks. On the other hand, the negative symptoms are very
      difficult to influence with medication. Ideally, modern integrative psychiatric treatment
      concepts therefore incorporate a combination of pharmacological, psychotherapeutic and
      psychosocial treatment strategies adapted to the specific symptom constellation and the
      particular needs and deficiencies of the individual patient.

      In recent years, a wide variety of treatments (e.g. transcranial magnetic stimulation or
      psychosocial treatment options) have been used to improve the negative symptoms in
      schizophrenic patients, but treatment success has remained low. Thus, the results of existing
      studies on TMS and rTMS are also controversial. There are some studies in which positive
      effects were found on the psychpathology for example, whereas other studies could not find
      any significant positive effects of rTMS in schizophrenia patients.

      Another applied intervention that has been established for many years in a wide variety of
      mental illnesses is animal assisted therapy. This is used for example in children with
      autism, patients with anxiety disorders or depression, but also in schizophrenic patients.
      The effects of animal assisted therapy are versatile. For example, improvements in autistic
      symptoms, emotional well-being, self-esteem, self-determination, depressive symptoms,
      positive and negative symptoms in schizophrenics or improvement in quality of life were
      found.

      In studies that explicitly examined the effects of animal assisted therapy on schizophrenic
      patients, several positive outcomes have been reported. Maujean and colleagues found in their
      meta-analysis positive effects of animal assisted therapy on social contact, positive and
      negative symptoms, and the quality of life in terms of interpersonal relationships. Barak and
      colleagues investigated in their study how animal assisted therapy affects older
      schizophrenic patients and found a significant improvement on the Social Adaptive Functioning
      (SAFE) scale with a focus on the social function subscale. Furthermore, positive effects on
      the activities of everyday life and general well-being were found. There were several studies
      which assessed the PANSS (Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale) and found a significant
      improvement in the negative symptoms due to animal assisted therapy. In addition, a reduction
      of the cortisol level was noted and the adherence in the therapy group compared to the
      control group was significantly higher. Furthermore, a constant remission of the disease as
      well as a lower hospitalization of the patients were reported. One study, in addition to the
      PANSS, the Living Skills Profile (LSP) and the World Health Organization Quality of Life
      Assessment (WHOQOL-BREF) letter were included and a significant effects on both scales was
      found as well. In another meta-analysis conducted by Jormfeldt and Carlsson in 2018, six
      months after the last intervention, positive effects continued to be found at follow-up.
      Participants in animal assisted therapy reported benefits at the psychosocial level, such as
      increased self-efficacy and self-esteem, social stimulation, and new skills that could be
      transferred to other areas of life. In summary, there is already evidence for the efficacy of
      animal assisted therapy on the negative symptoms, psychosocial functioning and quality of
      life of schizophrenic patients, which should be further supported in the controlled setting
      as part of the planned study.

      Appropriate conceptualization is essential for the development of suitable treatment methods
      for the negative symptoms of schizophrenic patients. However, the concept of negative
      symptoms has changed significantly since the development of the standard instruments SANS and
      PANSS, and for a long time there was no clear consensus on the construct of negative
      symptoms.

      In their 2014 review, Marder & Kirkpatrick juxtaposed the standard instruments SANS and PANSS
      with newer gauges designed to assess negative symptoms. As one of the first scales designed
      exclusively for the detection of negative symptoms in schizophrenic patients, the SANS has
      played a key role in the holistic study of schizophrenia. However, Marder & Kirkpatrick argue
      that the SANS contains items that are unlikely to be part of the negative symptoms
      (inappropriate affect & impaired attention). These items have also often been omitted by
      researchers in recent years when using the SANS. Furthermore, more recent studies suggest
      that it would be useful to distinguish between the anticipatory and the consumptive aspect of
      anhedonia, as the patients do have some limitations in the first, but this does not seem to
      be the case with the latter. At a National Consensus Meeting held by the NIMH (National
      Institut for Mental Health), negative symptom domains were identified that are inconsistent
      with the five subscales of the SANS or the five factors of the PANSS. The fixed domains are
      dulled affect, alogy, asociality, anhedonia, and avolition. A scale used to record the
      negative symptoms should accordingly only contain items that belong to the above-mentioned
      areas. Another issue is that the meter should be able to detect changes in the symptoms. In
      addition, it should be short and internationally applicable (easy to translate and
      transferable to different cultures). Finally, a measurement tool should have psychometric
      properties such as inter-rater reliability, internal consistency, test-retest reliability,
      and content, convergence, and discriminant validity.

      Under these conditions, the BNSS emerged. This short scale for detecting negative symptoms in
      schizophrenic patients consists of 13 items and can be collected within 15 minutes. It was
      important to the authors of the scale to distinguish between the anticipatory and consumptive
      aspects of anhedonia, as well as between experience and behavior. The BNSS showed excellent
      inter-rater and test-retest reliability, as well as good vailidity in comparison with other
      scales, as shown in psychometric studies. Furthermore, it could be shown that the scale has
      an inverse correlation with a measure of the functional level and the MATRICS Consensus
      Battery. An additional important point is that the BNSS correlates only marginally with
      masses of positive symptoms, anxiety, and depression. For these reasons, the BNSS should also
      be used in the planned study. In addition, the further development of objective measuring
      instruments for the collection of negative symptoms in the study by examining the application
      of acoustic analysis and the concept of the voice should explain changes in schizophrenia as
      a correlate of negative symptoms.

      Other target variables of the study will be the PSP scale (Personal and Social Performance
      Scale) and the S-QoL (Quality of Life Questionnaire in Schizophrenia). The PSP was designed
      out of the DSM-IV Social and Occupational Functioning Assessment Scale (SOFAS) with the goal
      to develop a scale that can quickly and validly capture the personal and psychosocial
      functioning of patients. Among the advantages of the PSP over other scales such as the SOFAS
      or the GAF (Global Assessment of Functioning), is the fact that the professional, social and
      personal functioning are operationalized in more detail, since there is no mixing of
      psychopathological symptoms and psychosocial aspects. Furthermore, the four subscales of the
      PSP, which are initially collected in order to then form a total score, give a higher
      information value than is the case with the SOFAS or the GAF . In addition, initial studies
      on the PSP have shown that the scale has high validity and reliability values. The PSP is a
      third-party assessment and, as already mentioned, contains four subscales whose items are
      queried on a 6 point scale. From the assessments of the four subscales, an overall score is
      then formed, ranging from 0-100 and subdivided into 10 intervals. To simplify the survey,
      Schaub and Juckel have developed an interview guide for the German version of the PSP.

      As mentioned above, the recovery and improvement of psychosocial functioning have become
      increasingly the focus of treatment efforts in recent years. In this context, the quality of
      life of patients was often examined. As a secondary target variable, therefore, an instrument
      for assessing the subjective quality of life should also be used in the planned study.
      Despite the large number of life-quality assessment tools validated or specifically developed
      for schizophrenic patients in recent years, there is no clear consensus on which survey
      instrument to use. The selection should therefore focus on the concrete conceptualization of
      the instrument, the question and the applicability of the population to be examined in the
      existing setting. In the present study, the Quality of Life Questionnaire is to be applied in
      schizophrenia (S-QoL). It uses 41 items to record 8 subscales of the quality of life such as
      well-being, self-esteem, resilience and autonomy. The S-QoL is a self-assessment tool and its
      application takes 15 minutes.

      The present study STABLE is planned with inpatients at the Psychiatric University Clinic,
      Department of Forensic Psychiatry, Center for Inpatient Forensic Therapy Rheinau. In the
      active control phase, a WHO-recommended psychosocial intervention for the treatment of
      schizophrenia, the training of everyday activities and self-employment (board games, everyday
      skills, etc.) is used. In terms of content, the training of everyday activities is based on
      the sub-program "Social Skills" of the IPT (Integrated Psychological Therapy Program).

      The study complies with the European Mental Health Action Plan 2013-2020.
    
  