
    
      Although recent advances in technology such as electronic medical records and continuous
      glucose monitoring provide enhanced monitoring capabilities, optimal glycemic control in the
      hospital and critical care setting is still extremely difficult to obtain. These technologies
      provide little to no identification of trends in data, and clinical decision support.

      The goal of this research study was to collect data to support further development and
      optimization of a comprehensive clinical decision support system with simulation, training,
      and clinical decision support functionality. The system will also be designed to provide
      real-time performance measurement and feedback to ensure glycemic control is maintained at an
      optimal level.

      The continuous glucose monitor (CGM) device utilized in this investigation was the iPro
      Recorder® (Medtronic Diabetes, Northridge, CA), a FDA approved monitoring device which
      reports glucose values every five minutes.

      Subjects with a history of hyperglycemia or current hyperglycemia were identified either in
      the intensive care unit or prior to surgery. Upon enrollment of eligible patients in the
      study, CGM device was placed on subject's abdomen or thigh. The times logged by the CGM
      device were synchronized to achieve valid data pairing according to time. Subjects were
      visited as needed or at least twice in a 24-hour period to ensure that the devices were still
      in place and comfortable for the patient. After 72 hours of data collection, the CGM device
      was removed and the area of attachment cleaned.

      Research staff collected medical history and standard of care glucose point of care obtained
      during subject's participation into the study. Other data from the patient's standard of care
      monitor, such as oxygen saturation levels, blood pressure, respiratory and heart rate, were
      collected as part of the patient's safety assessment assurance.

      Data analysis will be completed offsite by investigators at Aptima, Inc. and their wholly
      owned subsidiary, Analytic Diabetic Systems, LLC. All patient data collected in this
      investigation was appropriately de-identified.
    
  