
    
      Aspirin has an established role in the treatment of ACS and secondary prevention of ischaemic
      heart disease. In the landmark trial of aspirin in ACS, ISIS-2 (1988), it conferred a benefit
      of similar magnitude to thrombolysis. The addition of a second antiplatelet agent (a P2Y12
      inhibitor) to aspirin is known to improve outcomes in both NSTE-ACS (Yusuf, Zhao et al. 2001)
      and STEMI (Chen, Jiang et al. 2005, Sabatine, Cannon et al. 2005). There are 2 major classes
      of oral P2Y12 inhibitor: irreversibly binding thienopyridine agents, such as clopidogrel or
      prasugrel, and reversibly-binding drugs, such as the cyclo-pentyl triazolopyrimidine
      ticagrelor.

      A combination of aspirin and ticagrelor 90 milligrams (mg) twice daily for at least 1 year
      represents the current standard treatment for ACS recommended in European guidelines (Steg,
      James et al. 2012, Roffi, Patrono et al. 2015).

      Aspirin inhibits cyclo-oxygenase (COX) enzymes by irreversible acetylation, and at lower
      doses exhibits relative selectivity for COX1, responsible for the synthesis of thromboxane A2
      (TXA2), which is a pro-thrombotic and vasoconstrictive eicosanoid. At higher doses, aspirin
      is also able to inhibit COX2, leading to a reduction in release of the anti-thrombotic and
      vasodilatory compound prostacyclin (PGI2). Aspirin is able to inhibit platelet aggregation,
      therefore, by inhibiting TXA2 relatively more than PGI2. Due to its irreversible binding, COX
      is inhibited in platelets for their lifespan (typically 10-12 days) as, being without a
      nucleus, they cannot regenerate the enzyme (Patrono 1994). It is now thought that PGI2 acts
      locally rather than systemically and, in healthy individuals, COX1 may be responsible for the
      majority of PGI2 production (Kirkby, Lundberg et al. 2012). In patients with atheromatous
      disease, however, there is greater COX2 expression in diseased vessel walls (Schonbeck,
      Sukhova et al. 1999) therefore this may not apply in the areas most vulnerable to thrombosis.
      COX2 selective inhibitors have been associated with increased cardiovascular risk and this
      appears to be both a dose dependent and class effect (Mukherjee, Nissen et al. 2001, Bhala,
      Emberson et al. 2013).

      All antithrombotic drugs confer a risk of bleeding. In addition to its antiplatelet effect,
      COX1 inhibition by aspirin in the stomach can lead to acid-induced inflammation and
      ulceration, resulting in bleeding. There is evidence that lower doses of aspirin are
      associated with lower rates of gastrointestinal bleeding (Valkhoff, Sturkenboom et al. 2012)
      including when combined with a P2Y12 inhibitor (Mehta, Tanguay et al. 2010).

      In the UK, 75 mg od is the standard maintenance dose of aspirin and the consensus from the
      Antithrombotic Trialist Collaborators was that higher doses offer no added benefit and may
      increase complication rates when used for secondary prevention (2002). Use of this specific
      dose stems from its original formulation as an anti-inflammatory dose for paediatric use, and
      was chosen to approximate 1 grain in the formerly used unit. Only 1 study of aspirin dose in
      patients with ACS on DAPT has been carried out but this only included patients on clopidogrel
      rather than ticagrelor and did not evaluate aspirin doses lower than 75 mg (Mehta, Tanguay et
      al. 2010).

      Aspirin and ticagrelor are superior to aspirin and clopidogrel in preventing ischaemic
      complications in ACS but there is an increased rate of bleeding complications (Wallentin,
      Becker et al. 2009). There is some evidence that the benefit of ticagrelor over clopidogrel
      was diminished in patients taking higher doses of aspirin compared to lower doses (Mahaffey,
      Wojdyla et al. 2011).

      The P2Y12 and arachidonic acid pathways appear to be linked. P2Y12 inhibition has been shown
      to reduce TXA2 release from platelets (Armstrong, Leadbeater et al. 2011) and potentiates the
      antiplatelet effect of PGI2 in vitro (Cattaneo and Lecchi 2007). Ticagrelor acts as a more
      potent P2Y12 inhibitor than clopidogrel (Storey, Angiolillo et al. 2010) and therefore may
      contribute more to this.

      Ticagrelor has pleiotropic effects not seen with clopidogrel, including inhibition of
      erythrocyte adenosine uptake (Bonello, Laine et al. 2014) and, in a preclinical model,
      reduction of infarct size, an adenosine and COX2 dependent effect that is inhibited by high
      but not low dose aspirin (Nanhwan, Ling et al. 2014). Chronic, but not acute, ticagrelor
      treatment may upregulate COX2 expression (Nanhwan, Ling et al. 2014) and ticagrelor, but not
      clopidogrel, improves post-infarct remodeling (Ye, Birnbaum et al. 2015) and has an
      anticontractile effect on vascular smooth muscle cells when exposed to ADP which is inhibited
      by high dose, but not low dose, aspirin (Grzesk, Kozinski et al. 2013).

      Additionally, statins, given to the majority of patients with ACS, reduce infarct size by a
      COX2 dependent mechanism and, again, this effect is inhibited by aspirin in a dose-dependent
      manner (Birnbaum, Lin et al. 2007). Inhibition of COX2 by higher doses of aspirin therefore
      may reduce these benefits.

      In healthy volunteer studies, aspirin at a dose of 75 mg once daily provided only a small
      additional effect on platelets to prasugrel ex vivo (Leadbeater et al 2011) and similar
      findings have been shown with prasugrel (Armstrong et al 2011) and ticagrelor (Kirkby et al
      2011) in vitro, however the clinical significance of this additional effect is not known as
      studies have not been made in patients with acute coronary syndrome, in whom platelet
      activation occurs and persists after the acute period (Ault, Cannon et al. 1999).

      It has been suggested that ticagrelor monotherapy may in fact offer advantages over DAPT
      (Warner, Armstrong et al. 2010) and 2 trials including ACS patients after the very early
      period are currently in progress (National Institutes of Health 2014, National Institutes of
      Health 2015). However, given the fact that aspirin still possesses some antiplatelet effect
      in the presence of potent P2Y12 inhibition, its total omission may not prove to be the
      optimum strategy in higher risk patients, particularly given the current lack of evidence in
      patients rather than healthy individuals.

      Aspirin inhibits TXA2 and PGI2 in vivo in a dose dependent manner and daily doses as low as
      20 mg have been shown to significantly inhibit TXA2 release (Warner, Nylander et al. 2011),
      whilst similar doses provide minimal PGI2 inhibition and no significant prolongation of the
      bleeding time (Kallmann, Nieuwenhuis et al. 1987). Aspirin doses of less than 75mg OD have
      not been studied in combination with P2Y12 inhibitors. A strategy to reduce the effect of
      aspirin on beneficial COX2 whilst maintaining its antiplatelet effect in the presence of
      ticagrelor may therefore be a lower dose than the current standard.

      Dosing frequency may also be open to optimization. Aspirin is cleared from the plasma quickly
      after administration but its effect lasts for the lifespan of a platelet due to its
      properties as an irreversible inhibitor (Patrono 1994). However, a significant proportion of
      the population have a high rate of platelet turnover that therefore reduces the duration of
      effect and may lead to inadequate platelet inhibition. This has been shown to be the case in
      patients with ischaemic heart disease and is most frequently a problem in those with diabetes
      mellitus, obesity and smokers (Henry, Vermillet et al. 2011). Twice-daily dosing may offer
      more consistency (Rocca, Santilli et al. 2012, Paikin, Hirsh et al. 2015). Again, this has
      not been studied when in combination with a P2Y12 inhibitor. As ticagrelor is taken twice
      daily, it would not significantly inconvenience patients to receive doses of aspirin in this
      way.
    
  