
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the efficacy of an appetite stimulant, cyproheptadine hydrochloride, with vs
           without a nutritional supplement, PediaSure or Ensure, in improving weight and extending
           the duration of response in pediatric patients with cancer- or cancer treatment-related
           weight loss.

      Secondary

        -  To compare patterns of body composition and weight change in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  To compare the change in the relationship between pre-albumin (biomarker of
           malnutrition) and weight improvement from baseline to the completion of study treatment.

        -  To compare the change in quality of life as measured by the Pediatric Functional
           Assessment of Anorexia and Cachexia Therapy (FAACT) questionnaire in patients treated
           with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participating
      center and steroid use (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral cyproheptadine hydrochloride twice daily for up to 24 weeks
           in the absence of weight loss or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral cyproheptadine hydrochloride twice daily and oral
           PediaSure (2 to 10 years of age) or Ensure (> 10 years of age) twice daily for up to 24
           weeks in the absence of weight loss or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection to assess pre-albumin levels at baseline and at
      weeks 4 and 24. Patients also undergo assessment of body composition, lean body mass, and
      percentage of body fat at baseline and at weeks 4 and 24 and assessment of weight and height
      at baseline and at weeks 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, and 24. Patients also complete a food diary twice
      a week during study treatment.

      Patients 7-17 years of age complete a quality-of-life questionnaire at baseline and at weeks
      4 and 24.
    
  