
    
      The Dix-Hallpike Test (DHT) and Canalith Repositioning Maneuver (CRM) are used to diagnose
      and treat Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo (BPPV). BPPV processes have an evidence base
      that is at the clinical practice guideline level. The DHT is the gold standard test for DHT
      and the CRM is supported by numerous randomized controlled trials and systematic reviews.

      The problem is that BPPV processes are substantially underutilized.

      This study looks to increase the use of BPPV processes within a community ED setting by
      implementing a theory-based educational intervention. The unit of randomization and target of
      intervention is the hospital. After an initial observation period, the six community
      hospitals will undergo the intervention in five waves (the smallest two hospitals will be
      paired). The order will be randomized. This is a partnered research project with local
      physicians engaging in best practice implementation.

      Sample Size

      The trial will start with an initial no intervention period of approximately 4 months
      followed by randomized staggered intervention with a new hospital entering approximately
      every 2 months, finalized by approximately 4 post-intervention months will result in the
      approximately balanced number of 867 visits occurring without intervention and 933 visits
      occurring under (post) intervention. This calculation assumes the average anticipated total
      patient visit rate of 100 patients per month. Based on our pilot studies and the literature
      we expect the DHT or CRM procedure to be done in 5% patients before the intervention. With
      the expected number of visits calculated above, we will be able to detect the increased DHT
      or CRM rate of 9% and above with 90% power by a two-sided test at the significance level of
      5%. We expect a much bigger difference of 5% vs. 20% pre- vs. post-intervention DHT/CRM
      rates, respectively. Under this expected difference, we will have the power exceeding 99%. In
      fact, an order of magnitude smaller visit rate of 10.4 patients per month would be sufficient
      for 90% power under the anticipated difference. The reserves of power will be used to provide
      more power to fine-tune the multivariate mixed regression models and associated secondary
      analyses.

      Data Analyses

      The intervention is delivered to hospitals. Intervention is a binary variable with two
      levels, pre-intervention (no intervention), post-intervention (under intervention).

      The primary analysis will use binary logistic regression and will include covariates for
      hospital, month (to handle secular trends), and intervention (see below). For a set of new
      patient visits, the binary random variable DHT/CRM/referral yes/no will serve as the primary
      response. Patient visits will be supplied with patient-, hospital- and provider-level
      covariates as well as the calendar time variable modeling the secular trend, and the
      intervention yes/no variable measuring whether the visit occurs under intervention or not. To
      take hospital- and provider-specific unmeasured features into account, hospital and provider
      categorical variables will be included in the analysis. Due to the fact that the number of
      hospitals and providers is much smaller than the number of patient visits, adjusting for
      hospital and provider effects by way of categorical variables will not lead to bias.
      Secondary analyses will explore alternative approaches using random effects (Gaussian)
      models. A two-sided model-based test for the intervention variable will be used to test the
      primary hypothesis at the significance level of 5%.

      The secondary analysis (safety) will numerically summarize the 90-day stroke rate -
      cumulatively and stratified for stroke diagnosed on the index dizziness visits and for post
      index visit strokes (delayed diagnosis) in patients seen at EDs with and without the
      intervention. This is anticipated to be very rare. The intervention does not target improving
      stroke diagnosis. However, evaluating both the index visit stroke diagnosis rate and the
      delayed diagnosis rate should allow for determination of major changes. We anticipate the
      index visit stroke diagnosis rate to be approximately 2% and the delayed diagnosis rate
      approximately to be 1%.
    
  