
    
      Subjects who meet study inclusion criteria will be randomized to receive an add-on
      Paliperidone Palmitate ( INVEGA® SUSTENNA™ ) according to the following schedule described in
      the medication prescribing information: INVEGA® SUSTENNA™ (PALIPERIDONE PALMITATE)
      Extended-Release Injectable Suspension ). Tolerability of the paliperidone will be
      established by either 1) a documented history of having taken either paliperidone or
      risperidone in the past without any untoward effects or allergic reactions, or 2) by
      prescribing oral paliperidone 6mg per day for three days with absence of any allergic or
      severe untoward side effects for those with no prior history of having taken these
      medications, prior to initiating treatment with INVEGA® SUSTENNA™ according to the
      manufacturers' recommendations.

      Eligible patients will be randomized to INVEGA® SUSTENNA™ or placebo in equivalent ml doses
      according to the following schedule: Day 1: INVEGA® SUSTENNA™ 234mg vs. placebo injection
      (equivalent ml); Day 8 (week 1) INVEGA® SUSTENNA™ 156mg vs. placebo injection (equivalent
      ml); Day 36 (week 5): INVEGA® SUSTENNA™ 117 mg vs. placebo injection (equivalent ml) ( this
      latter dose could range from 39mg to 156mg according to tolerability and clinical symptoms of
      bipolar disorder); Day 64 (week 9) no injection; weeks 10 and 11 safety assessment follow-up
      ( see Study Schematics below). Both treatment groups will participate in standardized
      individual medication adherence counseling. Subjects with bipolar disorder and who are
      actively drinking will be recruited into the study. Subjects who have been stable on
      treatment as usual medications for bipolar disorder for at least three weeks, and who meet
      all the inclusion criteria will be randomized to receive the double blind study medication
      consistent of either Paliperidone Palmitate injection ( INVEGA® SUSTENNA™ )or placebo (1:1
      ratio). To optimize the likelihood of balanced groups, the investigators will use urn
      randomization with the following variables: Gender (males vs. females), treatment as usual
      medication (divalproex sodium vs. other mood stabilizers), presenting bipolar subtype (manic
      vs mixed) and baseline drinking severity (< vs. > 50% heavy drinking days (> 4 standard
      drinks for females and > 5 standard drinks per males) in the month prior to enrollment).
      After randomization, subjects will be assessed weekly at weeks 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,9 of
      the double-blind treatment phase a and at week 10 and 11 for safety observation follow-up..
      The investigators propose to test the above hypotheses in 75 subjects at three sites (25
      subjects per site) All subjects will receive a weekly Standardized supportive individual
      medication adherence counseling session.
    
  