
    
      Phase 1 - Creation The creation of a databank of measurements during stereotypical actions of
      daily living.

      Population recruited (P1 recruits) Patients to complete a demographic questionnaire based on
      historical falls risk data.

      Recruited patients allocated to a mobility/independence subgroup based on the information
      obtained from the demographic questionnaire completed at the time of recruitment.

      Patients may be reclassified to different subgroups to redistribute them according to other
      factors including frailty, exercise tolerance, balance etc.

      Patients given a structured scripted set of simple activities to carry out (such as walking,
      sitting and picking something off the floor etc.) to cover as many activities of daily of
      living as possible.

      Their actions will be monitored with inertia measurement units (IMU) 1-3 per patient (Each
      will be off the shelf European Conformity (CE) approved products no bigger than a modern
      smart phone).

      Data is transmitted from the IMUs wirelessly to the investigators' laptop, patients will not
      be attached or anchored to any secondary devices or cables. The IMUs are attached to the
      patients with a comfortable lightweight belt design and or non-invasive leg bands.

      These scripted sessions will be repeated 5 to 10 times per subject to create an anonymous
      databank (D1). This will form a reference range per subgroup of "truth" data for the
      algorithm to search.

      Patient identifiable data will be limited to the study questionnaires which will be stored
      securely at the corresponding study site.

      Phase 2 - Validation The validation of the databank while observing previously recorded and
      not previously recorded subjects in an unscripted session.

      Population patients included All patients from phase 1, new patients recruited (P2 recruits)

      Newly recruited patients (P2) to complete a demographic questionnaire based on historical
      falls risk data. These patients will not be immediately allocated to a mobility/independence
      subgroup, but labelled as unknown (x).

      All patients observed individually during daily activities in an unscripted session. Patient
      to wear single IMU sensor which captures mobility data (D2). The activities the subject
      undertakes during D2 are manually entered onto timesheet by observer for later cross
      referencing.

      2.1 Patients (P2) who are previously unrecorded and who are unallocated to a
      mobility/independence subgroup have their unscripted data (D2) analysed by the motion
      algorithm which stratifies them to a mobility/independence subgroup based on the likeness of
      their data to that stored in the databank (D1). They are then allocated to a
      mobility/independence subgroup based on their questionnaire data and the two outcomes are
      compared to see if they match or differ.

      - Can algorithm predict "truth"

      2.2 Patients (P1) who have previously been recorded in phase 1 and who are allocated to a
      mobility/independence subgroup based on their questionnaire data have their unscripted data
      (D2) from phase 2 analysed by the motion algorithm. This then stratifies them again to a
      mobility/independence subgroup based on the likeness of their new data (D2) to that stored in
      the databank (D1). To see if their outcome remains the same or differs.

      - Can algorithm confirm "truth"

      (See Appendix B. for diagrammatically representation of phase 1 and phase 2.) During the
      unscripted session (D2) any falls or patient reported loss of balance that occurs will be
      recorded and time stamped by the observer. These data sets will be labelled as "Falls truth"
      or "Balance truth" data respectively and added to the anonymous databank for cross-reference.
    
  