
    
      A pilot study was conducted, with ten patients who were planned to perform laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy after approval by the ethics committee of Ondokuz Mayis University, Samsun,
      Turkey. Among ten patients, five patients were undergone LC, and another five were undergone
      SILC-PR.

      The sample size was calculated from the pilot study. Simple consecutive allocation method was
      used to randomly divide the subjects into LC (classical four port technique), and
      SILC-"Pick'n roll" (PR) beginning and experienced groups. Each group contained 20 patients.
      The randomization was achieved regardless of demographic characteristics, by Dr. N. O.

      One surgeon was performed all operation (Dr. R. A.). Patient's data were recorded by Dr. K.
      Y. At the end of the study, the data were analysed by Dr. S. C. and Dr. E. C. in a blinded
      manner to avoid bias

      Surgical Procedures The technique used for LC was the conventional four-trocar approach
      (10-mm optic at the umbilicus, 10-mm trocar in the epigastrium and two 5-mm trocars in the
      right upper abdomen).

      For SILC-PR, the patient was positioned supine on the operating table, once the access is
      gained into the abdomen, the patient re-positioned to reverse trendelenburg and left tilt.
      The surgeon stands on the left side of the patient and the assistant stands opposite him
      during the placement of the single-port device. SILC-PR was performed by the single-incision,
      single port technique using The OCTOTMPort (Dalimsurg, Seoul, Korea). The OCTOTMPort is a
      re-usable single-port device that contains two 5-mm, one 10-mm and one 12-mm port through the
      same port. Surgical access to the abdomen was obtained through an intraumbilical 2.5 cm
      incision from 12 o'clock to 6 o'clock. The OCTOTMPort was inserted and pneumoperitoneum was
      created up to an abdominal pressure of 15 mmHg. A 10-mm, 30º traditional scope (Karl Storz,
      Tuttlingen, Germany) was inserted through inferior placed 10-mm port, by the assistant who
      positioned on the patient's left side, and the peritoneal cavity was examined. If the stomach
      was distended, a nasogastric tube insertion was requested from the anesthesiologist. The
      surgeon introduced an Endo Grasp™ (Covidien, Mansfield, MA, USA) with left hand and elevated
      gallbladder fundus to assess the mobility of the gallbladder infindibulum, constant fundus
      retraction was used in whole operation by this instrument. In the presence of omental
      attachments, the gallbladder infindibulum was freed with monopolar hook device which holding
      by the surgeon's right hand, under the traction of the fundus. Once the gallbladder
      infindibulum freed from the attachments or clearly seen in first examination next step of the
      operation was launched. A 2.0 multifilament straight atraumatic needle was inserted through
      the surgeon's left of the falciform ligament with simultaneous palpation of the abdominal
      wall for optimum insertion site. The needle was grasped with a laparoscopic needleholder
      using by surgeon's right hand, and the needle was passed through the Hartmann's pouch at the
      lowest accessible point. To allow infindibulum retraction, wide triangulation and free
      Hartmann's pouch manipulation like "puppeteer movement", the passing suture with needle was
      turned around the afferent suture and a "half-knot" was created. The needle was passed back
      of the abdomen from the surgeon's left of the midclavicular line, with simultaneous palpation
      of the abdominal wall for optimum site. After this point, an assistant or a nurse was grasped
      two ends of the suspensory suture with clamps. With the help of fundus retraction and
      assistant's right or left hand dominant pulling tension on the suture, classical Hartmann's
      pouch retraction similar to LC technique was provided. Dissection of Calot's triangle and
      removal of gallbladder from the liver bed are possible in almost all cases with the use of
      aforementioned "Pick'n roll technique" and a hook diathermy.
    
  