
    
      To quantify the changes in regional lung air content associated with the variations of the
      respiratory support settings, the following approach will be used. The changes in local air
      content will be determined in the selected EIT region of interest (ROI) in terms of a change
      in local average lung density and relative impedance change with respect to a reference air
      content.

        -  TimePeriod 1 (t1): The reference lung air content will be measured once the asymmetric
           lung disease is identified on chest x-ray.

        -  TimePeriod 2 (t2): A post-lung disease EIT measurement will be obtained at 6-24 hours
           later or immediately after therapy (i.e. chest tube placement or needle decompression).

      After informed consent is obtained, eligible infants on mechanical support or nCPAP therapy
      of 5-8 cm H20 achieved with a ventilator, an underwater "bubble" system, or a variable-flow
      device will be enrolled. All of these methods of providing the therapy are done with FDA
      approved devices currently used in the NICU.

      EIT data will be acquired using The LuMon Monitor-Neo, GUI software 1.0.x.x/TIC software
      1.6.x.xxx (SenTec, Landquart, Switzerland). The EIT system will be placed at the subject's
      bedside to collect EIT measurements: Ventilation distribution%, changes in regional aeration
      in arbitrary units (AU), dependent and non-dependent silent spaces.

      A data acquisition cart will also be placed at the subject's bedside to collect hemodynamic
      and respiratory parameters measurements including: Heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP),
      respiratory rate (RR), fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2), transcutaneous carbon dioxide
      (TcCO2), and peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) via bedside monitoring devices.

      The LuMon belts for neonates are disposable single-patient use belts that are adhesive-free
      and consists of 32 electrodes which are sized to the infant's chest circumference, generally
      at the 4th - 6th rib. Warmed NeoContactAgent (ingredients: Aqua, Glycerol, Sodium chloride)
      will be applied to the belt before placing on the infant. The embedded position sensor
      permits the LuMon System to measure and display the patient's position. The soft and
      expandable closure band prevents the chest from being constrained by the belt and,
      consequently, prevents restrictions to breathing and increased work of breathing.

      EIT measurements and data will be collected on each timeperiods (t1 and t2) for approximately
      15-30 minutes on invasive or non-invasive ventilatory support. EIT is currently not used for
      patient care management at SMBHWN. EIT's use for patient care management is purely
      experimental. EIT, when used solely for physiologic data collection, its use is not subject
      to 21 CFR 50, 21 CFR 56, or 21 CFR 812. Data collection via EIT will occur when the subject
      is in a quiet, sleeping state, and can be accomplished in a convenient time period when care
      givers or parents are not interacting with the subject.
    
  