
    
      Study design

      The overall aim of the clinical observational study is to determine whether the
      pro-inflammatory immune cell phenotype observed in women with preeclampsia (PE) can be
      correlated to cardiac function during and after pregnancy and in the postpartum period .

      The study team will comprise of Dr Alice Christensen (PhD candidate), who will consent
      patients within the study group and carry out the clinical and laboratory aspects of the
      study; Dr Suchita Nadkarni (primary supervisor) who will oversee and train Dr Christensen on
      all basic science aspects of the study; Prof Steve Thornton and Dr Elena Greco (clinical
      supervisors) who will be the obstetric leads on the study; Consultant cardiologists will
      include Dr Neha Sekhri who will be primary contact for any cardiac issues, Dr Anna Herrey ,
      who will oversee the analyses of imaging aspect of the study and Dr Kate Von Klemperer who
      will liaise with and advise Dr Christensen at both The Royal London and Barts Hospitals
      regarding echocardiography (echo). To this end, ~100 pregnant women will be recruited from
      The Royal London Hospital.

      The study population will comprise of 3 groups:

        1. Preeclamptic patients (34 patients)

        2. Pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH; 33 patients)

        3. Healthy pregnant women (33)

      Normotensive and PIH patients will be matched for gestational age with PE patients.
      Echocardiography and non-contrast cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) studies will be
      carried out in all patients in the study upon enrolment and 3-months post partum, on the
      assumption that any physiological cardiovascular changes related to pregnancy will have
      resolved by then. Dr Anna Herrey - a leading expert in CMR in pregnant women will over-see
      the image analyses in the study. Dr Herrey has recently published a paper outlining the
      safety of carrying out CMR in pregnant women and the comparative resolution without the use
      of gadolinium contrast (Herrey et al 2019). Cardiac function will be assessed by
      echocardiography examination measuring ejection fraction, strain and diastolic function (as
      well as pulse wave velocity). Myocardial tissue characteristics will be assessed with
      non-contrast CMR (T1 and T2 mapping and full volumetric assessment, the gold standard for LV
      function analysis(Bellenger et al 2000 and Grothues et al 2002)). Any patient within the
      study group who demonstrates abnormal cardiac changes at 3-months post partum will be
      referred to Dr Sekhri for a 6-months follow-up (under NHS care at this time point). All
      cardiac scans will be carried out as an outpatient at Barts Hospital except for women with
      severe PE where the echocardiography will be carried out at bedside, upon admission to the
      ward. Thus, these women will not have CMR studies at enrolment but will be invited to attend
      the follow-up at 3 months for CMR and echocardiography studies.

      Time- matched blood samples will be taken from patients to assess immune cell phenotypes.
      Plasma samples will be collected for the analyses of cardiac specific factors (BNP, troponin)
      as well as measurement of steroid hormones (progesterone and oestradiol), and soluble
      inflammatory and anti-inflammatory mediators. In order to limit bias within the study, all
      CMR image analyses (done by Dr Herrey) will be blinded. Dr Sekhri will be available for
      second reporting to assess interobserver variability of the CMR studies. Should any
      difference become apparent between early- and late-onset PE (PE which develops before and
      after 34 weeks gestation, respectively), sub-groups will be analysed within the PE group.
      This initial pilot study will inform power calculations for further studies in early and late
      onset disease.

      Study procedures

      Follow-up procedures

      All patients recruited to the study, except those with severe PE, will be followed up as
      outpatients at The Royal London and will be asked to attend a hospital visit at Barts
      Hospital for CMR studies.

      Participant withdrawal

      Participants will have the option to submit a written request to be withdrawn from the trial
      at any stage. Participants will also have the option to withdraw consent from further
      participation in which circumstance no further data will be collected for inclusion. In the
      unfortunate event that a participant loses capacity, information gathered will continue to be
      used but no further data will be recorded.

      The investigators will also ask participants if they can retain their contact information so
      that the investigators may contact them to take part in future research related to to current
      study. This request will be asked on the consent form.

      End of Study Definition

      The end of the study will be defined by achieving the proposed patient numbers per patient
      group (outlined above).

      Statistical considerations

      As this will be a pilot study the investigators cannot perform power calculations on the
      number of patients needed. the numbers for each patient group have been chosen based on the
      realistic numbers of patients that they believe can be recruited over the initial 1 year
      period and subsequent follow-up studies on these patients.

      Method of analysis

      With the support of our local NIHR bioinformatics and bio-repository facility
      (http://www.whri.qmul.ac.uk/core-facilities/nihr-bioinformatics-and-bio-repository), multiple
      parameters will be analysed using multiple group comparisons (ANOVAs) to increase power. In
      order to limit bias within the study, all CMR image analyses (done by Dr Herrey and Dr
      Sekhri) will be blinded, and interobserver variability will be measured.

      The investigators will use flow cytometry to analyse immune cell phenotype. This is a
      well-established method. Dr Nadkarni's laboratory has access to a flow cytometry core
      facility, which has machines that can identify up 12 phenotypic markers on any given cell.
      Moreover, Dr Nadkarni, the Chief Investigator, and her group, have extensive experience in
      immune cell phenotyping using this method. The key advantages are:

        1. It is the gold-standard for immune cell phenotyping

        2. A minimal amount of blood are needed (max 200μls)

        3. Antibodies are commercially available and have been extensively validated by ourselves
           and others

        4. Dr Nadkarni has developed a high throughput method to analyse many samples at once,
           thereby minimising handling error

      All samples will be processed an analysed within 1 hour of sample collection to minimise
      degradation of proteins on the surface of the immune cells.

      The investigators also propose to look at circulating factors in the plasma and this will be
      carried out using commercially available ELISA kits.

      The primary endpoint will be to determine whether there is a correlation between aberrant
      immune cell phenotypes and abnormal cardiac function within our preeclampsia patient cohort,
      compared to normal healthy and PIH groups. Furthermore, analyses will be carried out to find
      statistically significant cardiac functional and phenotypic differences between our
      preeclamptic and PIH patient cohorts, which will improve our understanding of cardiac
      function between the patient groups.

      Ethics

      Application for the current study is pending following submission. Informed consent will be
      obtained and recorded as described as above. Allowances for special groups are detailed
      above.

      Incidental Findings

      Should any incidental findings of clinical significance arise during the course of the study,
      the participants GP and clinical care team will be informed. Consent to contact the GP will
      be sought during the enrolment process.

      Annual Safety Reporting

      The CI will send an Annual Progress Report to the REC and the sponsor using the HRA template
      on the anniversary of the REC "favourable opinion".

      Data management

      All data generated will be stored within an Excel spreadsheet combining clinical and lab
      data. The spreadsheet will be password protected stored with a secure hard drive on a
      protected computer. Access to the password and data will be on a strict need-to-know basis. A
      full audit trail will be in place.

      Source Data

      Source data for this study will comprise of initial diagnoses of preeclampsia or pregnancy
      induced hypertension, which will be obtained from the obstetric care team, lead by Dr Elena
      Greco at the Royal London. These will be in the form of blood test results and/or scan images
      of the pregnancy.

      Subsequent source data will be CMR images taken at the initial time point (diagnoses of
      preeclampsia and gestational age-matched controls) and follow-up CMR image data at the 2nd
      time point of the study (3 months post-partum). In addition to CMR images, source data will
      also be obtained from the laboratory phenotyping of blood samples taken from patients at the
      time points mentioned above.

      Investigators who are directly involved with the study will have access to the source data.
      In some cases, where it is deemed best for the patient and their ongoing care, clinicians may
      seek advice from other experts, which may require their access to the source data.

      Confidentiality

      The investigators will undertake pseudorandomisation, whereby the patient is only be
      identifiable by their hospital number. As this will be a follow-up study, the investigators
      will need to link the patient and so this study will not be completely anonymised.

      Record retention and archiving

      The study data and documentation will be archived in accordance with the relevant regulatory
      requirements and site SOPs.

      A unique alphanumeric patient identifier will be allocated to each participant at the start
      of the study. Data will be stored using the unique participant identifiers on a secure
      database. Data will not be stored on personal computers. Confidential documents will be
      stored in a locked cupboard located in a secure room. Clinical notes will be handled
      according to trust protocol. The Data Protection Act and the NHS confidentiality code of
      practice will be adhered to throughout this study. Data may be shared with members of the
      clinical team to allow ongoing clinical care.

      GCP guidelines require that the investigator or the institution maintains all Case Report
      Forms and all source documents that support the data collected from each participant plus all
      trial documentation. Measures will be taken to prevent accidental or premature destruction of
      these documents. Essential documents must be retained for at least 20 years. It is the
      responsibility of the sponsor to inform the investigator when these documents no longer need
      to be retained. If the responsible investigator retires or leaves the institution
      responsibility for the documentation must be transferred to a person who will accept their
      custody

      Sample preparation and collection

      Blood samples to assess immune cell phenotypes will be collected from patients who have read
      the information sheet and signed the consent form. on the day of the cardiac MRI. A maximum
      volume of 15mls will be taken from the patient at any one time and collected into sodium
      citrate tubes.

      Laboratory procedures

      The majority of the blood samples will undergo phenotypic analyses using the flow cytometry
      method. Briefly, 50 microlitres of blood will be labelled with commercially-available
      antibodies that are conjugated to flurochromes that can be detected by lasers on the flow
      cytometer. Specialised software will enable the analyses of the assessment of phenotypic
      markers that are expressed on immune cells.

      The samples will also be isolated for specific immune cell including neutrophils and T-cells,
      which will be stored in a secure -80oC freezer and may be subsequently used for genetic
      testing, including next generation and whole genome sequencing. Such deep sequencing will
      allow us to assess genetic changes that may occur alongside the phenotypic changes in the
      immune cells.

      Plasma will also be collected from these samples to assess circulating factors, to be
      assessed by commercially-available kits.

      Sample storage and transfer

      Blood samples will be taken by the Research Fellow, Dr Alice Christensen, at Barts Heart
      Centre, where the Cardiac MRIs are to be carried out. Samples will be stored in an NHS fridge
      until transfer to laboratory. Barts Heart Centre is a maximum ten-minute walk to the William
      Harvey Research Institute where the laboratory is based. Samples will be transferred by Dr
      Christensen to the laboratory using secure sample transfer boxes to be brought to the
      laboratory. All blood samples will be processed within one hour of collection.

      Safety reporting

      Due to the observational nature and design of this study, safety reporting of adverse events
      will not occur.

      Monitoring and auditing

      The Sponsor or delegate retains the right to audit any study, study site or central facility.
      In addition, any part of the study may be audited by the funders where applicable.

      On-site monitoring will be performed as per the study monitoring plan. Monitoring will
      include source data verification.

      Monitoring of the centre may be undertaken by a trained study monitor or monitors, to verify
      the study documentation.
    
  