
    
      The loss of skeletal muscle mass and strength with advancing age, collectively termed
      sarcopenia, is a primary risk factor for disability, frailty, and premature mortality. This
      is especially true in women, where rapid rates of decline in muscle mass and greater anabolic
      resistance (blunting of muscle protein synthesis [MPS] despite availability of amino acids)
      are experienced around the time of menopause2. Previous evidence has demonstrated that
      resistance exercise is an effective strategy to mitigate muscle loss in older adults,
      particularly in conjunction with protein supplementation. Typically, animal-based proteins
      are utilized in research studies; however, they may be inaccessible for older women with
      limited financial income or simply unattractive to the growing number of women consuming more
      plant-based diets. While potatoes contain lower amounts of protein compared to animal
      sources, the high biological value (BV~90-100) of potato protein and high consumption rates,
      make this food an ideal source of protein in North American diets. In fact, potatoes
      contribute roughly 3%-3.5% of the total daily protein intake for adults and plant-based
      proteins contribute 60% of dietary protein worldwide. When compared to animal sourced
      protein, potatoes are readily available and are a highly sustainable food source.
      Consequently, potatoes represent an accessible, cost-effective protein source for the growing
      aging population. However, the efficacy of a diet rich in potato protein to stimulate an
      increase in integrated rates of MPS, which are the basis for muscle growth, in women has not
      been investigated. Therefore, while the eventual target consumer will be all women, young and
      old, firstly we will demonstrate the effectiveness of potato based protein to stimulate MPS
      in young women.

      Twenty-four healthy young women (18-29 yrs) will be recruited to participate in this parallel
      group, double blind, randomized controlled trial. Participants will be randomized to either
      supplementary isolated potato protein and unilateral resistance training, or unilateral
      resistance training alone as placebo (with usual dietary practices, protein clamped at 0.8
      g/kg/day). Participants will engage in unilateral resistance training 3 times per wk for 2
      wk. To assess the anabolic properties of potato protein, the women in the potato protein
      group will ingest 25 g of isolated potato protein 2 times a day. On the day of resistance
      exercise one serving will be provided immediately after the cessation of training. The
      placebo group will follow the same supplement schedule, but with a placebo. Integrated rates
      of myofibrillar MPS will be assessed with the precursor-product method using deuterium
      labeled water (70% D2O).
    
  