
    
      In patients with heart failure (HF) and left ventricular (LV) dilation, adverse LV remodeling
      causes tethering of mitral valve (MV) preventing sufficient coaptation of normal leaflets and
      resulting in functional MR. Because secondary functional MR usually develops as a result of
      LV dysfunction, guideline-directed medical therapy for HF forms the mainstay of therapy.
      However, beta blockers, angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, and angiotensin
      receptor blockers (ARB) fail to reverse adverse LV remodeling and functional MR, and the
      morbidity and mortality of patients with functional MR remain high despite standard medical
      therapy. A recent randomized trial proved that reduction of functional MR by transcatheter MV
      repair resulted in a lower rate of hospitalization for HF and lower mortality in patients
      with HF and significant secondary MR, and investigators recently demonstrated that the
      angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitor (ARNI) is more effective in improving functional MR
      associated with HF than the ARB in a double-blind, randomized trial. In this trial,
      investigators enrolled 118 stable HF patients with functional MR, whose effective regurgitant
      orifice area (EROA) larger than 0.1 cm2, lasting > 6 months despite standard medical
      treatment, and the primary end point of change in EROA was significantly different between
      the ARNI group and the ARB group (-0.058±0.095 versus -0.018±0.105 cm2; P=0.032), and a
      decrease in end-diastolic volume index of the LV was also significantly greater in the ARNI
      group than in the ARB group (P=0.044).

      Sodium-glucose co-transporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitors reduce cardiac preload and afterload by
      natriuresis and lowering arterial stiffness, similar to the neprilysin inhibitor that
      facilitates sodium excretion and has vasodilating effects. In addition, effects on blood
      pressure reduction and weight loss may ultimately have a beneficial effect on LV remodeling.
      Recently it has been reported that SGLT2 inhibitors have a multifaceted effect on cardiac
      function including improvement in endothelial dysfunction and aortic stiffness, reduction in
      epicardial fat accumulation as well as in visceral adipocyte hypertrophy. Randomized trials
      to explore cardiovascular (CV) benefit of the SGLT2 inhibitor have been performed and showed
      a significant reduction on the risk of CV death or hospitalization for HF. However, its
      effect on cardiac structure and function was not evaluated and further mechanistic studies
      are needed to interpret beneficial clinical effects of the SGLT2 inhibitors. Based on studies
      demonstrating SGLT2 inhibitors' favorable effects on LV modeling, investigators hypothesize
      that SGLT2 inhibitor, ertugliflozin, is effective on improving MR in patients with functional
      MR secondary to LV dysfunction and try to examine this hypothesis in a multicenter,
      double-blind, randomized comparison study using echocardiography.
    
  