
    
      The disease obesity continues to be a major health issue in the US with over one third of the
      population having a mass index >30 kg/m2. Obesity is associated with serious cardiometabolic
      complications including diabetes, hypertension, dyslipidemia and myocardial infarction. Rates
      of successful obesity treatment with weight loss and weight maintenance remain low. Several
      endoscopic bariatric therapies have been approved for use in the United States, including
      three intragastric balloon systems (2 fluid-filled and one gas-filled), which have lower
      risks than bariatric surgery and do not alter gastrointestinal anatomy. Weight loss with all
      intragastric balloons is higher than lifestyle therapy or weight loss medications, but less
      than bariatric surgery. Unlike weight loss medications where weight loss from the medication
      is regained within 6-8 months after therapy ends, weight loss maintenance with intragastric
      balloons remains high with 66-88.5% of the weight loss maintained 6 months after device
      removal. Data suggests that space occupying devices with a volume of 400 ml or more in the
      stomach increase feelings of fullness and result in weight loss, but this does not explain
      the prolonged effect of weight loss maintenance after balloon removal. Although few studies
      have investigated the mechanism of action of fluid-filled balloons on weight loss, these data
      suggest that gastric emptying as well as space occupation contribute to weight loss. However,
      no studies have investigated the mechanisms of action of gas filled intragastric balloons on
      weight loss.

      Understanding the mechanisms responsible for weight loss with the gas filled intragastric
      balloon system and any weight loss independent effects on blood glucose control would lay the
      groundwork for studies evaluating predictors of response to improve patient selection as well
      as studies understanding the mechanisms behind weight loss maintenance and developing
      strategies to prolong weight loss maintenance. Therefore, the purpose of this pilot study is
      to determine the effects 10% total body weight loss (%TBWL) in patients with obesity treated
      with the intragastric balloon (GF- IGB) system compared to patients with obesity treated with
      a meal replacement program (MRP) on 1) gastric emptying, 2) hormonal adaptation to weight
      loss and 3) hunger.
    
  