
    
      This population-based application responds to the American Cancer Society Research Scholar
      Grant, Priority Program in Cancer Control. Recent years have seen a growing research interest
      in learning how to get known-effective health education strategies to reach more people who
      could benefit from them. An important part of this growing movement is a focus on sustained
      impact, or continued program benefit after the funding period is over. It is believed that
      the best way to achieive this sustained impact is through integrating the program into the
      host community at multiple levels. This innovative strategy has not been systematically
      tested in community-based settings, where the most vulnerable people can be reached. Since
      churches have a historical and ever-growing role in health promotion particularly among
      African Americans, they are an ideal place to reach this group for cancer education. The
      proposed project will compare two ways to apply a known-effective cancer educational strategy
      through African American churches: 1) a standard method vs. 2) a new method in which the
      churches integrate the strategy into their organizational structure and practice at multiple
      levels. It will be determined whether this "integrated approach" results in more effective
      and sustained cancer education and screening activities at both the church and individual
      levels over time. The educational strategy is one that has been used successfully in previous
      work: Project HEAL (Health through Early Awareness and Learning). Project HEAL is a series of
      three cancer early detection workshops (breast, prostate, colorectal) delivered through
      trained and certified lay peer community health advisors in African American churches. 14
      churches will be randomly chosen to conduct either the standard Project HEAL program or an
      integrated Project HEAL strategy where the churches build the program into their organization
      in multiple ways (e.g., allocating volunteer or paid staff, space, or funds; policy change;
      ministry development). The project will be conducted in three phases: 1) refining the
      integrated approach with community and stakeholder feedback; 2) pilot testing the integrated
      approach in 2 churches; and 3) conducting the study to comparatively evaluate the standard
      vs. the integrated approaches in 14 churches. A scientifically rigorous evaluation plan will
      be used to look at outcomes at both the individual and the church level. This project will
      make important contributions to research in evidence-based medicine and sustainability. In a
      climate of limited resources, identifying sustainable and effective ways to increase cancer
      awareness and screening in African American men and women is more important than ever.
    
  