
    
      Osteoarthritis of first carpometacarpal joint is the most common degenerative disease of
      upper limb. According to data available in literature, it affects about 30% of women and 6%
      of men at the age of 45. Increasing with age, it rises up to 90% in people by the age of 80.
      Due to more widely spread electronic devices in offices, at work, at home which requires
      usage of thumb, increase in numbers mentioned above is strongly probable. The main symptoms
      are: pain, loose of grip strength and loose of function. The latter is most important fact,
      since about 50% of hand function is possible only with healthy thumb.

      In many cases osteoarthritis can be treated by combined NSAIDs and splinting with
      rehabilitation. Sometimes when symptoms do not respond to non-operative treatment, there is a
      need for surgery. Trapeziectomy is the most common choice for operative treatment for
      end-stage basal thumb osteoarthritis. However, many other techniques were developed, there is
      continuous dispute over selecting the optimal . One of the most promising is arthroplasty
      using prosthesis. Last years many important advances were made in a design of implant and
      materials. Moreover the investigators now have many longer outcomes of such operation made in
      the past. All this data make us think more about using this technique often, since there are
      papers which show superiority over classical trapeziectomy. Even though there are several
      studies comparing functional and objective outcome of those techniques, there is a lack of
      evidence in terms of biomechanical analysis, thenar muscle activity and changes in movement
      patterns. Moreover there is no study published so far which considers modern implants and
      trapeziectomy with suspensionplasty. The aim of the study is to examine relationships between
      movement analysis (kinematic and functional outcomes), patient reported outcome measures
      (PROMS) and X-ray measurement, electromyography both pre- and post-operatively.
    
  