
    
      Primary objective

      Evaluation of the ability of NIR imaging using ICG to demonstrate (the gross tumoral mass
      and/or) peritoneal metastatic " implants " in patients operated for peritoneal carcinomatosis
      from colorectal carcinoma

      Secondary objective:

      Definition of the histological distribution (in the vessels, in the extravascular spaces, in
      specific cells) of IV injected ICG in the normal and pathological tissues (and, if any is
      demonstrated per-operatively, a) in the nodes of these patients found fluorescent and removed
      and/or b) at the level of the fluorescent foci observed at the level of the hepatic surfaces)

      Methodology:

      The day before the operation:

      ICG 0.125 mg/kg will be given as an iv injection the day before the operation.

      In the operating room:

      When the patient will be operated, the surgeons will (under "conventional" video control)
      search and establish as usual the presence (of "gross" tumoral mass and) of metastatic
      deposits at the level of the peritoneal surfaces. NIR imaging will be acquired during these
      manoeuvers and, if detected, fluorescent structures and/or foci will be anatomically defined
      by the surgeons.

      If ("gross" tumoral mass and/or) metastatic deposits are seen fluorescent, the operation will
      be then continued as usual but each anatomical piece will be controlled "ex vivo" for its
      fluorescent character or not. All fluorescent foci on these anatomical pieces will be
      identified as such by a mark and/or by a "suture".

      If ("gross" tumoral mass and/or) metastatic deposits are not seen fluorescent, ICG 0.125
      mg/kg will be given as an iv injection and the vascularization, income of the ICG in the
      tumoral implants (judged by the surgeon the most representative of the patient's status) will
      be dynamically studied using the PDE camera during the 10 minutes following the IV injection.

      If no hepatic metastases were pre-operatively documented, the surface of the liver will be
      controlled and, if superficial fluorescent foci are observed, these will be biopsied.

      In the Laboratory of Pathology:

      The tumoral tissues as well as -if identified- the "non identified as tumoral" fluorescent
      tissular foci will be processed as usual.

      All the slides obtained will be analyzed using the near-infrared fluorescence microscope for
      the presence or the absence of (detectable) ICG and the different ICG-positive compartments
      (vascular spaces, interstitial spaces, normal and/or tumoral cells, macrophages,…) will be
      determined.
    
  