
    
      The aim of our research is to evaluate the effect of a cognitive stimulation program in older
      adults aged 65 or over The intervention was carried out at the Foundation of Zaragoza
      (Spain), consisting of 10 sessions of 45 minutes/week during 10 weeks.with normal cognition
      and compare it, in the short, medium and long term, with the evolution of other people, with
      the same characteristics and for which this intervention has not been carried out.

      The significant increase in the number of people over 65 years of age in relation to the
      total population suggests a significant increase in age-related pathologies. Prevention is
      essential to avoid cognitive aging and preserve higher mental functions.

      From an economic perspective, it is estimated that people with mild cognitive impairment
      produce 16% more spending than those with normal cognition.

      Cognitive stimulation is a low-cost non-pharmacological treatment that has shown its benefits
      in the preservation of cognitive aspects based on the brain plasticity it generates.

      Our research is based on cognitive stimulation using the yellow and Orange Mental Activation
      notebooks, levels that correspond to the scores of Lobo's cognitive Mini-test. The book
      consists of 4 practical exercises that work on 10 cognitive aspects (memory, orientation,
      language, praxis, gnosis, calculation, perception, reasoning, attention and programming); in
      total 40 exercises. The models on which the laptop is based are the cognitive model and the
      human occupation model.

      In the Health Center San José Norte-Centro of Zaragoza (Spain), assessments were made to 416
      volunteer candidates, of which 215 were excluded for not meeting the inclusion criteria;
      being a total of 201participants that have been part of the randomized controlled trial. Of
      the 201 participants; 101 have carried out the intervention as an intervention group and 100
      as the control group. The control group did not perform any type of intervention.

      The intervention was carried out at the Foundation of Zaragoza (Spain), consisting of 10
      sessions of 45 minutes/week during 10 weeks.

      The conceptual framework of this intervention is formed by the framework for practice of
      Occupational Therapy, the cognitive model and the human occupation model of Gary Kielhofner .

      To homogenize both the assessments and the intervention, a standardized training was carried
      out for the occupational therapists who carried them out and consisted of a theoretical part
      and a practical part of 10 hours each.

      The study began in December 2011, obtained the authorization of the Directorate of Primary
      Care of the Zaragoza II Sector and the approval of the project by the Research Ethics
      Committee of the Government of Aragón (CEICA). This study has followed the ethical standards
      recognized by the Declaration of Helsinki. The initial assessments began this month. The
      necessary sample size was reached in October 2012 and, from that moment on, randomization and
      intervention with the selected participants was carried out. Three other assessments were
      made, both for the intervention group and for the control group, immediately after the
      intervention, six months and one year after the intervention.
    
  