
    
      PROBLEM STATEMENT:

      Background Currently the DME (diabetic macular edema) can be treated with 2 types of
      intravitreous treatment: corticosteroids (Ozurdex) or antiangiogenic (Eylea). Until a few
      years ago it was treated with photocoagulation. But the most rapid advances have been made at
      the level of image tests with more and more cutting-edge OCTs (optical coherence tomography)
      that allow an image of better quality and precision allowing more and more details to be
      observed. Also the new photographs of autofluorescences or the Angio-OCT allow to observe
      many more details. Therefore this recent field in constant progression remains unexplored.
      Current studies on inflammation factors before and after treatment are few and with small N
      that do not exceed 20.

      This study aims to observe all these inflammation factors of images, anatomical involvement
      by DME and see how they respond after intravitreal treatment. As another more pretentious
      objective would be to draw some conclusion about the drugs used according to the changes
      observed in the images.

      Justification Today, these multiple imaging techniques are the only way to obtain information
      about DME apart from the direct exploration of the fundus, the changes they produce and the
      responses to treatment. Since its appearance, the management and follow-up of patients
      affected by DME has been constantly improved. Given the constant evolution of the quality of
      the images the investigators must study the new possibilities that they offer us.

      Investigation questions What are the changes in inflammatory markers that can be detected by
      multimodal study of new imaging techniques before and after corticosteroid and antiangiogenic
      treatment in patients with diabetic macular edema?

      OBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY:

      To study changes in inflammation markers by multimodal study of new imaging techniques after
      corticosteroid and antiangiogenic treatment in patients with diabetic macular edema

      - Definition of variables

      Main variable:

      - Markers of image inflammation: choroidal thickness, central macular thickness, type of DME,
      disruption of the ellipsoid line, disruption of the external limiting membrane,
      disorganization of retinal inner layers, number of hyperreflective points, presence of
      hyperautofluorescent lesions, presence of epiretinal membrane.

      These markers will be evaluated before treatment and 4 months after treatment to observe the
      changes that have occurred.

      Other variables to be collected:

        -  Demographic data: sex, age

        -  Pathological antecedents: Degree of diabetic retinopathy, type of DM, last HbA1c, DM
           evolution time.

        -  HbA1c: last value that the patient has in his usual follow-up.

      Size of the expected sample Approx N = 80 A formal calculation of the sample size has not
      been made. It is considered that with an N of 80 it will be sufficient to achieve the
      objectives of the study.

      METHODOLOGY: Information sources Patients will be recruited from the Ophthalmology service in
      the different Retina offices of the Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau.

      In case of fulfilling the selection criteria and accepting to participate by signing the
      informed consent, the necessary information will be collected from the clinical history.

      The usual tests (visual acuity, OCT, angio-OCT, retinographies, autofluorescence) will be
      carried out and the usual treatment will be indicated (intravitreal injections of Eylea or
      Ozurdex) After 4 months of treatment at the usual monitoring visit, the same usual tests will
      be performed (visual acuity, OCT, angio-OCT, retinographies, autofluorescence). After that,
      the study with the patient ends.

      As indicated, the treatment and screening methods are those that are routinely performed in
      the center to patients with this pathology, so it does not imply additional requests or
      potential risks from the present study.

      - Management and Analysis of data: Management and analysis of the data with the SPSS
      statistical program and with the help of the Hospital's Biostatistics service.

      QA The researcher will guarantee the accuracy and integrity of the data, as well as all the
      reports that are required.

      The researcher will save the study documents until at least 5 years after completion of the
      study.

      Upon the request of the monitor, auditor, CEIC or health authority, the researcher will have
      available all the files related to the study, allowing direct access to the data or source
      documents for the realization of the monitoring, the audit, the review by the CEIC , as well
      as the inspection of the trial by the competent authorities.

      ETHICAL ASPECTS:

      Benefit-risk evaluation of the research No risks arising from participation are expected,
      since the usual practice of treatment is not changed and no image test is toxic or has side
      effects.

      Ethical considerations, about information to subjects and informed consent The study will be
      carried out strictly following the international ethical recommendations for medical research
      in humans. The researcher will be responsible for ensuring that the study is conducted in
      accordance with the standards set out in the Declaration of Helsinki.

      Before starting the study, the Ethical Committee of the Hospital of Santa Creu i Sant Pau
      (CEIC) must approve the protocol of the study, the information that will be given to the
      subject and the model of informed consent that will be used.

      The CEIC will be informed of any amendment subsequent to the protocol and its opinion should
      be requested in case a new evaluation of the ethical aspects of the study is necessary.

      It is the researcher's responsibility to obtain the informed consent of the patient. The
      patient will not be able to participate in any specific procedure of the study before
      obtaining their consent, or that of their legal / family tutor when the patient is not able
      to give their consent for their clinical situation.

      Before including any subject in the study and before obtaining the informed consent, the
      researcher or the person designated by the same, will explain to the possible participant
      subject or their legal / family tutor, the objectives, methods and potential risks of the
      study and any annoyance that this may cause. The explanation about the nature, scope and
      possible consequences of the study will be made in an understandable language.

      The potential participant or his / her legal / family tutor must have time to reflect on
      their decision to participate in the study, and have the opportunity to ask questions. After
      this explanation, and before entering the study, the consent must be properly recorded by the
      signature of the subject or legal / family tutor.

      Confidentiality of the data:

      Regarding the confidentiality of the study data, the provisions of Organic Law 15/1999 of
      December 13, on "Protection of Personal Data" will be followed.

      Interference with the doctor's prescription habits:

      The clinical management of the patients will be adapted to the treatment standards of the
      Ophthalmology Service of the Hospital de la Santa Creu and Sant Pau, without the realization
      of this study influencing such process.

      PLANS FOR THE DISSEMINATION OF RESULTS:

      Dissemination of the results in publications of medical journals and for the realization of
      the doctoral thesis
    
  