
    
      The study will take place at M. D. Anderson. Examinations will be performed in the cancer
      prevention, head and neck or dental clinics, or the operating room for patients who get
      scheduled for surgery as part of their standard care.

      Abnormal looking areas (lesions) inside the mouth may be a sign of cancer or changes that may
      lead to cancer. Researchers are looking for a practical way to tell early on whether these
      lesions are cancer or may become cancer. This study will look at a technique called
      reflectance confocal imaging.

      Participants in this study will have an examination of the mouth. A photograph will be taken
      of any abnormal areas inside the mouth. Then a small probe, about the size of a large ink
      pen, will be placed gently against one to two abnormal appearing areas, and one normal
      appearing area inside the mouth. The probe will expose the oral lining to a small amount of
      light. Some of this light will be reflected back into the probe, and be picked up by a
      computer. Pictures will be made of the tissue.

      A small amount of vinegar will be placed at each site with a cotton swab before the probe is
      placed. The procedure takes about 1-2 minutes at each site. A small sample of tissue from
      each site, both the normal and abnormal, will be removed. The biopsies done on the normal
      tissue are done for this study only and are not part of standard care. The samples will be
      removed either at the time of surgery or under local anesthesia in the clinic. Briefly, the
      small areas to be biopsied will be numbed with topical anesthesia and an injection of local
      anesthesia. Then a small amount of tissue, about as big as a pencil eraser, will be removed
      with sterile surgical instruments. This should cause little discomfort or bleeding. The
      tissue will be placed in a special fluid and then looked at with a special microscope. The
      tissue samples will be examined with a microscope by a pathologist to learn if the tissue is
      cancerous or precancerous. These results will be compared with the pictures that were made of
      the lining of the mouth.

      You will not be told of any of the experimental findings. The pathology review of the tissue
      removed will be available to the treating physician for patient care.

      THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY. The device used for reflectance confocal imaging is an
      investigational device. It is considered a non-significant risk device by the FDA to be used
      for research only. A total of 22 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled
      at M. D. Anderson.
    
  