
    
      Prospective Cohort observational study. All patients that meet criteria for participation in
      this study will be screened: patients scheduled to undergo a laparoscopic hysterectomy for
      benign conditions by attending physicians in the division of Minimally Invasive Gynecologic
      Surgery. Based on surgeon's preference, and patient's consent, the patient is offered a QL
      block or not. Our aim is to follow the patient's pain scores post op and amount of oral pain
      medication used whether they received QL block or not. If the patient received the QL block
      then they will be considered part of the study arm. If the patient did not receive the QL
      block then they will be considered part of the control arm.

      The QL block is best thought of as a volume or compartment block in that volumetric spread of
      LA along the fascial plane is associated with efficacy in blocking the thoracolumbar nerves
      between T7-L1. It can be reasonably assumed that this compartment is the same across patients
      and is not affected by the amount of subcutaneous or central fat present in the obese
      patient.

      If a block is to be performed, the QL block will be performed using a 21G x 100mm Stimuplex
      needle under ultrasound guidance using a curvilinear probe. Subjects will be positioned in
      the semi-lateral position to facilitate access into the plane posterior to the quadratus
      lumborum muscle and middle layer of thoracolumbar fascia. The QL block will be administered
      via an in-plane approach and local anesthetic will be injected between the quadratus lumborum
      muscle and the middle layer of the thoracolumbar. The QL block will be in the operating room
      after induction prior to starting the scheduled surgical procedure. If the block is
      performed, it will include 20ml of 0.25% bupivacaine and 5ml of liposomal bupivacaine
      (Exparel) per side. The block will be done bilaterally therefore a total of 40ml of 0.25%
      bupivacaine and 10ml of liposomal bupivacaine (Exparel) will be administered.
    
  