
    
      Despite major advances in recent decades in treatment for early stage breast cancer leading
      to an 89% 5-year survival rate, metastatic breast cancer is still considered incurable due to
      resistance to most available treatments. As such, 5-year survival rate for metastatic breast
      cancer is only 22%. One mechanism for resistance to cancer therapies and promotion of
      metastasis in solid tumors is that their vascular system is impaired causing diminished
      delivery of systemic therapy and oxygen. Furthermore, toxicity can be quite high with
      metastatic regimens, which can limit the dose received. Both diet and exercise have been used
      to attenuate treatment toxicity, but the promising preclinical evidence showing their
      potential to enhance chemotherapy efficacy and survival has not been studied in humans. For
      example, a single bout of aerobic exercise substantially increased tumor blood flow and
      oxygen delivery, suggesting that chemotherapy delivery to the tumor would be enhanced. Short
      periods of fasting or caloric restriction also appear to be safe and effective strategies to
      inhibit tumor growth, enhance chemotherapy efficacy, while also promoting resistance to
      chemotherapy in healthy cells. Furthermore, combining aerobic exercise and caloric
      restriction can elicit synergistic effects on outcomes relevant to cancer, including body
      composition, aerobic fitness, fasting insulin and glucose, insulin-like growth factor, and
      tumor promoter pathways.

      Study Design: With preclinical proof-of-principle and clinical safety and feasibility of each
      intervention independently established, this study will be a phase II, two-arm, single blind,
      randomized controlled trial. Fifty patients will be randomly assigned to an acute
      intervention consisting of both aerobic exercise and caloric restriction administered acutely
      prior to each of six chemotherapy cycles, or to usual care.

      Approach: Participants will include adults with metastatic breast cancer with measurable
      metastases that will receive intravenous chemotherapy. The aerobic exercise intervention will
      consist of a single supervised recumbent cycle ergometer session performed concurrent to each
      chemotherapy infusion. The diet intervention consists of provision of meals freshly prepared
      in a metabolic kitchen under the supervision of a dietitian with caloric content equivalent
      to 50% of measured energy requirements and low carbohydrate content for the 72 hours prior to
      each chemotherapy infusion. This acute intervention does not lead to long-term nutritional
      imbalances or weight loss. Exercise intensity and meals will be individualized to participant
      abilities and preferences. Tumor outcomes will be assessed via CT scan (tumor size) and MRI
      (novel marker of tumor regression), while symptoms and quality of life will be assessed via
      questionnaire before, during and after up to six chemotherapy cycles of a consistent
      treatment protocol. Progression-free and overall survival will be tracked for two years after
      diagnosis.
    
  