
    
      Following an information session during which the primary consent document, a genetic
      sampling consent document and the UCSD HIPPA forms are reviewed, discussed and signed, the
      following tests and procedures will be done. For each subject, the study visit will be for
      3-4 hours.

        1. Subjects will undergo a detailed history, physical examination, anthropometrics and
           vital signs including blood pressure and pulse. Standardized questionnaires including
           the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Tests (AUDIT) and Skinner Lifetime Drinking
           History will be used to identify alcohol use as a cause of fatty liver disease. A
           trained investigator will measure waist/hip ratio at the same time as other measures are
           taken. The Body Mass Index (BMI) will be as calculated by measuring each subject's
           weight (Kg) and height (m) with empty bowel and bladder and using the formula: BMI =
           weight (kg)/ height (m)2.

        2. Blood tests: Participants will undergo phlebotomy, after an overnight fast, for complete
           metabolic panel (including liver function tests), complete blood count, protime, lipid
           panel, free fatty acids, serum insulin, hemoglobin A1C, fasting glucose, hepatitis B
           surface antigen, hepatitis C antibody, prothrombin time and HIV. 30ml of blood will be
           collected: including 5ml of serum banking, 5ml of plasma banking, 5ml of DNA banking,
           and 15ml for planned labs as listed above. Plasma will be stored for adipocytokines and
           testing of novel genes or biomarkers for NALFD in later studies. Fasting plasma glucose
           and plasma insulin levels will be obtained. Insulin resistance will be measured by
           HOMA-IR, the homeostasis assessment model of insulin resistance, where HOMA-IR (mmol/L x
           µU/ml) = fasting glucose (mmol/L) x fasting insulin (µU/ml)/22.5). The participants will
           be required to provide a stool and urine sample as well.

        3. A urine pregnancy test will be performed for all women of childbearing age. Women who
           have had hysterectomies are excluded from pregnancy testing. If the pregnancy test is
           positive, the patient will not be enrolled in the study.

        4. The patient will undergo magnetic resonance imaging for hepatic fat fraction.
    
  