
    
      Alopecia Areata can have a large impact on patients' quality of life, causing both cosmetic
      and psychosocial distress. Studies on the impact of hair loss have shown high levels of
      self-consciousness, jealousy, embarrassment, depression, introversion, and decreased
      self-esteem .

      Alopecia Areata can occur at any age, but it is most common among young and middle-aged
      people . Both sexes are equally affected. Several environmental factors have been suggested
      as triggering Alopecia Areata, including infection, drugs, trauma, and stress. Thyroid
      autoimmune disease, atopy, and vitiligo are commonly associated. Diverse physical or
      psychological insults may trigger the episodes of Alopecia Areata, but there is no evidence
      that they influence prognosis.

      Etiology of Alopecia Areata is not completely understood, and the majority of evidence
      suggests that genetically predisposed individuals, when exposed to an unknown trigger,
      develop a predominantly autoimmune reaction, leading to acute hair loss.

      Although many patients improve spontaneously or respond to standard therapy, treatment can be
      quite challenging in those with more severe and refractory disease .

      Topical corticosteroids are often the first line of treatment for mild patchy alopecia, with
      the underlying mechanism being containment of inflammation and hastening of the recovery of
      damaged hair follicles . Additionally, corticosteroids may be delivered via intralesional
      injection with slightly better effects (63% with complete regrowth within 4 months in one
      study . However, this method cannot be used for rapidly progressing variants and does not
      prevent hair loss at other sites . Furthermore, both topical and intralesional steroids
      increase the risk of cutaneous atrophy at the site of treatment, and intralesional steroids
      may decrease bone mineral density .

      With the development of new technologies, more and more lasers or lamps have been used to
      treat alopecia, such as ultraviolet , Excimer laser/lamp , low-level laser , erbium-glass
      laser, thulium laser , and carbon dioxide laser . Individual researchers have been
      considering 308-nm Excimer lamp to be used for treating Alopecia Areata by inducing apoptosis
      of T lymphocytes, but the effective rates had differences in studies .

      Excimer laser using high-dose monochromatic UV radiation can trigger apoptosis and induce
      immunological suppression through altering cytokine production such as interleukin-4,
      interleukin-10, prostaglandin E2, platelet-activating factor, and cis-urocanic acid .
    
  