
    
      After chronic cough diagnosis, the Principal Investigator (or his designee) will identify
      patients who are potentially eligible to participate in this pilot study, based on the
      predefined inclusion criteria.

      A number of 25 participants will be recruited for this pilot study: 10 suffering from chronic
      cough with unclear underlying cause, 4-6 suffering from COPD, 4-6 suffering from Asthma and
      4-6 suffering from interstitial lung disease.

      Patients who choose to participate will be entered into the pilot study after obtaining their
      informed consent, when they will receive the SIVA-P3 wearable (and charging device), helped
      to download the SIVA-P3 smartphone application and couple the wearable component with the
      smartphone.

      Furthermore, they will be asked to rate their current cough severity on a visual analog scale
      (Cough Severity VAS). Participants will receive an envelope with a second Cough Severity VAS
      and a return envelope to send back the SIVA-P3 wearable and charging device at the end of the
      study.

      Participants will receive standard care and will be asked to wear the wearable component
      during the day, charge it on the bedside while sleeping and to otherwise go about daily life
      as they would do normally for a duration of seven days. In the evening of every day, they
      will be prompted by the SIVA-P3 smartphone application to indicate the timing of their main
      meals.

      On day 8, the study nurse will conduct a pre-scheduled phone interview with each participant.
      The phone interview will include instructing the patient to fill in the final Cough Severity
      VAS, asking the questions of the Participant User Feedback Questionnaire, and instructing the
      patient to send the Cough Severity VAS form and the SIVA-P3 wearable (and charging device)
      back to the trial site using the return envelope. The Participant User Feedback Questionnaire
      will include ratings of wearing comfort, usability and likeliness to wear for extended period
      of time.
    
  