
    
      Disease activity in RA can be assessed by physical examination, patient-reported outcomes
      (PROs) or laboratory tests. Joints counts and PROs are partly or entirely subjective. Their
      ability to support clinical assessment is limited in certain settings, including for RA
      patients with common comorbidities, such fibromyalgia, obesity, or depression, or with
      clinically uncertain inflammatory burden. It can be difficult to assess the origin of ongoing
      pain in such patients using clinical assessment alone. The two blood tests routinely used to
      assess RA disease activity, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein
      (CRP), are objective but are in the normal range in more than half of RA patients with active
      disease, which reduces their negative predictive value and greatly limits their utility.
      These clinical and laboratory measures are variously combined in composite scores of RA
      disease activity, such as the 28-joint count Disease Activity Score (DAS28) or the Clinical
      Disease Activity Index (CDAI) which are not widely used in the US outside of clinical trials
      because complete, formal joint counts are time-consuming and composite scores pose logistic
      challenges in a busy clinic setting.

      Radiographic progression (RP) is a validated endpoint accepted by the FDA for clinical trials
      that reflects RA-related damage to joints. It is associated with long-term disability.
      Optimal care requires that the risk of progression be reduced. Quantitative scoring of RP is
      performed only for clinical trials and is not used for assessing RP risk in clinical
      practice. Rheumatologists are generally not trained to score radiographs and they are very
      time-consuming to score, typically taking 20 or more minutes per patient for a skilled
      reader. However, they are a valuable scientific endpoint in that they serve as a valid proxy
      for long term damage and associated RA-related disability. Conventional clinical and
      laboratory-based measures of RA disease activity are weak predictors of RP, including among
      patients in clinical remission, where progression can still occur. Thus, an objective,
      convenient measure that reflects pathologically meaningful disease activity and predicts risk
      for progression is needed for optimal management of RA.

      The multi-biomarker disease activity (MBDA) test, Vectra®, is an objective tool that combines
      serum concentrations of 12 biomarkers in a validated algorithm to produce a score on a scale
      of 1 to 100. The MBDA test was subsequently adjusted to account for the effects of age, sex,
      and leptin (a surrogate for adiposity) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The Vectra
      score has been shown to be the strongest predictor of risk for RP, compared with conventional
      disease activity measures, including DAS28-CRP, CRP and the swollen joint count. In
      multivariate analyses, it was the only disease activity measure to independently predict RP.
      High Vectra scores (>44) are associated with greatest risk for progression and low and
      moderate scores with very low risk. Across multiple studies, Vectra has a negative predictive
      value for progression of 93-97%, and in a meta-analysis, the relative risk for progression
      with a high Vectra score (5.1) is substantially greater than with a high DAS28-CRP (1.4) or
      high CRP (1.6). The predictive value of Vectra exists even when the Vectra score and clinical
      measures are discordant, which means that patients with high DAS28-CRP have little risk for
      RP when Vectra score is low and, conversely, patients with low DAS28-CRP have high risk for
      RP when Vectra score is high.

      Thus, reducing high Vectra scores should be a primary goal of therapy, regardless of the
      level of clinical disease activity, and using Vectra scores to guide therapy should be an
      effective way to prevent radiographic progression. A recent prospective study of daily and
      diurnal variation in Vectra score established that the minimally important difference (MID)
      in Vectra score - i.e., the magnitude of change in Vectra score that is needed to be
      confident that it reflects real biologic change and is not due only to random variation - is
      greater than or equal to 8 Vectra units. Accordingly, a threshold of 8 can be used in
      guidances for using Vectra to evaluate treatment response.

      The primary objective is to compare the clinical response from baseline to 6 months among
      patients with RA receiving Vectra-Guided care versus those receiving usual care.

      The secondary objectives of this study are to:

        -  Evaluate the rate of radiographic progression from baseline to year 1 among patients
           with RA whose care is guided by Vectra DA relative to those receiving usual care.

        -  Evaluate changes in Vectra DA score from baseline to 6 months and baseline to year 1
           among patients with RA whose care is guided by Vectra DA relative to those receiving
           usual care.

        -  Evaluate clinical response from baseline to 1 year among patients with RA receiving
           Vectra-guided care relative to those receiving usual care.
    
  