
    
      Background: This study proposes a prospective program of research that will identify feasible
      and inexpensive methods to detect and treat comorbid PTSD among VA SUD patients, thereby
      improving substance abuse treatment outcomes.

      Objective(s): Our objectives are to test the effectiveness of substituting 2 hours/week of
      Seeking Safety-based groups for standard substance use focused groups for male patients
      attending outpatient substance use disorder treatment who meet clinical criteria for PTSD.
      Primary outcomes measures will assess substance use disorder severity and secondary outcome
      measures will assess mental health and substance use related problems plus treatment
      satisfaction. We hypothesize that enhanced SUD treatment that incorporates "Seeking Safety"
      will improve SUD treatment outcomes for PTSD-SUD patients as compared to outcomes for
      PTSD-SUD patients receiving treatment as usual. Additionally, we examine two hypothesized
      models via which "Seeking Safety" may effect substance use outcomes. We examine whether 1)
      reductions in PTSD symptomatology and 2) improvements in coping strategies used in response
      to PTSD symptoms (reductions in using to cope and other avoidance coping strategies)
      partially mediate the effect of treatment on substance use outcomes.

      Methods: This is a randomized clinical trial of 210 male veterans with PTSD and substance use
      disorders attending outpatient substance use disorder treatment at the VA Oakland mental
      health center. Patients will be randomized to 3 months of outpatient substance abuse
      treatment including either 2 hours/week of "Seeking Safety" or standard addiction focused
      group therapy. Data will be collected in patient interviews at treatment entry and at 3, 6
      and 12 months after treatment initiation and by medical record review. Substance use, PTSD
      symptomatology, mental health, social functioning, legal problems, use of coping techniques,
      and treatment satisfaction outcomes will be assessed at treatment entry and 3, 6 and 12
      months later using well-validated survey instruments. Primary and secondary treatment
      outcomes of patients in "Seeking Safety" versus treatment as usual will be compared by
      repeated measures ANCOVA. We will test the mediational hypotheses according to the 4-step
      method described by Baron and Kenny (1986).

      Status: Project began in January, 2006; Recruitment, treatment and assessment is complete and
      primary trial finds are published. Secondary analysis is ongoing.
    
  