
    
      Due to improved detection and treatment, survival rates among breast cancer survivors have
      increased. However, breast cancer survivors may experience cognitive impairment (CI)
      following treatment, which has been reported by breast cancer survivors up to 10 years after
      chemotherapy (CT). There is limited evidence on whether stress-reducing interventions improve
      CI in breast cancer survivors. The primary goal of this application is to establish the
      Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction for Breast Cancer (MBSR(BC)) program as an effective
      treatment for CI in breast cancer survivors. Specifically this study aim to (1) evaluate the
      extent to which MBSR(BC) compared to the Breast Cancer-Education Support (BCES) program or
      Usual Care (UC) improves cognitive functioning among breast cancer survivors off treatment;
      (2) determine if improvements in cognitive functioning achieved from MBSR(BC) are mediated
      through increased mindfulness and decreased rumination and stress; (3) evaluate genetic
      variants as moderators of MBSR(BC) on improvements in CI; and (4) determine the impact of
      MBSR(BC) on healthcare utilization and costs.

      To achieve these aims, the research team will conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      among 300 breast cancer survivors (with an expected completed sample size of 250) with Stage
      I-III BC who have received adjuvant CT or CT and radiation. Within this RCT, MBSR(BC) will be
      delivered to a sub-population of Spanish speaking breast cancer survivors. Participants will
      be randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio to 1 of 3 conditions (1) the 6-week MBSR(BC) program;
      (2) the 6-week BCES program; or (3) UC. However, once the UC condition has reached a total of
      30 participants, then randomization at the baseline assessment will occur in a 1:1 ratio to 1
      of 2 conditions: (1) MBSR(BC) and (2) BCES.

      The BCES program will match the MBSR(BC) program for time and attention and parallel the
      group support component of MBSR(BC). Assessments will take place at baseline, 6 weeks,12
      weeks and 6 months and include clinical history and demographic information, objective
      neuropsychological assessments, subjective cognitive and symptom measurements, cost
      utilization surveys, and either the blood or buccal (cheek) cells collection for genetic
      analyses.

      This study is highly innovative to be the first randomized trial to: 1) evaluate the efficacy
      of MBSR(BC) among breast cancer survivors for objective neuropsychological and subjective
      improvements in cognitive functioning; 2) evaluate genetic profiles as moderators of MBSR(BC)
      on improving CI; 3) offer the MBSR trial in Spanish in addition to English for the purpose of
      improving cognition; and 4) determine the effect of MBSR(BC) on CT-induced CI among breast
      cancer survivors related to health service utilization costs.

      MBSR(BC) provides training to promote stress reduction through self-regulation of attention
      and awareness to stressful events. The preliminary results show that MBSR(BC) improves
      subjective cognitive functioning. If MBSR(BC) is found to be effective, it will provide
      evidence of a viable non-pharmacological method for managing CI in breast cancer survivors.
      Additionally, the examination of the effects of the hypothesized mediators may yield new
      insights for tailoring MBSR(BC) and/or developing additional interventions to aid breast
      cancer survivors. The assessment of genetic polymorphisms to explore if risk alleles are
      associated with improvement in cognitive functioning may demonstrate that specific genetic
      profiles may modify improvements in CI for those receiving MBSR(BC). Finally, if MBSR(BC) is
      shown to be effective, this may significantly impact healthcare utilization and cost and
      produce necessary evidence for clinicians, researchers and policymakers.
    
  