
    
      Background:

      Nummular headache (NH) is a primary headache included in the International Classification of
      Headache Disorders (ICHD) characterized by a well delimited superficial pain, with sharp
      border, felt in a rounded or elliptical 1-6 centimeters area. Pain might be continuous or
      intermittent. The key feature of nummular headache is the fixed superficial topography.

      The real nature of this condition is still a matter of controversial. Some authors defend it
      as a specific condition with a particular pathophysiology; whereas others consider that it
      might be a localized form of migraine with a shared phenotype and pathophysiology.

      Among the arguments that defend its existence as a differentiated entity we include: the
      older age of onset, the fixed and localized pain without pain in other territories, presence
      of trophic changes, the localized abnormality in pressure pain threshold determination, the
      description of secondary cases, the description of posttraumatic cases or the specific
      therapeutic response.

      On the other hand, in some cases hypersensitivity to stimuli has been described, other
      typical migrainous symptoms such as nausea or vomiting might be present, and some patients
      respond to triptans or other migraine prophylactics.

      Information is scarce about the presence of prodromes, postdromes or family history of
      migraine. Moreover, little is known about NH pathophysiology, some studies suggest an
      impairment in superficial sensory fibers because a localized alteration of pressure-pain
      threshold. No imaging or laboratory studies have been done so far.

      This is a proof of concept study. The aim is to analyze if patients with a definite NH
      diagnosis according to ICHD present any shared epidemiological, clinical or therapeutical
      features with migraine.

      Hypothesis:

      Nummular headache might be a specific condition or it might share migraine biologic features.
      The detailed description of it might help to clarify whether if NH is a single entity or a
      focal presentation form of migraine.

      Objective:

      To describe the presence of typical features of migraine in a cohort of NH patients,
      including family history, epidemiology, clinical description, presence of prodromes or
      postdromes and response to treatment.

      Methods:

      The study has an observational analytic design following the Strengthening the Reporting of
      Observational in Epidemiology (STROBE) guidelines. Patients with definite nummular headache
      diagnosis according to The International Classification of Headache Disorders1 will be
      invited to participate. The study will be conducted in the Headache Unit of Hospital Clinico
      Universitario de Valladolid, a third level hospital sited in Valladolid, with a reference
      population of 280.000 people.

      Intervention:

      The study will be divided into different sections:

        1. Family history of headache and in particular, migraine.

        2. Epidemiology of NH patients.

        3. Clinical phenotype and pattern of the headache.

        4. Associated symptoms, presence of prodromes and postdromes.

        5. Physical examination.

        6. Prior treatment use, tolerability and response.

      Selection of participants:

      Recruitment will be recruited by a non-probabilistic sampling method by convenience and by
      formal invitation if they are included in the clinical registry of the Headache Unit of the
      Hospital Clinico Universitario de Valladolid.

      In the first visit participants will be examined by a neurologist with experience in headache
      disorders and NH diagnosis will be reviewed. Patients will be invited to participate into the
      study and they will provide and sign informed consent form. They will be instructed and
      trained to complete the prospective headache diary during 14 days. A follow up visit will be
      done within 15 to 30 days to review the data and analyze possible sources of bias.
    
  