
    
      One-year graft survival after renal transplantation dramatically improved with the addition
      of calcineurin inhibitors (tacrolimus or cyclosporine) to maintenance immunosuppression
      regimens. Much of this improvement in early graft survival has been attributed to the
      efficacy of the calcineurin inhibitors in preventing early acute rejection episodes. However,
      long-term graft survival has not improved to as great of a magnitude as the improvements in
      short-term survival. In addition, research shows progressive decline in kidney function
      throughout the years post-transplantation. Clinical research now focuses on improving long
      term graft survival while maintaining long-term kidney function.

      The leading cause of graft loss has been attributed to chronic allograft nephropathy (CAN).
      Risk factors for CAN include: prolonged ischemia time, delayed graft function, acute
      rejection episodes and calcineurin inhibitor nephrotoxicity (CIN). CIN has been identified as
      the most common identifiable contributor to CAN and the chief cause of late histologic injury
      and ongoing decline in renal function. At 10 years post-transplant, CIN has been found to be
      universally prevalent.

      Calcineurin inhibitor minimization and elimination studies have sought to improve long-term
      allograft function by minimizing exposure to these nephrotoxic agents. Studies have
      demonstrated that early withdrawal of cyclosporine from a cyclosporine, sirolimus and steroid
      immunosuppression regimen at 3 months post-transplant improved renal function and graft
      survival at 48 months post-transplant. Other studies have demonstrated diminished prevalence
      of CAN at 2 years post-transplant in those patients maintained on sirolimus as compared with
      cyclosporine. Kidney function was also significantly improved with lower serum creatinine and
      higher GFR in the sirolimus maintenance group.

      Sirolimus is a macrolide antibiotic immunosuppressive agent that exerts its mechanism of
      action by inhibiting the mTOR signaling cascade. In clinical trials, sirolimus was found to
      lack nephrotoxic effects when compared to cyclosporine. In kidney transplantation, multiple
      studies have demonstrated safety and efficacy of sirolimus in calcineurin inhibitor avoidance
      and withdrawal protocols.

      Myfortic® (mycophenolate acid) is an enteric coated formulation of mycophenolic acid (MPA)
      approved for the prevention of rejection in kidney transplant recipients in combination with
      cyclosporine and corticosteroids. Myfortic® has no documented nephrotoxic effects.
      Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), a prodrug of MPA also does not demonstrate nephrotoxic effects.
      Early studies have demonstrated therapeutic equivalence between Myfortic® and MMF both in de
      novo renal transplants and in conversion studies where MMF is converted to Myfortic at least
      6 months after renal transplantation. Thus, studies demonstrating safety and efficacy of MMF
      with sirolimus in calcineurin inhibitor withdrawal protocols should also hold true using
      Myfortic® in such regimen.

      This study will assess the safety and efficacy of Myfortic® when used in a simultaneous
      sirolimus conversion and calcineurin inhibitor withdrawal regimen in stable renal transplant
      recipients. Study subjects will receive immunosuppression consisting of Myfortic®, tacrolimus
      and corticosteroids (prednisone) starting the day of transplant. Conversion from tacrolimus
      (Prograf) to sirolimus (Rapamune) will occur between 90 and 180 days post cadaver-donor or
      living-donor renal transplant. All participants will be converted from tacrolimus to
      sirolimus and remain on Myfortic® and their current corticosteroid taper.
    
  