
    
      Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is common among adolescents seeking treatment
      for marijuana dependence. Therefore, it is important to develop treatments targeting
      adolescents diagnosed with both ADHD and marijuana dependence. Atomoxetine is currently used
      to treat individuals diagnosed with ADHD. The purpose of this study is to determine the
      feasibility of administering atomoxetine in a therapeutic setting to adolescents who abuse
      marijuana and have ADHD. In addition, this study will assess whether atomoxetine reduces ADHD
      symptoms. Finally, this study will determine whether atomoxetine improves treatment retention
      and progress in adolescents with ADHD and marijuana dependence.

      Participants in this double-blind study will be randomly assigned to receive either
      atomoxetine or placebo. Study visits will occur 2 times each week for the duration of the
      12-week trial. At each study visit, vital signs and medication side effects will be assessed.
      In addition, psychiatric ratings measurements will be evaluated. Participants will also
      complete self reports in order to track ADHD-related symptoms. Starting at the Week 2 study
      visit, all participants will receive psychotherapy sessions. This will involve
      cognitive-behavioral therapy/relapse prevention treatment that has been designed specifically
      for ADHD adolescents. The aim of the cognitive skills training will be to assist the
      participants in developing the skills necessary to manage their drug use as well as the
      symptoms they experience related to ADHD. At Month 6, a follow-up visit will occur, at which
      time participants urine toxicology tests will be completed to determine if participants have
      been using marijuana or any other substances of abuse. In addition, at the Month 6 follow-up
      visit, participants will complete psychiatric ratings, self reports, and will meet with a
      physician to assess ADHD-related symptoms.
    
  