
    
      Tobacco use and obesity are the two leading causes of preventable deaths. Because these two
      behaviors share common brain reward mechanisms, reducing one behavior often leads to
      increases in the other behavior. Behavioral Economic and Incentive Salience models shed much
      light on this clinical problem. Smoking cessation produces reward dysregulation that can
      alter the motivational salience of other reinforcers, particularly food. After stopping
      smoking, smokers increase between-meal snacking, especially foods high in fat and sugar.
      Increases in caloric intake occur within days of quitting smoking, and are clinically
      significant. The investigators have also shown that smoking cessation produces working memory
      deficits and reduces activity in the brain's cognitive control circuits, making it even more
      difficult to exert self-control over temptations to eat highly rewarding foods. Thus, smokers
      have a double challenge: food becomes more salient and reinforcing at a time when their
      neurocognitive resources are compromised.

      Neuroimaging can identify mechanisms underlying behavior change beyond self-report and
      behavioral measures. The proposed functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study breaks
      new ground by integrating concepts and tools from the fields of behavioral economics and
      cognitive neuroscience to accelerate the study of mechanisms underlying PCWG. The
      investigators will use a previously validated within-subject crossover neuroimaging study
      design to examine changes in working memory, food salience (cue-induced craving), and food
      reinforcement processes in the brain after 4 days of smoking cessation (vs. smoking as
      usual). A non-smoker control group will provide insight into baseline differences from
      smokers (abstinent and satiated). Caloric intake, the primary outcome, will be assessed using
      24-hr. food recalls during each study period. The investigators will assess three parallel
      pathways including: working memory, food cue reactivity, and food reinforcement at the neural
      and behavioral levels.

      This study will provide new insights about how the brain can constrain or promote the ability
      of smokers to prevent post cessation weight gain (PCWG) and lead to new interventions that
      integrate neural and behavioral framework. Support for our predictions would inform testing
      of novel approaches to prevent PCWG, such as computerized neurocognitive exercise training to
      increase DLPFC activity and shift activity away from reward sensitive brain networks.
    
  