
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The investigator originally applied for the grant in response to an NHLBI initiative on "CVD
      Nutrition Education for Low Literacy Skills". The initiative originated within the Prevention
      and Demonstration Branch of the DECA, was approved by the September 1988 National Heart,
      Lung, and Blood Advisory Council, and released in July 1990. However, the grant was not
      awarded as part of the RFA.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      An estimated 1,800 students in 90 different classes were randomly assigned to the special
      nutritional intervention or an attention-control condition where a certification course in
      cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was taught. Specially trained ESL teachers actually led
      the intervention classes, which were designed in accordance with the NHLBI and American Red
      Cross guidelines, respectively. Specific educational content for the intervention group
      included sources of dietary fat and cholesterol nutrients affecting blood pressure, basic
      shopping skills, food preparation skills , and dealing with special occasions, i.e.,
      potlucks. A booster session was held to monitor progress, provide reinforcement for success
      or additional problem solving for difficulties, review materials, and plan maintenance.
      Consistent with a Social Learning (Cognitive) Theory (SLT) framework, all sessions included
      modeling*, role playing, corrective feedback and social reinforcement, homework, and
      confidence building activities. With attention to the specific needs of this population which
      was low in literacy (at least in English), the smallest amount of information necessary was
      presented, each point was made as vividly as possible, participants restated and otherwise
      demonstrated their mastery of the material, and frequent repetition was used. A substantial
      period of formative research emphasized specific adaptations of existing material to make it
      appropriate for this population.

      Measurement occurred at baseline, at three months and at a six months follow-up. Measures
      included blood pressure, total cholesterol, height/weight, waist and hip circumference,
      24-hour dietary recall, SLT-based knowledge, attitude and behavior variables, the
      Comprehensive Adult Student Assessment System (CASAS) Life Skills Reading Test and Spanish
      literacy through the Cloze technique. All self-report measurement except the CASAS was
      conducted in English or Spanish, primarily through oral interview. SLT knowledge, attitude,
      and behavioral measures of instructors in study and non-study classes were also assessed.
    
  