
    
      This is a single center prospective study comparing antiseptic efficacy and ocular surface
      irritation with PI (povidine iodine) and AC (aqueous chlorhexidine). Patients will be
      recruited in the clinical offices of the Retina Service of Wills and Hospital/Mid Atlantic
      Retina clinic offices. Patients who are determined to require bilateral intravitreal
      injections of an anti-VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) agents by a retina specialist
      at their regularly scheduled retina appointment will be evaluated for qualification by study
      personnel. Patients who meet inclusion criteria will be identified and informed consent will
      be obtained. Prior to injection, topical anesthetic (0.5% proparacaine, Alcon) will be
      instilled in both eyes. Study personnel will obtain four samples from the superior and
      inferior fornices of the upper and lower lids of both eyes using swabs (COPAN ESwab,
      ThermoFisher Scientific) for patients enrolled at Wills. Topical antisepsis will then be
      applied, the first eye will be randomized to one drop of either PI 5% or AC 0.1% and the
      second eye will receive the other agent. One minute after instillation of the eye drop to
      each eye, patients will rate their pain in each eye using the Wong-Baker (smiley face) rating
      scale. The injections will then be performed by the treating retina specialist. Following the
      injection, a second conjunctival culture will be taken in an identical manner to the first
      for patients enrolled at Wills. Study personnel will then instill fluorescein dye
      (fluorescein sodium ophthalmic, BioGlo) into each eye, and a brief slit lamp examination will
      be performed. Study personnel will record surface findings according to the Ocular Surface
      Score and a numerical score for each eye will be determined. On post-injection day one study
      personnel will call the patient and ask to rate the pain in each eye using the same verbal
      numerical rating scale. No additional clinic visits will be required as part of the study.
    
  