
    
      Fewer than 1 in 10 middle-aged US adults get the recommended amount of aerobic physical
      activity (PA), greatly increasing their chances of heart disease and stroke. There are over
      50 million adults with fitness center memberships, which are used only once per month and,
      after joining new programs, people quickly stop coming. While many barriers to PA have been
      cited (e.g., time, cost), the investigators believe that a key, modifiable, and
      underappreciated barrier is that most adults simply do not enjoy physical activity enough to
      do it regularly. Studies consistently observe that people who enjoy physical activity more
      are more likely to be more active in the future. Despite this consistent observation, the
      investigators are not aware of studies that ask "Would an adult PA program designed to
      maximize enjoyment increase PA adherence and fitness?". In 2015, our team set out to design
      an exercise program for adults that maximized enjoyment. Taking inspiration from Pickleball,
      a popular game of modified tennis, our team created PlayFit. PlayFit is an exercise program
      in which adults come together three times each week to play a range of sports, all modified
      to 1) reduce effort (e.g., smaller playing area), 2) reduce injuries (e.g., lightweight
      low-pressure balls) and 3) reduce competitiveness (e.g., teams chosen randomly, minimize
      physical contact, no keeping score). Pilot work in the summer of 2016 with 22 adults
      identified five modified sports that all had Metabolic Equivalent (MET) levels between 5.5
      and 6.5 and high satisfaction scores (average of 8.0 out of 10). More importantly, the
      comments suggest that the investigators have created a social, enjoyable experience: "that
      was SO much fun", "I've never had so much fun playing soccer". People liked "the laughter
      during the games", "no pressure, not competitive" and that "it's not about ability, it's just
      about having fun with people". In this study, the investigators propose testing whether
      PlayFit leads to greater fitness gains, compared to group fitness, to help providers
      understand in a way that helps providers and fitness center staff understand: "What exercise
      program should I recommend to promote long-term adherence and fitness?". All subjects will be
      expected to exercise three-times weekly for 60 minutes for 12 months. The investigators will
      randomly assign 360adults to two conditions: 1) Group Fitness activities and 2) PlayFit. The
      investigators hypothesize that both PlayFit and Group Fitness will increase Maximum Oxygen
      Uptake (V02max) significantly at 6 months but, after 12 months, mediated by greater enjoyment
      and higher adherence, participants randomized to PlayFit will have greater fitness and
      activity gains at 12 months than Group Fitness. The results of this study have the potential
      to help patients, providers and fitness center directors by answering the question: "What
      exercise program should be recommended to sedentary adults in order to promote long-term
      adherence and fitness?"
    
  