
    
      Drill and screw epiphysiodesis are the two most common techniques for surgical correction of
      predicted limb length discrepancies 2-5cm. Both procedures require minimal incisions, less
      than 1cm, (Canale & Christian, 1990; Metaizeau et al., 1998). Previous studies have
      demonstrated that both drill and screw epiphysiodesis result in improved outcomes compared to
      open techniques (Alzahrani, Behairy, Alhossan, Arab, & Alammari, 2003; Canale & Christian,
      1990). Moreover, alternative approaches such as medial and lateral 8 plates may not
      sufficiently tether growth, or cause peripheral but not central growth arrest (Stewart et
      al., 2013). We selected drill vs. screw epiphysiodesis as the two treatment groups as they
      are both minimally invasive, relatively effective, in common usage, and are thought to differ
      in costs and other characteristics.

      Although outcomes of drill and screw epiphysiodesis exist{{10 Campens,C. 2010; 11 Ghanem,I.
      2011}} , the assessments are retrospective non-randomized series, which may be at risk for
      selection bias, and may not adequately capture all of the outcomes of interest, depending on
      what data is routinely collected and documented in the medical chart. To our knowledge, no
      prospective randomized comparison of epiphysiodesis techniques and clinical outcomes has been
      published accurately assessing how effective each technique is in disabling growth at the
      physis, or taking into account patient-centered outcomes or cost. Operative measures such as
      the surgical time and radiation exposure from intra-operative fluoroscopy have not previously
      been compared. Patient-centered outcomes such as level of pain, activity, and function by
      measures such PROMIS and Ped-FABS, have not been previously assessed in this population. The
      proposed research study aims to fill this gap.

      This study was designed as a multicenter randomized trial to answer an important clinical
      question and to do so with a clearly defined objective and validated outcomes. This trial can
      be executed on a relatively small budget with simple outcome measures, and recruitment of a
      moderate number of patients at each of a few centers well equipped for research. By involving
      multiple surgeons and patients from various geographies, we improve the generalizability of
      this study. Our institution and collaborating institutions have been successful in completing
      randomized clinical trials in the past. This study will answer a clinical question that is
      important and current, providing orthopedic surgeons with an evidence-based identification of
      the ideal technique for treating predicted limb length discrepancies 2-7cm.

      This study will also be the first to accurately measure mean growth following both
      epiphysiodesis techniques, through implantation of tantalum beads in consenting participants.
      These beads will provide stationary landmarks by which growth can be measured directly, and
      not inferred. Previous methods of judging epiphysiodesis success have primarily relied on
      assessing efficacy by estimating growth inhibition through calculation. Tantalum beads have
      been successfully used in adults and children (Lauge-Pedersen,H. 2006), and although it
      requires implantation of small radio-opaque beads, it is considered the gold standard when
      making detailed radiographic measures, and the optimal technique for physeal growth
      measurements.(Lauge-Pedersen,H. 2006)(Haugan,K. 2012). Over 300 000 beads have been inserted
      in vivo without significant complications.
    
  