
    
      This Phase 3 randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, parallel group, stratified,
      multi-center study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of FlutiForm (250/10ug) after twice
      daily dosing over 12 weeks delivered by SKP HFA pMDI compared with Fluticasone propionate
      (250ug of twice daily) delivered by SKP HFA pMDI and Flovent® Fluticasone 250ug HFA pMDI in
      adolescent and adult patients with moderate to severe asthma. Only steroid-requiring patients
      (inhaled steroid regimen stable for at least 4 weeks prior to the Screening Visit at a dose
      not greater than 500ug/day Fluticasone propionate or equivalent) will be eligible. All
      patients will undergo a Run-In Period of 14 ± 3 days during which they will receive asthma
      maintenance therapy using Fluticasone HFA pMDI (Flovent® HFA 50 ug/actuation: 100µg/day (one
      inhalation twice daily) if they were using less than or equal to 250mg/day Fluticasone
      propionate or equivalent inhaled steroid, or 200ug/day (two inhalations twice daily) if they
      were using greater than 250ug/day Fluticasone propionate or equivalent inhaled steroid prior
      to the Screening Visit.). The use of rescue Salbutamol (Albuterol) pMDI will be permitted for
      all patients as needed for the control of worsening asthma symptoms during the Run-In Period.
      At the Baseline Visit (Week 0) following the Run-In period, eligible patients will be
      randomized to the treatment groups. Treatment assignment will be stratified according to
      their Baseline FEV1 % predicted (40-60% or >60-80%).Study drug will be administered twice
      daily over a 12-week period. Patient visits will occur at Weeks 2, 4, 8, and 12 during which
      assessments (including serial PFTs up to 4 hours) will be made. In a subset of at least 66
      patients (22 patients per treatment group) from selected centers, post-dose 12-hour serial
      PFTs will be performed at Baseline, Weeks 2 and 12. During the Treatment Period, patients may
      only take their blinded study medication; all other asthma medications will be withheld for
      the duration of the Treatment Period. However, the use of rescue Salbutamol (Albuterol) pMDI
      will be permitted in all patients as needed during the Treatment Period for the control of
      worsening asthma symptoms.
    
  