
    
      This research study was designed as a randomized placebo-controlled clinical trial to examine
      the effect of aromatherapy hand massage on chronic non-malignant pain and vital signs of
      elderly individuals. Sample size was determined via G-power statistical analysis with 95%
      conﬁdence and 80% theoretical power. Initially pilot study was performed with total of 6
      elderly patients, 2 individuals for each group. Those elderly patients who visited the
      polyclinic on Monday were appointed to aromatherapy group (n=22), those who came on Wednesday
      they were assigned to placebo group (n=22) and those who visited the clinic on Friday were
      allocated to control group (n=22). Individuals who were included in this research were age 65
      and above, must have chronic non-malignant pain for at least three months, should not have
      cognitive impairment, must be able to answer questions independently and those who have
      agreed to be part of the study were included in the sample. In the contrary, patients with
      dermatological problems, swelling, sign of inflammation, neuropathy or loss of sensation and
      deformity on their hands and/ or arms were excluded from the study and cancer patients and
      those who had allergic to lavender oil were also excluded.

      Data were gathered as patient information form, visual analogue scale (VAS), brief pain
      inventory and vital signs which were collected by a single researcher via face-to-face
      interview and hand massage was performed by the same researcher.

      In the aromatherapy group written and verbal consent was obtained from participants prior the
      intervention after that patient information form was filled, pain level was assessed via
      visual analogue scale (VAS) and brief pain inventory, vital signs were assessed as well. M
      technique hand massage was done on both hands and arms for 10 minutes using lavender
      essential oil (12 drops of lavender essential oil mixed in 30 ml of fragrance-free baby oil
      as a carrier oil) afterwards pain level was re-assessed using usual analogue scale and vital
      signs were re-evaluated within 10-15 minutes after the completion of the intervention.

      In the placebo group written and verbal consent was obtained from participants prior the
      intervention after that patient information form was filled, pain level was assessed via
      visual analogue scale (VAS) and brief pain inventory, vital signs were assessed as well. M
      technique hand massage was done on both hands and arms for 10 minutes using odourless baby
      oil, afterwards pain level was re-assessed using usual analogue scale and vital signs were
      re-evaluated within 10-15 minutes after the completion of the intervention.

      In the control group, patient information form was filled, pain level was assessed via visual
      analogue scale (VAS) and brief pain inventory, vital signs were assessed after obtaining
      verbal and written consent from the elderly participants. No intervention was done by the
      researcher for this group except routine treatment, within 10-15 minutes pain level was
      reassessed using VAS and vital signs were re-evaluated.

      Application: aromatherapy is a natural and gentle form of treatment that can access the human
      body through inhaled scent molecules that activate the limbic system, an area in the brain
      that plays an important role for emotion and behaviour. It can also be applied as a topical
      massage which gives soothing and relaxing feeling by stimulating the nervous system that
      regulates heart rate, blood pressure, stress and breathing patterns. On top of all the
      benefits, easy application, low cost and low side effects are some of the reasons
      aromatherapy is accepted as complementary and integrative medicine. M technique hand massage
      is a unique choreographed method that follows certain type of movement, pressure and pace
      which is custom made for the most fragile patient. Combining aromatherapy with the M
      technique hand massage, can give satisfactory results, as this massage technique is an
      extremely soft, comfortable and relaxing massage type that can be applied to even the most
      fragile patient.
    
  