
    
      The infection with Helicobacter pylori is extremely widespread, as 60% of the world's
      population is infected. In Slovenia, the average prevalence is 25.1 %, the prevalence in the
      20-year age group is 20 % and 76 % in patients in age group 50 - 75 years. All infected
      patients have active chronic gastritis, which is asymptomatic in most cases. Ulcers in the
      stomach or duodenum occurs in 15 % of patients. Due to chronic infection, MALT lymphoma or
      gastric cancer develop in 1 - 3 % of patients. According to the recommendations of the
      Slovenian Association for Gastroenterology and Hepatology, as well as European and other
      recommendations, everyone who is infected with Helicobacter pylori should be treated. H.
      pylori is a first-class carcinogen and is responsible for 50 % of all chronic cancer-causing
      infections in the developed world. Therefore, it is necessary to start programs of primary
      and secondary prevention of gastric cancer by searching and treating infected patients.

      Patients infected with H. pylori who have not yet been treated will be randomly assigned to
      two first-line treatment groups:

      Group 1: Esomeprazole 40 mg, Clarithromycin 500 mg, Amoxicillin 1000 mg, all BID,14 days
      Group 2: Bismuth subcitrate 120 mg, Amoxicillin 500 mg, Metronidazole 400 mg, all QID
      Esomeprazole 40 mg BID, 14 days

      Patients unsuccessfully treated with first-line therapy will be randomly assigned to two
      second-line treatment groups:

      Group 1: Esomeprazole 40 mg BID, Levofloxacin 500 mg OID, Amoxicillin 1000 mg BID, 14 days
      Group 2: Bismuth subcitrate 120 mg, Amoxicillin 500 mg, Metronidazole 400 mg, all QID,
      Esomeprazole 40 mg BID, 14 days

      Inclusion criteria :

      Patients 18 to 80 years of age. Patients have not received proton pump inhibitors for the
      past 14 days. Patients did not receive antibiotics last month. Helicobacter pylori infection
      has been demonstrated by rapid urease test

      Exclusion criteria :

      Prior treatment for Helicobacter pylori infection (in patients who will receive Schedule 1
      eradication therapy).

      Defects in blood clotting. taking anticoagulant medicines that make it impossible to take
      biopsies.

      Drug allergy used in the study. Pregnancy, breastfeeding. Psychiatric illness that would
      prevent research participation. Active treatment for malignancy.

      Statistical analysis:

      To describe the variables, we will use the average value and standard deviation for the
      symmetrically distributed variables or median and 25th and 75th percentiles for
      asymmetrically distributed variables. Investigators will use the t-test for dependent
      variables or, in the case of asymmetrically distributed variables, the Wilcoxon test. To
      determine the differences between the two groups (Group 1 and Group 2) of the subjects,
      t-test for independent samples Will be used, or in the case of an asymmetrically distributed
      variables Mann-Whitney test.
    
  