
    
      Google Glass is a new low-profile wearable technology that allows physicians to record
      hands-free video and pictures and to directly video link and communicate with other wearers
      of this device. In addition to this, the device has a heads up display that is capable of
      searching the internet on voice command. The device has the same functionality as a smart
      phone with the benefit of being hands-free and wearable. The device is currently in a beta
      testing period where "Explorers" are accepted by application to a program to use and assess
      the device. The investigators have been able to obtain three of these devices.

      The Google Glass device has the ability to help improve connectivity between physicians not
      in the same locale, increase efficiency and provide better access to vital information used
      in a medical and surgical setting. The device has clear teaching implications and will enable
      academic physicians to disseminate information to more students and in situations not
      previously possible. As the device evolves its potential to do more will likely develop
      further. It is important to assess the impact of this rapidly growing field on patient
      sentiment and wellbeing. As this is a very new device, very few studies have been done to
      assess its application in Medicine and specifically orthopaedic surgery. So far only very
      specific and small studies have been done with regard to immunochromatographic analysis,
      pharmacology, forensic medicine and Parkinson's disease. The investigators are aiming to
      assess the applications and patient perspective of this device on a much larger scale. The
      investigators feel this technology and its future offspring could be polarizing with regard
      to patient response. This could be an important element to consider in the future development
      of its clinical applications.

      There are no direct medical risks to the patient. No decisions regarding patient care will be
      dependent on the device.

      Study Objective Primary question: What is the patient's level of acceptance and response to
      this new technology? Secondary question: From a doctor's perspective, how effective is this
      new tool in the Orthopaedic clinical setting?

      Design Patients seen in the Orthopaedic Trauma clinic will be asked to consent for potential
      video/picture recording using the Google Glass device during their visit with the orthopaedic
      surgeon or resident. Eligible patients will be assigned to one of two consulting rooms: one
      with the Google Glass device, one without.

      Patients will therefore have a 50.50 chance of encountering the Google Glass.

      Any images or videos taken will not show the patients face, all measures will be taken to
      ensure confidentiality. Both groups will be asked to complete a small survey on a locked
      password protected iPad after their visit so as to record their acceptability of this new
      technology in a clinical setting. Participants that experienced the device will also be
      required to comment on their experience. The device user (surgeon/resident) will also
      complete a survey so as to record their experience using the hands free camera and recording
      device.

      The information gathered will be saved on a password protected drive and will be used for
      discussion and analysis between the investigators to help develop the potential future
      teaching and clinical applications of the device.
    
  