
    
      Study design and participants

      A quasi-experimental pre-posttest control group design, with purposive sampling, was used to
      recruit participants from the Endocrinology department of a hospital in southern Taiwan from
      January to May of 2014. The inclusion criteria were (i) being at least 20 years old at the
      time of recruitment (ii) having no cognitive impairment and severe complications, (iii) being
      able to express opinions in either Mandarin or Taiwanese, and (iv) having a diagnosis of
      diabetes. To ensure participants' anonymity, all questionnaires were marked with an
      encryption code to facilitate data analysis, but with no personal identifiers.

      Sample size calculation

      Sample size calculation for this analysis of repeated measures to detect an effect size of
      0.2 at 80% power and a 0.05 significance level indicated that a sample size of 68 patients is
      needed (according to G- POWER 3.1 analytical software, Franz Faul, Universitat Kiel,
      Germany). A sample of at least 89 participants for both groups combined was required on the
      basis of these parameters, allowing for a 30% attrition rate.

      Intervention

      Because continued participation was essential for this study, the participants were divided
      into the experiment or control group in accordance with the personal willingness. The control
      group received routine health education lasting for about 30 minutes per medical visit, which
      consisted of consultation about disease symptoms, related treatments, and self-care skills.
      They would receive health education instruction leaflets for reference purposes if necessary.

      The experiment group received seven Diabetes Conversation Map Program (DCMP) -based group
      education sessions (10-12 participants, 1.5 hours each) for seven consecutive weeks in
      addition to routine health education at a private room in the outpatient unit. One registered
      nurse who received DCMP facilitator training, from the Taiwanese Association of Diabetic
      Educators, served as the class facilitator. DCMP sessions were conducted using seven colored
      "maps" covering different topics, including "walk with diabetes," "what is diabetes?", "a
      healthy diet and exercise," "walk with insulin," "diabetes complications and related risk
      factors," "foot care for diabetes patients," and "a type 1 diabetes patient in the home."
      Each map, a laminated 3-by-5-foot table-top visual with colorful drawings as metaphors of
      situations familiar to DM patients, was placed on a table with participants gathered around
      it. This procedure served to create mutual imagery to be shared with participants. In
      addition to using these colored maps, the facilitator further offered participants
      self-designed conversation cards and asked them to share individual glycemic control
      experiences based on the questions shown on the cards.

      Outcome measures

      The primary outcomes comprised the weekly self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) times and
      some biochemical parameters containing BMI, HbA1c and fasting plasma glucose (FPG). In
      addition, the depressive symptoms as well as the level of diabetes health literacy were also
      measured, which were determined by the Taiwanese Depression Questionnaire (TDQ) and a
      self-administered questionnaire regarding diabetes health literacy.

      The TDQ was developed according to the criteria specified by the Diagnostic and Statistical
      Manual of Mental Disorders (Third Edition) and consists of 18 self-reported items. Its total
      score ranged from 0 to 54, with higher scores indicating more severe depressive symptoms.

      On the other hand, as to the diabetes health literacy, it was measured by a self-developed
      questionnaire. This scale contained 20 items and was scored using a 5-point Likert scale,
      with higher total scores indicating more positive diabetic health literacy.

      Covariates Additional items addressing demographic and disease characteristics were developed
      based on clinical experience and literature review, and were collected at study entry via
      patient interviews and medical records. Demographic data included sex, age, marital status,
      education level, religion, household status, monthly income, and certain lifestyle factors,
      such as smoking, exercise habits, and presence of sleep disturbances. Smoking status was
      recorded as "non-smoker" or "current or ex-smoker." Those who exercised regularly (i.e.,
      weekly) were classified as having "exercise habits." Sleep disturbances were defined as
      waking up at night more than twice without external factors during the week before the
      interview. Disease characteristics included the presence of chronic disease (i.e., stroke,
      hypertension, heart disease, renal disease, or cancer), medication regimen, and duration of
      diabetes.

      Data collection procedure

      The study protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of Dalin Tzuchi Hospital (No.
      B10002009) prior to the recruitment of participants. Researchers explained the purpose of
      study and its procedure to all participants. Signed informed consent was obtained after they
      understood and agreed to participate in this study. Thereafter, investigators applied an
      observer-blind approach for data collection. A trained interviewer, who was not familiar with
      the participants, was assigned to collect the participants' information on demographic and
      disease characteristics. All data were obtained at three time points: before DCMP (T0), three
      days after DCMP (T1), and three months after DCMP (T2). To reduce the dropout rate,
      researchers asked participants to return the hospital for the completion of assessments via
      phone reminders. However, participants were still given the option to withdraw from the study
      at any time without any penalty.

      Statistical analysis

      Descriptive and inferential statistical analyses were conducted in accordance with the study
      aims and the nature of the variables. Descriptive parameters, including mean, standard
      deviation (SD), and percentage, were used to describe the distributions of demographic and
      disease data. Differences between the two groups were compared initially using t-test and χ2
      test as appropriate. For inferential analysis, investigators used generalized estimating
      equation (GEE) procedure with identity link function with normal distribution to assess the
      long-term effects of DCMP, while taking into account within-subject correlations between
      measurements over time and the influence of potential confounding covariates. All analyses
      were conducted using SAS statistical software, Version 9.3. A p value of < .05 was considered
      statistically significant.
    
  