
    
      In this study the investigators propose to detect early mitochondrial metabolic changes in
      the heart in patients with a positive genotype and phenotype for HCM using a novel
      hyperpolarized [1-13C]pyruvate MRI methodology. Carbon-13 is a stable isotope (not
      radioactive) that makes up approximately 1.1% of all natural carbon. Carbon-13 has a non-zero
      spin quantum number that allows the investigation of carbon containing substances using
      magnetic resonance. However, compared with other analytical methods, carbon-13 magnetic
      resonance has been limited by an intrinsically low sensitivity [2}.

      Recent experimental studies suggest that altered energy substrate metabolism may precede
      structural changes in myocardial hypertrophy. A better understanding of the myocardial
      metabolic changes in HCM is important, as the elucidation of such changes may precede the
      clinical development of myocardial fibrosis and malignant arrhythmias. Hyperpolarized
      [1-13C]pyruvate and its cellular metabolic flux can be assessed with a more than 10,000-fold
      higher sensitivity compared to traditional methods. The aim of this pilot study is to test
      the hypothesis that patients with HCM present focal alterations in myocardial hyperpolarized
      [1-13C]pyruvate flux.

      To achieve this aim the investigators will assess myocardial metabolic changes in HCM
      subjects with a positive HCM genotype and phenotype (n=5) and in healthy control subjects
      (n=5) who are matched for age, sex, and Body Mass Index (BMI). Total target enrollment will
      be set at 15 subjects to allow for attrition and screen failures.

      Cardiac function and structure will be evaluated with MRI (proton imaging) before and after
      contrast administration. Then myocardial metabolism will be assessed utilizing MRS (carbon
      spectroscopy) before and after intravenous injection with hyperpolarized [1-13C]pyruvate. The
      study agent, hyperpolarized [1-13C]pyruvate, will be administered under a Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) Investigational New Drug (IND), currently in review process, PI Dr.
      Craig Malloy.

      Human preliminary data are essential to secure larger scale funding required for clinical
      studies. The identification of mitochondrial metabolic changes preceding replacement fibrosis
      and malignant arrhythmias may generate a paradigm shift to early detection and more targeted
      treatment of HCM with potentially improved clinical outcomes. Cardiac focused applications at
      the Advanced Imaging Research Center, genetic disease diagnosis at the Eugene McDermott
      Center for Human Genetics and the development of a dedicated HCM Clinic at the UT
      Southwestern Medical Center offer today a unique opportunity to lead globally the
      translational scientific efforts in this field.
    
  