
    
      Atherosclerosis is a systemic disease of the large arteries and the leading cause of death in
      Western society. The development of atherosclerosis involves the accumulation of lipids,
      cells and extracellular matrix in the blood vessel wall. It is a progressive disease
      characterized by the formation of a fibrous cap by smooth muscle cell proliferation and
      migration, and the development of a necrotic/lipid core. This core develops due to the
      accumulation of lipids and apoptosis of lipid-loaded macrophages. In this process the intima,
      the innermost layer of the blood vessel, thickens. This will lead to narrowing of the lumen
      and obstruction of blood flow. The developed lesion of the vessel wall may become vulnerable
      to rupture of the fibrous cap. Cap rupture exposes the necrotic core to the blood leading to
      the formation of a thrombus. The thrombus may fully or partially obstruct the lumen and cause
      cardiovascular complications, such as myocardial infarction or stroke. Although
      atherosclerosis forms the origin of most cardiovascular diseases, at present much remains
      unknown of the atherogenic process. Therefore, it is essential that research is done to
      discover novel mechanisms of atherosclerotic development. Intimal neovascularisation has
      recently drawn much attention as a novel factor, likely contributing to atherosclerotic
      plaque growth and rupture. Neovascularisation occurs when the intima thickens and is
      associated with stenosis, plaque inflammation and hemorrhage. Because increased amount of
      neovascularisation may be associated with increased risk for stroke, it would be highly
      desirable to identify plaque neovascularisation by noninvasive imaging. At present, imaging
      of neovascular development in atherosclerotic lesions with conventional ultrasound is not
      feasible, since the vessel diameter is well below the resolution capacity of currently
      available ultrasound systems. Since almost a decennium, contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CE-US)
      with gaseous ultrasound contrast agents has been used for research purposes but is now also
      widely commercially available and registered for clinical use, which can be done safely. With
      the help of such a gaseous contrast medium containing air bubbles smaller than erythrocytes
      (microbubbles) it might be possible to depict neovascularisation in a carotid artery plaque,
      due to the strong signal that will be evoked even by a small number of air bubbles as
      compared to the signal from the surrounding tissue. So, the intensity increase of the
      ultrasound signal from the carotid artery plaque after administration of microbubbles might
      reflect the amount of neovascularisation. Until now, only case reports concerning this
      technique have been published, especially no comparison with histology has been performed.
      So, the first goal of this study is to investigate whether CE-US is able to accurately
      identify and quantify neovascularisation in carotid artery plaques. Since this is one of the
      first studies systematically evaluating the ability of ultrasound in combination with air
      bubbles to evaluate neovascularisation in carotid artery plaques, the examination will be
      performed twice with an interval of 1/2 hour on the day before surgery, thus studying the
      reliability of the method. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is well suited for evaluating
      carotid plaques; it is widely available, provides excellent soft tissue contrast, multiplanar
      imaging capability, and is free of ionising radiation. Multisequence MRI has shown to be able
      to detect different carotid plaque components in vivo. However, only very little experience
      exists in identifying neovascularisation by MRI. Also, newer MRI systems (>1.5 T), newer coil
      systems, and better pulse sequences have recently become available. Therefore, the second
      goal of this study is to investigate whether MRI at 3.0 T with a custom-designed 3T carotid
      coil, using a recently developed pulse sequence, is able to accurately identify and quantify
      neovascularisation. Finally, the third goal of this study is to make an intermodality
      comparison of CE-US and MRI regarding their ability to identify and quantify plaque
      neovascularisation.
    
  