
    
      BACKGROUND

      HIV associated mortality and TB disease in LMIC:

      TB is the leading cause of death due to an infectious agent worldwide. Among PWH in low and
      middle income countries (LMIC), TB represents the leading cause of mortality among PWH. South
      Africa is particularly affected by the syndemic of HIV and TB with an estimated HIV
      prevalence in 2017 of 7.2 million and TB incidence of 567/100,000 population with over 60% of
      TB cases among PWH. There were an estimated 78,000 deaths from TB in South Africa in 2017;
      56,000 of the deaths among PWH. Findings from the investigators' group suggest this is likely
      an underestimate of true TB disease and TB related mortality.

      TB preventive therapy reduces TB disease and mortality:

      For the past 30 years isoniazid based TPT has been known to reduce the risk of TB among PWH.
      Multiple studies have subsequently confirmed and strengthened this finding. Following cohort
      studies conducted in South Africa and Brazil by the investigators' team that showed marked
      reductions in TB incidence for PWH, clinical trials of isoniazid preventive therapy have
      reported up to a 70% reduction in TB incidence among PWH.

      Current delivery of TPT to PWH is anemic:

      Despite the evidence and guidelines supporting TPT, current delivery of TPT is anemic.
      Reports from South Africa (and preliminary data by members of this investigative team) have
      observed between 14% and 35% of eligible patients are prescribed TPT. Other countries in
      sub-Saharan Africa have similarly low initiation. In 2017, TPT initiation, as reported in the
      2018 World Health Organization (WHO) Global TB Report ranged from 1 to 53% for high burden
      African countries. South Africa reports higher rates of TPT initiation compared to the rest
      of the continent, but progress has plateaued and current initiation levels are insufficient
      for impact.

      Current barriers to TPT delivery:

      Key factors leading to low TPT initiation are (1) lack of provider confidence in definitively
      ruling-out active TB, (2) concerns about increasing drug resistant TB, (3) understanding
      appropriate screening for TB disease, (4) concerns for drug-induced liver injury (DILI), (5)
      the complexity of prescribing guidelines, (6) misperceptions regarding which patients may
      benefit, (7) not understanding the benefit of TPT, (8) assumption that patients will not
      adhere to TPT, and (9) the increased work-load of TPT initiation. All of these factors
      contribute to the cognitive load of TPT initiation, some also add to the workload. Drug
      stock-outs in some settings have also posed a barrier to initiation.

      Choice architecture and TPT delivery:

      Choice architecture is a behavioral economics approach that is used to improve decision
      making. Choice architecture involves deliberate consideration of how options are presented
      and what follows from each option, including what happens if no active decision is made
      (sometimes referred to as passive selection or the "default" setting). Choice architecture
      can reduce time and complexity required for decision making leading to a reduction in the
      cognitive load. Lower cognitive load can improve decisions; high cognitive load leads to
      poorer decisions.

      Currently TPT initiation requires an active process to select TPT and a passive (neglecting
      to consider TPT) process for not initiating. The current active process required for TPT
      initiation includes at least four steps: (1) consider TPT, (2) evaluate reasons for not
      initiating, this includes potential concerns for undiagnosed TB and the presence of liver
      disease, (3) weigh the risks and benefits of TPT, (4) consider patient adherence, and (5)
      write the TPT prescription. These steps require consideration (cognitive load) and time. Both
      cognitive load and time compete with other priorities of a complex clinical encounter. As a
      result, clinicians may "defer" consideration to the "next" visit or turn to rules of thumb to
      justify deferring or not initiating TPT. Given that the vast majority of ART patients in
      South Africa would benefit from TPT, the use of choice architecture making TPT the "default"
      could improve provider decision making and safely increase TPT initiation.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      The overarching goals of this proposal are to test a low-cost and context appropriate
      approach to translating TPT policy into on-the-ground TPT delivery. The investigators are
      proposing a cluster-randomized trial (CRT) to measure the effectiveness of a choice
      architecture-based TPT initiation strategy versus usual prescribing. The investigators
      anticipate a substantial increase in TPT initiating, potentially increasing from
      approximately 35% to 60-80% of ART initiators. This can be achieved through choice
      architecture and a decrease in cognitive load. The investigators will assess the
      effectiveness, implementation measures, and patient-level delivery and acceptability to
      providers.

      The primary objectives of this study are:

        1. To compare the proportion of patients newly starting ART also initiating TPT between the
           choice architecture and usual prescribing arms

        2. To characterize the processes of TPT implementation by study arm including:

             -  Provider adoption

             -  Fidelity

             -  Provider acceptability

             -  Intervention maintenance

             -  Provider cognitive load of TPT prescribing

             -  Clinic workflow integration

        3. To describe patient-level characteristics associated with initiating TPT and adhering to
           TPT

      The secondary objectives of this study are:

        1. The proportion of patients already on ART initiating TPT

        2. The proportion of eligible patients newly starting ART also initiating TPT

        3. The proportion of eligible patients already on ART initiating TPT

        4. The proportion of patients who initiate TPT and discontinue TPT prior to completion

      SIGNIFICANCE

      TB is the leading cause of death among people with HIV in South Africa and much of the world.
      TPT is a proven approach to reduce mortality. This study has the potential of identifying an
      approach to markedly increase TPT prescribing.

      METHODS

      Study design:

      This is a clinic-level cluster randomized trial of a strategy to increase the delivery of
      evidence-based care. Clinics will be randomized to the novel choice architecture strategy arm
      or usual prescribing arm with analysis based on the clinic-level proportion of TPT initiated.
      This study will further assess implementation outcomes, the underlying theory of change (the
      effect of choice architecture on cognitive load), provider experiences with the novel
      strategy, and patient experiences with TPT by study arm.

      Study setting:

      The research will be conducted by the Perinatal HIV Research Unit (PHRU) in two districts:
      the Kenneth Kaunda district in the North West Province of South Africa and Mangaung District
      in the Free State Province. Kenneth Kaunda district has a population of 742,000 and is served
      by 36 public-sector clinics (primary care clinics and community health centers) providing HIV
      care (ART, TPT, TB treatment). Mangaung District has a population of 747,431 and is served by
      45 public clinics. Both districts have urban, peri-urban, and large rural areas. Both
      districts are also settings with high HIV and TB prevalence with which the team is very
      familiar, has a working relationship with the local Department of Health, and has completed
      prior research on TB and TPT delivery.

      The proposed study will be conducted in 36 public clinics that provide antiretroviral therapy
      (ART). Clinics will be located in rural and peri-urban areas in Kenneth Kaunda and urban and
      rural areas of Mangaung, especially around Botshabelo. The investigators selected these two
      areas based on a long-standing working relationship between the team and the Department of
      Health in these locations and established PHRU research infrastructure in both locations.

      Study population:

      The study is a cluster-randomized trial with the randomization at the clinic level and the
      primary outcome at the clinic level. The strategy arm seeks to improve delivery of
      guideline-mandated services to the clinic population. Thus the strategy clinics may have
      greater prescribing of TPT and anticipated improved health outcomes, but clinic patients will
      not perceive any differences in care nor will any individual randomization or patient-level
      consent occur for the primary outcome of the proportion of patients who receive TPT.

      Clinic selection:

      Baseline data collection will be completed for a stratified randomization. Key clinic
      characteristics used for stratification will be measured during a pre-study initiation
      baseline assessment in the study clinics prior to randomization and will include clinic-level
      characteristics of patient volume, staffing, and monthly ART initiation.

      Prior to randomization, data on TPT prescribing, ART initiation, ART maintenance, and clinic
      staffing will be obtained for the prior 12 months. These data will be abstracted as monthly
      aggregates from electric and paper clinic reporting systems. No patient level data or
      identifiers will be abstracted.

      Randomization:

      The investigators will conduct a covariate-constrained randomization to balance, if an
      imbalance is detected, ensuring validity of the randomization process. Implementation will be
      staggered over time with each of two clinics from the intervention arms matched to control
      clinics for the purpose of contemporaneous study initiation. Randomization will occur either
      electronically or through drawing names with Department of Health representatives.

      Standard of care arm:

      The standard TPT implementation is for a clinician to screen for TB and to consider TPT for
      those who do not have "presumptive TB". Clinicians in the study district (and most districts
      in South Africa) have received training and job aids to assist in appropriate application of
      the TPT initiation algorithm. Prescribing for TPT and ART is done by writing, by hand, the
      prescription in the patient's paper file. As part of this study, all study clinic providers
      will have access to standard Department of Health printed material and clinical training.

      Implementation arm:

      In the choice architecture implementation strategy, all opt-out clinic providers and
      pharmacists will be trained on the approach. The fundamental tenant of this approach is that
      TPT will be prescribed with any ART initiation and any ART re-prescribing for 3-12 months of
      TPT (adherent to current guidelines) if TPT has not been previously prescribed. This will be
      facilitated by co-prescribing ART and TPT. That is when ART is being prescribed TPT is meant
      to be prescribed at the same time of the clinic visit.

      The simultaneous prescribing will be facilitated through the introduction of an ink stamp or
      pre-printed sticker to use for quick entry of the ART prescription along with TPT and
      cotrimoxazole. This stamp/sticker will be available in the consulting rooms and will be
      pre-stamped/applied by file clerks to files when retrieved. The stamp/sticker for ART
      prescription, the prescription for TPT and for cotrimoxazole will be "automatically"
      included. Active canceling of these prescriptions (and indicating the reasons) will be needed
      to not have TPT dispensed.
    
  