
    
      After agreeing to an IRB-approved modified consent form designed to hide the true purpose of
      the study to detect lying, all participants will complete the CESD-10 depression scale. This
      validated measure of depression was used in order to simulate the false pretense of the
      experiment.

      This online survey randomly assigns participating adults to one of six intervention
      statements after which they are asked eight typical questions about their health. The
      statements include:

        1. control (no stimuli)

        2. benefit (statement about the benefits of accurate information disclosure)

        3. risk (statement about the risks of inaccurate information disclosure)

        4. privacy (a traditional medical privacy notification and seal image)

        5. privacy + benefit

        6. privacy + risk After this intervention participants are asked to disclose eight items of
           personal health information, including their weight, height, alcohol intake, illegal
           drug use, prescription drug abuse, smoking, exercise, and sexual activity. We do not
           assess these actual numbers. They will be the basis for assessing truthfulness by answer
           adjustment or biometric mouse-movement.

      An example of an intervention benefit statement followed by a health question about weight
      reads: "What is your weight? Accurately answering this will increase the likelihood of a
      correct diagnosis." A risk statement reads: "What is your weight? Inaccurately answering this
      will increase the likelihood of an incorrect diagnosis." A privacy statement read: "What is
      your weight? We will not share or sell this personal health information with anyone. We will
      comply with all HIPPA regulations regarding the protection of your data."

      The dependent variable - patient truthfulness, will be measured in two ways.

        1. First measure of truthfulness will be a biometric mouse-movement measure. As
           participants answer the health care questions coded programming will measure the
           mouse-movement arc distance and time to response for biometric lie detection. This
           measurement is completed when participants move to their response to each health
           question.

        2. Second measure of truthfulness will be the answer adjustment method. Participants will
           be given a summary of their answers from their health questions in a read-only format
           and asked to indicate how OVER of UNDERSTATED each initial response was (e.g., "You
           indicated that your current weight is 185 lbs. How overstated or understated is that
           value?") on a scale from -5 (understated) to 5 (overstated). The absolute value of their
           scaled response represents the extent to which participants' initial response deviated
           from the truth. This the unit of measure to be used in analysis.

        3. The answer adjustment values and the mouse tracking results provide a more holistic
           measure of truthfulness than one alone.

      No personal identifiers are collected. Age and gender are collected.
    
  