
    
      One of the ongoing challenges in critical care has been determining adequate fluid
      resuscitation. Overly aggressive volume expansion may produce deleterious effects, especially
      in patients with respiratory, renal and/or cardiac failure. Since the clinical ability to
      judge hemodynamic parameters is known to be poor, the determination of variables that would
      predict response to fluid challenge would be important for clinical decision-making.

      Traditional measures of preload (CVP, PAOP) are now known to be incapable to assess the
      volume status and fluid responsiveness, especially in children.

      There are two kinds of reasons for explaining the failure of markers of preload to predict
      volume responsiveness: the first reason is that the markers commonly used at the bedside are
      not always accurate measures of cardiac preload; the second reason is that an assessment of
      preload is not an assessment of preload responsiveness.

      The rapid determination of hemodynamic status offered by noninvasive hemodynamic devices as
      PICCO2 would allow tailoring of volume expansion necessary in hypoperfusion states to
      increase left ventricular volume and cardiac output. Studies in critically ill adults
      patients have demonstrated that passive leg raising autotransfusion and functional
      hemodynamic monitoring, by using pulse contour analysis, are reliable in the detection of
      fluid responsiveness. However, currently we have very few studies in pediatric patients using
      arterial pulse contour analysis and transpulmonary thermodilution, which does not allow the
      rational application of the hemodynamic variables for guiding fluid resuscitation.

      This study pretend to assess 1) the value of dynamics and static indices of preload, and its
      combination with contractility and lung water indices, as predictors of fluid responsiveness
      in both spontaneously breathing and mechanically ventilated pediatric patients and 2) the
      value of stroke volume and pulse pressure changes during passive leg raising autotransfusion,
      as predictors of fluid responsiveness in pediatric patients.

      In this observational study, the hemodynamical variables are registered during the
      hemodynamically unstable, stable and "normal" states of the pediatric patient and before and
      after clinically indicated fluid (crystalloid, colloid or hemoderivative) infusion. Passive
      leg raising hemodynamic changes will be compared with the hemodynamic changes caused by fluid
      infusion.
    
  