
    
      Cataract surgery is the most commonly performed eye surgery in the US, and it is vital for
      ophthalmology residents to have a high quality cataract surgery experience during their
      supervised training years. This allows trainees to feel comfortable performing ocular surgery
      and managing associated complications in a variety of clinical settings. Aspiring
      ophthalmologists desire a high level of surgical comfort and competence, and often times,
      prospective applicants to residency programs use the surgical volume and quality of training,
      particularly cataract surgery, as a surrogate measure for the overall quality of the
      residency program. This encourages residency programs to provide the most robust surgical
      experience possible.

      Residency programs provide various levels of exposure to cataract surgery during training,
      from providing surgical stimulators to wet labs, where residents can practice surgical
      maneuvers on pig or cow eyes. These studies show that using such devices improve a resident's
      operative skill level, translating to greater efficiency and lower intra-operative
      complication rates. While practice through wet labs and surgical stimulation are clearly
      beneficial, there is no substitute for direct experience performing cataract surgery in the
      operating room. Complication rates in resident-performed cataract surgery were found to drop
      50% after the resident's first 40 cases. A study evaluating the first 3000
      phacoemulsification procedures of an experienced surgeon found a substantial decrease in the
      rate of major complications after the first 100 procedures. Another study investigating the
      first 1000 phacoemulsification cases performed by an experienced surgeon found an 8.4%
      decrease in both major and minor complications after the first 150 cases (9.3% to 0.9%).

      Therefore, it is critical that ophthalmology residency programs provide a robust clinical
      cataract curriculum that affords residents the ability to maximize their surgical exposure
      and experience. Substantial exposure however, is prevented by the high rates of cancellation
      of cataract surgeries. This is a widespread phenomenon seen at various eye care institutions.
      A study of all eye surgeries cancelled at an ambulatory surgicenter in Boston found a 5.3%
      cancellation rate within 24 hours of the procedure, leading to a loss of at least $100,000
      per year with 41% of cancellations considered preventable. Case cancellation data for 123
      Veterans Administration (VA) facilities throughout 2006 showed a 9% cancellation rate for
      ophthalmic surgeries, with 35% of cancellations being due to "patient factors" followed by
      28% due to "work up/medical condition change".

      A prior study at Wills Eye Hospital found that out of the 1,083 surgeries scheduled through
      the Cataract and Primary Eye Care Clinic (CPEC) from 7/1/11 through 6/3/0/12, 319 (29.5%)
      were canceled. Of these cancellations, 72% were cancelled within 7 days of the procedure, not
      permitting enough time to reassign the operating room slot. Internal economic analysis at
      Wills has estimated lost reimbursement of these cancellations was $607,946, with $391,884 of
      the lost revenue from facility fees. Additionally, this is a relative loss of 230 resident
      surgical experiences or 28.75 surgeries missed per resident. Considered together, these
      findings mean that Wills Eye Hospital is not reaching its full clinical and economic
      potential in providing cataract surgery experience; more specifically, the institution is
      functioning at 86% of its capacity for cataract surgery procedures. It is apparent that the
      high rate of cataract surgery cancellation affects this teaching hospital both academically
      and economically. There is a cost to the residents who are losing valuable experience, the
      attending staff, and the institution as a whole.

      The prior study also revealed that the most common reason for cataract surgery cancellation
      is patients' failure to complete pre-admission testing (PAT). While routine pre-operative
      testing is not supported in otherwise healthy patients undergoing elective non-cardiac
      surgeries, these tests are used to provide a baseline, elicit preventative measures and
      minimize post-operative risk. Improvement of the pre-admission testing process is modifiable
      and therefore presents an opportunity for intervention. Other modifiable reasons for
      cancellation include lack of transportation, and failure to remember not to eat the night
      before the procedure.

      Past experience at Wills indicates that there are roughly 1100 resident cataract surgeries
      scheduled each year. The cancellation rate for a similar period of time determined from
      Assessing Cancellation Rates and Barriers to Completion of Resident Performed Cataract
      Surgery at Wills Eye Hospital was 29.45%, or approximately 320 cancellations per year. The
      investigators propose to test an intervention to address these modifiable reasons for
      cancellation.

      Patients will be randomized to either 1) the intervention group where on-site pre-admission
      testing will be mandated or 2) the control group, where on-site pre-admission testing will be
      offered but not mandated. The intervention will be coupled with personalized patient
      communication appropriately timed before the scheduled procedure. Multiple studies have shown
      that scheduled pre-operative visitation and assessment and enhanced communication between the
      physician and the patient contribute to decreased cancellation of surgeries. It has been
      found that anesthesia-run pre-operative clinic visits significantly decrease cancellations
      and delays of same-day surgeries. Additionally, older patients were found to have the
      greatest decrease in cancellation rates after preoperative anesthesia clinic visits. At VA
      facilities throughout America, surgeons at low cancellation rate sites reported higher use of
      written preoperative instructions and pre-operative clinic visits. Cancellation rates will be
      collected prospectively and statistical analysis utilized to evaluate the significance of
      intervention.
    
  