
    
      ENGAGE-B is a single blind, parallel-group, community-based randomized controlled pilot
      study. The overall objective of the study is to build on our recently completed ENGAGE pilot
      study and further examine and characterize the feasibility and effectiveness of translating
      the LIFE study physical activity intervention (PA) into a real-world community-based senior
      center setting. ENGAGE-B will target the recruitment of older adults with subjective memory
      complaints and slow gait (motoric cognitive risk syndrome (MCR)). Participants with MCR will
      be randomized to a 24-week PA intervention (n = 20) or to a healthy aging education control
      intervention (HE) (n = 20). ENGAGE-B will also test a highly practical and scalable
      innovation for the delivery of exercise programming for at-risk older adults in the community
      setting. An existing community-based senior center employee ("Community Health Promoter"),
      without a formal background in exercise physiology, will be trained by the study
      investigators to deliver the PA intervention among older adults with MCR. The primary
      feasibility outcomes will be assessed by quantifying intervention adherence and the
      occurrence of adverse events across the PA and HE intervention arms. Secondary and
      exploratory outcomes will include the comparative evaluation of specific domains of cognitive
      performance (executive function, global cognition, working memory, computerized cognitive
      testing and complex walking tasks), non-invasive functional near-infrared spectroscopy
      (fNIRS) derived measures of prefrontal brain activation, mobility, accelerometry-derived
      estimates of physical activity, depression, quality of life and costs associated with
      delivering the respective interventions. Results from this proposed pilot study are intended
      as the basis for a larger and more definitive pragmatic trial in older adults. If successful
      this pilot work will serve as an exciting preliminary model to potentially target and
      mitigate the loss of cognitive independence across a variety of community-based locations.
    
  