
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety/maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of aglatimagene
      besadenovec (AdV-tk) given intra-cranially at the time of initial tumor resection followed by
      valacyclovir (GMCI), nivolumab, and standard of care (radiation therapy [RT]+temozolomide
      [TMZ]) in patients with high-grade gliomas (HGG).

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety/maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of aglatimagene
      besadenovec (AdV-tk) given intra-cranially at the time of initial tumor resection followed by
      valacyclovir (GMCI), nivolumab, and standard of care (radiation therapy [RT]+temozolomide
      [TMZ]) in patients with high-grade gliomas (HGG).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate safety and toxicity of this combined treatment regimen. II. To estimate
      overall survival. III. To estimate progression free survival. IV. Immune biomarkers,
      including serum extracellular vesicles (EVs).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo tumor resection and receive AdV-tk injection into the wall of the resection
      cavity. Patients then receive valacyclovir orally three times per day for 14 days. Beginning
      on approximately day 8, patients undergo radiation therapy five days per week for 6 weeks.
      Temozolomide will be initiated on approximately day 15 after valacyclovir is completed and
      will continue until MGMT methylation status is known. If unmethylated, temozolomide will be
      discontinued: these patients will constitute Cohort 1. In Cohort 2 - patients with methylated
      MGMT - temozolomide will continue. If methylation status is unable to be determined, those
      patients will also continue receiving temozolomide (Cohort 2). Both cohorts will receive
      nivolumab intravenously every two weeks for up to 52 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months for 2 years, and
      then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  