
    
      Preterm birth (PTB) is currently the most important maternal and child health problem in the
      United States. It is the leading cause of neonatal mortality and a significant contributor to
      neonatal morbidity. In the United States, approximately 12% of all live births are born
      preterm, an incidence that continues to rise. The extreme cost of PTB resides not only in the
      immediate neonatal care but also in the longterm care of lasting morbidities resulting from
      prematurity. Effective prevention or treatment of PTB could significantly lower neonatal
      mortality and morbidity as well as health care costs. In the United States, PTB costs on the
      order of 28 billion dollars a year. But, this cost does not stop at the delivery. The costs
      of prolonged hospital care after birth and the increased need for hospital admission during
      the first year of life for ex-preterm infants is significant and confers a large economic
      burden on our society.

      It is well known that PTB rates in the United States are highest for Black infants (17.9%),
      followed by Native Americans (14%), White infants (11.8%), and Asian infants (10%). The
      specific large disparity between black and white infants is striking and the etiology of this
      disparity is not fully understood. This disparity persists even after adjusting for
      socioeconomic status. Maternal stress has been implicated as a potential cause of PTB. Racism
      is a potent lifetime stressor in the lives of Black women in particular. It is plausible that
      perceptions of racism as well as distrust in the health care system may explain the
      persistent racial disparities in PTB, especially through mediation of other factors
      associated with premature birth. The data to date offer a preventative strategy only to those
      women with a prior PTB. These women represent a small percent of all women with a PTB. More
      then half of all PTB occur in apparently low risk pregnancies. Cervical shortening appears to
      be a common biological pathway leading to preterm birth, often well in advance of PTB.
      Regardless of etiology of PTB, cervical change must occur. The cervix must remodel (change)
      for birth to occur at any gestational age.

      We hypothesize that experiences of discrimination and health care system distrust are
      associated with preterm birth. Further, we hypothesize that premature cervical remodeling
      occurs weeks prior to actual birth and may be able to be detected in women at highest risk
      for preterm birth (nulliparous women-women who have not previously carried a pregnancy beyond
      15 weeks). This study investigates whether experiences of discrimination and health care
      system distrust are associated with PTB in all women (group 1). It also investigates if the
      detection of cervical remodeling (changes in the cervix measured by protein levels,
      ultrasound length and physical exam) can accurately identify those women at greatest risk for
      PTB-nulliparous (group 2). A prospective cohort of pregnant women will be enrolled. All
      enrolled women are asked to complete validated questionnaires about experiences of
      discrimination and health care system distrust. Nulliparous women are evaluated for cervical
      change, through a comprehensive evaluation at 18-24 weeks. The main outcome assessed is
      preterm birth.
    
  