
    
      Study Design:

      This is a Phase I/Ib, randomized, multicenter clinical study to evaluate the safety,
      tolerability, and immunogenicity of four vaccination regimens against Zika virus (ZIKV)
      disease. Vaccination regimens with the VRC-ZKADNA085-00-VP (ZIKV DNA) vaccine administered on
      Day 0 and Week 8 (Group 1); on Day 0 and Week 12 (Group 2); on Day 0, Weeks 4 and 8 (Group
      3); and on Day 0, Weeks 4 and 20 (Group 4) will be tested. The primary hypothesis is that the
      ZIKV DNA vaccine will be safe and well tolerated in healthy adults. A secondary hypothesis is
      that all vaccine regimens will elicit a ZIKV-specific immune response. The primary objectives
      are to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the investigational vaccine regimens in
      healthy adults. Secondary objectives are related to the immunogenicity of the vaccination
      regimens.

      Product Description:

      The investigational VRC-ZKADNA085-00-VP vaccine was developed by the Vaccine Research Center
      (VRC), NIAID, and is composed of a single closed-circular DNA plasmid that encodes the wild
      type precursor transmembrane M (prM) and envelope (E) proteins from the H/PF/2013 strain of
      ZIKV. Vaccine is supplied in single dose vials at a concentration of 4 mg/mL. ZIKV DNA
      vaccine dose will be 4 mg administered as an intramuscular (IM) injection in the deltoid
      muscle.

      Subjects:

      Healthy adults 18 to 35 years of age.

      Study Plan:

      Subjects will be enrolled at up to 3 study sites, randomized equally into the 4 study groups,
      and will receive 2-3 vaccinations. The protocol requires up to 18 scheduled clinic visits and
      a telephone follow-up contact after each study injection. Solicited reactogenicity will be
      evaluated using a 7-day diary card. Assessment of vaccine safety will include clinical
      observation and monitoring of hematological and chemical parameters at clinical visits
      through the 44 weeks on the study.

      -VRC 319 Study Schema

        -  Group:1; Subjects*: 20; Day 0; Week 8;

        -  Group:2; Subjects*: 20; Day 0; Week 12;

        -  Group:3; Subjects*: 20; Day 0; Week 4; Week 8;

        -  Group:4; Subjects*: 20; Day 0; Week 4; Week 20;

        -  TOTAL; Subjects*: 80

             -  Up to 120 total enrollments are permitted if additional subjects are needed for
                assessment of safety and immune responses.

      Study Duration:

      Subjects will be evaluated for safety and immune responses throughout the study for 44 weeks
      following the first vaccine administration and for durability of immune responses at two
      additional long term follow-up visits at 18 and 24 months.
    
  