
    
      This study has two stages. At the first stage,the investigators will try to use noise
      detectors to investigate the status of noise exposure in the pediatric intensive care
      unit(PICU) and to analyze the main noise sources in it. At the second stage,the investigators
      will try to evaluate the effect of noise management on noise exposure and health outcomes of
      the pediatric patients in PICU.The investigators hypothesize that noise exposure in PICU is
      higher than the standard.The investigators also hypothesize that the implementation of the
      noise management will improve the noise exposure and health outcomes of the pediatric
      patients in PICU.

      1.For the investigation of the status of noise exposure:

      (1) Preparation of noise monitor equipment: select noise detectors conforming to the national
      standard. All noise detectors used in the study are of the same brand; (2) Use of noise
      monitor: set the mode of noise monitor according to the national standard: place the monitor
      in accordance with the requirements;(3) All the data of noise exposure will be collected and
      sorted out by the investigator. (4) Spss20.0 software is used for descriptive analysis and
      statistical inference. Mean ± standard deviation, median and quartile are used to describe
      measurement data, while frequency and percentage are used to describe counting data.
      Comparison between groups: when the measurement data obey normal distribution and the
      variance is homogeneous, two independent sample t-test are used to compare whether there is
      statistical difference between the two groups of indicators or index difference (measured
      value baseline value); if it does not obey normal distribution or the variance is uneven, non
      parametric statistical method is used; counting data: Chi square test is used to compare
      whether there is statistical difference between the two groups of index values, test level: α
      = 0.05 2.For the evaluation of the effect of noise management on noise exposure and health
      outcomes of the pediatric patients in PICU:

      (1)General information and clinical data of patients will be collected through hospital
      electronic information system, ICU nursing records, cases, doctor's advice and consultation.
      The investigator will evaluate and record the delirium score of ICU children who met the
      inclusion criteria each shift . At the time of discharge, PICU duration, hospital stay, MV
      duration and in-hospital mortality were inquired by EMR. (2) Quality control of intervention
      implementation are as follows:① According to the research results of early promotion
      strategy, relevant training materials were made to carry out training and education for PICU
      medical staff;② During the implementation of the intervention, irregular sampling of medical
      staff was conducted to evaluate the implementation of the intervention and give timely
      feedback.(3) Collection of information:① The data of patients will be collected by the
      investigator;② Pediatric delirium score: in order to ensure the quality of the study, the
      investigator will conduct random sampling and assess the delirium of children in the same
      patient with the nurses from time to time to investigate the evaluation quality;③ Input the
      data into EpiData, set reasonable numerical boundary value and logical check items. If there
      is logical error, check the original data for correction, and import the data into spss20.0
      for statistical analysis.

      (4) Sample size assessment: the assessment of sample size in experimental research can also
      be divided into measurement data and counting data. The main outcome measures are delirium
      rate and noise exposure. Therefore, the incidence of delirium will be used as the rate to
      calculate the sample size.According to the calculation formula of the rate: n = (U α + U β)
      22P (1-p) / (P1-P2) 2, the sample size of the control group and the intervention group are
      calculated. Uα=1.64，Uβ=0.84。P1 and P2 are the estimated values of delirium incidence before
      and after the intervention, and P is the total rate. The references showed that P1 = 33%, P2
      = 14%.The sample size calculated by the formula is: (1.64 + 0.84) 2 * 2 * 0.47 * 0.53 / 0.192
      = 85 cases, plus 20% of the sample loss, that is, 102 cases in the control group and 102
      cases in the intervention group (5)Statistical Analysis:①Data set: use EpiData 3.1 software
      to establish the data set, and clean up and check the data;② The data will be imported into
      spss20.0 for statistical analysis. Descriptive analysis and statistical inference will be
      carried out. Mean ± standard deviation, median and quartile are used to describe measurement
      data, while frequency and percentage are used to describe counting data. Comparison between
      groups: when the measurement data obeys normal distribution and the variance is homogeneous,
      two independent sample t-test is used to compare whether there is statistical difference in
      the indicators or index difference (measured value baseline value) between the two groups; if
      the measurement data does not obey the normal distribution or the variance is uneven, non
      parametric statistical method is used; counting data: Chi square test is used to compare
      whether there is statistical difference between the two groups of patients Level: α = 0.05.
    
  