
    
      TNBC is an aggressive subtype of breast cancer associated with poor survival and new
      treatments are needed. A key feature of cancer is its ability to go undetected by the immune
      system. Recent developments in cancer research have identified immune checkpoints as a
      possible treatment option as they seem to promote an anti-tumour immune response.

      Some breast cancers have considerable cancer cell infiltration, which has been associated
      with better prognosis. This is where white blood cells have permeated the cancer cell and
      infiltrated the infected cell in an attempt to 'cure' the infected cell. Greater
      immune-sensitivity is thought to correlate with greater cancer cell infiltration therefore
      researchers are looking at ways in which immune-sensitivity can be improved.

      One approach is to target inflammation that is known to play a major role in cancer
      development and progression. Certain proteins can often be abnormally expressed in many
      cancers. In preclinical models the investigators recently demonstrated that the presence of
      certain cancer cell-derived proteins is critical for the growth of tumours formed by
      melanoma, colorectal and breast mouse cancer cell lines. In the mouse preclinical trials it
      indicated that by blocking the cancer cells ability to produce these proteins was associated
      with a marked shift in the inflammatory profile. To test this theory, this study will use
      aspirin as the chosen protein inhibitor and it is speculated that the addition of aspirin
      might enhance the efficacy of the immune checkpoint blockade, avelumab.

      TRIAL AIMS & DESIGN

      The aim of this trial is to determine whether aspirin enhances the efficacy of avelumab by
      promoting a greater anti-cancer immune response. This is a multicentre study recruiting
      patients with confirmed TNBC from across four trial sites within the United Kingdom. It is
      anticipate that 50 participants will need to be screened in order to successfully enrol 42
      patients onto the trial. Patients will be randomly assigned to one of two arms:

        -  21 patients into Arm A: Avelumab + Proton Pump Inhibitor (PPI)

        -  21 patients into Arm B: Avelumab + Aspirin + PPI

      The estimated duration of participation for a participant is up to 10 weeks. Each subject
      will be asked to complete 5 study visits. After successfully completing a Screening Visit
      (Visit 1), each eligible subject will attend for a Baseline Visit (Visit 2) and will be
      randomly assigned to treatment ARM A or ARM B. As part of the baseline visit subjects will
      have their first of two breast tumour biopsies. All subjects will commence their PPI
      following the baseline visit, those subjects randomised to ARM B will also commence their
      Aspirin at this time. At visit 3 all subjects will receive their Avelumab infusion. At Visit
      4 (Follow up Visit A) each subject will undergo their second research biopsy and further
      research blood sampling this will be the first of two follow up visits, with Visit 5 (Follow
      up Visit B) concluding the patients participation.

      Visit windows have been used to aid visit planning in the hope that most research
      appointments can take place in line with patients' ordinary care visits so as to reduce any
      burden inflicted on the patient.

      Adverse events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) will be collected from the time of
      randomisation and will continue to be collected up until Visit 5 (Follow up Visit B). All
      post biopsy treatment will be at the discretion of the subject's treating physician per local
      standard of care.

      PATIENT IDENTIFICATION & SCREENING The study will be conducted as a multi-centre trial
      consisting of four NHS secondary care out-paints clinics from across the United Kingdom. Each
      site has been chosen for their expertise in oncology and their ability to identify patients
      for the trial directly from their clinics with each centre treating between 20 to 40 patients
      per annum; this pool of patients will constitute the source of recruitment in the study, PIC
      sites may also be used.

      Potential participants will be identified by the Principal Investigators multidisciplinary
      team following recent diagnosis of TNBC. The multidisciplinary team shall be trained on the
      study protocol and required to sign the trial delegation and training log in advance of
      working on the trial or identifying participants. Potential participants will have at least
      24 hours to read the patient information and decide if they would like to participate in the
      study. Participants must have the capacity to provide fully informed consent. Participants
      must not participate in any other therapeutic trials whilst on study treatments, however once
      all study treatments as specified by trial schema are completed, participation in further
      studies will not be affected.

      At the screening visits the following data will be collected:

        -  Informed consent

        -  Demographics

        -  Medical history

        -  Concomitant medication

        -  Complete Physical examination

        -  Vital Signs 12-lead Electrocardiograph (ECG)

        -  ECOG performance status

        -  Blood tests:

        -  Biochemistry: AST or ALT, LDH, Alk Phos, total bilirubin, sodium, potassium, urea,
           creatinine, total protein, albumin, adjusted calcium

        -  Haematology: FBC: Hb, Platelets, ANC, WBC, Lymphocytes, basophils, eosinophils

        -  Thyroid Function: Free T4, TSH

        -  Urinalysis

        -  Pregnancy testing

        -  Optional: Microbiome samples kit dispensation (Stool sample, Saliva sample, Nasal Swab)

        -  Baseline tumour assessment

      BASELINE VISIT

      The following assessments will be conducted at the time of this visit:

        -  Adverse Events

        -  Concomitant medication

        -  Vital Signs

        -  ECOG performance status

        -  Eligibility

        -  Randomisation

        -  Research Bloods (Circulating tumour DNA (CtDNA); Plasma for Cytokine Analysis; PBMC
           extraction for immunophenotyping)

        -  Mid-stream Urine sample for prostaglandin

        -  Optional: Microbiome samples kit collection (Stool sample, Saliva sample, Nasal Swab)

        -  Breast Tissue Biopsy

        -  Pre-treatment dispensation (Arm A: PPI OR Arm B: PPI + aspirin)

        -  Diary card training and dispensation

        -  Pre-treatment Reminder Telephone call

      TREATMENT & FOLLOW UP VISITS Visit 3: I.V visit

      The following assessments will be conducted at the time of this visit:

        -  Assessment of Adverse Events

        -  Concomitant medication

        -  Vital Signs

        -  *Laboratory tests *(Biochemistry, Haematology and Urinalysis only if screening labs were
           >14 day prior to visit 3)

        -  **Pregnancy testing **(only if screen pregnancy test was >14days prior to day Visit 3)

        -  Microbiome samples kit dispensation only (Stool, Saliva, Nasal Swab )

        -  Mid-stream Urine sample for prostaglandin

        -  Diary card - Pre-treatment compliance check (Arm A: PPI, Arm B: PPI + aspirin)

        -  Avelumab (10mg/kg i.v.)

      Visit 4: Follow up A The following assessments will be conducted at the time of this visit

        -  Adverse Events

        -  Concomitant medication

        -  Research Bloods (CtDNA); Plasma for Cytokine Analysis; Immunophenotyping)

        -  Microbiome sample kit collection (Stool sample, Saliva sample, Nasal Swab)

        -  Mid-stream Urine sample for prostaglandin

        -  Breast Tumour Biopsy

        -  Diary card - Pre-treatment compliance check (Arm A: PPI, Arm B: PPI + aspirin)

      Visit 5: Follow up B The following assessments will be conducted at the time of this visit:

        -  Adverse Events

        -  Concomitant medication

        -  Symptom Directed Physical examination

        -  Vital Signs (BP, HR, Sp02, Temp)

        -  ECOG performance status

        -  Laboratory blood tests

        -  Biochemistry: AST or ALT, LDH, Alk Phos, total bilirubin, sodium, potassium, urea,
           creatinine, total protein, albumin, adjusted calcium

        -  Haematology: FBC - Hb, Platelets, ANC, WBC, Lymphocytes, basophils, eosinophils

        -  Thyroid Function: Free T4, TSH

        -  Urinalysis

        -  Research Bloods (CtDNA); Plasma for Cytokine Analysis; Immunophenotyping)

      SAFETY REVIEW An Independent Trial Steering Committee (TSC) and Data Monitoring Committee
      (IDMC) is being formed and will review trial safety data as a combined committee group.

      TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH With consent the following samples will be collected from patients and
      held by the Manchester Cancer Research Centre (MCRC) biobank:

        -  Microbiome samples

        -  Research blood samples

        -  Breast Tissue Biopsies

      The MCRC biobank holds a generic research tissue bank ethics approval under their HTA license
      and will release the samples for relevant research, subject to approval by the Biobank's
      Access Committee.
    
  