
    
      The vitamin folate is necessary for one-carbon metabolism in processes such as amino acid and
      nucleotide synthesis. As folate cannot be synthesized by mammals, it must be sourced from the
      diet and dietary supplements or generated by bacterial species present in the colon. There
      are a number of well-established adverse health outcomes associated with folate deficiency in
      humans, including congenital neural tube defects in newborns and colorectal cancer in adults.
      It has been proposed supra-physiological folate status can also be detrimental since it can
      lead to changes in immune function and the masking of vitamin B12 deficiency. It is generally
      believed that dietary sources of folate are primarily absorbed in the small intestine,
      however recent evidence from our team and others suggests that the colon may play a greater
      role in absorption of folate than previously understood. Specifically the amount of folate in
      the colon, much of it generated by the microbiome, can exceed dietary intakes of folate from
      natural sources. There are a number of gaps in knowledge regarding colonic folate absorption
      in humans. It is not known to what degree folate specific transporters such as proton coupled
      folate transporter (PCFT) and reduced folate carrier (RFC) are present in the colon of
      healthy humans. To date, the majority of studies conducted identifying the presence of RFC
      and PCFT in colonocytes have been performed using cell lines or tissue harvested from organ
      donors. To our knowledge, no study has investigated the mRNA and protein concentrations of
      both RFC and PCFT present in human colonic tissue retrieved as biopsies. It also remains to
      be determined if folate status influences RFC and PCFT expression at the level of the colon.
      Secondly, it remains unclear to what degree the two intestinal folate hydrolases, glutamate
      carboxypeptidase II (GCPII) and γ-glutamyl hydrolase (GGH) are present in colonic mucosa. To
      gain a more thorough understanding of the fundamental processes involved in folate absorption
      in the colon of humans, the following three objectives are proposed. The primary objective is
      to evaluate the impact of 0 and 400 µg supplemental folic acid on total folate concentrations
      within the colonic mucosa by measuring folate levels. The secondary objectives include
      evaluating the impact of 0 and 400 µg supplemental folic acid on the regulation of PCFT and
      RFC in the ileum and colon by assessing the expression of mRNA transcripts and proteins, and
      determining the degree to which GCPII and GGH are present in the lumen of the ileum and colon
      by quantifying enzyme activity and expression of mRNA transcripts and proteins. To accomplish
      this, a 16-week longitudinal open-labelled randomized clinical trial will be conducted.
      Recruitment and screening will require three separate steps comprised of an initial
      invitation to participate, followed by a telephone screening session to determine eligibility
      and finally a baseline in-person study visit prior to enrollment into the intervention phase
      of the study. Once enrolled, participants will be asked to follow a diet low in synthetic
      folic acid for the duration of the study. At enrollment, subjects will be randomized to
      receive a multivitamin supplement and either 0 or 400 µg folic acid. Follow-up study visits
      will take place at week 8 and week 16 where anthropometric measurements, blood and colonic
      tissue biopsies (Week 16 only) from the terminal ileum, cecum, ascending colon, and
      descending colon will be collected for analysis. 24-hour dietary recalls will be collected
      throughout the study to observe folate and caloric intake. Plasma, RBC folate levels, and
      colonic mucosa folate content will be determined via microbial assay. GCPII and GGH enzyme
      activity will be determined according to the Krumdieck and Baugh method with modification.
      PCFT and RFC expression will be determined via semi-quantitative real-time PCR and protein
      samples will be extracted in a Western Blot Analysis using RIPA lysis and extraction buffer.
      The proposed study will further our understanding of the fundamental processes of folate
      metabolism and absorption in the colon. Results from this study may help to establish the
      optimal intakes of dietary folate, meeting the requirements of humans, without the potential
      health risks related to over-exposure to folate.
    
  