
    
      Subjects expressing interest in participating in this study, were interviewed in person to
      determine whether they appeared to qualify to participate in the study. If they met
      eligibility criteria, they were invited to attend an entry/familiarization session. During
      this session, they completed personal and medical histories which were reviewed to determine
      whether they met eligibility criteria. Once meeting entry criteria, they were familiarized to
      the study protocol via a verbal and written explanation outlining the study design. Subjects
      then read and signed the Informed Consent Statements after the study details were explained.
      Subjects then perform the exercise protocol in which they must have completed in order to
      qualify for the study.

      Subjects were asked to perform a VO2 Max test using the Bruce protocol. Following the VO2 Max
      test, subjects were given a rest period of 20 minutes before starting the Time to Exhaustion
      (TTE) trial run. This session familiarized subjects with the exercise protocol preparing them
      for the qualification testing session. Subjects then returned to the lab in a 12 hour fasted
      state and completed a VO2max test. If a 42 ml/kg/min or above was achieved subjects were then
      allowed to complete the 20 minute TTE test. After completion of the TTE, a blood draw was
      done to access the subject's iron levels. Once results for iron levels returned at a 90 or
      below subjects were given an appointment time to perform baseline assessments and testing
      sessions.

      Baseline testing (Week 0), Week 8 and Week 12 took place on the 8th or 9th day after the
      subject's menstrual cycle. Subjects returned to the lab in a 12 hour fasted state, with no
      strenuous workouts done 48 hours prior to testing. Subjects had their height and weight
      measured, filled out questionnaires, completed a DEXA scan and InBody to establish current
      body composition, afterwards having their heart rate and blood pressure assessed. At this
      point subjects were instructed to lay on a table for their blood draw. Once the blood draw
      was done, subjects completed a VO2 Max test using the Bruce protocol. Following the VO2 Max
      testing, subjects filled out 2 questionnaires and were given a rest period of 20 minutes
      before starting the Time to Exhaustion (TTE) trial run. During the rest period subjects were
      given a snack to ingest (banana or apple) and consumed the same snack at each testing
      session. Approximately 12 minutes prior to the TTE subjects filled out a questionnaire.
      During the TTE run subjects were able to control and see the speed at which they ran but were
      blinded to the time passed along with the distance completed. After the 20 minutes, the
      treadmill stopped, distance, heart rate and blood pressure were measured. Afterwards,
      subjects filled out post exercise questionnaires. At week 0, after all exercise testing was
      completed, subjects were assigned to a group (either placebo or active) and instructed to
      ingest 1 capsule per day. A workout log was also provided to each subject, who would return
      to the lab every Friday with their workout log to access exercise compliance.

      At week 4, subjects returned to the lab on the 8th or 9th day after their menstrual cycle to
      have a blood draw completed to access blood marker variables in addition to questionnaires.

      Diet logs were keep throughout the duration of the study and were monitored by lab staff.
    
  