
    
      Pulse oximetry estimates oxygen saturation in the arterial blood by trans-illuminating a
      translucent tissue (usually a fingertip, or an ear lobe) with light-emitting diodes at 2
      specific wavelengths. Absorption of light at these different wavelengths (660 nm, red, and
      940 nm, infrared respectively) differs between oxygenated and deoxygenated hemoglobin. The
      amount of light which is transmitted at both wave lengths is then quantified and processed by
      an algorithm that displays a saturation value. The signals are corrected for the pulsatile
      nature of arterial oxygen flow. Devices also provide pulse rate measured by plethysmography
      (pulse-related changes in volume of fingertip or earlobe). Since its introduction in the
      early 1980s, pulse oximetry has proven to be an essential tool for the non-invasive
      assessment of blood oxygen saturation (SpO2). The use of pulse oximeter is now widespread and
      interests acute care settings as well as primary care settings. Although there have been
      recent improvements in signal analysis such as increasing sampling frequency and improving
      reflectance technology [4], the accuracy of commercially available oximeters differs. First
      of all, there is variability in the way accuracy of pulse oximetry devices is reported within
      2% (± 1 SD) or within 5% (± 2 SD) of reference measurements obtained by blood gases analysis
      [5]. Secondly, there is a variability between commercially available devices, especially
      below a SpO2 of 90%. This is partly explained by the fact that calibration of the different
      algorithms employed in signal processing is limited by the range of saturations that can be
      safely obtained in healthy volunteers. In respiratory medicine, it has been shown that such
      variability of accuracy could affect the diagnosis of Obstructive Sleep Apnea Hypopnea
      Syndrome (OSAHS) and impact on clinical decisions as the recorded number of apneas/hypopneas
      varied between devices during nocturnal sleep studies [8] Nocturnal hypoxemia (NH) is
      considered as one of the major determinants of adverse cardiovascular complications and
      neurocognitive impairment in patients suffering of chronic respiratory failure (CRF). Because
      of its simplicity, short set-up time and short time response, pulse oximetry is a valuable
      screening tool for nocturnal hypoxemia despite its disadvantages such as motion artefacts or
      sensitivity to perfusion. Therefore, definitions of NH rely solely on nocturnal oximetry
      recording: for instance, in a consensus statement on noninvasive ventilation, spending > 5%
      of sleep time under 88% of SpO2 was considered as a relevant threshold. Definitions of NH
      remain arbitrary and different expert-based thresholds have been suggested in the medical
      literature [10]. Patients suffering from nocturnal hypoventilation, especially those with an
      average daytime SpO2 close to the steep portion of the hemoglobin dissociation curve (SpO2
      between 90-94%), are at higher risk for NH. Therefore, in these patients, device imprecision
      could have a significant impact on medical decisions, such as deciding to adjust ventilator
      settings in patients under noninvasive ventilation (NIV) and/or implementing nocturnal oxygen
      supplementation.

      In patients with CRF and NIV, after optimal adjustment of ventilator settings, prescription
      of nocturnal oxygen supplementation is common practice although impact of nocturnal oxygen
      supplementation on survival, patient comfort, or prevention of cor pulmonale has yet to be
      demonstrated. Practically speaking, it increases considerably the burden of the treatment for
      the patient and care givers (additional connections and tubings, noise of the oxygen
      concentrator etc.). To our knowledge, no study has evaluated how the use of different pulse
      oximeters could impact on this decision. Three types of devices are used in clinical
      practice: pulse oximetry using a probe connected to the home ventilator device, pulse
      oximetry combined with transcutaneous capnography, or using a "wrist watch" type of device.
    
  