
    
      It is common that the abnormalities in parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels appear in patients
      with moderate and advanced chronic kidney diseases (CKD). CKD-mineral and bone disorder
      (CKD-MBD), manifested by the serum calcium (Ca), phosphorus (P), and parathyroid hormone
      (PTH) levels, and other abnormalities such as vitamin D metabolism and bone turnover etc,
      contribute to the increased morbidity and mortality in patients on maintenance dialysis.

      Results from KDOQI guidelines, indicated that an increased mortality risk was associated with
      high parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels, if the PTH levels >600pg/ml, it means severe secondary
      hyperparathyroidism, it have been shown to contribute to alterations of arterial structure
      and function and associated with cardiovascular (CV), calcifications, CV events, and death.

      In most patients, SHPT can be successfully controlled by dialysis and supplements of calcium
      and vitamin D. but Results from several studies, the severe secondary hyperparathyroidism
      can't be control by medical treatment or hemodialysis, about 15% of patients after 10 years
      and 38% of patients after 20 years of dialysis need parathyroidectomy. total
      parathyroidectomy(tPTX) is the best Surgical approach. tPTX seems to be associated to a lower
      relapse rate but higher percentage of hypoparathyroidism. But it may cause the patient in low
      parathyroid hormone status.

      It is well known that at present, a high proportion of patients receiving dialysis therapy
      have relatively low serum PTH levels. In parallel, the observation that CV calcifications are
      more prevalent in patients undergoing dialysis who have low serum PTH levels than in those
      with normal or moderately elevated levels, in association with low-turnover bone disease,
      this condition favors mineral deposition in vascular and other soft tissues instead of bone.
      Results from several studies, all of them reported an increase in CV mortality risk in
      patients with low PTH levels.

      Nonetheless, consistent evidence associating Compare SHPT with low serum PTH levels which
      mortality rate is higher in patients undergoing dialysis is still lacking. so, in this
      prospective, observational clinical trial study. the investigators will observe the mortality
      and CV incidence rate between SHPT and low serum PTH levels. the investigators detect the
      iPTH levels of all the patients in the investigators' blood purification center. The patients
      whose iPTH are Less than 300pg/ml and more than the 800pg/ml are chosen to involve in this
      study. According to PTH levels The patients will be divided into two groups. Both two groups
      of patients will receive a reasonable treatment according to the suggestions in K/DOQI
      guidelines. Then, all of the patients will be followed for 24 months to compare the rate of
      cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events and mortality in each group.
    
  