
    
      Esophageal cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors of the digestive system.
      Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, or esophageal squamous cell carcinoma for short, is the
      main type of esophageal cancer, accounting for more than 90% of esophageal cancer in China.
      The 5-year survival rate is about 15%~25%. Many patients with esophageal cancer are initially
      diagnosed as advanced, and many patients with early initial diagnosis will still relapse and
      metastasize after radical treatment. Currently, chemotherapy plays a central role in
      palliative care, but its objective remission rate is only 20-40%, and the median survival is
      about 8-10 months. However, most of the current phase III studies on targeted drugs for
      esophageal squamous cell carcinoma have failed, and the treatment of esophageal squamous cell
      carcinoma has entered the bottleneck stage. Therefore, it is urgent to explore a treatment
      method that can significantly improve the prognosis of patients with esophageal cancer.

      In recent years, with the development of biological immunotherapy, immunocheckpoint
      inhibitors, including PD-1 inhibitors, PD-L1 inhibitors and CTLA-4 inhibitors, have achieved
      significant curative effect and made breakthroughs in the treatment of multiple solid tumors
      including melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer and kidney cancer. These immunocheckpoint
      inhibitors have also been tried for esophageal cancer, with initial success in immunotherapy
      for esophageal cancer. In 2017, Toshihiko Doi et al. reported the research results of
      esophageal cancer, and screened a total of 83 cases of advanced esophageal cancer or
      gastroesophageal junction cancer, among which 37 patients had positive PD-L1 expression, with
      a positive rate of 44.6%. Finally, 23 patients were enrolled, 78% of whom were squamous cell
      carcinoma, 87% of whom had received second-line or above treatment before, among which more
      than 90% had received chemotherapy before, and the overall disease response rate was 30%. The
      overall partial remission rate was 30%, and 28% of the 18 patients with squamous cell
      carcinoma achieved partial remission . Another from Japan, multicenter single-arm phase Ⅱ
      clinical trials designed to explore Nivolumab clinical activity in advanced esophageal
      squamous cell carcinomas. The 65 included patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma
      received at least second-line treatment, but the expression level of pd-l1 was not detected.
      Sixty-four patients received intravenous Nivolumab, with median OS of 12.1 months, objective
      remission rate of 17.2% and disease control rate of 42%. However, the jury is still out on
      whether single immunocheckpoint inhibitors for esophageal cancer should be used in
      combination with chemotherapy, in the first line or in the back line, or in combination with
      different chemotherapy regiments.

      CtDNA is an endogenous tumor DNA in circulating blood that is free from cells. It is
      generally believed that ctDNA in the blood of tumor patients mainly comes from the
      proliferation of tumor cells after necrosis and apoptosis and the release of tumor cells with
      active proliferation. At present, most studies have proved that there are consistent genetic
      changes in the DNA of tumor tissue cells and ctDNA. If there are driver gene mutations in the
      primary or metastatic foci of patients, it is possible to detect the same genetic changes in
      their plasma free DNA. Therefore, ctDNA is a characteristic tumor biomarker that can be
      followed qualitatively, quantitatively and dynamically. Immunodetection point inhibitors,
      including PD-1 inhibitors, PD-L1 inhibitors and CTLA-4 inhibitors, have achieved significant
      efficacy in a variety of tumors and are expected to change the current treatment status of
      tumors. However, there is no recognized indicator that can predict the efficacy of
      immunotherapy for esophageal cancer.

      In this observational study, all patients with esophageal cancer who used immunocheckpoint
      inhibitors in clinical practice were included, without limitation on the number of treatment
      lines or combinations of different chemotherapy. Through follow-up observation, the purpose
      of this study was to analyze the efficacy of immunocheckpoint inhibitors for esophageal
      cancer in the real world, and to explore the differences in the efficacy of immunocheckpoint
      inhibitors in different stages of treatment, as well as the efficacy of different
      chemotherapy combinations, so as to provide clinical evidence for the use of immunotherapy
      for advanced esophageal cancer.
    
  