
    
      Bedside cardiac ultrasound is performed regularly in the emergency department to assess
      patients who present with undifferentiated chest pain or shortness of breath. Utility of
      cardiac ultrasound in this setting is emerging as standard of care. Cardiac ultrasound can
      rapidly provide essential information about the presence or absence of multiple
      cardiopulmonary pathologies. Cardiac ultrasound is safe, immediately accessible, and gives
      providers data regarding their patients in real-time.

      While cardiac ultrasound is common practice in emergency departments, the diagnostic utility
      of this test has been difficult to study. There are few studies in the literature that
      describe its utility in evaluating specific diagnoses. These studies have evaluated the use
      of cardiac ultrasound in diagnosing acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema, aortic
      dilation/aneurysm, acute coronary syndrome, and acute heart failure.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the utility of cardiac ultrasound in patients who
      present to the emergency department with undifferentiated chest pain or shortness of breath.
      This study will evaluate several parameters including how the cardiac ultrasound contributes
      to provider's management plan and assessment of the patient's diagnosis.

      This is a prospective observational study design. The investigators will prospectively enroll
      eligible consecutive patients who present to the emergency department with undifferentiated
      chest pain or shortness of breath. Patients will be included if a provider has ordered (or is
      planning on ordering) a cardiac ultrasound as part of the patient's diagnostic workup.
      Research associates will screen for these two chief complaints and will then approach the ED
      provider and ask if they ordered or are planning to order a cardiac ultrasound. ED providers
      may also contact research associates to enroll patients that meet the study criteria.

      Pre-ultrasound assessment: After eligibility is determined, a research associate will
      approach the provider directly involved in the patient's care (Resident or Staff). The
      provider completing the data collection forms does not need to be the provider who ordered or
      performed the ultrasound. The provider completing the forms will be an Emergency Medicine 2nd
      year level resident or above. The provider filling out the data collection form will fill out
      the pre-ultrasound assessment prior to reviewing the cardiac ultrasound images (either in
      real-time or on the computer after the ultrasound is completed). The provider will fill out a
      data collection form that asks about the most likely diagnosis, expected ultrasound findings,
      and current management plan.

      After the ultrasound is completed the same provider will be asked about the most likely
      diagnosis, observed ultrasound findings, and any new management changes.

      Other clinical data that will be collected will include demographic data, vital signs,
      relevant co-morbidities, imaging results, and lab results from the emergency department
      visit.
    
  