
    
      The specific aims of this three-year R34 are to prepare for a clinical trial by (1)
      developing the protocol and resources for Substance Use Treatment and Recovery Team (START)
      to address untreated opioid or alcohol use disorders (OAUDs) among hospitalized inpatients
      and actively link them to follow-up care, and by (2) conducting a pilot RCT to assess (a)
      implementation feasibility; and (b) acceptability among patients and providers. The study is
      of critical importance to public health because millions of people in the United States need,
      but do not receive, treatment for substance-use disorders. OAUDs are of particular concern
      because of high rates of morbidity, mortality, hospitalizations, and readmissions, as well as
      the increasing incidence of opioid-use disorders and associated medical consequences and
      overdose deaths. Moreover, OAUDs are common substance use disorders among medical inpatients.

      However, despite high prevalence, few inpatients with OAUDs receive evidence-based treatments
      while in the hospital. Most physicians and other providers in acute hospital settings are not
      trained to assess or manage patients with OAUDs, contributing to low rates of OAUD
      identification and treatment initiation. Pharmacotherapies to address OAUDs are effective for
      use across medical settings but are seldom initiated in hospitals or recommended as part of
      follow-up care. Inpatient hospitalization offers a pivotal opportunity to decrease unmet
      need. Starting treatment in the hospital and effectively linking patients with follow-up care
      could not only improve outcomes, but also could decrease high rates of hospital readmission
      and ultimately lower costs.

      The current standard of care for hospitalized patients with OAUD-screening, brief
      intervention and referral to treatment-is not effective for those with OAUDs, possibly
      because it does not include initiation of medication or facilitate linkage to follow-up OAUD
      care. Barriers to OAUD treatment for inpatients may include lack of expertise on the medical
      team, absence of an organized system for assessing and treating patients with OAUD, patient
      ambivalence about treatment, and lack of follow-up after discharge. The START will consist of
      an physician and care manager team with OAUD expertise who provide population-focused
      monitoring and measurement-based decision-making to support the medical team.

      START will use evidence-based components, including a motivational interviewing-based
      therapeutic intervention, targeted discharge planning, and active referral.

      To develop the protocol, we will draw from our prior work in primary care and other
      evidence-based resources, and obtain input from a stakeholder advisory board comprised of
      patients and providers. To assess feasibility, we will enroll 80 patients admitted to the
      hospital over 5 months in a pilot RCT and collect baseline and 1-month follow-up data.

      To determine acceptability, we will conduct interviews with providers and patients. The
      proposed study would be the first to test a consultation-liaison service-based START to
      improve care for inpatients with OAUD.
    
  