
    
      Problem description: evidence is building that matching targeted agents to tumor
      characteristics can improve outcomes. Such reports have fueled interest among patients and
      physicians to use molecular testing for treatment planning when standard treatment options
      have been exhausted. When oncologists aim to provide such personalized treatment to their
      patients though, obtaining the drugs can be challenging since off-label prescribing, while
      legal, is generally not reimbursed by insurance companies. Furthermore, outcomes of off-label
      treatment in routine clinical practice are not systematically recorded. As a result, the
      research and clinical communities have limited insight in these outcomes, leading to
      repetitive use of ineffective treatment for some tumor types, while effective treatment
      strategies might be missed for others. The latter is especially relevant for 'orphan
      diseases', that are too rare to conduct formal phase II and III trials. In summary, there is
      a lack of access to potentially effective therapy on one hand, and a lack of knowledge on
      broader use of such therapies on the other, altogether leading to sub-optimal use of
      available resources.

      Envisioned solution and study aim: creation of a drug-access program, in which patients are
      treated with registered targeted therapy matched to their molecular tumor profile, and in
      which the outcomes of such therapies are recorded systematically, per tumor profile and tumor
      type (this is important since it is becoming increasingly clear that the tissue of origin is
      an important determinant of outcome of genetic abnormalities). We hereby aim to improve and
      broaden the use of registered targeted therapy, whilst facilitating patient access to such
      therapy.

      Plan of investigation: patients will be treated with approved targeted agents, selected based
      on results of a molecular profiling test of the patient's tumor. Eligible patients will have
      exhausted standard treatment options, and their tumor must harbor a potentially actionable
      molecular variant as defined in the protocol. The study will provide a tumor board to help
      physicians understand the profiling test results and treatment options, and will enable
      insights about the utility of this approach. In addition, next generation sequencing will be
      performed on fresh tumor biopsies for additional biomarker discovery. Patients from the
      Netherlands and the USA will be included in two similar though independent protocols (DRUP
      and TAPUR), allowing data-exchange and empowering of both trials.

      Expected outcome: early signs of clinical activity of approved drugs outside their label,
      providing effective personalized treatment options, improved patient outcomes and access to
      targeted therapy.
    
  