
    
      The RACE trial seeks to demonstrate superiority of preoperative FLOT induction chemotherapy
      followed by preoperative radiochemotherapy and postoperative FLOT chemotherapy over
      perioperative FLOT chemotherapy without radiotherapy in patients with adenocarcinoma of the
      gastroesophageal junction undergoing adequate oncological surgery.

      Eligible patients will be randomly allocated to one of two treatment groups, i.e.
      preoperative chemotherapy (Arm A) or preoperative chemotherapy with subsequent preoperative
      radiochemotherapy (arm B), both followed by resection and postoperative completion of
      chemotherapy. Randomization will occur in a 1:1 ratio with stratification by primary tumor
      site (Siewert I vs. Siewert II/III).

      Arm A:

      Patients randomized to Arm A (control arm) will be treated with four preoperative cycles of
      FLOT. Cycles will be repeated every two weeks. The preoperative chemotherapy duration in Arm
      A is eight weeks. Surgical resection will follow 4-6 weeks after day 1 of the last cycle of
      neoadjuvant therapy. Postoperative chemotherapy will start 6-12 weeks after surgery and
      consists of another four cycles of FLOT every two weeks. The total treatment period is 25-32
      weeks.

      Arm B:

      Patients randomized in Arm B (experimental arm) will be treated with two cycles of FLOT every
      two weeks. Radiochemotherapy will start three weeks after day 1 of the second cycle and
      consists of oxaliplatin and infusional 5-fluorouracil plus concurrent radiotherapy given to a
      dose of 45 Gy (25 daily fractions with 1.8 Gy) over five weeks. The preoperative treatment
      duration is 10 weeks. Surgical resection will follow 4-6 weeks after last treatment with
      chemotherapy / radiation. Postoperative chemotherapy will start 6-12 weeks after surgery and
      consists of four cycles of FLOT every two weeks. The total treatment period is 26-33 weeks.
    
  