
    
      Background Bacterial infections account for a large proportion of global morbidity and
      mortality. While antimicrobial drugs have helped save millions from the consequences of these
      infections, emerging antimicrobial resistance now threatens to reverse those gains. The
      HIV-epidemic renders large populations drastically more susceptible to bacterial infections,
      particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa, where HIV is rampant and health-systems to deal with the
      consequences are insufficient. Indiscriminate use of antimicrobials is thought to be the main
      driving force behind emerging resistance. The opportunistic infection Pneumocystis jirovecii
      pneumonia (PJP) is a major cause of mortality among HIV-infected people with low immunity.
      Continuous cotrimoxazole preventive therapy (CPT) has proved to reduce morbidity and
      mortality from PJP globally, as well as in Africa where the burden of HIV is largest. The
      impact of this large-scale antibiotic use on emergence of antimicrobial resistance in Africa
      remains unclear. In a recent literature review, Sibanda and colleagues found only two studies
      specifically designed to answer the question of whether CPT induced resistance in common
      bacterial pathogens, and 15 other studies that assessed the question as sub-analyses of
      studies designed for other purposes. The two targeted studies both assessed resistance in
      pneumococci, one finding increased resistance to clindamycin in the CPT group, neither
      finding any difference in resistance to penicillin. While most of the other 15 studies
      assessed penicillin-resistance in pneumococci and methicillin-resistance in Staphylococcus
      aureus (MRSA), only two studies evaluated the effect on Gram-negative bacteria. Among these,
      the study from San Francisco showed significantly higher temporal increase from 1988 to 1995
      in resistance to cotrimoxazole, ampicillin, cefazolin and gentamicin in clinical isolates of
      E. coli from HIV-positives than from HIV-negatives. The study of HIV-infected children with
      pneumonia in Cape Town did not find any association between CPT and resistance in clinical
      isolates, including 26 isolates of Klebsiella pneumonia, the most prevalent Gram-negative
      microbe in this study. In previous research in Tanzania, we found that multi-drug resistance
      in Gram-negative bacteria is prevalent and a problem of major public health concern, as
      invasive infections with such bacteria was associated with a large increase in mortality. Our
      study found case-fatality rates (>70%) approaching those of the pre-antibiotic era in
      systemic bacterial infections with multi-resistant Gram-negative bacteria harboring
      extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) resistance. ESBLs are enzymes that render the
      all-important antibiotics, penicillins and cephalosporins, useless. We also confirmed
      previous findings that case-fatality rates from bacterial sepsis was higher in HIV-infected
      than HIV-negative patients. Most disturbingly, our study confirmed that in
      multidrug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria the gene encoding for ESBL resistance was
      transferred by plasmids together with resistance to several other antibiotics, including
      cotrimoxazole. Thus, it is plausible that widespread cotrimoxazole use could lead to
      selection of multidrug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria in the gut of HIV-patients, which
      consequently could contribute to the rapid spread of these harmful and difficult-to-treat
      bacteria. In high-resource countries, it has been shown that CPT can safely be discontinued
      when CD4 counts increase beyond 200/uL. Recent studies from Sub-Saharan Africa indicate that
      prolonged CPT after immune restoration to CD4 counts > 200/µL by antiretroviral treatment
      (ART) may be beneficial as it is associated with reduced hospitalization from malaria and
      bacterial infections in children. There was, however, no difference in mortality among those
      who stopped and continued CPT. In the "2014 supplement to the WHO guidelines on the use of
      antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection", the recommendation for CPT
      use is widely expanded for settings with high prevalence of malaria and bacterial infections,
      where it is recommended that all patients with HIV start CPT regardless of CD4 counts and
      clinical stage and receive prolonged CPT for indefinitely time. Tanzanian national guidelines
      recommend discontinuing CPT when patients are stabilized with CD4 counts >350/µL, which is a
      more extensive recommendation than European guidelines, but much less extensive than the WHO
      recommendations for "settings with high prevalence of malaria and bacterial infections".

      Cotrimoxazole has been widely used for a number of different indications and, as a result,
      cotrimoxazole resistance in general has increased. Given the limited published data on these
      important public health issues, we designed this study to address the potential impact of
      prolonged CPT on antimicrobial resistance development with particular focus on Gram-negative
      gut microbes, VRE (vancomycin-resistant enterococci), and nasal carriage of MRSA. If the
      study should confirm a marked increase in carriage of multidrug-resistant bacteria in
      patients on prolonged CPT this needs to be considered when developing new guidelines. We also
      aim at assessing whether restoration of immunity by ART could be a way to counteract this
      threat of antimicrobial resistance. This proposed randomized clinical trial will be performed
      in the setting of the ongoing Dar es Salaam - Bergen collaborative initiative and will
      include local investigators and laboratory workers, along with Norwegian investigators with
      scientific experience from clinical and molecular studies in Tanzania.

      Problem statement/ research gap CPT has been standard of care for preventing PJP and other
      infections among HIV-infected patients with CD4 counts < 200µL since the early 1990s. The
      recent recommendation by WHO to give CPT indefinitely to HIV-infected people in
      resource-constrained settings, even to those with initial good immunity (CD4 counts above
      350/µL) and to those whose immunity has been restored by antiretroviral treatment, would lead
      to a massive increase in cotrimoxazole consumption in Sub-Saharan Africa, which has the
      largest burden of HIV-infection. While this recommendation is based on limited scientific
      data regarding short-term morbidity, there is no evidence of improved survival and the
      potential harmful implication for selection of multidrug-resistant bacteria in HIV-patients
      on prolonged CPT has not been comprehensively studied.

      Rationale of the study Continuing CPT indefinitely stable good immunity with CD4 counts
      >350/µL has been shown to reduce morbidity, but not mortality, in persons living with HIV in
      resource-constrained settings. Complying with recommendation for continuation of CPT
      indefinitely in patients with restored immunity and virological control would imply a
      massively increased consumption of cotrimoxazole in HIV-endemic countries. The risk of
      increased carriage of multidrug-resistant bacteria among HIV-patients on prolonged CPT has
      not been comprehensively studied, but has potentially grave implications for public health,
      since systemic infections with these resistant bacteria are very difficult to treat and
      associated with very high mortality rates. The current study is designed to assess whether
      prolonged CPT is associated with increased carriage of multidrug-resistant bacteria. The
      results of this study may have important implications for development of new guidelines on
      CPT use for resource-constrained settings and may help preventing emerging antibacterial
      resistance.
    
  