
    
      Background:

        -  Monocytes can differentiate into classic M1 macrophages inhibiting tumor proliferation
           and promoting natural killer (NK) cell differentiation.

        -  Human alpha interferons (interferon alfa, IFN-alpha), interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) and
           monocytes have strong anti-neoplastic response in vitro and in vivo

        -  IFN-alpha and IFN-gamma have been shown in early phase clinical trials to be safely
           administered intraperitoneally.

        -  Intraperitoneal monocytes alone or activated with IFN-gamma are safe and feasible as
           demonstrated in phase I clinical studies.

        -  We have shown that the combination of human monocytes, IFN-alpha2a and IFN-gamma1b, or
           pegylated IFN-alpha, act synergistically against tumor cells in vitro and in mouse
           models.

      Objectives:

      -To identify a maximum tolerated dose of intraperitoneal autologous monocytes and Sylatron(R)
      (Peginterferon alfa-2b) and Actimmune(R) (Interferon gamma-1b).

      Eligibility:

        -  Advanced metastatic or unresectable epithelial ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal cancer
           or fallopian tube cancer that is relapsed and resistant or refractory to prior
           platinum-based standard care systemic regimen.

        -  Patients must be off prior chemotherapy, radiation therapy, hormonal therapy or
           biological therapy for at least 4 weeks.

        -  ECOG performance status 0-1 and adequate organ and marrow function.

      Design:

        -  This is an open label single arm phase I trial to determine the maximum tolerated dose
           of intraperitoneal monocytes and Sylatron(R) (Peginterferon alfa-2b) and Actimmune(R)
           (Interferon gamma-1b).

        -  Autologous monocytes obtained through apheresis will be mixed with Sylatron(R)
           (Peginterferon alfa-2b) and Actimmune(R) (Interferon gamma-1b) in a 3 + 3 dose
           escalation and administered intraperitoneally once every 28 days. A new product will be
           manufactured for each treatment cycle.

        -  Once the maximum tolerated dose is obtained, an expansion cohort will be enrolled to
           better quantify response rate and time to disease progression.

        -  Research samples including peripheral blood and ascites will be obtained prior to the
           initiation of study therapy andprior to the start of each cycle. Tissue biopsies will be
           obtained in the dose expansion phase to characterize the immune infiltration.

        -  Patients will be evaluated every 2 cycles for response using RECIST v1.1 and every cycle
           for safety using CTCAE v4.0.
    
  