
    
      Several studies have concluded that Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery (RYGBS) is the best
      current treatment option for obesity-related Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (T2DM). The mechanisms
      underlying RYGBS-induced improvement in glycemic control remain unclear. Many investigators
      have advocated that this effect does not depend upon body weight loss, based on clinical
      observations that improvement in glucose homeostasis occurs early in the postoperative
      period, often prior to hospital discharge. Understanding the mechanisms underlying the
      metabolic effects of RYGBS will help to engineer ways to improve RYGB or to produce these
      effects without surgery.

      This study will examine the concept of intestinal metabolic reprogramming as one of the key
      mechanisms of action for diabetes improvement following Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery
      (RYGBS) in humans. It is hypothesized that the reconfigured intestine is characterized by an
      increase in energetically expensive processes, such as structural remodeling, cytoskeletal
      reorganization, and cellular proliferation. To accommodate the increased bioenergetics
      demands, the intestinal epithelium increases its metabolic activity and reprograms its fuel
      utilization. Specifically, glucose, cholesterol and amino acid metabolism are all
      dramatically altered to increase anabolic pathways and generate building blocks for cellular
      growth and maintenance.

      It has not previously been possible to test this hypothesis in humans as: A) the adaptive
      processes of the intestine in patients undergoing RYGBS have not been thoroughly
      characterized, B) it is not known whether the intestinal reprogramming appears early enough
      to explain the prompt improvement in glucose metabolism observed after RYGBS in humans, and
      C) the variability of the degree of intestinal metabolic adaptation, which could account for
      the variability in remission of T2DM, has not been studied. This study will perform a
      longitudinal, comprehensive metabolic analysis of the Roux limb in human subjects with and
      without T2DM undergoing RYGBS and determine the time course of the adaptive metabolic
      changes.

      Eighteen (18) subjects with and fourteen (14) subjects without T2DM (total 32 subjects), who
      have been scheduled to undergo RYGBS as standard of care, will be recruited. For each
      enrolled subject, data collection will include an intestinal tissue sample (Roux limb tissue
      sampling from discarded tissue) at the time of RYGBS, from the mucosa of the jejunum, within
      40 cm from the gastrojejunal anastomosis. Postoperatively, tissue sampling from the same area
      will be performed by an Upper GI endoscopy, at 1 month (±15 days), 6 months (±1 month) and 12
      months (±2 months) after RYGBS. Tissue samples will be processed for histo-morphological
      examination and for RNA, protein and metabolomics analyses. A blood sample will be obtained
      at all time points and analyzed for metabolic biomarkers. Data analysis will include
      description and comparison of the morphological, gene protein and metabolite signatures of
      the intestinal (Roux limb) tissue and the blood biomarkers from each time point.
      Additionally, these outcome measures will be compared between the two groups (T2DM and
      Non-T2DM). Finally, a correlation of the intestinal adaptive changes with metabolic status,
      some eating behaviors, adverse symptomatology, and quality of life will be undertaken.
    
  