
    
      Background -

      Coeliac Disease is a genetic lifelong autoimmune condition whereby ingesting gluten leads to
      a range of idiosyncratic symptoms including diarrhoea, abdominal pain and chronic fatigue.
      Treatment for coeliac disease requires the individual to maintain a strict gluten free diet
      (GFD), whereby the individual must exclude foods containing wheat, barley and rye such as
      bread, pasta and baked goods.

      Research indicates that being diagnosed with coeliac disease as a young person, of secondary
      school age, poses particular challenges when adapting to the new diet and lifestyle.
      Developmentally, this age-range involves increasing autonomy from parents, growing
      responsibility for one's own wellbeing and food related activities and increasing
      peer-pressure to conform. Consequently, young people with coeliac disease can often
      experience both felt stigma (the fear of discrimination) and enacted stigma (the experience
      of discrimination) from their peers. Difficulties adapting to a diagnosis of coeliac disease
      at this age can lead to non-adherence, poor health related quality of life and psychological
      difficulties. Indeed, higher rates of anxiety, depression and somatic complaints have been
      found in young people with coeliac disease, emphasising the importance of early detection of
      psychological difficulties associated with the condition by services.

      This poses as a challenge to services, as young people may also experience increased
      difficulties disclosing psychological difficulties, which may be exacerbated by the process
      of adjusting to a chronic condition. For instance, research exploring disclosure and
      support-seeking in young people with Inflammatory Bowel Disease suggests that, despite a high
      prevalence of anxiety related to health treatments and psychosocial factors, only half of
      individuals shared these concerns during routine consultations. A recent systematic review
      suggests that the characteristics of the potential provider of help, such as credibility,
      unhelpful responses, being perceived as 'too busy', being perceived as an 'inappropriate
      source of help for mental distress', unfamiliarity and felt stigma from the source of help
      itself are possible perceived barriers to help-seeking in 11-25 year olds.

      Rationale for the current project -

      The recruiting service diagnoses approximately 30 young people with coeliac disease each year
      and follow-up an additional 75 young people living with the condition. However, only 5
      referrals for young people with coeliac disease were made by the Gastroenterology team to
      Children's Psychological Medicine in 2018.

      This raises the question of whether young people with coeliac disease feel that they have had
      the opportunity to disclose psychological distress associated with coeliac disease during
      routine consultations, or whether they too perceived barriers to disclosure. This project
      aims to address these issues systematically by providing a theoretically integrative account
      of young people's experiences of seeking psychological support from clinicians in the
      service.

      This research project thus has two principal research objectives:

        1. To understand perceived barriers to the disclosure of psychological difficulties by
           young people, aged 11-16 years, with coeliac disease.

        2. To make recommendations to the Paediatric Gastroenterology service based on these
           findings in order to promote disclosure, if it is felt to be helpful, and improve the
           identification of young people with coeliac disease who may want and benefit from
           psychological support.

      The principal research questions are as follows:

        1. What are young people's experiences of disclosing and not disclosing psychological
           difficulties associated with coeliac disease to clinicians in the service?

        2. Could specific changes be made to the service to promote disclosure and improve access
           to psychological services, if it is felt that this would be helpful for this population?

      Broadly, the results of this project could either suggest that young people feel that they
      had the opportunity to disclose psychological difficulties associated with their condition if
      they wanted to, or that they did not due to perceived barriers. The latter finding could
      prompt service improvements from each group in the following ways:

        -  The service is motivated to implement changes that further integrated care by
           acknowledging the interdependence among one's biological, social and psychological
           needs, in line with the 10-year plan. They recognise that the long-term impact of this
           could reduce non-adherence to the GFD, reduce avoidable medical utilisation and further
           complications, either medically or with regards to deteriorating mental health.

        -  Findings could improve young people's experience of the service and access to
           psychological support. It may also normalise the difficult experience of disclosing
           distress, affording therapeutic benefit.

        -  More broadly, this research has the potential to inform NICE guidance around
           post-diagnosis support for young people with this condition.

      Participants:

      Participants will be aged between 11 - 16 years and attending secondary school, with a
      diagnosis of coeliac disease. This age range was selected based on research which suggests
      that adolescents with coeliac disease are particularly at risk of developing psychological
      difficulties in relation to their health condition, and can find it particularly difficult to
      disclose psychological difficulties to healthcare professionals. This is balanced against a
      need for homogeneity in using IPA. This age range is compatible with the ages of service
      users presenting in the recruiting service.

      Participants recruited will be presenting to the Paediatric Gastroenterology department at a
      local Children's Hospital, as this project primarily aims to make improvements to this
      particular service based on its findings. The participants will have received the diagnosis
      of coeliac disease a minimum of three months prior to participation in the study. This is to
      allow time for them to process the diagnosis and for treatment to be established. They will
      also have had at least 1 follow-up appointment following diagnosis, as this will give them an
      experience to reflect on during the interview. Participants will need to speak fluent English
      as there is no funding available for interpreters or translation of documents and
      questionnaires.

      Methods:

      The chosen methodology for this qualitative study is Interpretive Phenomenological Analysis
      (IPA). IPA seeks to understand and 'give voice' to the concerns of participants then
      contextualize and 'make sense' of their worldview from a psychological perspective. IPA has
      been chosen to meet the studies aims and objectives as it allows the researchers to carry out
      an in-depth inquiry into the participants' perspectives of possible barriers to disclosing
      psychological difficulties, with special consideration of the interpersonal and
      socio-developmental context.

      Semi-structured, face-to-face interviews will be carried out, as this is the most appropriate
      method of data collection for IPA.

      Analysis:

      Interpretive Phenomenological Analysis will be used as this study seeks to provide an
      in-depth exploration of the lived experience of individuals with coeliac disease. This will
      allow researchers to maintain a rich idiographic account of each individual whilst allowing
      convergence and divergence of themes across transcripts. NVivo may be used to store and
      organise data, however no software will be used for data analysis.
    
  