
    
      Up to 50% of peripubertal youth with anxiety have unmet clinical needs, leaving these youth
      at high risk for suicide, depression and substance abuse across adolescence. In accord with
      the NIMH strategic plan, the proposal aims to deepen mechanistic understanding of anxiety
      during the sensitive period of peripuberty to inform novel treatments and reduce health
      risks. The focus is on negative overgeneralization, which is a core dimension of anxiety that
      is poorly understood, and refers to the tendency to generalize aversive responses from one
      context (house fire) to other contexts (camp-fire) that share features. Amygdala activity,
      induced by heightened emotional arousal, enhances plasticity in associative learning
      mechanisms, facilitating the binding of contextual features in memory that are only loosely
      related. The proposal posits that sleep plays a critical role in negative overgeneralization.
      Specifically, the proposal draws from basic neuroscience to posit a model by which heightened
      amygdala reactivity during wakefulness, induced by increased emotional arousal, facilitates
      replay of negative memories during sleep. This facilitated replay leads to the stabilization
      and integration (consolidation) of negative memories into long-term memory networks via slow
      wave oscillatory events during NREM sleep. The proposal further posits that facilitated
      replay of negative memories during sleep promotes generalization by influencing underlying
      neurocomputational mechanisms (i.e., pattern completion - a computational process that makes
      neural representations similar). Finally, the proposal posits that sleep-dependent
      consolidation is malleable, such that Targeted Memory Reactivation (TMR) of positive memories
      during sleep can competitively displace consolidation of negative memories. This model is
      tested using a novel multi-method approach combining neuroimaging, polysomnography, and a
      memory task that captures behavioral generalization and its underlying neural mechanisms
      (i.e. pattern completion).

      Aims 1 and 2 do not involve a clinical trial. Aim 1 examines 200 peripubertal youth (ages
      10-13 years) across a full continuum of anxious symptoms in a randomized sleep (n=140) versus
      wake (n=60) design to demonstrate sleep-dependent effects on behavioral and neural mechanisms
      of negative overgeneralization. Aim 2 focuses on the 140 youth in the sleep condition to
      evaluate amygdala reactivity at encoding and sleep neurophysiology during post-encoding sleep
      as mediators between anxiety and negative overgeneralization.

      Aim 3 is the clinical trial to which this registration refers. In Aim 3, the same design as
      the sleep condition (above) is used, but a new sample of youth with elevated anxiety (n=60)
      is recruited to enroll in a randomized trial in which positive memories are cued during sleep
      (TMR, n=30), or sham cues are presented during sleep (n=30), to examine malleability of
      sleep-dependent mechanisms of negative overgeneralization. This project will set the stage
      for the long-term goal of developing novel interventions that manipulate sleep (e.g. via TMR)
      not only to improve existing symptoms, but also to positively shape neurodevelopment and
      reduce risk in the sensitive period of peripuberty.
    
  