
    
      Background: Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most frequently diagnosed cancer among American
      males, accounting for 27 % of new cancer diagnoses, but it is directly responsible for only
      9.5 % of cancer related deaths. Two recently published clinical trials suggest that
      overdiagnosis and overtreatment of potentially insignificant cancer is a major drawback of
      prostate cancer screening, and point to the need for a more specific screening tool that can
      identify clinically significant prostate cancer. The US-based Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and
      Ovarian (PLCO) Cancer Screening Trial failed to show a mortality benefit from screening and
      treatment of prostate cancer. The European Randomized Study of Screening for Prostate Cancer
      (ERSPC) suggests that with the current standard of care, 1410 men must be screened and 48
      additional cases of prostate cancer treated to prevent one death from prostate cancer. Based
      upon these trials, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) has issued a grade "D"
      recommendation against PSA-based screening for PCa.

      Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound: Recent studies have demonstrated that contrast-enhanced
      harmonic imaging (HI) can identify enhancement related to vascular flow in higher grade PCa,
      and that HI can selectively detect patients with "clinically significant" PCa that are most
      likely to benefit from therapy. Subharmonic imaging (SHI) is a newer technology for
      contrast-enhanced ultrasound imaging that provides a 10-fold improvement in the signal to
      background ratio for visualization of small vascular structures, but has not been previously
      implemented on a transrectal ultrasound probe. SHI of the prostate is expected to advance the
      imaging of prostatic neovascularity and to improve selective biopsy of clinically significant
      PCa.

      Objective: To adapt SHI to a transrectal probe appropriate for prostate imaging and biopsy
      (over the first 6 months of this study). The subsequent 18 month pilot clinical study will
      enroll 50 participants who have a clinical indication for prostate biopsy to quantify SHI for
      the detection of clinically significant PCa (defined as: Gleason score ≥ 7, a single core
      with > 50 % involvement, or > 25 % of biopsy cores positive for PCa).

      Approach: Each participant will undergo a transrectal ultrasound evaluation of the prostate
      with conventional grayscale and color Doppler imaging, as well as contrast-enhanced imaging
      with color Doppler, HI and SHI approaches. Imaging results from each of these techniques will
      be recorded, but only the SHI findings will be used to guide a targeted biopsy of the
      prostate. A maximum of 6 targeted biopsy cores will be obtained from each participant, based
      upon suspicious areas identified with SHI. Following the targeted biopsy, each participant
      will also receive a 12-part systematic biopsy consisting of 6 laterally directed biopsy cores
      and 6 medially directed biopsy cores. The pilot study is designed to estimate the detection
      of clinically significant cancer that will be obtained with targeted biopsy based upon SHI
      along with the medially directed systematic sextant biopsy cores (≤ 12 cores total).
    
  