
    
      Despite the evidence for the beneficial effects of thiopurine/IFX combined therapy on both
      the prevention of the development of anti-IFX antibodies (ATI) and improved clinical
      outcomes, no study has employed the proven clinical usefulness of measuring 6- MP metabolite
      levels. We hypothesize that targeting the established threshold of 6-TGN levels (between
      235-400), shown to result in superior clinical efficacy, would reduce the development of ATI
      and enhance trough IFX levels. It is also conceivable that excessive6TGN levels may increase
      the risk of adverse events such as infections and neoplasms such as lymphomas, the major
      drawbacks to combination therapy. If a significant correlation between 6-TGN levels and
      diminished risk of ATI development or higher trough serum IFX levels can be demonstrated, it
      will allow for an improved approach towards pharmacological monitoring of these patients with
      optimization of the long term response of CD patients on anti-TNF therapy.

      Vitamin D possesses profound immunomodulatory effects, mediated primarily through the innate
      immune system. Low serum levels of vitamin D are associated with worse outcomes in CD. IFX
      was reported to have a significant impact on maturation and phenotype of dendritic cells
      (DC). Previous work from our laboratory demonstrated a significant effect of vitamin D on
      expression of NOD2 along with a profound effect onthe cytokine profile of DC exposed to PRR
      stimulation85. We hypothesize that vitamin Ddeficiency may be associated with a lower
      clinical response to anti-TNF therapy. IFX and vitamin D may have a synergistic effect in
      modulating the immune system in IBD via interactions through innate or adaptive mechanisms.
      We expect that vitamin D may enhance IFX-induced shift in the maturation pathway and cytokine
      profile of DC exposed to intestinal microbes through pattern recognition receptors (PRR).
      Demonstration of a synergistic effect of vitamin D with anti-TNF antibodies may have
      important clinical implications for the care of IBD patients, particularly in Canada where
      the prevalence of vitamin D deficiency is very high. Such an effect was demonstrated for
      lymphocytes but was never examined for the innate immune system, considered to have a
      profound role in the pathogenesis of CD. The data from this study may provide further
      justification for the need of monitoring vitamin D status in CD patients, and its
      supplementation as an additional therapeutic tool for optimizing response to anti-TNF in CD.

      This is a prospective cross-sectional and longitudinal multicentre non-interventional study.
      The patients will be recruited at the following centers: McGill University Health Center,
      Mount Sinai Medical Centre, Toronto, Canada; University of Calgary, U Alberta, Edmonton. This
      study will recruit patients (18-70 yrs) with Crohn's disease who are starting treatment with
      infliximab or combo therapy of infliximab and azathiopurine. This study will look at
      therapeutic monitoring end points to evaluate the impact of drug level and antibodies on the
      clinical effectiveness of treatment (mono or combo therapy). .
    
  