
    
      A drug interaction (DI) is the mutual action of two drugs in a way that they can increase
      their action, even to a toxic level, o reduce it to its minimum.

      Adverse drug events (ADE) are an important health problem. In the book To Err Is Human:
      Building a Safer Health System its authors Kohn, Corrigan and Donaldson from the "Committee
      on Quality of Health Care in America, Institute of Medicine" (U.S.A.) expressed that 2 out of
      every 100 hospital admissions were due to ADE. That results in an average increase of U$D
      4,700 extra for each admission or about to 2.8 million U$D annually for a 700-bed teaching
      hospital. In this study were only considered direct costs. No indirect costs were taken into
      account, like days out of work, rehabilitation, deaths, lost of quality of life, etc.

      In 2003, in a cohort study done in people of Medicare elder than 65 years old, were detected
      50.1 ADE / 1000 persons a year. Of that number of ADE 13.8 were considered preventable. In
      Switzerland 3.3 % of hospitalisations were considered due to ADE.

      Among ADE, DI are a very important part of the problem. In Canada was demonstrated that
      certain drug associations were responsible of an increase in the number of hospital
      admissions. They would not have occurred if those prescriptions would have been properly
      controlled or never done. In Mexico 3.8 % of patients elder than 50 years old received
      prescriptions of drugs, which should be avoided according to their interaction. In hospital
      setting DI endanger even more health and people's life. In Spain was demonstrated a
      prevalence of clinical relevant DI of 3 % in hospitalized patients, and in Switzerland that
      percentage rose 11 %. This phenomenon increased in later years, in Rotterdam DI compromising
      lethal risk in patients elder than 70 years old, climb from 1.5 % in 1992 to 2.9 % in 2005.
      Drug interactions are directly proportional to: the number of administered drugs (> 2 drugs
      or > 4 ); the age of patients and the number of prescribing physicians.

      Older persons, for its detriment in physical condition and the pathologies they suffer from,
      are prone to suffer DI when being prescribed with drugs or even herbal medicines. In Brazil
      ambulatory patients elder than 60 years old have 2.5 pathologies diagnosed and consume in
      average 1.3 to 2.3 drugs. During hospitalisation the number of prescribed drugs reach 9.9 to
      13.6 per patient. In a survey done in six European countries the number of drugs consumed for
      each ambulatory patient was 7. In Argentina according to the Instituto Nacional de
      Estadísticas y Censos (INDEC) the number of citizens elder than 65 years old was 3,587,620
      (9.89% total population). Unfortunately there is no other information about polypharmacy or
      prevalent pathologies in INDEC or other medical databases or national institutions web sites.

      In 1995, it was published an article in JAMA that stated the possibility that 28 % of ADE
      could be prevented in non-obstetric hospitalized adults. Fifty six percent of those were due
      to mistakes done during prescription, 34 % during administration, 6 % during transcription of
      indications and 4 % during dispensation. This astonishing results poses on the need to
      develop strategies to cut this numbers.

      Many lists of drugs with potential to produce ADE were developed to prevent DI and other
      related drugs damages. Beers criteria (BC) is one example of them. In Amsterdam it was
      demonstrated an 80 % improvement in drug regimens in patients elder than 81 years old of in
      whom their therapeutic indications were reviewed and adjusted using BC and the Medication
      Appropriateness Index after suffering from ADE. In that study, a list of only 10 drug
      combinations was also used but did not showed the same benefits. In Argentina, the
      Adminstración Nacional de Medicamentos, Alimentos y Tecnología (ANMAT) publish in its web
      page a list of 16 risky drugs, considering the disadvantages of their own pharmacological
      action, but there is no information about its usefulness.

      Much software was developed in later years to alert physician about DI. Some of them are even
      more sensible than the search of DI at the bedside, but this software overestimates the
      prevalence of serious DI. The usage of computerized alert systems for prescriptions
      significantly reduced potential ADE, however many physicians tend to override them for
      different reasons. Finally a Cochrane´s review showed a reduction in hospitalization days and
      drug toxic effects when using a computerized warning systems for drug dosing.

      The growing number of drugs, apart from its not always well-proven benefits, implies risks
      for health; specially in sick and older people and even more during hospitalizations.
      Nowadays software to alert physicians about DI or ADE could help to prevent them but its real
      contribution is still a matter of debate. For this reasons we developed this trial to test
      the usefulness of on line software to detect DI in hospitalized elder patients.
    
  