
    
      A total of 62 American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) PS class I-III patients between the
      ages of 18 and 65 years who were scheduled for elective laparoscopic nephrectomy (simple,
      partial, or radical) were included in the study.

      A standard anesthesia protocol was used in both groups. Patients did not receive any sedative
      premedication. Upon entering the operating room, they underwent electrocardiogram,
      non-invasive blood pressure, peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2), rSO2 (INVOS TM 5100C
      oximeter; Covidien), and neuromuscular monitoring (TOF-WatchTM SX; Organon, Dublin, Ireland).
      Subsequently, anesthesia was induced with propofol (1.5-2.5 mg/kg) and remifentanil (1 mcg/kg
      IV bolus for 30-60 seconds, then 0.25 mcg/kg/min), and rocuronium (1.2 mg/kg). Anesthesia was
      maintained with O2/Air (fraction of inspired oxygen of 0.40; inspiratory fresh gas flow of 2
      L/min), sevoflurane (1 minimum alveolar concentration), and remifentanil IV infusion
      (0.1-0.25 mcg/kg/min). Radial arterial cannulation was also applied for arterial blood gas
      analysis and continuous blood pressure measurement. A mechanical ventilator (Draeger FabiusTM
      Plus anesthesia Workstation, Draeger Medical, Lübeck, Germany) was used at settings of tidal
      volume 7-8 mL/kg, inspirium/exprium expiratory ratio 1:2, and positive end-expiratory
      pressure of 5 cmH2O. With these settings, pre-insufflation Sp02 values were maintained at
      >96%, while the respiratory rate was determined with end-tidal CO2 (ETCO2) of 32-37 mmHg.
      These ventilator settings were maintained throughout the operation.

      CO2 insufflation was performed using the closed Veress needle technique with electronic
      laparoflators in the patients who were placed in lateral semi-oblique (60°) and some flexion
      (jackknife) positions before the surgery was started. Intra-abdominal pressure was maintained
      at 8 mmHg in Group LS and at 14 mmHg in Group SP throughout the surgery.

      During the operation, a neuromuscular blockade was achieved with rocuronium infusion (0.3-0.4
      mg/kg/hour) with a post-tetanic count of zero. At the end of the case, extubation was
      provided by decurarizing the rocuronium with a combination of 0.02mg/kg atropine and 0.04
      mg/kg neostigmine. All patients were followed up with nasopharyngeal temperature monitoring
      and were actively warmed using a forced-air warming system to ensure normothermia throughout
      the surgery. Patients were followed up in the recovery unit at the end of the surgery until
      their modified Aldrete score reached ≤9.

      Hemodynamics The data of mean arterial pressure (MAP), peak heart rate (HR), SpO2, and ETCO2
      were recorded at baseline, at 1 minute after induction, and then every 5 minutes until the
      patient went to the recovery unit. MAP and HR values were kept at ±20% of preoperative values
      by changing the remifentanil infusion rate. Hypotension MAP was defined as <60 mmHg and
      bradycardia HR as 45 beats/minute, and these were treated with noradrenaline 4-8 mcg,
      atropine 0.5 mg. Patients who required noradrenaline or atropine more than twice were
      excluded from the study.
    
  