
    
      To identify novel genetic variants causing skeletal dysplasia in Qatari populations and to
      additionally develop an understanding of how those variants influence skeletal biology at a
      molecular and cellular level.

      Achieving this goal will be split into two aims:

        -  Aim 1: Perform a clinical characterization of a study group of patients with various
           forms of skeletal dysplasia seen in pediatric orthopedics clinic at Hamad Medical
           center, HMC. This will be followed by whole exome or genome sequencing and analysis to
           search for novel pathogenic variants responsible for the clinical presentation of these
           patients

        -  Aim 2: The genes and variants identified in Aim 1 will be characterized to determine
           their effects on osteoblast and chondrocyte differentiation and function.

      All the subjects will be recruited from the pool of patients seen by the Pediatric Orthopedic
      Consultants at the Bone and Joint Institute. Subjects will be coming to the clinic for their
      standard care. They will be identified during that visit as candidates for the study. They
      will then be told about the study by their physicians. If a patient is interested in
      participation, the physician will introduce the CRC to him/her who will proceed with the
      consent process.

      Consenting and the study procedures might be performed during that same visit if time allows,
      or in a new scheduled visit arranged at that time.

      This research will also involve a pedigree creation. Secondary subjects (family members or
      relatives) will be told about the study by the research subject. The secondary subject will
      be able to read a copy of the consent form, think of his participation, and if interested
      they will be told to contact the Investigators. A suitable time will then be arranged, by an
      appropriate member of the research team, for the secondary subject to visit the clinic in
      order to proceed with the consent process and the study procedures.
    
  