
    
      Ragweed allergy is a common trigger of asthmatic flare-ups in people with asthma. Individuals
      with ragweed allergy suffer increased asthma symptoms during the fall allergy season, which
      generally runs from August to November. These flare-ups can significantly impact an asthma
      patient's quality of life. AIC is an investigational medicine that combines special DNA
      sequences that can modify the way the immune system responds. In AIC, these sequences are
      linked to a piece of the ragweed pollen molecule (known as Amb a 1) that causes hay fever
      symptoms. Injections of AIC have been shown to change the way the immune system responds to
      ragweed pollen in both animals and humans in a way that may lead to reduced hay fever
      symptoms.

      In a previous study, AIC was safe and well tolerated, and patients exhibited a decrease in
      allergy symptoms lasting up to 2 years after treatment on average. This study will evaluate
      whether short-term use of AIC during the spring can cause long-term immune tolerance to
      ragweed, reduce asthma symptoms, and decrease use of asthma medications for future allergy
      seasons.

      During the 2007 fall ragweed allergy season, participants will be observed and be asked to
      keep a diary of their asthma symptoms and medication use. In the spring of 2008, participants
      will be randomly assigned to receive six weekly doses of either the experimental medicine or
      placebo. Participants will be observed again for the 2008 fall ragweed season. Another series
      of three weekly doses of the assigned study treatment will be given in spring 2009, with
      observation through the 2009 fall ragweed allergy season and possibly the 2010 season. During
      the observation periods, participants will be asked to track their asthma symptoms and
      medication use and report this information to study staff. Study visits will be weekly during
      the spring and biweekly during the ragweed season, with a maximum of 16 visits per year.
      Allergy and lung tests as well as blood and urine collection will occur at selected study
      visits; these tests are designed to measure the participants' immune response.
    
  