
    
      The irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is characterized by a combination of discomfort and / or
      abdominal pain and bowel habits in the absence of identifiable organic pathology. This
      condition is extremely common because it is the first cause of consultation in
      gastroenterology and would cover 10-15% of the French. This chronic condition, although
      functional, impact significantly on the quality of life of patients and causes considerable
      health spending, making it a major public health problem. Especially as the currently used
      treatments are of limited effectiveness.

      Among the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in IBS, visceral hypersensitivity (VHS)
      seems to be a major factor causing pain in patients. VHS involves sensitization of colonic
      nerve fibers, resulting in an increase of neuronal excitability. In several animal models of
      chronic pain, this hyperexcitability was related to a change in the expression or activity of
      ion channels, including calcium channel Cav3.2.

      Investigators especially shown the involvement of Cav3.2 channels in visceral pain in an
      animal model of VHS. Furthermore, overexpression of these channels at the peripheral level
      (dorsal root ganglion innervating the colon) has been demonstrated in this animal model and
      pharmacological blockade, including ethosuximide, prevented the development of the VHS. Note
      that Cav3.2 channels have been widely demonstrated as involved in nociceptive phenomena in
      various animal models of chronic pain and that by blocking their ethosuximide induce an
      analgesic effect in these models.

      Finally, we have recently demonstrated the involvement of Cav3.2 channel in patients with
      IBS, in a clinical case-control study. The Cav3.2 channels were overexpressed in the colonic
      mucosa of patients with IBS compared to asymptomatic controls.

      The Cav3.2 channels are therefore a potential pharmacological target and ethosuximide a
      promising therapy to effectively treat the abdominal pain associated with IBS.
    
  