
    
      Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) delivered at 10kHz frequency (HF10 Therapy) has demonstrated
      superiority to traditional SCS for leg and back pain. This mode of stimulation entails
      delivery of a greater charge per second compared to traditional tonic spinal cord stimulation
      and corresponding implications for battery usage. Although not yet studied in novel modes of
      SCS such as HF10 and Burst3 due to their relative infancy, the possibility of decreased pain
      relief over time very much exists. This has been well-documented with the use of tonic spinal
      cord stimulation. Furthermore, the most common cause of spinal cord stimulator explant
      remains the lack or loss of efficacy. In order to mitigate the potential for waning pain
      relief over time and downstream consequences of increased charge burden, other paradigms of
      stimulation within the framework of HF10 therapy must be evaluated.

      Intermittent dosing (ID) refers to the cycling of stimulation, in which there is a designated
      time period of stimulation being active (ON) and inactive (OFF). Previous studies have
      demonstrated the safe and effective use of intermittent dosing. In 2020, Deer et al. reported
      the efficacy of intermittent dosing of Burst stimulation with settings ranging from 30
      seconds ON and 90 seconds OFF, to 30 seconds ON and 360 seconds OFF. In this 50 subject
      study, 45.8% of patients preferred stimulation with 30 seconds ON and 360 seconds OFF.
      However, there still remains a paucity of clinical data on the use of intermittent dosing and
      which doses (i.e. on/off cycle time periods) are most effective. Furthermore, no previous
      studies have utilized HF10 therapy when evaluating intermittent dosing.

      This study seeks to prospectively compare continuous HF10 therapy versus two intermittent
      dosing HF10 (ID HF10) therapies - 1) 30 seconds ON and 120 seconds OFF; 2) 30 seconds ON and
      360 seconds OFF - in patients endorsing decreasing efficacy of continuous HF10 therapy.

      We hypothesize that ID HF10 therapy will provide non-inferior pain relief as measured by NRS
      scores when compared to continuous HF10 therapy. The primary outcome for this study will be
      NRS pain scores (0 to 10 where 0 = no pain and 10 = worst pain ever in 0.5 increments).
      Secondary endpoints include: charging frequency, EQ-5D scores of wellbeing; PROMIS scores for
      physical function, pain interference, sleep disturbance, and emotional distress; chronic pain
      acceptance questionnaire 8 (CPAQ-8), patient satisfaction scores, and patient global
      impression of change.

      After evaluation, all eligible and consented subjects will be randomized into one of three
      treatment groups:

        1. Group A: continuous HF10 therapy

        2. Group B: ID HF10 therapy at 30 seconds ON, 90 seconds OFF

        3. Group C: ID HF10 therapy at 30 seconds ON, 360 seconds OFF

      Randomization will be performed using a computer-generated random sequence generator with
      equal selection probabilities to all groups. Subjects will be blinded to their randomization.

      After randomization, each consented subject will present to clinic at which time will first
      be seen by a team of investigators, sub-investigators, and/or study staff. After evaluation
      and collection of baseline data, a clinical specialist for the Nevro Omnia Neurostimulation
      system will program the subject's SCS system according to the treatment group to which they
      have been randomized, under direct physician supervision.

      Patient will be subsequently seen at 2-week, 1-month and 3-month time intervals in a clinic
      setting. At each interval, the patient will be seen by a team of investigators,
      sub-investigators, and/or study staff to administer questionnaires and collect data. If at
      any point a subject report diminishing pain relief and wishes to return to baseline mode of
      stimulation, they will be allowed to do so and considered a study failure.

      Patient specific data to be collected will include:

        -  Age

        -  Height

        -  Weight

        -  BMI

        -  Gender

        -  Primary diagnosis

        -  Current daily morphine milligram equivalent usage

      Data to be collected at baseline and each follow-up interval:

        -  NRS pain scores (22-point scale, 0-10 in 0.5 increments)

        -  Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-8)

        -  PROMIS Health questionnaires

             -  Global Health 10 item questionnaire

             -  Physical Function 8b questionnaire

             -  Emotional Distress-8a Anxiety questionnaire

             -  Sleep Disturbance 4a questionnaire

             -  Fatigue 8 item questionnaire

             -  Pain Interference 6b questionnaire

        -  CPAQ-8 score (Chronic Pain Acceptance Questionnaire 8)

        -  Current spinal cord stimulation parameters (i.e. mode of stimulation-continuous vs. ID,
           frequency, amplitude, pulse width)

        -  Average charging frequency over last week

        -  Patient Global Impression of Change

        -  Patient Satisfaction Score (7-point Likert-type scale)

      Data will be collected and entered on Redcap with data access limited to research personnel.
      Data will be exported from RedCap™ into an Excel sheets and stored for analysis on the
      Department of Anesthesiology shared network folder on the Rush domain. Access to this shared
      resource is limited to research personnel and access is controlled using the users Rush
      login. The data will be analyzed on an investigators workstation that is password protected.
    
  