
    
      Overactive bladder (OAB) is described as urinary urgency with or without urge incontinence,
      usually associated with urinary frequency and nocturia. The primary complaint is a strong
      desire to void without the ability to postpone micturition. Two treatments used in the
      treatment of OAB are pharmacotherapy and percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS).

      Pharmacotherapy for OAB is based on medications that block the muscarinic receptors of the
      detrusor muscle. These particular receptors are not unique to the bladder, however, and
      patients complain of bothersome side effects that are a result of systemic muscarinic
      receptor blockade. Medications are successful for many patients but compliance is poor and
      many patients discontinue the medications as a result of side effects, cost, and insufficient
      symptom improvement.

      Percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation (PTNS) is a newer treatment modality that provides
      neuromodulation to the pelvic floor by stimulating the posterior tibial nerve. This nerve is
      accessed with a fine needle electrode that is inserted in the medial portion of the ankle.
      This area has long been recognized as having nerve projections to the sacral nerve plexus and
      can modulate bladder activity. Several studies have clearly demonstrated the effectiveness of
      neuromodulation to treat urge incontinence.

      There have been studies comparing the efficacy of pharmacotherapy versus PTNS. In one study,
      49% of subjects taking fesoterodine fumarate for urge incontinence reported an improvement in
      symptoms of overactive bladder. In other studies, 79.5% of patients undergoing PTNS reported
      improvement or cure. Although studies report similar improvement or cure between the two
      treatment modalities, there is no evidence of the efficacy of using both PTNS and
      pharmacotherapy concurrently. This study is aimed at proving synergy between the two
      treatment modalities when used together in an effort to administer smaller doses of
      anticholinergic agents, while obtaining comparable or improved urge incontinence.
    
  