
    
      In view of the high risk of venous thrombolism (VTE) in critically ill patients, it is
      essential for all ICUs to develop a standardized approach to thromboprophylaxis. Several
      studies in a critical setting have shown that both low dose unfractionated heparin and low
      molecular weight heparin (LMWH) reduce the incidence of VTE and either one of them is
      recommended as a valid agent by the newer ACCP consensus guidelines.

      However, even with prophylaxis, critically ill patients still develop VTE. Common conditions
      amongst ICU patients such as generalized edema, poor peripheral perfusion during shock
      states, moderate renal dysfunction, etc., are possible explanations for this observation.
      Additionally, the use of vasoactive drugs may also impair peripheral circulation and reduce
      effective levels of agents used for the prevention of VTE.

      This prospective clinical trial will be conducted to assess whether impaired peripheral
      circulation due to vasopressor (blood pressure) infusion decreases the bioavailability (i.e.,
      plasma concentration) of subcutaneously administered fondaparinux (i.e., does vasopressor
      infusion lower blood plasma concentrations of fondaparinux), thereby reducing the
      prophylactic benefits of fondaparinux administration.

      Fondaparinux (Arixtra®) was chosen as the anti-thrombotic agent to be used in this study
      because of its unique pharmacological properties and its safety and efficacy amongst
      different medical populations. Fondaparinux sodium administered by subcutaneous injection is
      rapidly and completely absorbed (absolute bioavailability is 100%). Following a single
      subcutaneous dose of fondaparinux sodium 2.5 mg in young male subjects, Cmax of 0.34 mg free
      acid/L is reached in approximately 2 hours. In patients undergoing treatment with
      fondaparinux sodium injection 2.5 mg, once daily, the peak steady-state plasma concentration
      is, on average, 0.39-0.50 mg free acid/L and is reached approximately 3 hours post-dose.
      Because fondaparinux does not react with platelet factor IV, thrombocytopenia is not an
      unwanted side effect.
    
  