
    
      PRINCESSE is a single-arm interventional cohort of 500 female sex workers (FSWs) in San
      Pedro, Cote d'Ivoire (400 HIV-negative FSW and 100 HIV-positive FSW).

      It consists in the implementation of a comprehensive sexual and reproductive health care
      package for female sex workers in Côte d'Ivoire, combining an HIV PrEP offer (for HIV- FSW)
      with early treatment of HIV+ FSW, management of HBV infection (testing, vaccination and
      treatment), testing and treatment of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and their
      consequences, a contraception offer, a quarterly screening of pregnancies, menstrual
      management counselling and identification of addiction.

      This healthcare package will be available both in mobile clinics organized for a quarterly
      follow-up (10 intervention sites, each site being visited every two weeks) and in the fixed
      clinic of the partner community-based NGO, at the discretion of each female participant.

      The main objective is to develop, document and analyze a community-based healthcare package
      combining testing, prevention tools including pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), immediate HIV
      treatment, management of Hepatitis B virus and sexual and reproductive health (SRH)

      Specific objectives are:

        1. To analyse access to care and retention into care, and more generally female
           participants' healthcare trajectories through a quarterly follow-up of FSWs (infected
           with HIV or not)

        2. To measure female participants' health outcome over time of clinical, behavioural and
           social indicators

        3. To assess PrEP initiation, use and adherence

        4. To compare HIV management in the PRINCESSE system with the existing routine treatment
           and care

        5. To measure HBV testing, vaccination and treatment, as part of a decentralised management
           integrated with HIV PrEP, and possible interactions between HIV PrEP and HBV infection

        6. To document the unexpected consequences (positive or negative) of PRINCESSE system on
           the everyday life of female participants in particular, and on the sex industry in
           general

      Four data collection devices are included in the cohort: (i) clinical and safety data, (ii)
      socio-behavioural questionnaires, (iii) biological data, and (iv) in-depth interviews with
      female participants.

      Four additional data collections are scheduled outside the cohort itself: (i) capture of
      medical and activity records of Aprosam for PRINCESSE participants; (ii) capture of medical
      records of HIV+ FSW patients not participating in the PRINCESSE cohort and routinely examined
      by the NGO partner; (iii) in-depth interviews with key informants in the FSW community; (iv)
      in-depth interviews with PRINCESSE follow-up actors (peer educators and caregivers).
    
  