
    
      50 patients will receive a cover letter outlining their random selection for this study,
      along with the patient information sheet and consent form (with a return addressed, postage
      paid envelope). Patients will be encouraged to contact the AC and speak with the Principal
      Investigator (TB) regarding the research study, and all questions will be addressed. We will
      continue this mailing process until a total of 50 patients have consented to study. PSM
      within the context of this study may use either POC technology or standard venipuncture with
      the patient accessing the laboratory for results. After receipt of consent, patients will be
      required to pass a foundational exam (outlining the basics of anticoagulation therapy, most
      of which should be simple review for the patients managed within our AC).4,10 Upon
      successfully passing this multiple choice exam, patients will be randomized to AC care (with
      no changes implemented) or to PSM.

      PSM Phase I: Preparatory Phase of Patient Training (~6weeks) During the initial preparatory
      phase lasting 6 weeks + 2 weeks, the AC will create a patient specific warfarin dosing
      nomogram, discuss the same with the patient and ensure clear understanding, while working
      through various scenarios with the patient (Appendix 1). The AC will ensure the patient has
      an established system to both retrieve INR results (via POC technology or standard
      venipuncture) as well as to document the INR results, warfarin dosing, any pertinent
      assessment factors, and next date to test the INR. The AC will empower the patient to be
      proactive with coming up with warfarin dose changes during this preparatory phase.

      PSM Phase II: Patient Practical Training:

      The AC will enrol the patient into the PSM practical training phase (lasting 3 months + 1
      month). At this time, the patient will retrieve their result and establish a future warfarin
      dose and follow-up plan. This information will be transmitted to a single AC team member.
      Contact with anotherdiscussed with an AC team member and the ultimate dosing decision will be
      tracked to ascertain concordance of the patient's original plan to what was implemented
      during the follow-up visit with the to perform standard AC teamcare and management will
      occur, thereby enabling comparison of the patient's plan and the AC plan. During this phase,
      the AC plan will be implemented. At the end of this phase, patients must pass a multiple
      choice exam that provides practical cases targeting warfarin dose adjustment with next
      scheduled follow-up visit, and will then be positioned into the PSM arm of the study.

      Patient Self-Management During the PSM phase (6 months +/- 1 month), contact will occur with
      the AC monthly to retrieve INR results and warfarin dose adjustments (information from the
      patient-based charting system). Key points of contact between the patient and the AC will be
      required, such as: INR results either > 5.0 or 0.5 INR units below the lower limit of their
      desired target INR range, initiation of interacting medications, illness, etc. Patients not
      demonstrating the ability to self-manage their own warfarin therapy will be encouraged to
      cross-over to AC care. At the end of 6 months, patient choice of AC care or PSM will be
      identified.
    
  