
    
      Since 1997, more than 200 fetuses have had in utero closure of myelomeningocele by open
      maternal-fetal surgery. Preliminary clinical evidence suggests that this procedure reduces
      the incidence of shunt-dependent hydrocephalus and restores the cerebellum and brainstem to
      more normal configuration. However, clinical results of prenatal surgery for myelomeningocele
      are based on comparisons with historical controls and examine only efficacy, not safety. MOMS
      will determine if intrauterine repair of fetal myelomeningocele at 19 to 25 weeks of
      gestation improves outcomes as compared to standard postnatal repair. Outcomes assessed
      include death, the need for ventricular decompressive shunting by one year of life and
      neurologic function at 30 months of age.

      One hundred eighty-three women, whose fetuses have spina bifida, were enrolled in the study
      and randomized to have either prenatal surgery or postnatal surgery. After a central
      screening process which included a medical record review, all women had an extensive baseline
      evaluation that included ultrasound, MRI, physical exam, social work evaluation,
      psychological screening, and education about spina bifida and prenatal surgery.

      For women who were eligible following the central screening process, all screening, surgery
      and follow-up visits were performed at one of three MOMS Centers. The mother, if eligible,
      and her support person traveled (at the expense of the study) to the MOMS Center for
      screening and randomization.

      Women assigned to have prenatal surgery were scheduled for surgery within 1 to 3 days after
      they were randomized. They stayed near the MOMS Center until they delivered. Women in the
      postnatal group traveled back to their assigned MOMS Center to deliver. Both groups delivered
      their babies by C-section around the 37th week of their pregnancies. Babies born to women in
      the postnatal surgery group had their spina bifida defects closed when they were medically
      stable, usually within 48 hours of birth.

      Children and their parents returned to their assigned MOMS Center at 1 year and 2 ½ years of
      age for follow-up evaluation. Motor function, developmental progress, and bladder, kidney,
      and brain development were assessed.

      The children were asked to return for an additional follow-up visit (MOMS2) between the ages
      of 6-10 years. This follow-up is to determine whether children who received the surgery
      before birth have better health and mental outcomes and live more independently and function
      more safely and appropriately in daily life than those who received the surgery after birth.
    
  