
    
      The principle of participant distribution into groups is the main method of treatment of
      postmenopausal vaginal atrophy. Total up to 120 participants with postmenopausal atrophy will
      be involved in the study. Participants will be divided into three groups: laser treatment
      group, topical hormones treatment group, laser treatment with topical hormones application,
      by 40 participants in each.

      The types of examination of each group are the same and include:

      General methods: physical examination, clinical blood analysis with glucose determination,
      clinical urine test, vaginal smear for flora and oncocytology, pelvic ultrasound.

      Special methods: filling out the questionnaire (Female Sexual Function Index, The Pelvic
      Organ Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence Sexual Questionnaire, Vulvovaginal Symptoms
      Questionnaire), Vaginal Health Index determination, Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)
      determination, perineometry, vaginal smear for cytology, elastography of vulva,
      microbiological vaginal smear stained by Gram.

      The treatment procedure of this study is the laser treatment of the vagina and vulva with a
      "Magic Max" laser with subsequent monitoring.

      Treatment Technique:

      Laser treatment procedure will be carried out in three stages. In total, three procedures
      will be performed with an interval of 4-6 weeks. Two follow-up visits will follow: 1 and 6
      months after the last procedure.

      During the procedure, the following sequence of actions will be performed:

        1. st Stage - vaginal processing with a conical mirror handpiece,

        2. nd Stage - vaginal processing with a corner mirror handpiece,

        3. rd Stage - external vulva and paraurethral region processing with a switched beam
           diameter handpiece.

      Laser radiation is emitted by a series of pulses following each other through a pause. The
      duration of one pulse is 20-200 nanoseconds (ns), the pause between pulses is 30 microseconds
      (us). The energy of one pulse is about 1 millijoule (mJ). The procedure is performed without
      anesthesia. The doctor always focuses on the participant's feeling of warmth.

      Hormone treatment procedure. Local hormone therapy with estriol will be used as a therapeutic
      tool for the control group. The course of treatment will be of 2 weeks of daily use, and then
      a maintenance therapy will be used of 2 times a week for 12 months to prevent symptoms.

      Participants of all groups will be tested with the general methods necessary to include the
      participant in the study at the first visit.

      For the laser treatment group: Studies will be carried out using special methods and then
      laser treatment of the vagina and vulva and paraurethral region will be performed during the
      2nd, 3d, and 4th visits. Studies with all special methods will be performed during the 1st
      (before the start of treatment) visit. Vaginal health index, pH-measurement, perineometry,
      and filling of questionnaires will be performed during 3d-6th visits. Cytological
      investigation and elastography of vulva will be performed during 5th (1 month after the last
      procedure) and 6th (6 months after the last procedure).

      For the hormone treatment group: Studies with all special methods will be performed during
      the 1st (before the start of treatment) visit. Vaginal health index, pH-measurement,
      perineometry, and filling of questionnaires will be performed during 3d-6th visits.
      Cytological investigation and Doppler sonography will be performed during 5th (1 month after
      the last procedure) and 6th (6 months after the last procedure). Hormone therapy will begin
      from the 2nd visit. All subsequent visits will be carried out at the same time intervals as
      for the laser treatment group, using studies with special methods. The 3d visit will be in
      4-6 weeks after the start of treatment, the 4th will be in 4-6 weeks after the 3d visit, the
      5th - 1 month after the 4th, the 6th - 6 months after the 4th.

      For the combine laser treatment with topical hormones application group: laser treatment of
      the vagina and vulva and paraurethral region will be performed during the 2nd, 3d, and 4th
      visits. At the same time, starting from 2nd visit hormone therapy will be started. All
      subsequent visits will be carried out at the same time intervals as for the laser treatment
      group and hormone treatment group, using studies with special methods.

      Thus, a direct comparison between conventional treatment (topical hormones), laser treatment
      and combine therapy of the vaginal atrophy will be made during the treatment, as well as on
      follow-up visits in 1 and 6 months after the end of each type of treatment.

      The study will be carried out with the participation of FSBI "National Medical Research
      Center For Obstetrics, Gynecology And Perinatology Named After Academician V.I.Kulakov"
      MINISTRY OF HEALTHCARE OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION

      All data obtained during the study will be transferred to the manufacturer of LLC
      "MeLSyTech".

      The study will be monitored by LLC "MeLSyTech" as follows:

        -  Once a month, monitoring of provided documents (copies of individual registration
           records of participants, informed consent, test results) for the complete filling of the
           forms; the clarity of filling out forms, the possibility of systematizing information
           from the forms of their assessment;

        -  Once every six months, monitoring will be conducted with a coordinator visit of the
           research center and analysis activities, such as participants recruitment, data
           collection, data management, data analysis, reporting for adverse events, and change
           management;

        -  Once a year, the investigator submits a clinical evaluation report to the sponsor.

      Statistics

      The analysis will be carried out both between groups of participants receiving different
      types of therapy (analysis of independent groups) and within groups at different time
      intervals (analysis of matched groups).

      Before performing statistical analysis of the data, the distribution type of the variables
      will be assessed. To assess the normality of distribution for each variable, histograms of
      frequency distributions will be visually evaluated, indicators of skewness, kurtosis, and the
      D'Agostino-Pearson normality test will be used.

      In addition to checking the type of distribution of variables, the equality of variances of
      the studied groups will be assessed using the methods of analysis of variance, in particular
      the Brown-Forsythe test.

      Methods of descriptive analysis will be used depending on the type of distribution of the
      variable. With a normal distribution, the mean (M) and standard deviation (SD) will be
      calculated. In case of an nongaussian distribution, the median (Me) and interquartile range
      will be calculated. Different algorithms of statistical analysis will be applied depending on
      the type of distribution of variables.

      Comparison of the paired and unpaired groups with a normal distribution, in case of the
      equality of the variances, will be carried out by the methods of analysis of variance ANOVA.
      Comparison of groups in pairs will be performed using the post-hoc method of posterior
      multiple comparisons (Tukey test).

      Comparison of groups in which variables do not follow the normal distribution will be carried
      out using the methods of nonparametric analysis of variations: the Kruskal-Wallis test (ANOVA
      tests) for independent groups and the Friedman test for matched groups. Dunn's multiple
      comparison test will be used to assess intergroup differences.

      Before assessing intergroup differences, the initial samples (1 visit) will be analyzed for
      identity using ANOVA or nonparametric Kruskal-Wallis tests (depending on the type of data).
      In case of significant differences in the samples, the search and removal of extremely
      deviating values (outliers) will be carried out.

      Differences will be considered statistically significant if the significance P values are
      <0.05.
    
  