
    
      Background:

        -  Interleukin-12 (IL-12) is a proinflammatory cytokine produced by activated phagocytes
           and dendritic cells (DCs) that plays a critical role in regulating the transition from
           innate to adaptive immunity.

        -  IL-12 has shown some promising clinical activity in phase I trials, including
           stabilization of disease in renal cancer patients with partial regression of a
           metastatic lesion, but has not proceeded further in clinical development due to
           toxicity.

        -  The NHS-IL12 concept is a strategy to reduce the toxicity associated with systemic
           administration of recombinant human IL-12 by selectively targeting delivery to tumors.
           The NHS-IL12 immunocytokine is composed of 2 IL-12 heterodimers, each fused to one of
           the H-chains of the NHS76 antibody, which has affinity for both single- and
           doublestranded DNA. Thus, NHS-IL12 targets delivery to regions of tumor necrosis where
           DNA has become exposed.

      Objectives:

      -To determine the dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of
      NHS-IL12 administered subcutaneously every 4 weeks and subcutaneously every 2 weeks in
      participants with metastatic or locally advanced solid epithelial or mesenchymal tumors.

      Eligibility:

        -  Adults with histologically or cytologically proven metastatic or locally advanced solid
           epithelial or mesenchymal tumors, except unstable brain metastases, for which standard
           curative or palliative measures do not exist or are no longer effective.

        -  Adequate organ function as defined by liver, kidney, and hematologic laboratory testing.

        -  Participants with acquired immune defects, systemic autoimmune disease, history of organ
           transplant, history of chronic infections, or history of active inflammatory bowel
           disease will be excluded.

      Design:

        -  With amendment D, this is a phase I, open-label, dose-escalation study designed to
           assess the safety, tolerability, PK, and biological and clinical activity of NHS-IL12.
           Goals are to determine the MTD of every 4-week doses at a starting dose level of 2
           mcg/kg of NHS IL12 and to define the biologically optimal treatment schedule.

        -  Participants will be enrolled in cohorts of 3 to 6 participants using a standard 3+3
           approach until MTD is reached.

        -  The trial will include a planned schedule-optimization amendment with up to 12
           participants at each of the 2 dose levels that are of greater biologic interest (MTD and
           dose below MTD), which will be submitted as soon as a clear biological response (changes
           in circulating cytokine levels) is measured in at least 3 participants at a given dose
           level. With amendment L, a cohort will be enrolled evaluating NHS-IL12 at 12 mcg/kg
           every 2 weeks with dose escalation to 16.8 mcg/kg every 2 weeks if 0 of 3 or 1 of 6 DLTS
           are observed.

        -  With a maximum accrual ceiling of 83 participants, this study will be completed within
           1year, enrolling up to 2-3 participants per month.
    
  