
    
      The primary objective of this research is to determine if introducing home follow-up will
      improve follow-up rates after medication abortion

      Secondary objectives of the study are to:

        -  assess the feasibility of mobile phone text messaging with low sensitivity pregnancy
           testing for home follow-up after medication abortion

        -  assess the acceptability of chosen follow-up after medication abortion

        -  determine the complication rate, emergency room visit rate, and ongoing pregnancy rate
           after home follow-up

      This prospective cohort study will be carried out at a single, urban hospital-based abortion
      clinic exploring the feasibility and acceptability of home follow-up after medication
      abortion with text messaging and a Low Sensitivity Pregnancy Test (LSPT). Participants will
      be recruited from a single abortion practice at Boston Medical Center (BMC) in Boston,
      Massachusetts. This clinic serves a multi-ethnic population from the South Boston area, with
      most patients English and Spanish speaking and covered by public insurance. Abortion care is
      provided by obstetrics and gynecology residents, family planning fellows, nurse
      practitioners, and family planning doctors.

      As part of the study participants will be given the choice to have clinic follow-up or home
      follow-up. The clinic follow-up cohort will receive our clinic standard of care - they will
      be scheduled for a visit with a provider in 1-2 weeks that will include an ultrasound
      examination. This cohort will be asked the same questions to assess completion that will be
      asked of the home follow-up group.

      Participants enrolled in the home follow-up group will be instructed that they will be
      contacted by research staff through text message 14 days after the initial visit. At
      enrollment, they will receive instruction for when the study team will be contacting them,
      how to use the LSPT, as well as the test itself. The participant will take the pregnancy test
      at home in 14 days and answer completion questions by text message for follow-up. Patients
      that screen positive will be asked to return to clinic for a visit with a provider.
    
  