
    
      Analgesic trials suffer from low assay-sensitivity, and experts in the field are concerned
      that many previous negative analgesic trails might be regarded as failed trails. Major
      contributor to this concern is the large placebo response observed in analgesic clinical
      trials. Recent findings from the investigators group suggest that improving pain reporting
      accuracy could increase analgesic trials assay sensitivity by reducing the placebo response.
      In previous studies, the investigators developed the Focused Analgesia Selection Test (FAST),
      a method to assess pain reporting accuracy. Later on, the investigators developed the Evoked
      Pain Training (EPT), aimed to improve pain reporting accuracy. Both these methods constitute
      the core of this project. The objectives of the current project are to determine if subject
      training increases (1) pain reporting accuracy and (2) the power of an analgesic trial.

      Summary of main methods This project objectives will be achieved by preforming a two-stage
      study. First, all subjects undergo baseline assessments, including assessment of pain
      reporting accuracy (the FAST procedure) (visit #1). Then, subjects enter the first study
      stage (training stage), in which half of study subjects (n=50) undergo training to improve
      pain reporting accuracy. The training comprise of three in-clinic visits (visits #2, 3, 4) in
      which subjects receive feedback on accuracy of pain reports in response to noxious stimuli of
      various intensities (the EPT procedure). The EPT is based on repeated application of the FAST
      procedure, while providing feedback to subjects in between applications. The other half of
      subjects (n=50) undergo a "shame-training". After completion of the training phase, all
      subjects enter an experimental cross-over study design (second study phase) comprised of two
      in-clinic visits (visits 5 and 6). In each of these two visits, subjects undergo a battery of
      experimental pain tests (pre-treatment assessment), take one of two pills (either Ibuprofen
      400 mg or identical sugar pill) in a random order, wait approximately 1 hour, and then
      undergo the same pain tests again (post-treatment assessment).
    
  