
    
      Efavirenz-based antiretroviral therapy (ART) is the preferred regimen in children older than
      3 years on rifampin-containing anti-TB therapy. Efavirenz trough plasma concentrations below
      1000 ng/mL have been associated with increased risk of virologic failure among HIV-infected
      adults, while concentrations above 4000 ng/mL have been associated with risk of central
      nervous system side effects. Efavirenz is primarily metabolized by hepatic CYP2B6, with
      secondary contributions from CYP2A6. On average, rifampin co-administration causes a 26%
      reduction in efavirenz plasma exposure but some individuals have paradoxically elevated
      efavirenz concentrations with co-administration in adult pharmacokinetic studies. The
      inter-individual variability in the drug-to-drug interactions suggest that efavirenz dose
      adjustment with concomitant anti-TB therapy may not be necessary in some patients. In
      children, there is very limited data on the pharmacokinetic interactions between
      rifampin-containing TB treatment and efavirenz. To our knowledge, there is only one published
      study in children to date. Among 15 TB/HIV co-infected children treated with standard
      efavirenz-based active antiretroviral therapy and rifampin-containing TB treatment, a wide
      inter-patient variability in efavirenz concentration as well as a bimodal distribution of
      efavirenz trough concentrations were observed. Overall, rifampin-containing anti-TB treatment
      had no significant influence on the mean change in efavirenz concentration in the study
      population as a whole, but 60% and 53% of children had efavirenz trough concentration < 1000
      ng/mL during and after anti-TB, respectively. This data suggest that current dosing of
      efavirenz may be suboptimal in a large proportion of children irrespective of anti-TB
      therapy. To overcome the risk of under-dosing of efavirenz especially with concurrent anti-TB
      treatment, the WHO recommended prescribing the maximum dose for each weight-band when
      efavirenz is coadministered with anti-TB treatment. This study seeks to evaluate whether the
      current dosing of efavirenz provides adequate efavirenz concentrations in children, as well
      as explore how genetic factors influence efavirenz pharmacokinetics with concomitant anti-TB
      treatment. The specific hypotheses to be tested are:

        1. At the population level, efavirenz plasma concentrations in TB/HIV co-infected children
           who are treated with the maximized weight-based efavirenz dosage during
           rifampin-containing anti-TB therapy will be comparable to concentrations in HIV-infected
           children receiving ART without anti-TB treatment.

        2. Co-treatment with rifampin- and efavirenz-containing therapies will lead to
           substantially decreased (by at least 40%) efavirenz concentration in the children with
           CYP2B6 extensive but not in those with intermediate or slow metabolizer genotypes.

      A two-arm, as well as a two-period pharmacokinetic study in HIV-infected children with and
      without TB will be performed at the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital (KATH), Kumasi, Ghana.
      Eligible participants will include children aged 3 - 14 years with HIV with or without TB
      coinfection, ART-naïve and eligible to initiate ART. The ART regimen will consist of the WHO
      recommended weight-band dosing of efavirenz (10-13.9kg - 200 mg; 14-24.9kg - 300mg; 25-39.9kg
      - 400 mg and > 40Kg - 600 mg), plus ZDV 180 - 240 mg/m2 and 3TC 4 mg/kg twice daily.
      Tenofovir may be used in place of ZDV. Standard anti-TB therapy will be prescribed to the
      co-infected patients and will start immediately upon TB diagnosis.

      A complete medical history, physical examination, and staging of HIV disease will be
      performed before initiation of ART. Baseline measurements prior to initiation of ART will
      include CBC, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, LFTs, CD4 cell count determination and plasma
      HIV-1 RNA level. Weeks 12 and 24 CD4 cell count and plasma HIV-1 RNA will obtained at
      scheduled follow-up. Pharmacokinetic sampling will be performed at week 4 of ART in both arms
      and at 4 weeks after anti-TB treatment in the co-infected group. At each sampling time, 3 mL
      of blood will be collected into an EDTA tube. Blood samples will be collected at times 0 2,
      8, 12 and 24 hours post-dose for determination of efavirenz concentrations. Efavirenz
      concentrations in plasma will be measured using a HPLC-MS. After sample analysis, a data set
      will be constructed. Anticipated covariates included in this data set to be explored will
      include age, sex, weight, relevant drug-metabolizing enzyme genotype, TB therapy status
      (on/off), and CD4 cell count. Nonlinear mixed-effects modeling (using NONMEM, version VI)
      will be used to estimate pharmacokinetic parameters (CL/F, V/F, AUC, Cmin, Cmax, elimination
      rate constant), inter-individual error, and residual error. Results of this population
      analysis may be used to simulate alternative efavirenz dosing strategies in this TB/HIV
      co-infected population, or in relevant sub-populations with variant PK/pharmacogenetics.
    
  