
    
      Part 1 (dose escalation study) will identify the recommended Part 2 (tumor-specific expansion
      study) dose and regimen using a dose-escalation procedure. Approximately 6 to 18 subjects
      will participate in Part 1 and will receive a starting dose of 3 mg/kg and dose will
      deescalate or escalate between 1.5 milligram (mg)/kilogram (kg) and 6 mg/kg. Up to 6 subjects
      will be enrolled at one dose level dependent upon the number of subjects at the current dose
      level, the number of subjects who have experienced a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) at the
      current dose level, and the number of subjects enrolled but with data pending at the current
      dose level. Escalation may proceed until either a maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is
      established, or until the dose in which the median pharmacokinetic parameters consistent with
      exposure in adults are achieved. Cohorts may be added in order to evaluate additional dose
      levels.

      Part 2 consists of four disease-specific cohorts of subjects with tumors known to have BRAF
      V600 activation (pediatric low-grade gliomas, pediatric high-grade gliomas, Langerhans cell
      histiocytosis [LCH], and other tumors such as melanoma and papillary thyroid carcinoma
      [PTC]). Each cohort will enroll at least 10 subjects with a pre-dose and at least 1 post-dose
      disease assessment. In both the parts of the study, on Day 1, a single first dose will be
      administered, and repeat dosing will begin on Day 2. PK sampling will be performed on Day 1
      and Day 15 for subjects >=25 kg in weight. For subjects <25 kg and >=10 kg in weight, blood
      samples for PK analysis will be collected on Day 1 and Day 15. For subjects <10kg in weight,
      blood samples for PK analysis will be collected after repeated administration on Day 15 only.
      Safety and tolerability will be assessed throughout the study. Treatment with dabrafenib will
      be continued until disease progression or until no clinical benefit or development of an
      unacceptable toxicity, or until they withdraw consent or begin a new therapy. At the end of
      treatment, a final study visit will occur.
    
  