
    
      IDENTIFY aims to be the largest contemporary study providing data on the utility of the
      current diagnostic pathway for bladder and upper urinary tract cancer in patients presenting
      with haematuria.

      It also aims to provide a contemporary evaluation of current urological practices and
      assessment of the prevalence of urinary tract cancers (bladder cancer, upper tract cancer,
      renal cancer) in patients with haematuria. This will allow us to recommend changes in cancer
      diagnosis pathways that may reduce the number of invasive procedures, reduce waste of
      resources and optimize use of the most appropriate tests. This will mean resources are spent
      effectively, allowing for early diagnosis and faster treatment pathways.

      An evaluation of the patient factors that predict urinary tract cancer, particularly
      high-risk disease, may allow clinicians to better recognise groups of patients that will
      benefit from invasive investigations and are more likely to benefit from prompt diagnosis and
      treatment. Upper tract urinary cancer is quite rare and difficult to diagnose. It requires a
      large patient cohort such as the IDENTIFY study in order to recognise associations with the
      diagnosis of this disease and optimize the way we diagnose it.

      Shared-decision making is extremely important in patients presenting with haematuria and the
      outcomes of IDENTIFY will allow a more personalized approach to the diagnosis of urinary
      tract cancer. For example, rather than a blanket approach in which all patients undergo
      flexible cystoscopy and one or more imaging tests, we will generate data that could offer
      patients information on the likelihood of a flexible cystoscopy or other test finding cancer
      for them, given their personal characteristics.

      IDENTIFY results are also hoped to help inform national and international guidelines on
      referral for haematuria.
    
  