
    
      The study is designed to determine the safest dosage of pembrolizumab to be given in
      combination with chemoradiotherapy and brachytherapy for patients with locally advanced
      cervix cancer. The study will be run at the Royal Marsden Hospital only and is open label so
      both patient and doctor will know what treatment patients are receiving. Patients will
      receive pembrolizumab in combination with chemoradiotherapy and brachytherapy. Patients will
      be tested against 2 dose escalation levels (Dose Level 1/2). An initial dose of 100mg of
      pembrolizumab will be implemented. If dose limiting toxicity is not observed at this dose,
      pembrolizumab will be escalated to 200mg. A minimum of 3 patients will be required at each
      dose level. A minimum gap of 1 week should be left between the recruitment of the first and
      second patient in a new dosing level to mitigate against multiple patients suffering from any
      acute toxicity.

        -  If no dose limiting toxicity is observed at a dose level, pembrolizumab will be
           escalated to the next dosing level.

        -  If 1 in 3patients experience a dose limiting toxicity then the cohort will be expanded
           to 6 patients.

        -  If 1 in 6 patients experience a DLT then the dose will be escalated to the next dosing
           level.

        -  However if ≥ 2 in 6 patients experience a DLT then the maximum administered dose
           (MAD)will have been reached and the previous dosing level should be used for the
           expansion phase. If the MAD is reached at dose level 1 the combination therapy of
           pembrolizumab, cisplatin and radiotherapy will not be considered possible and the trial
           discontinued. Once the MTD has been determined the trial enters the expansion cohort
           whereby a further 14 patients are treated with the determined dosage of pembrolizumab in
           combination with radiotherapy, brachytherapy and cisplatin. For this study the dose
           limiting toxicities will be assessed by the presence of:

        -  >=Grade 3 gastrointestinal toxicity

           o Excluding grade 3 toxicity which resolves to grade 2 within 48 hours of medical
           management

        -  Haematological toxicity including:

             -  Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding

             -  Grade 4 thrombocytopenia

             -  Grade 4 neutropenia lasting >7 days in the absence of growth factor support

             -  Grade 4 neutropenia of any duration accompanied by fever ≥ 38.5°C and/or systemic
                infection

             -  Any other grade ≥4 haematological toxicity

        -  Immune system toxicity

             -  Grade 4 immune toxicity requiring treatment with corticosteroids

             -  Grade 3 immune toxicity requiring corticosteroid treatment (greater than 10 mg/day
                prednisone or equivalent dose) for greater than 12 weeks. (For patients requiring
                corticosteroids at week 12 toxicity assessment, the observation period will be
                continued to monitor for this DLT)

        -  Radiotherapy treatment interruption > 5 days or failure to complete external beam
           radiotherapy and brachytherapy due to toxicity

        -  any other ≥Grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity (except nausea and vomiting) which in the
           opinion of the investigator is considered dose-limiting.

      Escalation to the next dose level will not proceed until the following criteria are
      satisfied:

        -  If 0/3 patients experience a DLT escalation to the next dose level can proceed.

        -  If 1/3 patients experiences a DLT a further 3 patients will be recruited at the dose
           level.

             -  If 1/6 patients experience a DLT then escalation to the next dose level can
                proceed.

             -  If ≥ 2/6 patients in a specific dose level experience a DLT, the maximum tolerated
                dose will have been reached and all patients in the expansion cohort will be
                recruited at the previous dose level.

        -  If 2/3patients experience a DLT then the maximum tolerated dose will have been reached
           and the expansion cohort phase will begin at the previous dose level. If the MAD occurs
           at dose level 1 the expansion cohort will not go ahead and the trial will be stopped.

      Patient Pathway through the Study: Once the patient consents to taking part on the trial the
      patient will enter the screening period. This can last from 1 to 14 days before the proposed
      start of the study treatment. As part of the screening period the patient will be required to
      attend a clinic where a doctor will complete a physical examination, assess the patients'
      vital signs and performance status, measure the patients' weight and collect information on
      the patients' medical history and any medications the patient is currently taking. Patients
      will also be asked to undertake routine blood tests and a MRI/PET-CT scan; if these have been
      completed as part of routine care; prior to consent and within the screening time lines; the
      results can be used for the study. Female patients will be asked to complete a pregnancy test
      up to 72 hours before confirmation of study eligibility. If the patient is confirmed as
      eligible then the patient will be receive a preloading dose of pembrolizumab (at the dosage
      currently under evaluation) 2 weeks prior to the start of chemoradiotherapy and then every 3
      weeks until the patients have completed all 7 cycles, the patient disease progresses, the
      patient suffers from too many side effects or the patient decides they no longer wish to take
      part in the study. Whilst on treatment at each clinic visit before the drug is given the
      patient will also be required to attend a clinic so the doctor can complete a physical
      examination, assess the patients' vital signs and performance status, measure the patients'
      weight and collect information on any side effects the patient may have and any medications
      the patient is taking. At this visit the patient may also be required to give blood for
      routine blood tests and research blood samples if the patient have consented to do this. Once
      all the above assessments have been verified by the doctor Pembrolizumab will be given by a
      drip into the patients' arm that will take approximately 30 minutes. Patients will also be
      asked to attend a visit for a MRI/PET-CT at pre-brachytherapy (week 5), after the last dose
      of pembrolizumab (week 18) and then every 3 months for 2 years or until disease progression,
      discontinuation or initiation of another anticancer treatment. This is to see what is
      happening to the cancer as the patient continues on the study. FollowUp: When a patient
      completes their last dose of pembrolizumab the patient will be asked to attend post treatment
      follow up visit 4 weeks after their last dose of pembrolizumab and a safety follow up at 19
      weeks from their last dose or before the initiation of a new anti-cancer therapy; whichever
      comes first. At the post treatment follow up visit and SFU visit the doctor will complete a
      physical examination, assess the patient vital signs and performance status, measure the
      patient weight and collect information on the patients' cancer, any side effects the patient
      may have and any medications the patient is taking. Patients will also have routine bloods
      taken. If the patient has completed all 8 doses and has not progressed at the safety
      follow-up (SFU) the patient will be reviewed for tumour progression and initiation of new
      anti-cancer treatments every 12 weeks for 2 years to review the disease status and if the
      patients have received any additional anticancer treatments until progression, initiation of
      a new anti-cancer therapy, withdrawal or completion of the study.
    
  