
    
      Introduction: Age-related macular degeneration (ARMD) is a spectrum of related diseases that
      affects the macula and it has been traditionally classified into early and late stages with
      its dry (non-exudative) and wet (exudative) forms. Although the advanced form of AMD is less
      common, the potential visual loss is more significant. The Beaver Dam Eye Study reported that
      30% of individuals aged 75 and older have some form of AMD, whereas 7% of those aged 75 and
      older have an advanced form. Recent studies estimate that 8 million Americans are considered
      to be at risk for developing advanced ARMD in the next 5 years, whereas 1.75 million are
      currently affected with the advanced form of the disease.

      Wet AMD is characterized by proliferation of abnormal vessels in the choroid. These choroidal
      neovascular membranes may proliferate into the subretinal space and retina and leak fluid and
      blood. This fluid may accumulate in the macula area causing macular edema (ME), the final
      common pathway for visual loss in many diseases. There are currently no treatments that can
      reverse or repair the destruction and restore visual acuity. The critical time for any
      intervention is early in the disease, when visual acuity has been minimally affected. Due to
      the irreversible nature of the disease and a realistic risk of permanent vision loss, there
      is an increased need to improve the accuracy of identifying the presence and extent of
      MEvwith a prompt referral to a retina specialist following diagnosis.

      ME has traditionally been assessed clinically using a combination of slit lamp biomicroscopy
      and fluorescein angiography. New imaging techniques such as optical coherence tomography
      (OCT), the retinal thickness analyser (RTA), and the Heidelberg retinal tomograph (HRT)
      confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscope facilitate qualitative assessments of the degree of
      ME. Although OCT has a high sensitivity and specificity for the detection of ME within 500
      microns of the fovea, this resolution decreases outside this area. RTA has shown lower
      sensitivity (57%) for the detection of ME. 4 The Heidelberg Retinal Tomograph II (HRT II,
      Heidelberg Engineering) is a non-invasive, confocal scanning laser imaging system that uses a
      red (670 nm) diode laser to perform a series of optical sections of the macula area covering
      a 15°x15° field of view, corresponding to approximately 4.5 x 4.5 mm on the retina. The
      reflected laser light intensity is processed assisting with a quantitative diagnosis of ME.
      If ME is present, the amount of scatter inside the swollen retina increases, reducing retinal
      reflectance.

      A few studies have evaluated the HRT for detecting ME. Tong and co-workers have proposed a
      scoring system for macular image assessment using HRT in patients with diabetic maculopathy.
      Guan and co-workers found the HRT to have a sensitivity and specificity of 92% and 68% for
      detecting ME in the diabetic population when using clinical assessment as the gold standard.
      To the best of our knowledge, no studies have yet validate the used HRT for the detection of
      ME as an early sign of exudative disease in ARMD patients.

      Purpose: The purpose of the study is to assessed the sensitivity, specificity, and
      repeatability, of HRT for the presence of ME in exudative ARMD Design: Prospective,
      observational study. Objectives: 1) Assessment of healthy volunteers to obtain baseline
      normal measurements of macular thickening. 2) Measurements in ARMD patient's referred to a
      retinal specialist clinic with the diagnosis of exudative form of ARMD Patients, Material,
      and Methods: 1) normal controls (N=20): baseline measurements centered at the fovea will be
      taken. Three consecutive measurements will be performed (within-session repeatability). 2)
      Patients: New patients referred by general ophthalmologists to the retina specialist for
      possible diagnosis of ARMD, exudative formed, will be included in the study. All patients
      will undergo a full ophthalmologic exam by the same retinal specialist who will determine the
      clinical presence of ME (gold standard) using fundus contact lens examination. In some cases,
      fluorescein angiograms will be use as an ancillary test. All patients will then be evaluated
      using HRT for the presence of ME using the macula edema module. The technician performing the
      test will be mask to the patients' clinical diagnosis. Three consecutive measurements will be
      performed in 4 quadrants (500-1000-1500 microns/ 4 quadrants) (color map and reflectivity) 3)
      Comparison will be made between the clinical diagnosis of ME (gold standard) and results
      obtained by the HRT. Features compared: 1) presence/absence of ME 2) spacial agreement
      between areas of elevated retina encountered by HRT Vs clinical examination.
    
  