
    
      Cystinosis is an autosomal recessive storage disorder due to defective transport of the amino
      acid cystine out of cellular lysosomes. Cystine accumulation leads to cellular dysfunction in
      most of organs and tissues. Available treatment with the cystine-depleting agent, cysteamine,
      can prevent or delay organ damage, including that of muscles. In poorly treated patients,
      however, a progressive vacuolar myopathy with muscle wasting beginning in the second decade
      of life significantly debilitates some patients. Muscle biopsy demonstrates prominent
      unrimmed vacuoles with small ring fibers but no evidence of endomysial inflammation. Plasma
      and muscle carnitine deficiency, impairing mitochondrial fatty acid metabolism, might also
      limit muscle energy production. Growth Hormone (GH) can potentially counter the muscle
      wasting of cystinosis patients. It has consistently induced anabolic effects in patients in
      malnourished or catabolic states, by enhancing the growth and development of bone, connective
      tissue, viscera, fat, and musculoskeletal muscles. GH, at doses of approximately 0.006 to 0.1
      mg/kg/day, has proven safe and effective in HIV/AIDS wasting, parenteral nutrition-dependent
      short bowel syndrome, pediatric chronic kidney disease, and adult and pediatric GH-deficiency
      states. The current protocol is a randomized (to treatment or no treatment) crossover
      clinical trial to determine if GH (0.03 mg/kg/day) is beneficial for muscle wasting in
      cystinosis. Patients are examined at the NIH Clinical Research Center every 4 months for 2
      years. Change in muscle mass will serve as the primary outcome parameter, and rhGH
      (Humatrope) will be provided by Eli Lilly. HumatropeR (somatropin) is currently approved by
      the FDA for:

        -  Treatment of children with short stature or growth failure associated with growth
           hormone (GH) deficiency, Turner syndrome, idiopathic short stature, SHOX deficiency, and
           failure to catch up in height after small for gestational age birth.

        -  Treatment of adults with either childhood-onset or adult-onset GH deficiency.
    
  