
    
      Background:

      A UK telephone survey (Bokhari, 1999) showed that during TUGOR, 48% of UK fertility centers
      were using conscious sedation, 29% general anaesthesia, 12% conscious sedation with regional
      anaesthesia (neuraxial block or PCB), and 2% regional anaesthesia alone. A review article
      (Blahos 2009) details the many different types of anaesthesia used during TUGOR. These may
      include combinations of the following: general anaesthesia, regional anaesthesia, local
      anaesthesia, conscious sedation, and alternative methods of anaesthesia (electro-acupuncture,
      patient controlled sedation). No recent studies were found detailing the frequency of each of
      the various anaesthetic options in use at fertility centers across North American.

      A prospective, randomized, double-blind and placebo controlled study (Ng, 1999) showed that
      paracervical block combined with conscious sedation was superior to conscious sedation alone.
      This study used a combination of drugs (mepiridine and diazepam) not used at our center. The
      use of fentanyl and midazolam was first described by Harrison in 1992 for conscious sedation.
      In 2001 Sephton et al published a cross over audit of patient preferences comparing
      mepiridine, diazepam and promethazine to fentanyl and midazolam, showing superiority of
      fentanyl and midazolam. Midazolam has sedative and amnestic properties, whereas diazepam has
      no amnestic properties. The amnestic properties of midazolam make it a superior medication
      for overall patient experience during TUGOR, as they are less likely to recall potentially
      painful parts of their procedure. Midazolam has also been shown to act synergistically with
      fentanyl, thereby decreasing not only the actual pain recalled, but the actual pain
      experienced by patients. Since the only randomized control trial demonstrating the benefits
      of paracervical block was performed using mepiridine and diazepam, we intend to repeat the
      study using the superior combination of fentanyl and midazolam.

      Study Rationale:

      The oocyte retrieval may be the most painful part of fertility treatment. Our goal is to
      minimize patient discomfort and improve overall patient experience during fertility
      treatments. We do not know if PCB improves pain scores in the era of wider use of fentanyl
      and midazolam for sedation. Fertility centres may be subjecting their patients to a painful
      PCB injection without proven benefit. This study aims to assess whether a PCB in addition to
      conscious sedation can be abandoned without impacting the patient's overall pain experience.

      Study Objective:

      The objective is to compare whether conscious sedation alone is as effective as paracervical
      block plus conscious sedation in controlling pain during oocyte retrieval

      Study Question:

      Is conscious sedation alone as effective as paracervical block plus conscious sedation in
      controlling pain during oocyte retrieval?

      Overview of the Trial Design This study is designed to be a placebo-controlled, randomised,
      double blind trial to compare whether conscious sedation with a normal saline paracervical
      block (placebo) is as effective as conscious sedation with a lidocaine paracervical block in
      controlling pain during oocyte retrieval. A total of 300 women will randomly be assigned in a
      1:1 ratio, after consenting to study participation. Short-Form McGill Pain scores will be
      assessed in study subjects.

      Study Population:

      Women presenting for oocyte retrieval after a cycle of IVF stimulation at the University of
      Alberta Regional Fertility Centre

      Study Design:

      Women consenting to participate in the study will be randomly allocated to one of two groups.
      The control group will receive conscious sedation with a placebo (normal saline) paracervical
      block (PCB). The study group will receive conscious sedation with a local anaesthetic
      (lidocaine 1%) PCB. Computer generated randomisation will be used to determine group
      allocation. Group allocation will be concealed using opaque envelopes to ensure blinding. An
      OR nurse will prepare the PCB syringe with either lidocaine or normal saline depending on the
      patient's allocation. The contents of the PCB will remain blinded from the physician
      performing the TUGOR and the patient.

      The fertility centre's routine for TUGOR is as follows: Initially conscious sedation is
      administered by OR nursing staff according to the patient's weight (midazolam 1 - 2 mg and
      fentanyl 50 - 75 ug IV). This is followed by the PCB 5 minutes later. Additional fentanyl is
      administered throughout the procedure as required to ensure patient comfort. The oocyte
      retrieval proceeds once the PCB is completed. Following the oocyte retrieval and when the
      conscious sedation has worn off; the patient will be assessed before discharge. Once the
      discharge criteria have been met, the validated and standardized Short-Form McGill Pain
      Questionnaire will be used to objectively measure the pain experienced during the TUGOR. All
      study participants will be required to rate the pain experience during the procedure. The
      attending nurse is required to record all adverse events from the procedure as part of her
      clinical duties. Embryology information, i.e. fertilization, embryo grading, development and
      frozen rates will be recorded to assess whether PCB affects this aspect of ART. Additional
      information will be obtained by reviewing participants' clinic charts nine months
      post-procedure to determine secondary outcomes, i.e. live birth rates. Animal mouse models in
      the past have shown local anaesthetic to adversely affect fertilization and embryo
      development (Schnell, 1992). No adverse effects on human embryos from lidocaine have ever
      been demonstrated (Wikland 1990), however assessing embryo quality and birth outcomes has
      been the standard when conducting studies assessing the use of PCB

      Setting:

      Academic referral fertility centre
    
  