
    
      Rapid increase in the COVID-19 cases and COVID-19 related deaths were followed by several
      precautions including the daily usage of masks, social distancing, temporary closure of work
      places, government departments, schools and universities. Due to these adversities and
      necessary precautions, people experience psychological distress and symptoms of depression
      and anxiety during the pandemic (Vindegaard & Benros, 2020). Research shows that university
      students are at risk for developing psychological distress and common mental health disorder
      symptoms (Cao et al., 2020), and providing psychological interventions for university
      students may decrease the mental health problems of the students (Huang et al., 2020).
      However, considering the social distancing, these interventions must be delivered online.
      There are some studies indicate that online interventions may be effective as face-to-face
      interventions (Carlbring et al., 2017). Considering the mental health support need that the
      university students have during COVID-19, addressing this need may be beneficial for the
      mental health of university students in these uncertain times. There are various studies that
      showed the effectiveness of various form of interventions and one of them is Culturally
      Adapted Cognitive Behavioral (CA-CB) intervention developed by Hinton (Hinton et al., 2004,
      Hinton et al., 2005). CA-CB interventions were tested with adolescents and women in Turkey
      and found to decrease the psychological symptoms of these people (Acarturk et al., 2019).
      CA-CB interventions are based on the cognitive behavioral approach's principles but also
      include emotion regulation techniques, mindfulness and stretching exercises.

      We propose to conduct a randomized controlled trial in which we aim to apply a preventive
      culturally adapted cognitive behavioral intervention (CA-CBI) which is adapted to university
      students and COVID-19 related stressors. After the adaptation process is completed, we will
      distribute an online survey to university students for the recruitment. The university
      students who would like to participate in the intervention study and are eligible to
      participate will be included. We will randomly assign them into two arms (control and CA-CBI)
      and then deliver CA-CBI in a group format to the intervention arm. We will examine whether
      the psychological distress levels and common mental health problems of the students in the
      intervention arm is decreased compared to the control arm. We will examine the study outcomes
      of the both arms at three times: Pre-assessment (1 week before the intervention),
      post-assessment (1 week after the intervention) and follow-up assessment (1 month after the
      post-assessment). A process evaluation according to the WHO will be completed with 5 study
      completers, 5 drop-outs and 2 facilitators to evaluate the feasibility of delivering CA-CBI.

      Although the CA-CBI was delivered in Turkey to different populations before, it was not
      tested with university students yet. In addition, there are scarce publications on the online
      delivered group interventions and to our knowledge, there is neither such research conducted
      during the pandemic nor research about the efficacy of online synchronous interventions in
      Turkey. We will contribute to the literature by adapting CA-CBI to the university students
      who are affected from COVID-19. In addition, we will also add to the literature on online
      interventions by delivering CA-CBI online in a group format.
    
  