
    
      Currently, there is no direct, reliable, bed-side, and non-invasive method for assessing
      changes in brain activity associated with elderly in risk of dementia. Event Related
      Potentials (ERPs), which are temporal reflections of the neural mass electrical activity of
      cells in specific regions of the brain that occur in response to stimuli, may offer such a
      method, as they provide both a noninvasive and portable measure of brain function. The ERPs
      provide excellent temporal information, but spatial resolution for ERPs has traditionally
      been limited. However, by using high-density electroencephalograph (EEG) recording spatial
      resolution for ERPs is improved significantly. The proposed study will provide additional
      evidence for the utility and contribution of a Personalized Brain Network Activation (PBNA)
      test (reflecting temporal and spatial changes in brain activity as well as brain functional
      connectivity associated with minor neurocognitive disorder) in early dementia management.

      The study is conducted in 4 sites: Switzerland, Germany, USA and Greece. It uses a
      pre-post-test design with the between-participant factor group [intervention(s) vs. passive
      and/or active control]. Post-test will be conducted within 2 weeks after completion of the
      exercise period. Interventions will be carried out within day care centres, hospitals, senior
      care centres, a memory outpatient centre, local parishes, and at participants' homes.

      Centres will provide 8-12 exercise weeks per year for 3 years, with a frequency of at least 3
      "Alterniity AR" sessions per week, resulting in at least 24-36 intervention sessions each
      year of the study. The closed feedback loop with a direct PBNA test is basically divided to 3
      phases - first EEG data is collected from subjects using a portable EEG system while the
      participants are performing the "Alterniity AR" intervention. The EEG data is then analysed
      offline. Finally, the "Alterniity AR" exercise type, configuration and difficulty level is
      updated based on the analysed data.

      A similar trial was registered with Clinical Trial Registration: ClinicalTrials.gov
      Identifier: NCT02313935
    
  