
    
      After SAHa, approximately 28% of patients will present DCI. DCI is a major cause of death and
      disability and will condition the neurological prognosis. Its treatment is not really
      codified, because of the absence of scientific proof of good level. Milrinone, an inhibitor
      of type III phosphodiesterase, seems particularly interesting in the management of DCI. This
      molecule has indeed a powerful vasodilator action. In addition, its anti-inflammatory effects
      could inhibit the abnormal proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells and the remodelling
      observed in patients with DCI via an action on interleukin-6. Finally, because of its
      positive inotropic effect, it is an interesting choice in these patients with neurogenic
      cardiomyopathy where the administration of catecholamines is to be avoided. Strong evidence
      for efficacy of milrinone in the treatment and / or prevention of DCI is still lacking. All
      patients will benefit from a computed tomography (CT) brain imaging at 48 hrs following
      aneurysm treatment to define baseline imaging. The standard care (SC) group will follow the
      recommended management of SAHa and will receive a placebo (intravenous glucose 5%) from day 4
      to day 14. The milrinone (M) group will receive, in addition to standard care, administration
      of milrinone (0.75 μg / kg / min, intravenous) from day 4 to day 14. In case of suspicion of
      vasospasm and after ineffective effect of medical measures (euvolemia and increase in mean
      arterial pressure), an endovascular treatment will be possible. The occurrence of vasospasm
      will be monitored closely with clinical examination and cerebral tissue oxygen pressure
      (PtiO2). From day 4 to day 14, general and biological data, clinical examination will be
      collected daily. Intensive care unit complications (neurologic, pulmonary, cardiac and septic
      complications) will be collected. At 1 month, the volume of DCI lesions will be measured on
      MRI. Neurologic prognosis, quality of life and mortality will be studied at 1 month, 3 month,
      6 month and 1 year. Adverse events will be monitored closely.
    
  