
    
      The study is a randomized controlled trial aimed to compare the effects of blood flow
      restriction (BFR) in different phases (i.e., exercise versus interval) during high-intensity
      interval exercise on aerobic capacity, anaerobic capacity, isokinetic knee strength, lower
      limb biomechanics during single-leg landing and cycling economy among healthy adult males.
      The procedure of the study has been approved by Ethics Committee of Universiti Sains Malaysia
      (USM/JEPeM/20060331) and complied with the Declaration of Helsinki. participants were
      randomised into one of the following conditions: 1. High-intensity interval exercise without
      BFR (C Group). 2. High-intensity interval exercise with BFR during exercise phase (E Group).
      3 High-intensity interval exercise with BFR during interval phase (I Group). After obtaining
      the participants' written informed consent form, participants proceeded to pre-intervention
      tests. Each exercise test needs to be separated by at least 24 hours (First day: VO2max;
      Second day: Cycling economy; Third day: Isokinetic knee strength and Wingate tests). In the
      sixth week and after the twelfth week of the exercise intervention, the participants took
      part in the mid-test and post-test, which was similar protocol in the pre-test. The duration
      of the intervention is 12 weeks, with two sessions per week. Each exercise session took about
      an hour and monitored by an exercise physiologist. Exercise intervention comprised of cycle
      exercises using a cycle ergometer device. First, participants performed a 5-minute warm-up
      activity (50W). After the warm-up, each group sprinted with 85% VO2max for 3 minutes, where
      the rotation speed should be maintained at around 60 revolutions per minute (RPM) and then
      rests for 3 minutes on the ergometer without cycling. Then, they sprinted again after the
      first break and this sequence of sprint and rest were repeated three times. The 85% of VO2max
      was determined based on the results from the VO2max test. Exercise (E) Group and Interval (I)
      Group completed the training with an air cuff placed at the inguinal fold of both legs in
      sequence in order to provide partial blood flow restriction. The sequence of wrapping was
      done in random order, but both thighs were wrapped twice in a single intervention session. E
      Group applied 40% LOP BFR during exercise; I Group I applied 40% LOP BFR during passive rest
      i.e., interval. On the other hand, C group does not perform BFR during the whole process.
      Two-factor repeated measures analysis of variance (pre-, mid-and post-intervention time
      points x three groups) was used to examine the main effects and interaction effects of
      changes for each tested variables following intervention. If the main effects or interaction
      effects are significant, the Newman-Keuls post hoc test was applied for multiple comparisons.
    
  