
    
      Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is a blood clot, usually affecting the legs, causing pain,
      swelling, and redness. The clot damages the veins, which can result in chronic pain, swelling
      and ulceration. This is called the post-thrombotic syndrome, which impacts heavily on
      patients' life and work. If the clot dislodges and travels to the lungs, it becomes a
      pulmonary embolus (PE), which can be life threatening. Together, DVT and PE affect 500,000
      people in Europe every year, representing the most common preventable cause of hospital
      acquired death. They are expensive conditions not only due to their treatment costs, but also
      secondary to the resulting loss of work days and productivity.

      DVT is diagnosed by clinical examination, risk scoring, usually via the Wells Score, and a
      blood test called D dimer, a fibrin degradation product. D-dimer is specific but not very
      sensitive. In other words, when the test is negative, it is unlikely that a DVT is present.

      However, many conditions can raise D-dimer levels, making it less useful when positive.
      Duplex ultrasound can confirm the presence of clot but this can be difficult to visualize or
      is often not seen at all. The clot can take time to form and patients may not experience
      symptoms immediately. This is a problem for treatment, as new, clot-busting medication works
      best in the first 2 weeks after a DVT and it is currently impossible to tell when the
      thrombus formed.

      Because of the importance of DVT, and ongoing issues regarding its diagnosis, ageing and
      prognosis, numerous research groups have been exploring novel candidate biomarkers to help
      develop a more accurate diagnostic and prognostic marker for DVT. The Section of Vascular
      Surgery and of Computational and Systems Medicine (CSM) at Imperial College, have had a
      longstanding collaboration working towards this end using metabonomics.

      Metabonomics is defined as: 'the quantitative measurement of the multiparametric metabolic
      response of living systems to pathophysiological stimuli or genetic modification'. In other
      words, it examines the end products of cellular metabolism via platforms such as Nuclear
      Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (NMR) and Mass Spectrometry (MS), which are both high
      throughput analytical platforms. These enable the qualification (untargeted) and
      quantification (targeted) of different molecules in a given sample, to a degree of detail
      superior to that offered by other omic technologies (e.g. proteomics). Metabonomics has
      demonstrated clear applications in vascular disease, including chronic venous disease ,
      atherosclerosis , venous leg ulceration, aneurysmal disease and stroke.

      Untargeted preliminary work on deep venous thrombosis has revealed a metabolic signature for
      DVT using a murine animal model [9], and promising pilot data in a human study. The aim of
      the proposed study is to validate previous findings in a separate patient cohort and perform
      quantification of the metabolites identified in the pilot studies via targeted NMR and MS
      experiments, continuing the exploration of novel biomarkers for DVT.

      Study Design

      The study is a prospective observational case-control study, recruiting 40 DVT patients and
      40 healthy subjects. Patients diagnosed with a DVT will be recruited at the sites of Imperial
      College Healthcare NHS Trust.

      Summary Forty patients diagnosed with a DVT will be recruited. Participation in the study
      will not interfere with the decision making and diagnostic investigations by the direct care
      team. A second control group of 40 healthy volunteers will be also examined. Healthy subject
      recruitment will take place at the same sites. A patient information leaflet will be provided
      to participants for informed consent purposes.

      A member of the research team will explain the study to prospective participants. Both
      patients and volunteers will be given sufficient time to read the information sheet and make
      an informed decision regarding participation in the study; this will be confirmed by the
      participant signing a consent form. The study involves a comprehensive history and clinical
      examination, recording medication taken and collection of blood and urine samples. The
      samples will be labeled anonymously with a study number and transferred to the Imperial

      College laboratories in South Kensington. Sample transfer will be performed securely
      according to established departmental standard operating procedures (SOPs). A blood sample
      will be stored for future DNA analysis in DVT patients to complement the findings from the
      metabonomic assays. No DNA analysis will be performed for this particular project.

      The DVT group will have a repeat ultrasound study, performed by a vascular research fellow on
      a dedicated (non-NHS) machine 3 weeks after anticoagulation treatment has ended. They will
      also have repeat urine and blood samples taken. None of the research interventions will have
      an impact on the clinical care the patients will receive.

      A letter explaining the purpose of the study will be sent to the General Practitioner if the
      participant wishes. All clinical and research information will remain confidential.

      Patient Groups:

        -  Group 1: Patients with DVT confirmed by lower limb venous duplex ultrasound (DUS) (n
           =40)

        -  Group 2: Healthy volunteers with no DVT confirmed on DUS (n = 40)
    
  