
    
      Possible regional techniques for breast surgery include selective intercostal nerve blockade,
      thoracic paravertebral blockade, thoracic epidural, intrapleural, local wound infiltration.
      Each of these techniques has advantages and disadvantages. In general, local or wound
      infiltration is safe but limited in terms of duration of action, depending on the local
      anesthetic (LA) used. More invasive techniques such as selective intercostal nerve blocks and
      thoracic paravertebral blockade may be complicated by pneumothorax or transient Horner's
      syndrome These techniques are also may be associated with higher risk of local anesthetic
      toxicity. Besides the neurological side-effects associated with thoracic epidural and
      paravertebral blocks such as post-sympathectomy hypotension and bradycardia, total spinal
      block, paraplegia, epidural hematoma, unpredictable spread, intravascular injection also
      requires special skill precluding their routine use in the setting of day-case surgery. With
      the use of ultrasound (US) devices in anesthetic practice, newer regional techniques based on
      detailed knowledge of innervations of the breast are developed as the pectoral nerve (Pecs)
      block I and II.The breast innervations briefly include lateral and medial pectoral nerves
      that arise from the brachial plexus innervating the pectoral muscles.The anterior divisions
      of the thoracic intercostal nerves from T2 to T6. They give off lateral and anterior
      branches. The Lateral branches pierce the external intercostalis and the serratus anterior
      muscles at the mid-axillary line to give off anterior and posterior terminal cutaneous
      branches. The lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve does not divide and it
      is called the intercostobrachial nerve.The Anterior branches pierce the internal
      intercostalis muscle, the intercostal membranes, and pectoralis major to supply the breast in
      its medial aspect.The long thoracic nerve passes on the serratus anterior muscle supplying
      it. The thoracodorsal nerve innervates the latissimus dorsi muscle.
    
  