
    
      Periprosthetic infection following hip arthroplasty is one of the main causes of implant
      failure that leads to multiple surgical interventions, prolonged hospitalization, and higher
      complication rate and mortality.

      Recent data prove that the rate of periprosthetic infections is higher than what can be
      ascertained with conventional techniques and highlight as analytical methods that allow an
      early and accurate diagnosis may help clinicians identify effective treatment and mitigate
      the devastating consequences.

      New technologies based on culture-independent assays, i.e., the next-generation sequencing
      (NGS) of 16s rRNA gene amplicons, have entered medical microbiology as an alternative to
      traditional bacterial identification methods. NGS has been proven to detect microorganisms in
      culture-negative periprosthetic joint infection and seems to be a valid adjunct in
      identifying causative pathogens in samples from patients undergoing a hip arthroplasty
      revision for aseptic loosening.

      The microbiota profiling using NGS may also help identify patients prone to develop
      infections. In predisposing clinical conditions, i.e., obesity and diabetes, the metabolic
      and nutritional alterations modify the composition and the immunomodulatory properties of
      intestinal microbiota. Saprophytic, non-pathogenic microorganisms usually found in the
      intestine and oral cavity can be transferred to other areas becoming a potential source of
      periprosthetic infection.

      Additionally, microorganisms may live in the periprosthetic microenvironment without giving
      signs of overt infection. However, bacterial products, i.e., "microbe-associated molecular
      patterns" (MAMPs) or "pathogen-associated molecular patterns "(PAMPs), adhere to the implant
      surface or the wear particles and may elicit a local inflammatory response characterized by
      the presence of cells capable of producing cytokines that promote osteoclastogenesis,
      periprosthetic resorption and consequent loosening of the implant.

      In summary, the current knowledge suggests that the hip arthroplasty loosening, classified as
      aseptic according to the preoperative clinical and laboratory investigations, could be
      directly or indirectly associated with infectious pathogenesis even if the microbial cultures
      on periprosthetic tissues are negative.

      The investigators designed a small-scale study to assess the adequacy of NGS for identifying
      occult infections and improving the diagnostic workup in patients undergoing a hip
      arthroplasty revision for aseptic loosening. Moreover, additional testing has been planned to
      enhance knowledge on the role of unusual or difficult-to-cultivate microorganisms in the
      etiopathogenesis of implant failure.
    
  