
    
      Breast cancer patients whose carcinomas have an aggressive tumor biology which implies the
      need for chemotherapy are increasingly being treated with NST. As a standard procedure, clip
      placement of the suspicious lesion is performed after ultrasound-guided core biopsy or
      mammography-guided vacuum biopsy. Clipping is necessary to enable the clear identification of
      the sonographically suspicious area of the breast and safe surgical removal of the remaining
      tumor tissue (if any) during a later surgery, even following a good response under NST. The
      placement of a marker (clip) is particularly important for the precise localization of the
      original tumor bed in patients with pCR.

      There are a number of commercially available markers (clips) which are indicated for
      intramammary marking of a lesion and which differ in terms of shape and material.
      Difficulties may arise in placing the clip in the tumor or the tumor center. In addition, the
      clip can dislocate from the initial location and/or the clip might not be visualized during
      response monitoring. Evaluations of the ultrasound-visible clip made of nitinol investigated
      in this study showed very good results regarding marker dislocation and visibility within 7
      days after inital placement.The clip, which immediately unfolds into a 3-dimensional
      spherical structure after insertion into the tissue, could be detected by both sonography and
      mammography in all 50 cases after the intervention; however, long-term data data at follow-up
      controls during and after NST are not available so far.

      According to current German guidelines, imaging-assisted wire marking is recommended without
      restriction before breast conserving surgery for non-palpable lesions. The clip is considered
      the target lesion for wire marking, which can be done under sonographic or stereotactic
      control. If the clip is reliably visible on ultrasound (even in patients with pCR), the
      stereotactic control of wire marking can be omitted. Therefore, the ability to visualize a
      clip in breast ultrasonography is of great importance.

      The present multicenter study aims to evaluate the sonographic detection rate of the
      intramammary Tumark® Vision clips after NST in clinical routine and the proportion of cases
      in which the clip cannot be detected, and thus the rate of mammography-guided wire markings.
    
  