
    
      This study will be carried out in Ontario, Canada (University of Waterloo) and Hong Kong (The
      Hong Kong Polytechnic University). There are two conditions: Active brain stimulation +
      perceptual training and sham/placebo brain stimulation + perceptual training. This study uses
      a between-subjects design, such that half of all participants will be placed in the active
      stimulation group and half will be placed in the sham group.

      Participants will be recruited from university-affiliated clinics and local clinical
      practices. Following full informed consent, participants will complete baseline testing and
      clinical testing to confirm that they meet eligibility criteria including: a diagnosis of
      macular degeneration without any additional eye disease, impaired vision but with enough
      visual acuity that the computer monitor can still present readable word, and no
      contraindications for brain stimulation interventions. Eligible participants will then be
      randomized to either receiving the active stimulation during perceptual training or the
      placebo stimulation during perceptual training.

      The primary outcome measure is verbal reading accuracy for sentences presented on a computer
      screen following a Rapid Serial Visual Presentation (RSVP) task in which a single word is
      presented on the screen at a time. Participants will freely observe the words and will
      indicate the words on the screen verbally. The secondary outcome measures are contrast
      sensitivity and crowded and uncrowded visual acuity as measured by Freiburg Visual Acuity &
      Contrast Test (FrACT) using the Landolt C stimulus. The "C"'s gap will be oriented randomly,
      and the participant will indicate the orientation of the stimulus. Crowded visual acuity will
      be assessed with Landolt C surrounded by a solid ring, while uncrowded visual acuity will be
      assessed with the Landolt C alone. The Test of contrast sensitivity will measure the amount
      of contrast required relative to the background to identify the orientation of the "C". The
      Hong Kong Polytechnic University has an additional set of secondary outcome measures of
      temporal and spatial visual span. Temporal visual span will be assessed using Chinese
      trigrams presented horizontally or vertically at the centre for a range of presentation
      times. Spatial visual span will be assessed using Chinese trigrams presented horizontally or
      vertically at different character positions for a fixed presentation time. Participants will
      be asked to recognize all three characters in a correct order.

      The study consists of 9 sessions plus 1 additional session particularly for Hong Kong
      Polytechnic University

      Session 0: This session only applies for The Hong Kong Polytechnic university, that
      horizontal and vertical temporal and spatial visual span will be collected.

      Session 1: The first session will include the clinical evaluation. In addition, the pre tests
      of all outcome measures will be collected (RSVP performance, crowded and uncrowded visual
      acuity, contrast sensitivity).

      Sessions 2-7: Brain stimulation sessions. Participants will undergo roughly 1 hour of
      perceptual training, performing the RSVP task. The first 25 minutes of this training will
      include either sham or active brain stimulation. A given participant will receive the same
      kind of stimulation for all 6 training sessions.

      Session 8: No brain stimulation will occur. Post test outcome measures will be collected
      (RSVP performance, crowded and uncrowded visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, horizontal and
      vertical temporal and spatial visual span).

      Session 9: 30 day follow up. 30 days after the final training session, participants will
      again perform the outcome measures without brain stimulation to determine the long term
      benefit of the perceptual training + brain stimulation.
    
  