
    
      Background and Purpose: Incidence rates of esophageal cancer remain high in Eastern Asia. In
      2012, esophageal cancer was the 9th leading cause of cancer deaths in Taiwan. Whether
      surgical resection is possible, combined modality therapy is usually required for the
      treatment of esophageal cancer. In clinical observation, patients underwent combined modality
      therapy usually demonstrated respiratory muscle dysfunction which might further impair
      physical activity and quality of life. The purpose of this study is to investigate the
      effectiveness of inspiratory muscle training (IMT) on respiratory performance in patients
      with esophageal cancer during combined modality therapy.

      Methods: This is a prospective interventional study design. A total of 45 patients with newly
      diagnosed esophageal cancer will be recruited from the Mackay Memorial Hospital. All tests
      will be performed at baseline (prior to cancer treatment), weekly during treatment, prior to
      surgery, and one month after surgery. Tests will include demographic data collection,
      respiratory muscle performance (maximal inspiratory and expiratory pressure tests combined
      with diaphragmatic surface electromyography, and pulmonary functional test), dyspnea, and the
      functional exercise test (6-min walk test). IMT will start with an intensity of 30% of
      maximal inspiratory pressure, 15 times/set, 3 sets/day, 7 days/week and training will
      continue until surgery is scheduled or 2 weeks after the completion of treatment if surgery
      is not suitable. Repeated measure ANOVA will be used for analyzing difference of parameters
      among various time points.

      Clinical relevance: The results of this study will help to better understand the clinical
      beneficial effects (e.g., better functional capacity) of an added inspiratory muscle training
      during combined modality therapy in patients with esophageal cancer.
    
  