
    
      Evidence is rapidly accumulating that chronic inflammation may contribute to carcinogenesis
      through multiple mechanisms in a number of malignancies, including gastric carcinoma (GC).
      Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), an inducible enzyme pivotal in the inflammatory response, converts
      arachidonic acid to the prostaglandins (PGs) required in initiating and maintaining reactions
      during the inflammatory process. Over-expression of COX-2 has been reported in a wide variety
      of cancers and is therefore implicated to play an important role in carcinogenesis. COX-2 can
      be blocked by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSIADs) and is currently the most
      studied therapeutic target of NSAIDs. Clinically, NSAIDs have long been used to treat various
      inflammatory or rheumatologic disorders.

      Earlier clinical studies have confirmed an association between COX-2 over-expression and GC
      occurrence. The known mechanisms by which COX-2 promotes carcinogenesis include evasion from
      apoptosis, suppression of immunity, promotion of angiogenesis, and facilitation of
      invasiveness. However, inflammation-associated factors mediating the effects of COX-2 on
      carcinogenesis remain largely unknown. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine
      associated with gastritis and GC. Our earlier works has disclosed that IL-6 can promote
      angiogenic and anti-apoptotic ability of GC. However, the relationship between COX-2 and IL-6
      in GC remains unknown.

      The present study aims to investigate the clinical association between COX-2 and IL-6 in GC,
      to use a GC cell model for experimental study on causation and mechanism, and to verify the
      in vivo effect of COX-2 on IL-6 by an animal model.

      We will collect 100 consecutive surgical samples of GC from the pathology archive of National
      Taiwan University Hospital and use immunohistochemical stain to compare protein expression in
      GC. The clinical study is to define certain subgroups of GC exhibiting an association between
      COX-2 and IL-6. In experimental study, we will clarify the causal relationship by the dose-
      and time-dependent experiments of COX-2 transient transfection in a GC cell line. COX-2 acts
      mainly via PGs, like PGE2. Therefore, we also stimulate GC cells with exogenous stimulation
      of PGE2 and EP receptor 1-4 agonists to determine the possible way(s) by which COX-2 induces
      IL-6 expression. A selective COX-2 inhibitor NS-398 and various inhibitors of PGE2 receptors
      are used as well to block COX-2 for determining the signaling pathway of COX-2 on IL-6.
      Finally, we will establish a stable COX-2 over-expressing transfectant of GC cells and its
      control vector transfectant for xenograft implantation study on mice. A COX-2 selective
      agent, celecoxib, will be administered orally to mice and tumor blocks will be harvested for
      determination of IL-6 expression.

      The present study will provide clearer understanding of the role of COX-2 on the
      pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-6 in GC in both clinical and basic aspects. It might also stand
      for a model capable of systemically investigating the role of COX-2 on various cytokines
      implicated in GC.
    
  