
    
      The investigators will study 82 American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status
      1-3 subjects scheduled for open Total Abdominal Hysterectomy who will be identified by
      anesthesia providers during their Pre-Anesthesia Evaluation Clinic visit and/or Day Surgery
      Unit pre-anesthetic assessment at Parkland Hospital. If the subjects agree to participate in
      the study, the researchers will determine eligibility. If the subject meets all
      inclusion/exclusion criteria, the subject will be asked to sign the Consent Form and HIPAA
      Authorization Form prior to any study procedures in a face-to-face meeting with the
      researchers.

      Protected patient information will include name, medical record number, date of birth, and
      contact information including telephone number. Height and weight will also be recorded. All
      patients will receive a standardized general anesthetic based on Enhanced Recovery After
      Surgery protocols. One of the investigators will randomly allocate patients using computer
      generated randomization schedule to one of the two groups.

      Study Groups:

      Group 1: Ultrasound-guided ESP block with liposomal bupivacaine

      Group 2: Ultrasound-guided QL block with liposomal bupivacaine.

      Anesthesiologists with previous experience in ultrasound-guided regional anesthesia
      procedures will perform the block based on randomization results. In both groups the patient
      will be placed in a sitting position, a SonoSite X-Porte linear ultrasound transducer will be
      used for real-time ultrasound guidance.

      Group 1: For the QL block, the transducer will be placed transversely over the lumbar spine
      at the level of the iliac crest. Then, the anesthesiologist will scan laterally to identify
      the ipsilateral L3 transverse process, psoas muscle, and quadratus lumborum muscle to
      identify the "Shamrock Sign" (7). Following aseptic preparation of the injection site and the
      ultrasound probe, a 22-gauge, 10mm block needle will be introduced parallel to the ultrasound
      guided beam (in-plane technique) until its tip reaches the plane between the quadratus
      lumborum muscle and psoas muscle. After negative aspiration, 20 ml of a mixture containing
      10ml 0.25% bupivacaine and 10ml 1.3% liposomal bupivacaine will be injected in 5 ml
      increments to separate the fascial plane between the two muscles. The investigators will
      observe local anesthetic spread under real-time imaging. The block will then be performed in
      the same manner on the opposite site.

      Group 2: For the ESP block, the transducer will be placed parasagittally at the level of the
      tip of the scapula and the anesthesiologist will scan in a craniocaudal manner to identify
      the ipsilateral T10 transverse process and overlying erector spinae muscle. Following aseptic
      preparation of the injection site and the ultrasound probe, a 22-gauge, 10mm block needle
      will be introduced parallel to the ultrasound guided beam (in-plane technique) until its tip
      reaches the plane between the erector spinae muscle and transverse process. After negative
      aspiration, 20 ml of a mixture containing 10ml 0.25% bupivacaine and 10ml 1.3% liposomal
      bupivacaine will be injected in 5 ml increments to separate the fascial plane between the
      muscle and transverse process. The investigators will observe local anesthetic spread under
      real-time imaging. The block will then be performed in the same manner on the opposite site.

      A standard postoperative analgesic regimen in both groups will include acetaminophen 1000 mg,
      orally every 8 hours and meloxicam 15mg, orally every 24 hours. For breakthrough pain (or
      rescue), immediate-release oxycodone 5-10mg, orally every 4 hours as needed for pain will be
      provided.

      The efficacy of postoperative analgesia will be documented in all patients using the visual
      analog score (0=no pain, 10=worst pain). In addition, total morphine dose over the 72-hours
      study period will be documented. Postoperative nausea will be measured using a categorical
      scoring system (none=0, mild=1, moderate=2, severe=3) and episodes of vomiting will be
      documented. Rescue antiemetics will be given to any patient who complains of nausea or
      vomiting. All variables will be assessed at 4, 6, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours postoperatively by
      an investigator blinded to group allocation.

      For each patient the following data will be recorded:

      Preoperatively:

        -  Age

        -  Gender

        -  Height

        -  Weight

        -  Baseline pain score

        -  Pre-operative block procedure, duration, amount of analgesia used

        -  Time to perform the blocks

      Intraoperatively:

      • Surgical time

      Postoperatively:

        -  Post-Anesthesia Care Unit time

        -  Post-operative pain scores at 4, 6, 12, 24, 48, 72 hours

        -  cumulative opioid consumption during the first 24-hours postoperatively

        -  Time to first ambulation

        -  Time to first oral intake

        -  Time to be ready for discharge home
    
  