
    
      Tracheal extubation is associated with acute, transient, significant and undesirable
      hemodynamic and airway responses that may persist into the recovery period. Respiratory
      complications after tracheal extubation are three times more common than complications
      occurring during tracheal intubation and induction of anesthesia (4.6% vs 12.6%) .

      The peak changes are noticed about 1 minute following extubation and may continue until 10
      minutes . The reflexes ranges from coughing, bucking, agitation to bronchospasm,
      laryngospasm, laryngeal oedema, negative pressure pulmonary oedema, tachycardia,
      hypertension, arrhythmias, left ventricular failure, myocardial ischemia, increased bleeding,
      raised intracranial and intraocular pressure and cerebrovascular hemorrhage in susceptible
      individuals. Although most patients can tolerate these transient effects without any
      significant consequences, but this could be detrimental in patients operated for cardiac,
      neuro or ophthalmic lesions especially if hypertensive or diabetic. However, Tracheal
      extubation in smokers will increase difficulty.

      Smoking is a risk factor for intraoperative and postoperative complications mainly related to
      pulmonary and cardiovascular systems. Long-term exposure to cigarettes causes an increased
      response to the mechanical stimulation caused by extubation.

      Smoking affects oxygen transport and delivery , Irritants in smoke increase mucous secretion
      which becomes hyper viscous with impaired tracheobronchial clearance . Smoking increases
      sympathetic activation due to increased release of catecholamines and the delay in nicotine
      clearance from the neuroeffector junction leading to higher blood pressure, tachycardia, and
      increase peripheral vascular resistance .

      For a smooth extubation, there should be no straining, movement, coughing, breath holding or
      laryngospasm. Extubation at light levels of anesthesia or sedation can stimulate reflex
      responses via tracheal and laryngeal irritation . A variety of drugs such as esmolol,
      alfentanil, diltiazem, verapamil, fentanyl, and lidocaine have been used to control
      hemodynamic changes and upper airway tract events, but they all have limitations and side
      effects.

      Alpha2 agonists decrease the sympathetic outflow and noradrenergic activity, thereby
      counteracting hemodynamic fluctuations occurring at the time of extubation due to increased
      sympathetic stimulation. Dexmedetomidine, an α2-adrenoreceptor agonist with a distribution
      half-life of approximately 6 minutes has been successfully used for attenuating the stress
      response to laryngoscopy .

      Single dose of dexmedetomidine before extubation proved to attenuate both airway and
      hemodynamic reflexes during emergence from anesthesia providing smooth extubation.

      The addition of a single dose of dexmedetomidine to a low-dose infusion of remifentanil
      during emergence from sevoflurane-remifentanil anesthesia was effective in attenuating cough
      without further respiratory depression after thyroid surgery.

      Administered 10 minutes before induction in chronic male smokers, dexmedetomidine was found
      to suppress increased heart rate and rate-pressure product at 1 and 3 minutes after
      intubation and, therefore, decrease the need for myocardial oxygen more than fentanyl.

      Dexmedetomidine produces sedation while sparing responsiveness to CO2, and thus, it has less
      effect on respiratory depression. Consequently, it has found utility and regulatory approval
      for use in bronchoscopic examinations and for weaning intensive care unit patients from
      mechanical ventilation. In addition, dexmedetomidine has been shown to reduce emergence
      agitation in children and adults after general anesthesia.

      Fentanyl, a synthetic opioid, has been reported to reduce the prevalence of coughing during
      and after extubation and to suppress the sneezing reflex after abdominal hysterectomy and
      periocular injections . Fentanyl has also been reported to attenuate the cardiovascular
      responses to tracheal extubation in elective gynecologic surgery.

      The subjects were Adult chronic male smokers, thus representing the population in which
      secondary response to laryngoscopy and intubation is most common.

      The study participants will be divided by mean of randomized complete block design into 3
      comparable groups.

      Group (A) : (n= 22) will receive Dexmedetomidine 1ug/kg body weight IV diluted to 100ml
      normal saline (NS) over 15 minutes.

      Group (B) : (n=22) will receive Fentanyl 1 ug/kg body weight IV diluted to 100 ml normal
      saline (NS) over 15 minutes.

      Group (C): (n=22) will receive both Dexmedetomidine 1ug/kg body weight mixed with fentanyl
      1ug/kg in 100 ml normal saline (NS) over 15 minutes Pre-anesthetic checkup was conducted and
      a detailed history and complete physical examination recorded. Routine investigations like
      complete blood picture, blood grouping/typing, blood urea and serum creatinine were done.
      Patients fulfilling inclusion criteria will be informed about the procedure and its possible
      complications. Finally, written consent will be taken.

      Routine anesthetic technique was used using propofol 2mg/kg, fentanyl 1.5 ug/kg, atracurium
      0.5 mg /kg, oxygen and sevoflurane. Standard monitoring with electrocardiography (EKG), pulse
      oximetry (SpO2), noninvasive BP and End tidal Co2 was done.

      About 15 minutes before the estimated time of end of surgery (or at the beginning of closure
      of skin incision,), inhalation agent (sevoflurane) was cut off and patients in each group
      received the specified solution intravenously over 15 minutes.

      Patients in group A received dexmedetomidine 1 mcg/kg intravenous (IV) in 100 ml normal
      saline (NS) over 15 minutes ,patients in group B, received Fentanyl 1 mcg/kg (IV) in100 ml NS
      over 15 minutes, while patients in group C received both Dexmedetomidine 1ug/kg mixed with
      fentanyl 1ug/kg in 100 ml normal saline (NS) over 15 minutes.

      When patients' spontaneous respirations were considered sufficient and patients were able to
      obey simple commands residual neuromuscular block was antagonized with neostigmine 0.05 mg/kg
      and atropine 0.02 mg/kg. Oropharyngeal secretions were aspirated before extubation. The
      endotracheal tube was removed after spontaneous ventilation had returned.

      The anesthesiologist performing the extubation was blinded to the study drugs. HR, systolic
      BP and diastolic BP and oxygen saturation were recorded at the start of bolus drug injection
      and thereafter at 1, 3, 5, 10 and 15 minutes., Also at the time of extubation and thereafter
      at 1, 3 and 5 minutes after extubation followed by every 5 minutes for 30 minutes. Duration
      of anesthesia and surgery are noted.

      Data will be analyzed using IBM SPSS advanced statistics (Statistical Package for Social
      Sciences), version 22 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL). Numerical data will be described as median
      and interquartile range or range or mean and standard deviation as appropriate, while
      qualitative data were described as number and percentage. Chi-square (Fisher's exact) test
      was used to examine the relation between qualitative variables as appropriate. Testing for
      normality was done using Kolmogrov-Smirnov test and Shapiro-Wilk test
    
  