
    
      Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a safe and efficacious treatment
      option for treatment-resistant depression. Advances in rTMS protocols with intermittent
      theta-burst stimulation (iTBS) have significantly decreased the duration for one single
      session and thereby enabled accelerated treatment plans with multiple sessions per day,
      potentially reducing the total treatment duration. Major depressive disorder (MDD) is
      characterized by impairments in various domains including sleep, impulse control, and
      interoception. Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is characterized by fear of abandonment,
      mood swings, and an unstable perception of self and often occurs with comorbid MDD. This
      comorbidity frequently impedes treatment of the BPD.

      In this randomized, placebo-controlled study, 60 patients with treatment-resistant MDD (30
      verum group, 30 sham group) and 60 patients with treatment-resistant MDD and comorbid BPD (30
      verum group, 30 sham group) will receive two weeks of connectivity-informed iTBS of the left
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC; 3 sessions per day, 5 days per week). Before and after
      the treatment phase, (functional) magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) will be performed. The
      effects of iTBS will be tested in four domains: (1) symptom severity (MDD and BPD symptoms),
      (2) sleep quality (sleep questionnaires and various sleep parameters monitored via an
      electroencephalography (EEG) headband), (3) neurocognitive effects (vigilance and response
      inhibition measured with behavioral and fMRI tasks), and (4) interoception (interoceptive
      attention measured with behavioral and fMRI tasks). Furthermore, before the start of the
      two-weeks treatment, a single iTBS session ("forecaster session") will be conducted to
      explore the validity of early symptom/mood responses and hormonal changes for the prediction
      of the the treatment outcome. Treatment effects will be analyzed within and across patient
      groups (MDD and MDD + BPD). In addition, domain-specific treatment effects will be analyzed
      as a function of distinct iTBS targets within the DLPFC.To evaluate pathological biases, the
      investigators will compare the patients' data with a control group of 30 healthy participants
      who will also be tested twice (without iTBS).
    
  