
    
      Elevated blood pressure (i.e., hypertension) is a major risk factor for cardiovascular
      morbidity and all-cause mortality. Medical treatment can significantly improve the prognosis
      of those with hypertension. It has also been suggested that nighttime medication is more
      effective in improving mortality and morbidity compared to daytime medication. This
      hypothesis relates to the fact that lack of a reduction in BP during the night (termed
      "non-dipping") is associated with a worse prognosis, and therefore nighttime medication can
      potentially improve the desired diurnal fluctuations in BP and improve health outcomes in
      those with hypertension to a greater extent than daytime medication. However, whether the
      timing of drug administration affects the desired diurnal fluctuations in BP remains unknown.

      To assess fluctuations in BP throughout the day, and specifically during the night, an
      ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM) for 24 hours is required. Research suggests that this method
      allows classification of hypertension and thus more precise prediction of the patient's
      cardiovascular risk compared to office-based BP monitoring.

      To date, clinician's ability to continuously monitor BP throughout the day has been limited,
      as the mostly commonly used method of Holter monitoring only allows for BP measurement every
      30 min and imposes a significant burden on the patient. The latter limitation affects
      patients' compliance, and thus clinicians' ability to accurately assess daily BP fluctuations
      (or lack thereof) that present a major health risk factor.

      Thus, the main aim of this study is to use a new wearable, cuff-less technology that that
      allows continuous ambulatory monitoring of BP to assess whether nighttime medication for
      hypertension improved diurnal fluctuations in BP to a better extent compared to daytime
      medication.

      Methods:

      This is interventional, cross-over and randomized study will be performed in a medical
      hospital. One hundred and fifty hypertensive patients, ages 30-80, will be recruited by a
      practicing medical physician and perform baseline tests that include blood work and BP
      measurement, as well as 24 monitoring of physiological signs (e.g., heart rate, BP, cardiac
      output and index and vascular resistance) using a photoplethysmogram (PPG)-based wireless,
      wearable device to obtain baseline measures. Participants will then begin medical treatment,
      either in the morning or evening, for four weeks. Physiological signs will again be
      continuously monitored using the wireless device during the last 48 hours of this
      time-period. After four weeks, participants will switch the timing of their medication for
      four more week, including 48 hours of monitoring.

      Blood pressure measurement: BP will be continuously collected using a wearable, non-invasive,
      wireless chest-monitor (Biobeat Technologies Ltd., Petah Tikva, Israel), that is based on PPG
      technology. Systolic and diastolic BPs will be monitored and recorded continuously for the
      last 48 hours of each four-week intervention and compared between morning and evening
      medication, for each participant (i.e., each participant will serve as their own control).

      Blood tests: Blood work will be performed after a 12-hour fast at baseline and at the end of
      each intervention. Measured parameters such as glucose, insulin, low and high density
      lipoprotein cholesterol, total cholesterol ,triglycerides sodium and potassium will enable
      assessment of cardio-metabolic risk.

      Questionnaires: life quality and sleep quality questionnaires will be administered at
      baseline and at the end of each intervention
    
  