
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of oxaliplatin when administered with gefitinib and
           radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced or metastatic adenocarcinoma or squamous
           cell carcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction. (Phase I)

        -  Determine the response rate in patients treated with this regimen. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Determine time to tumor progression and median survival in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine quality of life in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the safety of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, open-label, dose-escalation study of oxaliplatin followed by a
      phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1, 15, and 29. Beginning
           on day 1, patients undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 5.5 weeks.
           Patients also receive oral gefitinib once daily on days 1-365. Treatment continues in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity Approximately 3-6 weeks
           after the completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients are evaluated. Some patients undergo
           surgical resection* and possibly receive a second course of oxaliplatin (IV over 2 hours
           on days 1, 15, and 29) 4-8 weeks after surgery. If surgery is not indicated, some
           patients may receive an additional course of oxaliplatin.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of oxaliplatin until the maximum tolerated
      dose is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive oxaliplatin, gefitinib, and radiotherapy as in phase I at the
           MTD. Some patients then either undergo surgical resection* and/or begin a second course
           of oxaliplatin as in phase I.

      NOTE: *Oral gefitinib is discontinued ≥ 7 days before surgery and is restarted when the
      patient has recovered.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, 5-6 weeks, and then every 2-3 months for 1 year.

      Patients are followed every 2-3 months for 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 15-45 patients (3-12 for phase I and 12-33 for phase II)
      will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  