
    
      Coronary artery disease (CHD) remains to be a leading cause of death in most countries (1)
      (2). It is well known that reducing cholesterol level by statin therapy is associated with
      significant reduction in plaque burden. REVERSAL (3) and ASTEROID (4) trials showed that in
      patients with coronary artery disease lipid-lowering with atorvastatin or rosuvastatin
      respectively reduced progression of coronary atherosclerosis and even cause repression of
      some lesions. CHD clinical events are related to plaque instability due to lipid content
      within the atherosclerotic plaque. High dose atorvastatin has shown to reduce the plaque
      lipid contents on serial IVUS analysis at 12 months. Therefore reduction in lipid content and
      thereby the plaque burden by lipid lowering therapy may stabilize the plaque and reduce
      cardiovascular events. High sensitivity C-reactive Protein (HsCRP) is an inflammatory
      biomarker that independently predicts future vascular events. In JUPITER (5) trial
      rosuvastatin (Crestor) significantly reduced the incidence of major cardiovascular events in
      apparently healthy people with elevated HsCRP. IVUS was utilized to demonstrate change in
      coronary artery vessel wall morphology over a relatively short period of time, but provided
      no data on the lipid content in the vessel wall. The application of NIR spectroscopy to
      identify lipid deposition within coronary arteries has been validated in ex vivo studies.
      Infrared spectra are collected as follows: Light of discrete wavelengths from a laser is
      directed onto the tissue sample via glass fibers. Light scattered from the samples is
      collected in fibers and launched into a spectrometer. The plot of signal intensity as a
      function of wavelength was used to develop chemometric models to discriminate lipid-cores
      from non-atherosclerotic tissue, and from atherosclerotic tissue that is predominantly
      fibrotic and from blood elements.
    
  