
    
      BACKGROUND

      Anastomotic leakage is a dreaded major complication after colorectal surgery. The overall
      incidence of anastomotic dehiscence and subsequent leaks is 2 to 7 percent when performed by
      experienced surgeons. The lowest leak rates are found with ileocolic anastomoses (1 to 3
      percent) and the highest occur with coloanal anastomosis (10 to 20 percent). Leaks usually
      become apparent between five and seven days postoperatively. Almost half of all leaks occur
      after the patient has been discharged, and up to 12 percent occur after postoperative day 30.
      Late leaks often present insidiously with low-grade fever, prolonged ileus, and nonspecific
      symptoms attributable to other postoperative infectious complications. Small, contained leaks
      present later in the clinical course and may be difficult to distinguish from postoperative
      abscesses by radiologic imaging, making the diagnosis uncertain and underreported.

      There is no uniform definition of an anastomotic dehiscence and leak. In a review of 97
      studies, as an example, 56 different definitions of an anastomotic leak were used. The
      majority of reports define an anastomotic leak using clinical signs, radiographic findings,
      and intraoperative findings. The clinical signs include: Pain, Fever, Tachycardia,
      Peritonitis, Feculent drainage, Purulent drainage. The radiographic signs include: Fluid
      collections, Gas containing collections. The intraoperative findings include: Gross enteric
      spillage, Anastomotic disruption.

      Risk factors for a dehiscence and leak are classified according to the site of the
      anastomosis (extraperitoneal or intraperitoneal). A prospective review of 1598 patients
      undergoing 1639 anastomotic procedures for benign or malignant colorectal disease found a
      significantly increased risk of anastomotic leak with extraperitoneal compared with
      intraperitoneal anastomoses (6.6 versus 1.5 percent; 2.4 percent overall).

      Major risk factors for an extraperitoneal anastomotic leak include: The distance of the
      anastomosis from the anal verge (Patients with a low anterior resection and an anastomosis
      within 5 cm from the anal verge are the highest risk group for an anastomotic leak),
      Anastomotic ischemia, Male gender, Obesity.

      Major risk factors for an intraperitoneal anastomotic leak include: American Society of
      Anesthesiologists (ASA) score Grade III to V, Emergent surgery, Prolonged operative time,
      Hand-sewn ileocolic anastomosis.

      Controversial, inconclusive, or pertinent negative associations between the following
      variables and an anastomotic leak have been reported: Neoadjuvant radiation therapy, Drains,
      Protective stoma, Hand-sewn colorectal anastomosis, Laparoscopic procedure, Mechanical bowel
      preparation, Nutritional status, Perioperative corticosteroids.

      Early diagnosis is crucial to treat patients limiting the related mortality. For this reason
      several clinical items were proposed in literature to detect anastomotic leakage as soon as
      possible: fever, pain, tachycardia, peritoneal, purulent or faecal drain, and dynamic ileus.
      Moreover, also laboratory markers were proposed, such as leukocytosis, serum procalcitonin
      (PCT) and C-Reactive Protein (CRP). Finally, in 2009 den Dulk et al. proposed a leakage score
      (DUtch LeaKage, DULK), that consider several items (fever, heart rate, respiratory rate,
      urinary production, mental status, clinical conditions, signs of ileus, gastric retention,
      fascial dehiscence, abdominal pain, wound pain, leukocytosis, CRP, increase of urea or
      creatinine and nutrition status), to give a score, based on which is chosen a therapeutic
      strategy.

      Therefore, we planned this study to prospectively evaluate anastomotic leakage rate after
      colorectal resections, trying to give a definite answer to the need for clear risk factors,
      and testing the diagnostic yeald of DULK score and laboratory markers.

      METHODS Prospective enrollment from September 2017 to September 2018 in 19 Italian surgical
      centers. All patients undergoing elective colorectal surgery with anastomosis will be
      included in a prospective database after having provided a written informed consent. A total
      of 1,131 patients is expected based on a mean of 55 cases/year per center.

      Outcome measures

        1. Preoperative risk factors of anastomotic leakage (age, gender, obesity, state of
           nutrition, diabetes, cardiovascular, renal failure, inflammatory bowel disease, ASA
           class I-II vs III)

        2. Operative parameters (approach, procedure, anastomotic technique, time of operation,
           pTNM stage)

        3. Leukocyte count, serum CRP, serum procalcitonin and DULK score assessment in 2nd and 3rd
           postoperative day. Minor and major complications according to Clavien-Dindo
           classification

        4. Anastomotic leakage rate

        5. Morbidity-Mortality rates

        6. Length of postoperative hospital stay

      Recorded data and follow-up Potential patient-specific and intraoperative risk factors will
      be recorded: gender, body mass index, nutritional status according to the Mini Nutritional
      Assessment short-form, surgical indication (cancer, polyps, chronic inflammatory bowel
      disease, diverticular disease), preoperative albuminemia, use of steroids, renal failure and
      dialysis, preoperative leukocyte count, CRP, PCT cardiovascular or respiratory disease,
      American Society of Anesthesia score, bowel preparation (decision made by operating surgeon),
      laparoscopy or laparotomy, level of anastomosis and technique (mechanical or hand-sewn,
      intra- or extra-corporeal), operative time, presence of drainage, surgeon and perioperative
      blood transfusion(s). During the postoperative period, patients will be examined by the
      attending surgeon daily. Fever (central temperature > 38 °C), pulse, abdominal signs, bowel
      movements, volume and aspect of drainage (if present) will be recorded daily. Leucocyte
      count, CRP, PCT and Dulk score will be measured in the evening before the operation (in
      addition to albuminemia) and on postoperative days 2, 3, and 6 (optional). The attending
      surgeon will make any decision for complementary exams and imaging according to his own
      criteria. The rate of any complication will be calculated and graded according to
      Clavien-Dindo including all leaks (independently of clinical significance), wound infection,
      pneumonia, central line infection, urinary tract infection. Urinary tract infection will be
      diagnosed on the basis of positive urine culture with bacterial count. Central line infection
      will be diagnosed on the basis of positive blood culture. Superficial and deep incisional
      infections will be diagnosed according to the definitions of the Centers for Disease Control
      and Prevention and a culture will be performed. Pneumonia will be diagnosed on the basis of
      clinical symptoms, and physical and radiological examinations. The surgeons will be blinded
      to the results of the CRP and PCT assays. Patients will be followed-up in the outpatient
      clinic up to 6 weeks after discharge from the hospital.

      Main outcome is anastomotic dehiscence (intended as any deviation from the planned
      postoperative course related to the anastomosis, or presence of pus or enteric contents
      within the drains, presence of abdominal or pelvic collection in the area of the anastomosis
      on postoperative CT scan, performed at the discretion of the attending surgeon, leakage of
      contrast through the anastomosis during enema or evident anastomotic dehiscence at
      reoperation for postoperative peritonitis). Thus, all detected leaks will be considered
      independently of clinical significance. No imaging will be performed routinely in order to
      search for leakage.

      Secondary outcomes are morbidity and mortality rates, and postoperative length of stay. All
      data will be prospectively recorded into CRF and transmitted to the coordinating center on a
      monthly basis. Thereafter, all data will be incorporated into a spreadsheet (MS Excel),
      checking for any discrepancy, that will be addressed and solved through strict cooperation
      between chief investigator, data manager and participating center.

      Statistical Analysis Quantitative values will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation,
      median and range; categorical data with percentage frequencies. Mean values of duration of
      stay will be compared according to the presence or absence of fistulas using Student's
      two-sided t test (allowing for heterogeneity of variances) or with a non-parametric
      Mann-Whitney test. Mean values of DULK score, CRP and PCT levels will also be compared using
      Student's two-sided t test (allowing for heterogeneity of variances) or with a non-parametric
      Mann-Whitney test. Both univariate analysis and multivariate analysis will be performed to
      assess risk factors for leakage and overall complications. The odds ratio (OR) will be
      presented followed by its 95% confidence interval (95% CI). Areas under the
      receiver-operating characteristics (ROC) curve will be calculated. For all statistical tests
      the significant level is fixed at p < .05. Multivariate analysis will be performed using
      logistic models. Statistical analyses will be carried out using STATA software (Stata Corp.
      College Station, Texas, USA).

      Sample size Considering that the ASA grade (I and II vs. III) is mostly significant among
      risk factors for anastomotic dehiscence, an estimation of the OR for anastomotic dehiscence
      and ASA grade is equal to 5.6; assuming a confidence interval for the estimation of the OR at
      95% and a maximum error equal to 0.04, the required sample size is n=1,062 (about 885 and 177
      cases expected in ASA I-II and ASA III, respectively).
    
  