
    
      This study is a prospective observational study involving patients selected for elective
      bariatric surgery. Thirty-five women older than age 40 and younger than age 74 undergoing
      primary bariatric surgery and having a BMI of ≥35 will be enrolled in this study. Patients
      with previous diagnosis of breast cancer, previous diagnosis of ductal carcinoma in situ
      (DCIS), previous breast augmentation and previous mastectomy will be excluded from the study.
      Patients selected and consented for elective bariatric surgery will be recruited in the
      Bariatric and Metabolic Institute at CCF, Weston FL and will undergo standard of care and
      additional measurements before and after surgery as explained below:

        -  A first mammogram study will be performed between two to four weeks before bariatric
           surgery, if the patient had a normal digital mammogram performed in the 12 months prior
           to bariatric surgery, it would be accepted as the first mammogram study. This mammogram
           is a part of the standard of care screening for this population group. Standard
           measurements will be assessed including the BI-RADS® breast density score (radiologic
           assessment of the density of breast tissue by a radiologist who interprets mammograms)
           and The LIBRA (Laboratory for Individualized Breast Radiodensity Assessment) software.

        -  A subsequent mammogram study (also part of the standard of care screening for this
           population group) will be performed one year after the date of the bariatric procedure,
           and standard measurements will be re-assessed, including re-stratification of BI-RADS
           and LIBRA.

        -  The mammogram results will be obtained through medical records. If a patient had done a
           mammogram at a non Cleveland Clinic facility, the investigator will ask them to sign an
           authorization form to allow Cleveland Clinic Florida to request for their mammography
           study from the previous year to the outside facility where it was done.

        -  Inflammatory markers including CRP, IGF1, IL6, TNF, will also be measured between two to
           four weeks before bariatric surgery as a part of the pre-surgical blood work up and, one
           year after the date of the bariatric procedure.

      The inflammatory markers will be collected and processed as follows:

        -  CRP will be collected in a test tube containing lithium heparin (Green container). It
           will be delivered between two hours of collection to our institutional laboratory for
           processing.

        -  IGF1 will be collected in a test tube containing SST (Gold container). It will be
           delivered refrigerated between two hours of collection to our institutional laboratory
           for processing.

        -  IL6 will be collected in a test tube containing SST (Gold container). It will be
           delivered on ice ASAP upon collection to our institutional laboratory for processing.

        -  TNF will be collected in a test tube containing SST (Gold container). It will be
           delivered between two hours of collection to our institutional laboratory for
           processing.

             -  Biometric measurements will be assessed before surgery and at the time of the
                subsequent mammogram (one year after surgery). It will include weight, height, BMI
                and Waist circumference.

             -  Basic demographics and comorbidities (Diabetes Mellitus, Hypertension, pulmonary
                hypertension, sleep apnea, dyslipidemia, cardiovascular disease, chronic kidney
                disease, smoking status, alcohol use and hormonal replacement history) will also be
                analyzed.
    
  