
    
      Low grade gliomas (LGG) are the most frequent brain tumor type in children. They are often
      chemosensitive. However, more than 50% of these tumors will progress within the first 5 years
      after the start of the treatment and need a second-line therapy. In most cases, patients are
      still young and the risk of side effects from radiation therapy will call for another medical
      treatment. If a tumor does not respond to first-line chemotherapy, the prognosis worsens with
      25% of deaths within the first 5 years for optic gliomas. Vinblastine (Velbe®) is an
      effective drug for low grade gliomas with both antiproliferative and antiangiogenic effects.
      An update of the Canadian phase II of weekly vinblastine (6 mg/m²/week) reported one complete
      response (CR), three partial responses (PR) and 9 minor responses (MR) in the first 31
      patients. The 1-year progressionfree survival (PFS) rate was 57%. Tolerance of the treatment
      is fair allowing prolonged maintenance therapy as in Langerhans cell histiocytosis and
      anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL). These data encourage proceeding with further testing
      this approach in pediatric low-grade glioma.

      Nilotinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) known to affect c-Kit, DDR1 and the PDGF
      receptors alpha and beta. PDGF is a growth factor for normal and tumoral astrocytes and
      oligodendrocytes. In addition, PDGF receptors are expressed on pediatric low-grade glioma
      vessels. Tumor response to this class of TKI has been reported occasionally . When used as
      monotherapy, this class of TKI was well tolerated in children, including those with brain
      tumors. Taking advantage of their different antiangiogenic mechanisms, their limited and
      non-overlapping toxicities, vinblastine and nilotinib could play an interesting role in the
      treatment of pediatric low-grade glioma. Nilotinib via PDGFRA and c-kit interactions may also
      interfere with the stroma of the tumor which is a key factor for tumor growth as shown in the
      NF1 mouse model. Both drugs have also immunostimulating effects especially in dendritic
      cells, that will be explored during treatment in selected patients. Previous to the phase II
      assessing the efficacy of the combination compared to vinblastine as single agent, nilotinib
      and vinblastine have to be administered by escalating dosages in order to identify the
      recommended doses of each agent when given in combination. This phase I part of the trial is
      justified by a possible interaction of the two drugs that are substrates of cytochrome P450
      CYP3A4. Initial/starting dose of nilotinib (115 mg/m² BID) will be 50% of the recommended
      dose when used as monotherapy in adults (800 mg/day: 400 mg BID =230 mg/m2 BID).
      Initial/starting dose of vinblastine will be 50% of the recommended dose when used as
      monotherapy or in association with other chemotherapeutic drugs (i.e. 3 mg/m2 once a week).
      This justifies obtaining pharmacokinetic data on both drugs when used in combination. A phase
      I trial evaluating nilotinib as single agent in pediatrics in hematological malignancies is
      ongoing, run by the ITCC and the COG group, exploring the dose-levels 230 mg/m² to 460 mg/m²
      BID. The results of this phase I trial, expected by 2012, and the data of the current trial
      will be considered to decide whether a higher dose-level for nilotinib can be opened (350
      mg/m² BID).
    
  