
    
      Primary Objectives:

        -  To describe the toxicities and estimate the frequency of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs)
           of digoxin in combination with trametinib in advanced melanoma patients and estimate the
           frequency of DLTs.

        -  To measure the response rate, response duration and progression free survival (PFS) of
           digoxin plus trametinib in advanced melanoma.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To correlate NSG xenograft sensivity to the drug combination with clinical response in
           the same patient.

        -  To compare response rates in MAPK inhibitor naive versus refractory patients and NRAS
           mutant versus wild-type patients and for sodium pump 3 subunit high tumor expression
           versus low tumor expression patients.

      Rationale: Having established cell culture and xenograft systems for studying patient
      melanoma samples, the researchers were able to grow tumors in vitro and in vivo from single
      cells and found a correlation of tumor metastatic behavior in immunocompromised mice and in
      patients. Recently they have extended the experiments to examine melanoma sensitivity to
      novel compounds. In screens of FDA approved drugs, they found several cardenolides including
      digoxin that reproducibly exhibited greater toxicity to primary human melanomas as compared
      to a range of normal human cells. They then examined the anti-tumor efficacy against primary
      human melanomas growing in vivo as xenografts. While trametinib, vemurafenib, and digoxin and
      digitoxin individually slowed the growth of human melanomas xenografts, they did not cause
      tumor regression. However, the combination of digoxin or digitoxin and trametinib caused
      substantial tumor regression using melanomas obtained from multiple patients, some with BRAF
      mutations and some without. The effects were dramatically better than trametinib, digoxin,
      digitoxin or vemurafenib alone. No difference in efficacy for the combination was seen in
      BRAF mutant and BRAF wild-type samples.
    
  