
    
      Methods: An authorization for translating the survey into Spanish was obtained from the
      survey authors. The translation and cross-cultural adaptations were carried out based on
      guidelines and international criteria proposed by Sperber. The NEQOL was translated
      independently from English into Spanish by two professional translators. Each one provided a
      written report, which was combined by the authors in a new version that contained the most
      reliable translation for each question. The new version was back translated to English by two
      different professional translators, who were blinded to the original version of the NEQOL. A
      new English version was developed by combining the written reports. The aim of the back
      translation was to compare each item of the new English version with the original NEQOL. Each
      item of the new English version was compared with the original questionnaire by 30 native
      English speakers. The success of the translation was evaluated using two scales of
      comparison: comparability of language and similarity of interpretability. Each one used
      Likert scales ranging from 1 (extremely comparable/ extremely similar) to 7 (not at all
      comparable/ not at all similar). A mean score for each question was obtained. Questions with
      mean scores of three or less were included in the Spanish version. The Spanish version of the
      NEQOL was tested on 10 subjects diagnosed with GERD, each subject provided feedback on the
      survey content, which was used to make final corrections. The questionnaire contains fourteen
      questions; every statement refers to the impact of the esophageal condition in the quality of
      life. There are five options ranking from not at all true to very true, with every option
      meaning a numerical value, a higher grade in the questionnaire will express a better quality
      of life and a low impact in the health-related quality of life.

      Patients above 18 years old with chronic esophageal disorders, that require a functional
      esophageal test such as ph-impedanciometry and/or high-resolution manometry, will be
      included. Written informed consent will be obtained. All participants will complete the
      questionnaire before performing the functional esophageal tests and a gastroenterologist
      specialized on functional esophageal pathology will perform the esophageal tests and analyze
      the results. Finally, the data from the questionnaire will be compared with the esophageal
      tests results in order to stablish if there is a correlation between the impact in the
      quality of life measured by the questionnaire and the tests results.

      Statistical analysis: Base line characteristics will be analyzed using Chi-square o Fisher
      Test for categorical variable, and the Mann-Whitney Test for continuing variables. Continuous
      variables will be expressed as mean +/- standard deviation. The sensitivity, specificity,
      predictive values and accuracy will be calculated with the 95% Confidence Interval (95% CI).
      A P value of less than 0.05 was considered to be statistically significant. All the
      statistical analysis was performed using SPSS software suite v.22.
    
  