
    
      Our study was a randomised clinical trial with a 6-month follow-up in Mexican adult men and
      women (20-65 years) with Metabolic Syndrome (MS). The individuals were invited to participate
      from posters and social network advertising. The study was conducted in two Mexican clinics
      (Mexico City and Cuernavaca) for obesity and metabolic disorders, used by the Mexican
      National Institute of Public Health (INSP) as recruitment centers. The sample size was
      calculated using a formula that compares two means, an alpha of 0.05 and a power of 95%.
      Based on these calculations, we established a baseline sample of 118 adults.

      For the diagnosis of MS, we used the classification from the International Diabetes
      Federation (IDF), and therefore participants were required to have three or more of the
      following criteria: a) waist circumference ≥90 cm in men and ≥80 cm in women, b)
      triglycerides ≥150 mg/dL, c) high density lipoprotein (HDL-cholesterol) <40 mg/dL in men and
      <50 mg/dL in women, d) blood pressure ≥130/85 mmHg; and e) fasting glucose ≥100 mg/dL.
      Exclusion criteria included bariatric surgery for weight loss, smoking, use of alcohol or
      drugs, psychiatric disorders, anti-obesity medication, soy protein intolerance, women not
      using birth control methods, and not pregnant or lactating, and body weight gain or loss
      greater than two percent three months prior to the start of the study. To achieve the
      baseline sample of 118 adults, 150 patients were screened; however, 32 were excluded because
      they did not meet the criteria.

      During screening, individuals interested in participating received an explanation of the
      study design and were given sufficient time to consider inclusion in the clinical trial and
      complete the form for informed consent. On the same day as consent, doctors wrote down
      medical history; nutritionists conducted anthropometry (weight, height, and waist
      circumference); and nurses measured blood pressure and withdrew venous blood for
      determination of glucose, triglycerides, and HDL-cholesterol.

      After the medical evaluation and nutritional status, we provided meal replacements enriched
      with soy protein that were consumed during the following two days, testing soy protein
      tolerance. Each clinic supervisor enrolled participants, and the study coordinator conducted
      the randomization sequencing and assigned participants to interventions.

      After being randomly assigned to one of two groups, the control group received a diet with a
      lower protein content (0.8gr/kg body weight), and the intervention group received a diet with
      higher protein content (1.34gr/kg body weight). Both diets had equal amount of calories, were
      equivalent in the type of carbohydrate, and had a caloric restriction of 500 calories less
      than the resting metabolic rate (RMR) based on the Harris-Benedict´s formula. The overall
      study design is shown in Figure 1.

      For the intervention group, meal replacements (drinks and bars) were made with soy protein,
      and indivi-dualized menus, controlling the content of calories, protein, carbohydrates, and
      fat, had more control over the total amount of protein consumed daily.

      After randomization (week 0), participants received specific diet instructions. Each month,
      diets contained 15 different options and were sufficient to meet the needs of micronutrients
      recommended by the US Institute of Medicine (recommended dietary intake) according to age and
      sex.

      In the intervention group, participants consumed two, protein-enriched drinks, contributing
      to the daily protein intake (1.34g protein/kg body weight) along with conventional foods and
      two low-fat bars. Used as a substitute for food, the protein-enriched drinks were prepared
      with 250ml of either milk with 1.5% fat or just water. The nutritional contents of the
      protein-enriched drink with milk contained 145 calories, 9g protein, 3g fat, and 20.5g
      carbohydrates. For water, the nutritional contents of the protein-enriched drink contained 22
      calories, 5g protein, 0.2g fat, and 0g carbohydrates. In the control group, participants ate
      three meals and two snacks to have a daily intake of 0.8g protein/kg body weight. For both
      groups, the calorie density of the diet was adjusted for the baseline metabolic rate of each
      participant with a restriction of 500kcal/day.

      Measurements Previously trained on standards for procedure, nutritionists completed monthly
      documentation of food frequency questionnaires for participants´ total caloric intake and
      grams of protein consumed per day. To minimize errors, the nutritionists and participants
      scrutinized and discussed the food diaries. The nutritionists also conducted anthropometry
      (weight and waist circumference) at baseline and at three and six months, using
      internationally recognized techniques.[14] The weight and body composition was measured by an
      Analyzer Avis 333, and the waist circumference was measured with a tape measure, using the
      line between the lower costal border and the iliac crest as reference points. At baseline,
      height was measured with a wall stadiometer (SECA Model 222) with an accuracy of 0.1cm. Body
      mass index (BMI) was calculated as weight/height 2.

      Nurses measured blood pressure after 10 minutes of rest with a digital sphygmomanometer
      (OMRON HEM-907), following the recommendations of the American Heart Association. Blood
      samples were drawn after a 9- to 12-hour fasting and processed without delay. Laboratory
      testing included results for metabolic syndrome and HDL-cholesterol, insulin, hemoglobin A1c
      (HbA1c), C-reactive protein (CRP), direct bilirubin and indirect bilirubin. All measurements
      were performed at the Mexican National Institute of Public Health (INSP). A previously
      validated questionnaire was used to evaluate adherence to study recommendations for diet and
      exercise (e.g., walking, biking or jogging at least 30 minutes/day, 5 days per week).

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS The results were shown for the baseline as mean ± standard deviation;
      and for the comparison between baseline to 6 months as absolute changes or percentage of
      weight loss. We used the analysis of variance (ANOVA) for means and X2 test for percentages
      to compare the two groups overtime. Two strategies were used to analyze the data: 1) all
      participants who completed the study after six months, and 2) those participants who dropped
      out of the study between baseline and six months, using the last recorded measure-ment.

      The analysis of percentage of weight loss between baseline and 6 months we adjusted for
      adherence to study recommendations. For this analysis, only the participants who adhered to a
      minimum of 75% of the study design recommendations were considered. Statistical calculations
      were performed using the STATA program version 13.

      Ethical and biosecurity This study was approved by the ethics, research, and biosafety
      committees from the INSP. Written informed consent was obtained from all participants. All
      researchers participated in an ethics certification course, "Human Participants Protection
      Education for Research Teams", given by the US National Institutes of Health (NIH).
    
  