
    
      Research question: What is the minimum effective dose required for attainment of therapeutic
      plasma levels of 5-15mg/L in postpartum women?

      Study design: Pharmacokinetic study using a dose-escalation design.

      Trial treatment and dosage regimen: Following recruitment and prior to the caesarean
      delivery, the anaesthesiologist will insert a large-bore cannula into the participant's
      antecubital vein and draw blood for a complete blood count (CBC), which will be used in
      tandem with 24-hour post-delivery CBC to estimate blood loss, and serum creatinine to rule
      out elevated serum creatinine levels, a study exclusion criterion. Following birth of the
      infant, and upon clamping the umbilical cord, the anaesthesiologist will administer a single
      dose of IV TxA in 100ml of 0.9% sodium chloride at 50mg/min according to the dose-escalation
      schedule described below. All participants will receive oxytocin 20 international units (IU)
      IV in 1 litre of 0.9% sodium chloride at the rate of 125 ml/hour with placental delivery, as
      part of active management of the third stage of labour.

      Endpoints Primary endpoints - Plasma levels of TxA: These will be obtained via serial blood
      draws at baseline (before TxA administration), and at 15, 30, 60 minutes and 120 minutes
      after administration of TxA, (as its maximum effect is within the 60 minutes and therapeutic
      plasma concentrations are maintained for 7-8 hours after administration). Blood will be drawn
      at baseline (before administration of TxA) in order to confirm zero plasma levels of TxA, as
      part of quality assurance. Blood will be collected in a standard citrate tube (Vacutainer,
      NJ, USA), centrifuged soon after collection and the plasma (supernatant) stored at -80°C
      before analysis. TxA will be extracted from plasma using solid phase microextraction, and
      concentrations measured using tandem liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry.

      Secondary endpoints: (a) Total blood loss in 24 hours following childbirth will be determined
      by the reference standard methods - direct measurement (blood collected in suction apparatus)
      and gravimetric (weighing of linen) and by using formulae to determine blood loss using pre-
      and post-delivery haemoglobin and haematocrit as we have previously described (b) Early
      adverse events will be recorded prior to discharge and delayed events will be obtained at the
      six-week postpartum visit or via phone call.

      Expected duration of subject participation, duration of all trial periods and follow up: The
      intervention will only be administered once, and blood drawn at baseline and 15, 30, 60 and
      120 minutes after administration, as described above. Again, as described above, data on
      early adverse events will be collected prior to discharge from hospital and those on delayed
      adverse events will be obtained at the time of the routine 6-week postpartum visit in person
      or via a telephone interview. There will be no additional follow up.

      Stopping rules: As the drug will be administered as a slow infusion in the operating room, it
      will be stopped immediately if any adverse events are noted. Thereafter, no further drug will
      be administered, and therefore stopping rules do not apply. Participants will be allowed to
      withdraw from the study at any point without affecting their clinical care.
    
  