
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of the combination of veliparib (ABT-888) and
      weekly topotecan (topotecan hydrochloride) in adult patients with advanced solid tumors.
      (Phase I) II. To identify any anti-tumor activity of this treatment combination, as assessed
      by objective response in patients with advanced solid tumors. (Phase I) III. To assess the
      confirmed response rate for patients with epithelial ovarian cancer, fallopian tube cancer or
      primary peritoneal carcinoma treated with the combination of ABT-888 and weekly topotecan.

      IV. To assess the progression free response (PFS) for patients with epithelial ovarian
      cancer, fallopian tube cancer or primary peritoneal carcinoma treated with the combination of
      ABT-888 and weekly topotecan. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify any pharmacokinetic interactions between ABT-888 and topotecan. (Phase I) II.
      To determine whether topotecan stimulates adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-ribose polymer
      formation in circulating peripheral blood mononuclear cells. (Phase I) III. To determine
      whether ABT-888 inhibits basal or topotecan-stimulated ADP-ribose polymer formation. (Phase
      I) IV. To assess differences in the toxicity and/or efficacy of this regimen based on BRCA
      1/2 mutational status. (Phase II) V. To determine whether pretreatment tumor cell levels of
      topoisomerase I, poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP), BRCA1, BRCA2, XRCC1,
      tyrosyl-deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) phosphodiesterase 1 (TDP1), P-glycoprotein or breast
      cancer resistance protein (BCRP) predict response to this regimen. (Phase II) VI. To
      identify, in an exploratory manner, any transcriptional profiles that may predict response to
      this regimen. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of veliparib and topotecan hydrochloride
      followed by a phase II study. (PHASE I DOSE-ESCALATION PART IS COMPLETED)

      Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17 (veliparib is omitted on
      days 1-3 of course 2) and topotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days
      2, 9, and 16. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 months (Phase I) or every
      3 or 6 months for 5 years (Phase II).
    
  