
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare overall survival and local and systemic disease-free survival produced
      by adjuvant chemoendocrine therapy with 4 courses of anthracycline/cyclophosphamide and
      concurrent vs. sequential tamoxifen (TMX) or toremifene (TOR) in peri- and postmenopausal
      women with node-positive breast cancer who are considered suitable for endocrine therapy
      alone. II. Evaluate these same endpoints in patients randomized to chemoendocrine therapy vs.
      endocrine therapy alone. III. Evaluate these same endpoints in patients randomized to TMX vs.
      TOR as the endocrine therapy agent. IV. Compare the quality of life of patients treated on
      these regimens. V. Compare the toxic effects of these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified by type of primary therapy and
      participating institution. Therapy must begin within 6 weeks of surgery. Patients in the
      first group receive doxorubicin (or epirubicin) and cyclophosphamide every 28 days for a
      total of 4 cycles and oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years, beginning day 1 of chemotherapy.
      Patients in the second group receive the same chemotherapy with oral tamoxifen initiated on
      day 8 of the fourth chemotherapy cycle and continued for 5 years. Patients in the third group
      receive oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years. Patients in the fourth group are treated the same
      as the first group, only tamoxifen is replaced by toremifene. Patients in the fifth group are
      treated the same as the second group, only tamoxifen is replaced by toremifene. Patients in
      the sixth group receive oral toremifene daily for 5 years. The timing of optional
      radiotherapy for patients with less than total mastectomy in each group is based on
      institutional policy; radiotherapy is administered for 5-6 weeks to the remaining breast
      tissue, chest wall, and lung. Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months
      for 2 years, and yearly thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 1,140 patients will be accrued over approximately 9 years, with 1
      additional year of follow-up.
    
  