
    
      Live Donor Champion Concept: Even with adequate education of live donation, many kidney
      transplant candidates still feel ill equipped to ask others to consider donating. Friends and
      family are often eager to help and may not be able to serve as donors themselves, but might
      be able to provide substantial instrumental support. A "Live Donor Champion" (LDC) is a
      friend, family member, or community member who serves as an advocate for the candidate in
      their pursuit of live donation. The Johns Hopkins Comprehensive Transplant Center has
      developed a six-month program that provides education and advocacy training to waitlist
      candidates and their LDCs. The instrumental support provided by the LDC bridges a critical
      link between education and action. In pilot studies, candidates with an LDC were more likely
      to undergo Live Donor Kidney Transplant (LDKT) than matched controls. Using LDCs to increase
      live donation is a novel approach that has garnered widespread enthusiasm, including support
      from United Network for Organ Sharing.

      Live Donor Champions (LDCs) as Instrumental Support for Transplant Candidates. Approaching
      potential donors is a daunting and overwhelming experience for Kidney Transplant (KT)
      candidates. Current educational programs address the medical aspects of dialysis, KT, and
      donation, but neglect the health communication skills to discuss transplantation and to
      spread awareness through their various social networks. While transplant candidates are
      hesitant to engage others in conversations about End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) and live
      donation, friends, family members, or community members are eager to spread awareness and
      provide advocacy for the patient. In pilot studies, this intervention improved knowledge
      regarding LDKT and provided instrumental support to the transplant candidates. Understanding
      what factors are associated with the successful implementation of this program will enable
      its eventual dissemination at transplant centers nationwide ultimately improving nationwide
      education and awareness of LDKT. In order to successfully do so, a scientifically rigorous
      implementation study is necessary.
    
  