
    
      This study is planned for investigating effect of downhill-uphill walking exercises on
      functional level and muscle strength in patients with knee arthroplasty. Patients who have
      had primary knee arthroplasty and has gone 3 months after surgery will be included in this
      study. The patients will be divided into two groups by randomization. Totally, 22 patients
      will be included in this study. Every patients will have same standart post-operative
      rehabilitation programme. Assessments will be made before and after treatment. Rehabilitation
      programme after knee arthroplasty has included muscle strength and endurance, balance and
      proprioceptive sensation, increasing functional level and providing independence in daily
      life activities.For this purpose, a standard physiotherapy program will be implemented in
      accordance with the goals and objectives stated for all patients. In addition,group 1 will
      have downhill walking exercises with %10 slope; group 2 uphill walking exercises on the
      treadmill with %10 slope. It takes 30 minutes for one session.

      Exercise intensity was measured before treatment; will be determined using the Karvonen
      formula depending on the heart rate. Walking intensity during exercise; 55% of the maximum
      heart rate will be determined at the beginning of the treatment and 85% towards the end of
      the treatment. Walking exercise on the treadmill will be performed in conjunction with a
      qualified physiotherapist in this area for 4 weeks(3 session in 1 week).

      Within the scope of the assessments, patients' pain levels will be determined using the
      Numeric Pain Scale (NAS). For the knee joint, the normal range of motion will be determined
      by universal goniometer. For the determination of functional level, Iowa functional activity
      scale, Iowa ambulatory speed scale and Hospital For Special Surgery (HSS) knee scoring,
      10-meter walking speed, Timed Up and Go (TUG) test, SF-12(12-Item Short Form Survey) quality
      of life scale will be used. Hand dynamometer will be used to evaluate muscle strength.These
      assessments will be made before and after treatment.
    
  