
    
      Purpose and design

      The purpose of the study is to evaluate in detail the clinical and health economic outcomes
      from the MISSION project. The MISSION clinics combined a new way of delivering asthma care
      along with actively case finding patients who were not already known to specialist services
      but who had uncontrolled or at risk asthma.

      The aim of the study is to compare the MISSION clinic model outcomes to current clinic model
      outcomes as well as performing qualitative interviews with patients who attended and staff
      who took part in the project.The research study was developed by a team from Portsmouth
      Hospital Trust and the University of Portsmouth including a research fellow, consultant and
      Professor, research methodologist, qualitative senior lecturer and independent statistician.
      A patient adviser also reviewed the lay summary and patient information sheets. The study
      undergoes independent review by another clinician as part of the sponsor process.

      The study is also part of an MD project for the University of Portsmouth.

      Design:

      This is a mixed methods study.

      A quantitative analysis of data from patients who attended the MISSION Rapid Access Asthma
      Clinics (RAAC), patients who attended the MISSION Severe Asthma Assessment Clinics (SAAC),
      patients who were invited to the RAAC but did not attend and patients who have been referred
      by their GP to the severe asthma clinic during the same time MISSION was running. The data
      analysis will include asthma control, hospital admissions, GP appointments, related medical
      conditions,medications, investigations and assessments done and time between appointments.

      A qualitative study will be conducted using telephone interviews with patients who attended
      the SAAC and health care professionals who took part in the MISSION clinics.

      The aim is to recruit:

        -  44 MISSION patients (of whom 20 attended both the RAAC and the SAAC),

        -  132 patients who were invited to MISSION RAAC but did not attend

        -  20 patients referred to the severe asthma clinic at the hospital

        -  20 health care professionals who took part in the MISSION clinics

      Methodology:

      Participants will be approached for consent by post. They will be given time to read the
      information and return the consent form to the study team. They will be given a contact
      number to discuss any questions.

      Once a participant has consented to the quantitative study there is no further study
      procedures for the participant. Participants will be asked for consent to collect data from
      their GP and hospital records for the study. This will be entered onto a form (CRF) against a
      study number and then into a password protected study database held on a secure server at
      Portsmouth Hospitals NHS Trust. This data will then be analysed by a statistician and
      research fellow.

      Participants for qualitative interview will have an interview over the telephone lasting 45
      minutes to one hour. This will be recorded and transcribed. The participant will be given the
      transcript to read and correct. The transcripts will then be analysed looking for themes.
    
  