
    
      The present phase II study in 20 patients with BRAFV600E mutant, unresectable stage III/IV
      melanoma is designed to explore the mechanisms by which tumors acquire resistance to the
      combination of BRAF and MEK inhibition. Overall response rate and duration to this
      combination will also be assessed.

      Tissue will be collected at baseline and at progression (clinical or radiological). Patients
      may remain on treatment after progression (at the discretion of the investigator) as long as
      they are still experiencing clinical benefit. We anticipate that up to 50% of patients may
      continue on therapy post-progression for 2-8 weeks.

      BRF113220, the phase I/II trial of the BRAF inhibitor dabrafenib in combination with the MEK
      inhibitor trametinib is ongoing in metastatic melanoma to establish the safety of this
      combination, and to determine the recommended phase 2 doses (RP2D) for each agent. Expansion
      cohorts at the RP2D for these drugs in combination were included in the phase I to
      characterize the safety in more detail, and to explore the efficacy of this combination. The
      combination was well tolerated as described in section 1.5, with decreased frequency of rash
      compared to either agent alone and with just 1 report of cutaneous SCC.

      This proposed study will utilize the RP2D determined in the Phase I/II study: trametinib 2mg
      QD and dabrafenib 150 mg BID. Despite a very promising overall response rate of 81%, these
      patients will also likely go on to develop resistance as a result of new resistance
      mutations, and given the cooperative signaling network of kinases that sense inhibition of
      key nodal kinases and induce compensatory responses that offset pharmacological intervention.
      The study objectives are as follows: Objectives Primary Objective To identify kinases that
      are differentially expressed pre- and post-treatment with BRAF (dabrafenib) and MEK
      (trametinib) inhibitors, and to determine a kinome signature predictive of resistance to
      BRAF/MEK inhibition in stage III/IV melanoma Secondary Objectives To explore whether
      resistance to BRAF and MEK inhibition is associated with new functional mutations in the
      approximately 150 oncogenes / tumor suppressor genes that are assessed in more than 10% of
      the tumors (using NextGen DNA sequencing technology) in the subset of patients who co-enroll
      in LCCC1108, with particular focus on one of five established resistance genes (BRAF, NRAS,
      MEK1, MAP3K8 or COT, and PTEN) To determine the overall response rate (ORR: complete response
      + partial response) as measured via RECISTv1.1 To estimate the duration of ORR as measured
      via RECISTv1.1 To estimate progression-free survival (PFS) as defined by RECISTv1.1 To
      estimate the rate of overall survival (OS) at 1 year from day 1 of treatment

      Primary Endpoint Kinome signature pathway will be based on comparison of kinome expression
      from pre- and post-treatment biopsies using Multiplexed Inhibitor Beads (MIBs) coupled with
      mass spectrometry.
    
  