
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To provide evidence for extending the current standard care in older women with invasive
           breast carcinoma treated with adjuvant chemotherapy comprising doxorubicin hydrochloride
           or epirubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide.

        -  Compare the relapse-free survival interval of these patients treated with adjuvant
           chemotherapy vs no adjuvant chemotherapy.

        -  Compare the toxicity of accelerated adjuvant chemotherapy with pegfilgrastim support vs
           non-accelerated adjuvant chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participating
      center and indication for endocrine therapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      arms.

        -  Arm I (observation): Patients do not receive adjuvant chemotherapy.

        -  Arm II (adjuvant chemotherapy): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 chemotherapy regimens.

             -  Accelerated adjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride and
                cyclophosphamide (AC) OR epirubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide (EC) on day
                1 and pegfilgrastim on day 2. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for 4 courses in the
                absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Non-accelerated adjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive AC or EC on day 1.
                Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression
                or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo tumor tissue and blood sample collection for biological, pharmacological,
      and proteomic studies. Samples are initially used to establish a resource of materials
      available for different research groups. Samples are also analyzed using SELDI or MALDI-ToF
      technology to identify biological profiles that correlate with prognosis or predict response
      to treatment.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, 6 weeks, 1 month, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months, 18
      months, and 24 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and
      then annually thereafter.
    
  