
    
      The purpose of this single-group pilot study is to test the feasibility and acceptability of
      a cognitive-behavioral intervention for breathlessness in patients with lung cancer. Clinic
      staff and research assistants will recruit potential participants in the outpatient oncology
      department of the Massachusetts General Hospital. All participants will complete informed
      consent procedures prior to initiating the study. The Dana-Farber/Partners Institutional
      Review Board has approved the study methods.

      Before beginning the first intervention session, enrolled participants will complete
      questionnaires either on paper or online via a secure survey website. The questionnaire takes
      about 15 minutes to complete and asks about the experience of breathlessness, mood and
      anxiety symptoms, as well as general quality-of-life. Participants may refuse to answer any
      questions that they do not wish to answer.

      The study intervention involves two sessions with a nurse practitioner. Each session will
      take approximately 30-45 minutes to complete.

        -  The first session will be scheduled around another oncology appointment, such
           immediately before or after a clinic visit, or at the same time as a chemotherapy
           infusion. During this session, participants will learn about several breathing and
           relaxation exercises designed to relieve breathlessness. The nurse practitioner will
           also provide handouts with directions for these exercises, an audio recording of the
           relaxation techniques, and worksheets to encourage daily practice of these breathing and
           relaxation exercises at home.

        -  The second session, which will take place 1-4 weeks after the first session, may also be
           scheduled either before or after another oncology appointment. However, if this is not
           possible, the second session may be completed over the telephone. During this session,
           participants will meet with the same nurse practitioner to review the behavioral
           exercises and to address any difficulties the participants may have experienced in
           practicing the exercises.

      Within two weeks after the second intervention session, a research assistant will contact the
      participants either in person or over the telephone to complete the same questionnaires
      administered before the intervention. Participants may choose to complete the follow-up
      questionnaires on paper, over the telephone, or on a secure internet survey website. Also,
      within two weeks after the second intervention session, the research assistant will conduct a
      brief interview with the participants. Specifically, the research assistant will ask
      questions about participants' perceived satisfaction with the behavioral intervention and
      obtain feedback about how to improve the intervention. The interview will be audio-recorded
      and take approximately 15-20 minutes to complete. These recordings and transcripts will only
      be identified with a study number and stored electronically in a computer file that is
      protected with a password only accessible to study staff. After completing the interview,
      participants will be finished with the study.
    
  