
    
      Patient Selection:

      Screen ~400 Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) patients followed in Centro Hospitalar do Porto
      outpatient clinic. All RA patients with regular follow-up will be potentially included.

      The investigators also aim to enrol age-matched controls for biomarker comparison.

      Experimental Design:

      Observacional study with matched control. No intervention will be performed. Outpatients
      fulfilling the inclusion criteria will be invited to participate in the study. All patients
      will have to sign written informed consent to participate in the study.

      An external and independent data verification will be performed. The total trial enrolment
      period was 23 months. . Participants will continue to receive treatments as clinically
      indicated and according to the decision of their attending physicians.

      A structured evaluation will be performed. Every 4 to 6 months the participants will be
      observed in the clinic for their physicians according clinic protocol. The participants will
      not require additional visits to the hospital other than the visits already prespecified by
      their attending physicians.

      Clinical Evaluation:The clinical evaluation will be performed to all RA patients and for
      age-matched controls Each participant and group control will be evaluated for their
      cardiovascular symptoms, history and risk factors for cardiovascular disease, other
      comorbiditys as renal disease, dementia, liver or respiratory disease or anemia. The
      participants will be evaluated for their Rheumathoid Arthritis history (diagnosis date, rx
      erosion, other autoimune diseases or treatment). All will perform a 6-minute walk test
      (6MWT), point blood pressure, heart rate, chest exam, ankle-brachial index, measurement of
      abdominal circumference and visceral fat, disease activity score 28 (DAS-28), quality of life
      scores (QoL), Graffar scale (socio-economic), Mini-cog and Epworth scale.

      Cardiac Function: Each participant will undergo a 12 lead ECG and a transthoracic
      echocardiography. M-mode, 2D and Doppler measurements will be acquired according to standard
      recommendations. LV mass and LV mass index, left atrial (LA) volume, LA volume index,
      isovolumetric relaxation time (IVRT), mitral inflow E to A ratio (mitral E/A), mitral
      deceleration time of early filling (mitral DT), PW Doppler early diastolic velocity of the
      septal (septal e') and lateral (lateral e') mitral annulus, mitral inflow E velocity to early
      diastolic tissue Doppler of both the septal (septal E/e') and lateral (lateral E/e') mitral
      annulus and the pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP) will be measured using standard
      techniques19. All measurements reflect an average of at least 4 consecutive cardiac cycles
      and will be performed by an experienced echocardiographer.

      Regular Plasma and Urine Biomarkers:For all participants. Regular blood biomarkers:
      hemoglobin, hematocrit, RDW, Thrombocytes, Leucocytes, lymphocytes, neutrophils, NT-proBNP ,
      Troponin I, C-reactive Protein, Alkaline phosphatase, Ƴ-GT, Sedimentation rate, Glucose,
      Total Cholesterol, Triglycerides, LDL-Cholesterol,HDL- Cholesterol, Transferrin saturation,
      Ferritin, HbA1c, Pre-albumin, C-Cistatin, homocystein, Sodium , Potassium, Chlorine, Calcium,
      Phosphorus, Magnesium, Creatinine, Urea, Folic Acid, Cianocobalamin, PTH, eGFR, D Vitamin,
      Uric Acid.

      Urine biomarkers: Microalbumin, Creatinine, Potassium, Sodium.

      Specific biomarkers: For all RA patients and control group. Include OLINK's panels for
      inflammation, fibrosis or matrix extracellular organization.
    
  