
    
      A- Intervention Group (Patient specific PEEK sheets)

        -  Preoperative Computed tomography will be done to the patients.

        -  Using special software, 3D models will be obtained and used to design the custom made
           PEEK sheets. The final STL (Standard Tessellation Language) files will be sent to the
           lab to be milled/printed.

        -  Autogenous bone graft will be taken from Chin/Retromolar graft and will be mixed with
           xenogenic bone graft in 1:1 ratio.

        -  After bone exposure, the ridge will be decorticated and the prefabricated PEEK sheets
           will be fixed with titanium screws and the space between the sheets and the ridge will
           be filled with the prepared bone graft.

        -  Wounds closure will be done.

        -  CT scan will be done postoperative.

        -  After 6 months another CT scan will be done for evaluation and comparison. Then the
           titanium screws will be removed and implants will be placed.

      B- Control Group (Autogenous bone shell technique)

        -  Preoperative Computed tomography will be done to the patients

        -  Bone graft will be harvested from the chin/retromolar region and a cortico- cancellous
           bone block will be obtained then divided into two pieces used as the shells.

        -  The bone shells will be trimmed and adjusted to the recipient site and the remaining
           bone will be milled and mixed with Xenogenic bone graft with ratio 1:1

        -  The bone shells will be anchored in the host bone with titanium screws and the space
           between the shells and the alveolar bone will be filled by the bone graft mix.

        -  Wounds closure will be done.

        -  CT scan will be done.

        -  After 6 months another CT scan will be done for evaluation and comparison. Then the
           patient will go for micro screws removal along with implant placement.
    
  