
    
      BACKGROUND:

      A retrospective study by NIOSH found a significantly higher death rate from atherosclerotic
      heart disease for New York City tunnel officers compared with the expected rate for the New
      York City population. A Cox proportional hazards model which examined the risk of
      atherosclerotic heart disease for tunnel officers compared to bridge officers found a similar
      pattern. The Cox model also showed a significant decline in the risk of atherosclerotic heart
      disease among tunnel officers, when compared to the less-exposed bridge officers, after
      cessation of exposure with most of the risk dissipating within as little as five years.

      Carbon monoxide may contribute to cardiovascular disease through several accepted and
      potential mechanisms including binding to hemoglobin, and reducing oxygen dissociation at the
      tissue level by shifting the oxygen-hemoglobin dissociation curve. Carbon monoxide in
      experimental animals also increases platelet stickiness which may contribute to
      atherogenesis, and accelerates atherosclerosis either through altered lipid metabolism or
      increasing vessel permeability to cholesterol. Carbon monoxide in experimental studies
      contributes to sudden death by reducing the cardiac threshold for ventricular fibrillation.
      Some of these mechanisms, such as those that would lead to transient hypoxia of the
      myocardium, would lead to increased risk of myocardial ischemia only when exposure is
      current, while other mechanisms, such as acceleration of atherogenesis, may lead to long
      standing elevation of risk for cardiovascular disease.

      The Occupational Safety and Health Administration standard for carbon monoxide in 1987
      allowed exposure of 50 parts per million (ppm) time-weighted average over an 8-hour day with
      no ceiling level limit. The margin of safety of this standard for workers with cardiovascular
      disease was questioned by a series of controversial studies of exposures averaging 50 ppm
      which demonstrated a decrease in exercise necessary to induce angina in experimental subjects
      with underlying cardiovascular disease. NIOSH recommended a standard for carbon monoxide
      exposure of 35 ppm as an 8-hour time-weighted average with a ceiling limit of 200 ppm.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      For each study site, personnel records were obtained including a work history for each
      exposed worker. For current workers, smoking history was obtained by questionnaire and
      carboxyhemoglobin measured both pre-shift and post-shift. The feasibility of obtaining
      smoking history on previously employed workers was explored. Vital status ascertainment
      included the use of records from the Social Security Administration, drivers license bureaus,
      the Internal Revenue Service, and the National Death Index. Death certificates were obtained
      from appropriate state vital statistics offices. Statistical analyses were performed using a
      modified life table analysis system frequently used by National Institute of Occupational
      Safety and Health (NIOSH) in similar studies. In addition, industrial hygienists from NIOSH
      visited each study site to measure current occupational exposure levels and to gather
      information which allowed estimation of past exposure levels. Previous carbon monoxide
      monitoring data was available for some tunnels.

      Based on the results of the cohort study, a nested case-control study was planned to further
      examine the interaction of smoking and other cardiovascular disease risk factors with the
      relationship between cardiovascular disease and occupational exposure to carbon monoxide.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "Completed Date"
      entered in the Query View Report System (QVR).
    
  