
    
      Studies within the last decade indicate that many cancer patients and survivors experience
      cognitive deficits such as impaired memory and concentration after diagnosis and treatment.

      The cognitive deficits are seen as a complication of cancer treatment and have generally been
      attributed to chemotherapy, hence the term "chemo brain". However, more recent research
      indicates that chemotherapy is probably not the only cause of cognitive deficits as several
      cancer patients (23-33%) have impaired cognitive functions even before therapy is initiated,
      and other findings suggest that former cancer patients have lower levels of cognitive
      functioning regardless of treatment status.

      The cognitive profile of cancer patients indicates involvement of frontal-subcortical
      dysfunction affecting processing speed, attention, working memory, learning and recall, and
      executive function. Cancer patients often report that their cognitive capacity in daily life
      has deteriorated. In qualitative interviews, women with breast cancer describe that they
      experience memory problems at work, whilst women on sick leave worry that their cognitive
      impairment will be an issue when they return to work. Among former breast cancer patients, it
      has been reported that perceived cognitive limitations were associated with reduced work
      capacity.

      Cognitive rehabilitation of former cancer patients is an important concern, since even mild
      cognitive dysfunction may have significant impact on their return to and welfare at work and
      other aspects of everyday living. Although several cancer patients express an interest in
      interventions aimed at alleviating their perceived cognitive deficits, only two studies so
      far have assessed the effect of cognitive intervention in former cancer patients. Ferguson
      and colleagues devised a cognitive training program focusing on relaxation techniques and
      compensatory strategies in order to improve everyday skills. The program consisted of four
      individual consultations with a total of three phone consultations in between. The program
      was tested in a non-randomized design with 29 breast cancer patients who had completed
      chemotherapy at least 3 years earlier. They found improvement in tests of attention, memory
      and executive function, and participants experienced improvement in daily cognitive
      functioning.

      In a randomized controlled design, Poppelreuter and colleagues tested two interventions for
      improving attention and memory in a group of breast cancer patients. Both interventions
      consisted of four one-hour sessions per week. On average, there were 11.5 sessions per
      patient. The two interventions included groups of max 8 participants led by occupational
      therapists with memory and attention training in relation to activities of daily living (n =
      33) and a group undergoing individual computer-based training of attention and memory under
      therapeutic supervision and subsequent coaching (n = 34). The study found general improvement
      in neuropsychological test scores and self-reported reduction of cognitive impairment in both
      intervention groups and the control group.

      Due to the limited results so far, it remains unclear to what extent interventions have an
      effect on the cognitive deficits experienced by cancer patients and who will benefit from
      cognitive intervention. Recent research has shown that specific computerized brain training
      programs can improve cognitive functions such as working memory in individuals with
      congenital or contracted cognitive impairment with a measurable increase in brain activity.
      Given the widespread experience of impaired cognitive function among former cancer patients
      and the negative consequences that these problems could have on their working capacity and
      quality of life, it is highly relevant to examine whether similar computerized training
      programs can help former cancer patients. As this is likely to be a cost-effective method in
      relation to time, effort and costs, the perspectives in relation to implementation and
      dissemination are promising.

      OBJECTIVES

      The aim of the study is to investigate whether women treated for breast cancer who experience
      cognitive difficulties will profit from the Internet-based program Scientific Brain Training
      Pro with respect to: 1) attention, working memory, learning and recall, and executive
      function as assessed by standardized neuropsychological tests and 2,) self-reported cognitive
      difficulties in daily life as measured by questionnaires.
    
  