
    
      Mitochondrial disorders are a group of inherited disorders caused by mutations in genes
      encoding mitochondrial proteins. The proteins are encoded by genes from both the
      mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) and the nucleus, making some of the disorders maternally inherited
      and some autosomal recessive or dominant.

      The mitochondria are found in almost all cells in the body and are the main source of energy.
      The energy is produced through the electron transport chain, which is composed of four multi
      subunit complexes (I to IV). A mutation in one or more of these complexes is a typical cause
      of a mitochondrial disease.

      Since the mitochondria are found in almost every cell, mitochondrial disease can give rise to
      symptoms from many organs. The symptoms depend on what kind of mutation the patient has, but
      usually includes muscular and neurological problems, as these cells have especially high
      energy needs.

      It is believed that the muscle weakness in mitochondrial diseases is caused by the reduced
      ability to produce energy. However, recent research has suggested that there is a structural
      change in the muscles as well. The hypothesis is that this structural change in the muscles
      will affect its function.

      The aim of the study is to investigate the relation between muscle strength and contractile
      cross sectional area (CCSA) in the calf of patients affected by mitochondrial diseases. In
      healthy individuals there is a close relation between strength and CCSA, as the strength will
      decrease according to a decrease in CCSA. In mitochondrial disease, the hypothesis is that
      there can be a disrupted relationship between strength and CCSA.

      The investigators will recruit 30 subjects with verified mitochondrial disease, and compare
      the results to that of healthy individuals (results from an earlier research project). A
      Dixon MRI will be used to find the CCSA of the calf muscle and a muscle dynamometer will be
      used to find the strength. These two variables are compared.
    
  