
    
      Early appropriate antimicrobial therapy is of utmost importance for reducing mortality in
      critically ill patients with sepsis and septic shock. Patophysiological changes associated
      with the septic process, such as changes in volume of distribution (Vd), drug clearance (CL),
      decrease in plasma-protein concentration and organ dysfunction, lead to pharmacokinetic (PK)
      changes that may alter the efficacy of the antimicrobial given. As a consequence, antibiotic
      plasma concentrations are variable and hard to predict in these patients, which makes optimal
      antibiotic exposure a challenge, especially in the early phase of treatment. In sepctic shock
      patients, appropriate dosing is even more important, as effective antimicrobial therapy
      within the first hour of documented hypotension is associated with increased survival to
      hospital discharge.

      Piperacillin/tazobactam is a β-lactam - β-lactamase inhibitor combination frequently used for
      empirical treatment in the critically ill. It is a time-dependent antibiotic where
      antibacterial activity is related to the time for which the free, unbound concentation of the
      drug is maintained above the minimal inhibitory concentration (f T>MIC). Maximizing f T>MIC
      both increases the therapeutic impact and reduces the risk of drug resistance development.
      Because of the PK changes seen in the critically ill, standard dosing of antimicrobials may
      result in subtherapeutic plasma-concentrations (17) and it has been suggested that current
      empiric dosing recommendations for ICU patients are inadequate and needs to be reconsidered
      (18). Patients with septic shock are especially vulnerable (7) and optimal dosing in these
      patients is crucial for reducing mortality.

      Piperacillin/tazobactam 4g/0.5g every 8 hour (h) is the empiric standard dosing for sepsis
      and septic shock. The aim of this study was to determine if this dosing results in
      therapeutic plasma concentrations in septic shock patients, within the initial 24 hours of
      therapy. A PK population model was established with the dual purpose to assess current
      standard treatment and to simulate alternative dosing regimens and modes of administration.

      Critically ill patients with known or suspected septic shock who required noradrenaline
      infusion and who were prescribed piperaillin/tazobactam 4g/0.5g (Tazocin®) by the treating
      physician were eligible for the study. Patients on renal replacement therapy and patients
      under the age of 18 were not included.

      Piperacillin/tazobactam 4g/0.5g was administered intravenously (i.v.) over 3 minutes every 8
      h. Blood samples (4 mL) were collected by trained staff from an arterial catheter around the
      time of administration of the third consecutive infusion. Each patient had a total of eight
      blood samples drawn; before administration of the drug (time 0), at 10, 20, 30 minutes and 1,
      2, 4 and 8 h after administration of the drug.

      The unbound piperacillin plasma concentrations were determined using ultra high performance
      liquid chromatography. If a bacteria was isolated from a patient, a MIC to piperacillin was
      obtained using E-tests on Mueller-Hinton agar plates. These MICs as well as clinical MIC
      breakpoints according to the European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing
      (EUCAST) for Pseudomonas aeruginosa were used to evaluate the following PK/PD targets: 100% f
      T>MIC and 50% fT>4xMIC.

      There was no intervention in the study.
    
  