
    
      It is estimated that cataracts are the cause of 33% of visual impairment and 51% of total
      blindness worldwide. Indeed, they are the most important cause of total blindness and
      preventable blindness in the world. To reduce the burden of this disease, many advances have
      been made in the field of cataract surgery and have resulted in better visual outcomes. With
      the development of different types of intraocular lenses over the years, it is now possible
      to not only treat cataracts, but also tackle presbyopia and astigmatism to increase patients'
      independence from spectacles and thus improving quality of life. Indeed, the desire for
      independence from corrective lenses is an important motivation for many patients, which
      explains the increasingly common use of intraocular lenses correcting for presbyopia.

      For most uncomplicated cataract surgeries today in Quebec, Canada, monofocal lens are
      implanted and their cost is covered by the government. Generally, this lens allows patients
      to be emmetropic, which translates to good distance vision. However, these patients will need
      reading glasses for intermediate and near vision. A good proportion of patients are
      unsatisfied with being dependent on corrective lenses, especially if they did not have any
      before surgery. There is a correction technique for presbyopia called "monovision", which
      involves making the patient's dominant eye emmetropic and making the other eye more myopic.
      This way, the patient can use the myopic eye for intermediate and near vision. Intermediate
      vision is useful for computer work, for example, while near vision is useful for reading.
      "Monovision" requires good tolerance of anisometropia by the patient and may interfere with
      stereoacuity, which may limit its use.

      Multifocal intraocular lenses were first implanted in 1986, but took several years to become
      more commonly adopted. The terms "bifocal" or "trifocal" refer to the number of distinct foci
      in the lens, allowing the patient to see at different distances. The simultaneous perception
      of these multiple focal points can be initially disturbing for the patient and may require
      several months of postoperative neuroadaptation. There are two types of multifocal lenses:
      refractive and diffractive lenses. Refractive lenses have concentric rings centrifugally
      increasing in dioptric power on their anterior surface. Diffractive lenses, on the other
      hand, have diffractive rings on their posterior portion. Meta-analyses have shown that
      multifocal lenses cause visual disturbances, such as halos and glare, that are more
      bothersome and frequent than in "monovision". However, multifocal lenses show better rates of
      independence from spectacles than "monovision". Refractive multifocal lenses, compared to
      diffractive lenses, tend to produce more glare, halos and higher-order aberrations. However,
      refractive lenses tend to produce better uncorrected distance visual acuity, while
      diffractive lenses tend to perform better for near vision.

      Finally, extended depth of focus (EDOF) lenses are a newer technology that will be discussed
      in this study. They have an extended continuous focal point as opposed to the fixed focal
      points of multifocal lenses, which allows for less superimposition of near and far images
      compared to multifocal lenses. Theoretical interferometry studies also suggest that EDOF
      lenses produce better images in between intermediate and near vision. A few comparative
      studies have shown that EDOF lenses show equal or poorer near visual acuity than diffractive
      lenses, but have equal or better results for intermediate visual acuity. There are also other
      newer types of intraocular lenses that, due to their novelty, lack enough data at this time.
      These include accommodative lenses, postoperative non-invasively adjustable lenses and
      electronic lenses.

      Astigmatism is a refractive error caused by an irregularity in the cornea and/or the
      crystalline lens that prevents the eye from focusing light evenly on the retina. It causes
      blurred vision at all distances. It is estimated that almost two-thirds of patients
      undergoing cataract surgery have preoperative corneal astigmatism between 0.25 and 1.25
      diopters. 22% of these patients have astigmatism of 1.50 diopters or more. Toric intraocular
      lens implantation, first introduced in 1992, is the procedure of choice to correct
      significant corneal astigmatism (1.00 diopter or greater). For optimal correction of
      astigmatism with the toric lens, precise alignment of the actual lens axis with the
      calculated preoperative lens axis of placement is required. This is influenced by several
      factors, a major one being the rotational stability of the lens. Maximum rotational stability
      has been observed with hydrophobic acrylic lenses. A prospective study with AcrySof Toric
      lenses showed significant postoperative rotation of more than 10 degrees in only 1.68% of
      eyes. In fact, the Acrysof IQ Vivity Toric Extended Vision Intraocular Lens is made with the
      same AcrySof material, which has shown excellent postoperative rotational stability.

      To our knowledge, no study to this day has evaluated the refractive visual outcomes of the
      Acrysof IQ Vivity Toric Extended Vision Intraocular Lens for the correction of presbyopia and
      corneal astigmatism. This is believed to be the first study of the Acrysof IQ Vivity Toric
      Extended Vision Intraocular Lens in Canada. Studying the impact of the Acrysof IQ Vivity
      Toric Extended Vision Intraocular Lens will provide real-world data on visual acuities after
      bilateral cataract surgery, intraocular lens rotational stability and subjective assessment
      of postoperative visual disturbances. This is important to ensure optimal results for
      patients who wish to have intraocular lenses that correct presbyopia and astigmatism, thus
      giving them a greater independence from spectacles and a better quality of life.
    
  