
    
      HWA09 is a wrist-worn watch that enables to record a single-lead ECG similar to the standard
      lead I configuration, and a photoplethysmogram (PPG).

      Primary objective :

      To validate the diagnostic performance of the ECG-SW1 software integrated into the HWA09
      watch for the automatic identification of atrial fibrillation (AF) compared to a simultaneous
      12-lead ECG (hereinafter referred to as the "gold standard" or "reference method").

      The algorithm classifies the watch signals into four categories: normal sinus rhythm (RSN),
      AF, arrhythmia other than AF, or non-interpretable. The latter category includes signals of
      insufficient quality to be interpreted with confidence.

      This classification will be compared to the diagnosis made by three independent, blinded
      cardiologists based on a 12-lead ECG. The final diagnosis retained will be decided by
      majority with adjudication by a consensus of 3 to 6 cardiologists. The sensitivity and
      specificity of the device will then be estimated.

      First secondary objectives:

      The first secondary objective is to validate the diagnostic performance, compared to a
      simultaneous 12-lead ECG, of the PPG-SW1 software integrated in the HWA09 watch for the
      automatic identification of atrial fibrillation (AF) from the photoplethysmography (PPG)
      signal.

      Three independent blinded cardiologists will issue a diagnosis based on the ECG recording of
      the HWA09 watch. The final diagnosis retained will be decided by majority with adjudication
      by a consensus of 3 to 6 cardiologists. Sensitivity and specificity will be calculated in
      relation to the reference ECG.

      Second secondary objective:

      To evaluate the quality of the single-channel strips measured with the HWA09 watch, as
      follows:

        -  Three independent cardiologists, having neither performed the data collection nor read
           the reference ECG, will independently make a diagnosis based on the HWA09 single-channel
           strips, blinded to the diagnosis made from the reference ECG. The ECG traces from the
           watch will be exported in PDF format from the Withings Health Mate application and the
           final diagnosis will be made by majority with adjudication by a consensus of 3 to 6
           cardiologists. The final diagnosis will be compared to the diagnosis made by the
           cardiologists who read the reference ECG. Sensitivity and specificity will then be
           calculated.

        -  The visibility and polarity of ECG waves (i.e. P waves, QRS complex and T waves) will be
           determined by cardiologists for the single-channel strips recorded with HWA09 and for
           the lead I of the reference 12-lead ECG. For each of the waves, the agreement on their
           visibility and polarity (if visible) between the HWA09 and the reference ECG will be
           calculated.

        -  The durations of the major intervals of an ECG (i.e., QT interval, QRS complex, and PR
           interval) will be determined by the cardiologists for the single-channel strips recorded
           with HWA09 and for the lead I of the reference 12-lead ECG. For each interval (QT, QRS,
           PR), the difference of duration between the signals from the watch and the reference ECG
           will be calculated.

        -  The heart rate will first be determined by cardiologists from each signal of lead I
           (recorded by the HWA09 watch and the reference ECG) that has been diagnosed as NSR. The
           difference between the heart rate of the watch and the reference will be calculated. In
           a second step, the heart rate recorded by the HWA09 watch will be calculated by the
           Withings software. The difference between the heart rate calculated by the Withings
           software (from the signal of the watch) and the heart rate determined by the
           cardiologists (from the lead I of the reference ECG) will also be calculated.

      The sponsor will ensure that no cardiologist makes a diagnosis on both a signal from the
      HWA09 watch and the reference ECG fomr the same patient. The sponsor will centralize
      diagnostics on the HWA09 and reference ECG signals and perform agreement calculations on the
      associated pairs.
    
  