
    
      Background Complications of diabetes represent the main concern for modern diabetes therapy,
      and it has become a priority to further characterize the pathophysiological mechanisms of
      these complications to ensure the development of novel rational therapeutic strategies.

      Although the prolonged exposure of tissues to hyperglycemia is the primary causative factor
      for chronic diabetes complications, it has recently become increasingly evident that hypoxia
      also plays an important role in all diabetes complication. A low tissue concentration of
      oxygen in diabetes is the consequence of several mechanisms (e.g., deficient blood supply
      secondarily to micro- and macro-vascular disease, poor local oxygen diffusion secondarily to
      local edema or as a result of increased oxygen consumption).

      Adaptive responses of the cells to hypoxia are mediated by Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1 (HIF),
      which is a heterodimeric transcription factor, composed of two subunits (alfa and beta
      subunit) both constitutively expressed in mammalian cells. In normoxia, HIF-1α is continually
      degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasome system as a consequence of the oxygen-dependent
      hydroxylation of two key proline residues catalyzed by a group of enzymes called
      prolyl-hydroxylases (PHDs). Under hypoxia when the degradation pathway is suppressed and
      HIF-1α is stabilized, it translocates in the nucleus where it induces more than 800 genes
      that are

      involved in angiogenesis, glycolytic energy metabolism, cell proliferation and survival that
      enable the cells to adapt to reduced oxygen availability. HIF-1 is central for expression of
      several angiogenic growth factors (ex. as Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF),
      erythropoietin (EPO), and stromal cell-derived factor-1α (SDF-1α) and for endothelial
      progenitor cells (EPC) recruitment. Recently, it has been proposed that microRNAs (ex.
      mir210) also mediate a part of the HIF-1 functions.

      PHDs that control the HIF 1 α stability and function are Fe 2+ and/or O2 -dependent enzymes
      and their activity could be inhibited by depleting the iron. Deferoxamine (DFO), which is an
      iron chelator induces therefore HIF-1α accumulation and hypoxia-response genes in normoxia
      both in vitro and in vivo being able to restore the repressed adaptative reaction to hypoxia
      different animal models of diabetes. DFO has been in clinical use for decades for treating
      excessive iron deposition secondary to different pathologies (thalassemia, myelosclerosis
      etc) and was used as pharmacological tool to induce HIF dependent responses.

      In the last decade several pieces of evidence have gathered, point out that in diabetes there
      is a defective cellular response to hypoxia. An impaired hypoxia response is present in all
      tissues that develop complications both in animal models for diabetes and in patients with
      diabetes as a consequence of a defective HIF signaling. It is a direct effect of
      hyperglycemia that directly represses HIF stability and function at multiple levels.

      The recently described impaired reaction to hypoxia in diabetes have potentially important
      consequences in acute hypoxic challenges as acute heart infarction, stroke, limb ischemia
      (known to have a worse prognosis in diabetes) but also in subtle regulation of cardiovascular
      and respiratory system as a consequence of autonomic neuropathy with potential severe
      prognostic effect on late cardiovascular events. Different studies have addressed the
      cardiovascular responses to intermittent hypoxia (IH) compared with normoxia exposure in
      patients with diabetes. In order to establish the appropriateness of the cardiovascular
      reaction to hypoxia in diabetes the cardiorespiratory and angiogenetic responses towards IH
      in patients with diabetes compared with matched non- diabetic control subjects has recently
      been investigated(HYKRAND ethical approval number 2015/1182-31/4). The preliminary results
      (not published) showed several defects in both acute and delayed reaction of the patients
      with diabetes compared with controls. The baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) which is a marker of
      cardiovascular risk and survival prognosis after cardiovascular events was decreased in
      patients with diabetes after IH compared with non-diabetic subjects. Both the Endothelial
      Precursors Cells (EPC) number and the levels of their main stimulator Stromal derived factor
      (SDF-1α) were decreased in in response to IH in diabetics compared with non- diabetic
      subjects confirming the worse capacity to repair ischemic lesions in diabetes.

      The project proposed here investigate the potential of DFO (known to improve the HIF
      dependent hypoxic signaling) to reverse the impaired cardiorespiratory and angiogenetic
      response in diabetic patients.

      Research design. It is a blinded randomized cross-over study that investigates the efficacy
      of DFO (50mg/kg) vs isotonic saline given i.v before intermittent hypoxia (IH) to improve the
      cardiorespiratory and angiogenetic response in patients with diabetes. IH will consist in
      five hypoxic periods (13% O2 inspired fraction of oxygen) each lasting 6 min, with five
      normoxic intervals of same duration (as used in HYKRAND study) in 30 patients with type 1
      diabetes without clinical signs of any complication. The study will be performed during 4
      days with minimum 2 months separation between the 2 admissions to ensure sufficient wash-out
      and to restore iron deposits.

      Methods Study design This is a randomized, double blind study conducted in patients with
      diabetes type 1 without chronic complications.

      Patients will be randomized (by block randomization) (httpps://www.sealedenvelope.com/
      simple-randomiser/v1/lists) to (A) Desferal (DFO) treatment or (B) isotonic saline treatment.

      Both the patients and the personnel will be blinded to the patient's treatment group.

      Subjects will be advised to abstain from caffeinated beverages for 12 h and from alcohol for
      36h prior to testing

      Day 1: Baseline blood samples will be collected in the morning and afterwards the patients
      will receive Desferal (50 mg/kg) / Saline infusion s.c during 6hs. During the last hour of
      infusion the subjects will be exposed to intermittent hypoxia (IH). Blood samples and
      cardiovascular and respiratory (CR) measurements will be performed (as detailed below)
      immediately before and at several time points after IH.

      Day 2: Blood samples will be collected in the morning. IH exposure consists of five hypoxic
      periods (13% O2 inspired fraction of oxygen) each lasting 6 min, with five normoxic intervals
      of same duration (totally 1 hour).

      Day 1: blood pressure, heart rate and arterial oxygen saturation are continuously measured.
      In case of a decrease in oxygen saturation 80% or the occurrence of symptoms, hypoxia is
      discontinued until oxygen levels reached at least 80%. A technician regulates and control the
      breathing periods under supervision of a medical doctor in a way that the intervention could
      not be observed by the patient. Thereafter, three measurement sessions will be performed:
      immediately after (t2), after 3 h (t3), and after 6 h (t4). After t2, each patient obtained
      an individual meal according to diet requirement.

      Cardiovascular and respiratory testing.

      Assessment of baroreflex sensitivity. All patients will be tested in the supine position in a
      silent room at comfortable temperature. Before participants will be connected to a
      rebreathing circuit through a mouthpiece with an antibacterial filter, spontaneous breathing
      of room air at rest will be performed for 4 min in order to obtain baseline data.

      During each condition, continuous measurement of oxygen saturation (SaO2) by a pulse oximeter
      and end-tidal CO2 (CO2-et) using a capnograph connected to a mouthpiece will be performed.
      Recordings of electrocardiogram will be performed by chest leads, and continuous noninvasive
      blood pressure will be recorded using the cuff method. Two belts (positioned around the chest
      and the abdomen) will monitor respiratory movements of the chest. A pneumotachograph will be
      connected to a differential pressure transducer and inserted in series to the expiratory
      component of the rebreathing system to measure airway flow.

      The baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) will be measured during spontaneous breathing at each
      measurement session. Since previous studies did not document a better performance of one
      method over the others, the average of seven different methods: positive and negative
      sequences, the a-coefficient in the low- and high-frequency bands and its average, the
      transfer function technique, and the ratio of SDs of R-R interval and systolic blood pressure
      variabilities will be calculated. Besides BRS, SD of the R-R interval (SDNN) was applied to
      determine a global index of heart rate variability. This selection is done based on the fact
      that normal distribution is more pronounced in this variable compared with other indices of
      variability (e.g., variance).

      Hypoxic ventilatory response (HVR) and hypercapnic ventilatory response (HCVR) will be
      evaluated to determine respiratory system activity.

      Cardiovascular autonomic function will be determined performing four tests according to
      recent guidelines: deep-breathing, 30:15 ratio, Valsalva maneuver and systolic blood pressure
      response to standing. Cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy will be defined as the "presence of
      two or more abnormal tests".

      The baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) will be evaluated before (t1), immediately after (t2), 3 h
      (t3), and 6 h (t4) after IH.

      The angiogenetic potential will be evaluated at the same endpoints and after 24 H (Day N3) by
      measuring in serum relevant cytokines that are gene targets for HIF-1 (i.e. Vascular
      endothelial growth factor (AVEGFA), stromal cell-derived factor 1a (SDF-1a), erythropoietin
      etc.). The direct response of HIF signaling will be evaluated by the serum levels of mir210
      which exclusively regulated by HIF.

      The EPC response will be evaluated at the same time points by Fluorescence-activated Cell
      Sorting (FACS) analysis of the number of Hematopoietic progenitor cell antigen (CD34+)/ CD133
      antigen/Kinase insert domain receptor (KDR +)
    
  