
    
      Comminuted intra-articular distal humerus fractures (DHF) in the elderly population (over 65
      years) have long been a treatment dilemma. Fixation of the fracture often results in
      development of arthritis and is associated with severe arthrofibrosis (stiffness) and pain.
      As a consequence, it has become standard practice that elderly patients with these injuries
      are treated with either elbow hemiarthroplasty (HA) or total elbow arthroplasty (TEA). Both
      allow immediate mobilisation of the affected arm, with good long term pain and range of
      motion outcomes reported for both implants in a variety of articles. However each implant has
      its own advantages and disadvantages.

      Elbow HA allows full lifting and loading activities to continue in the operated elbow.
      However, the concern is that the metal articulation on native cartilage may result in wear
      and pain associated with this resulting in the need for conversion to a total elbow
      prosthesis. As this is revision surgery it carries additional risks over first time surgery.
      Secondly the collateral ligaments have to be reattached and this risks instability following
      the surgery if this fails.

      Patients with TEA are required to avoid lifting and loading activities with the affected arm
      from the point of surgery and this is ongoing. Such activity can result in failure of the
      implant with bushing wear, or early progression to aseptic loosening. However, with complete
      resection of cartilage there is no concern of progressive ulna wear or pain and some
      literature has suggested a better range of motion due to the semi-constrained nature of the
      implant meaning condyle retention is not required.

      To date no study has directly compared the two arthroplasty options for DHF's in elderly
      patients. Both implants are currently offered in the Royal Devon and Exeter, National Health
      Service Foundation Trust (RD&E NHS FT), while other trusts locally are known to offer only
      one approach. This reflect the uncertainty around which treatment may be better: current
      provision options are based on the operating surgeon's skills and clinical experience.

      To address this state of clinical and personal equipoise will require a large, multi-centred,
      randomised controlled trial of HA vs TEA, for patients over the age of 65 diagnosed with
      un-reconstructible DHF's. Before this can be considered the investigators need to assess the
      feasibility of such a study, and obtain preliminary data to inform its development.
    
  