
    
      The intervention consists of carrying out a 27-week multi-component training program divided
      into 3 phases of 9 weeks each, where the physical qualities will be progressively worked
      together twice a week. However, in each phase the development of one physical quality will
      predominate over the others. Each session will be supervised by two experienced physical
      educators in the area, they will also be trained two weeks prior to the intervention and
      supervised weekly by the principal investigator. The first phase will have as its main
      objective to develop strength, through exercises with overload and in turn, it will be
      subdivided into 3 blocks of 3 weeks each: Neuromuscular adaptation (block 1), muscular power
      (block 2), muscular resistance (block 3). Each session will last approximately 45 minutes at
      an intensity of 70-75% of one maximum repetition (1RM) and with an effort character from
      light to maximum. The session will consist of 10 minutes of mobility and muscle activation as
      a warm-up, 25 minutes of strength exercises and 10 minutes of stretching as a return to calm.
      The second phase will have as its main objective to develop cardiorespiratory capacity
      through intermittent gait training and, in turn, will be subdivided into 3 blocks of 3 weeks
      each: Static gait (block 1), dynamic gait (block 2) and dynamic gait with changes of
      direction (block 3). Each session will last approximately 50 minutes with an effort
      perception of 6-8. The session will consist of 10 minutes of mobility and muscular activation
      as a warm-up, 10 minutes of muscular power exercises, 20 minutes of cardiorespiratory
      endurance and 10 minutes of stretching as a return to calm. The last phase will have as its
      main objective to develop balance and flexibility, by strengthening the stabilizing muscles
      and range of motion. In turn, this phase will be subdivided into 3 blocks of 3 weeks each:
      Balance / static flexibility (block 1), balance / dynamic flexibility (block 2) and balance /
      flexibility with a double task (block 3). Each session will last approximately 60 minutes
      with a perception of effort of 6-8. The session will consist of 10 minutes of mobility and
      muscle activation as a warm-up, 10 minutes of power exercises, 10 minutes of
      cardiorespiratory endurance, 20 minutes of balance exercises and 10 minutes of stretching as
      a return to calm).
    
  