
    
      The purpose of this study is to test the effect of the "best case/worse case" communication
      tool on the quality of communication with older patients admitted to two trauma units and to
      collect feedback on the tool to help adapt it to the trauma setting. The intervention was
      developed and tested with acute care surgical patients at the University of Wisconsin (UW)
      and the present study seeks to test whether the intervention will work in a different
      setting.

      To adapt the tool to trauma settings, we will conduct focus groups at UW Health Oregon Health
      Sciences University (OHSU) and Parkland Memorial Hospital (PMH) at the University of
      Texas-Southwestern (UT-S). Because trauma care is delivered by a multidisciplinary team, we
      will include attending trauma surgeons, surgical residents, ICU nurses, nurse practitioners,
      consulting physicians (e.g. orthopedic surgeons) and others on the trauma care team. Up to 60
      trauma car providers will participate in focus groups across the three sites. We will test
      the intervention with severely injured older adults at OHSU and UT-S/PMH. In the first year,
      UT-S/PMH and OHSU will recruit and enroll 50 patients total in the control arm and train
      trauma surgeons to use the best case/worst case tool. In the second year, UT-S/PMH and OHSU
      will recruit and enroll 50 patients total in the intervention arm.

      UT-S/PMH and OHSU research team members will survey family members of trauma patients to
      compare the quality of communication for severely injured geriatric trauma patients cared for
      by trauma teams. When possible, UT-S/PMH and OHSU will survey patients on their quality of
      life. UT-S/PMH and OHSU will survey the patient's primary nurse on the quality of
      communication patients and will survey patient's families about their thoughts on the quality
      of communication as well. UT-S/PMH and OHSU will survey trauma unit staff before and after
      clinicians learn to use the best case/worst case tool, to assess whether the communication
      intervention improves feelings of moral distress. UT-S/PMH and OHSU will use chart review to
      collect downstream clinical outcomes including intensity of treatment and receipt of
      palliative care. UT-S/PMH and OHSU will archive de-identified graphic aids used by trauma
      surgeons with intervention patients to explore how the intervention was enacted.
    
  