
    
      Major hormonal and hemodynamic changes occur in the cardiovascular system in pregnancy that
      can unmask and impact underlying cardiac disease. Cardiac output can rise by up to 50%
      throughout gestation, with an additional 30% rise intrapartum. This increase is
      multifactorial, owing to an increase of 50% in maternal blood volume during pregnancy, a
      decrease in afterload due to a decline in systemic vascular resistance and a rise in the
      maternal heart rate of up to 20 beats per minute. Cardiac output has been the most
      extensively studied physiologic parameter of cardiac performance during pregnancy, and is
      dependent on both heart rate and stroke volume. Most of the changes in cardiac output on
      pregnancy are a result of stroke volume. However, during the mid-second trimester, stroke
      volume plateaus while heart rate continues to rise, becoming the major contributor to cardiac
      output in the latter half of pregnancy. During labor, cardiac output is further increased by
      the autotransfusion of blood from the uterus during a uterine contraction and maternal
      expulsive efforts. This can lead to an increase of up to 500cc of blood within seconds into
      the systemic circulation, which can significantly impact cardiac output and stroke volume.

      Following delivery, many of these cardiovascular changes reverse in the first 2 weeks
      postpartum with further normalization toward preconception values 3-12 months later. Women
      without heart disease adapt well and adverse events are generally rare. However, the stress
      induced by these antenatal changes can cause a patient with underlying disease to
      decompensate during the latter half of pregnancy and more specifically, intrapartum when
      these changes peak. Studies on maternal morbidity attributable to cardiac disease in the
      United States have shown the most likely time for an adverse cardiac event is intrapartum and
      immediately postpartum, owing to the drastic and acute changes in hemodynamic status during
      these time periods. Without an invasive monitor (PAC), hemodynamic monitoring during these
      time relies on surrogate markers such as blood pressure or heart rate.

      There is relatively scarce data on continuous hemodynamic profiles in women with both
      congenital and acquired heart disease in pregnancy, specifically during labor. Previous
      literature on the use of invasive monitoring (PAC) during pregnancy have been performed only
      intermittently during the labor and postpartum process. However, the hemodynamic status
      during the second and third labor stages is not static and therefore the need for continuous
      evaluation cannot be underscored.

      The increased morbidity associated with invasive monitoring limits the use of pulmonary
      artery catheters in the pregnant population and therefore a non-invasive way to obtain
      hemodynamic profiles in women with heart disease is desirable. The non-invasive cardiac
      output monitor (NICOM) is based on bio-reactance technology and is operator-independent,
      allowing negligible inter-observer variability in data collection and ease of use.
      Measurements of cardiac output and stroke volume are not dependent on the distance between
      the electrodes, which can significantly increase the accuracy of the results. It involves the
      application of four sensors on the thorax. Changes in aortic blood flow drive phase shifts of
      propagating waves which are detected by the sensors as the frequency changes. These changes
      correlate with instantaneous changes in blood volume and blood flow in the aorta.
      Bio-reactance has been validated against pulmonary artery catheters in non-pregnant
      populations which manifest various forms of hemodynamic instability and following cardiac
      surgery.

      Transthoracic bio-reactance, or the non-invasive cardiac output measurement [NICOMTM, Cheetah
      Medical Inc., Portland, OR] system, is a new technique that is able to measure multiple
      hemodynamic parameters with four transdermal electrodes placed on the patients' thorax. It is
      based on frequency- and phase-modulation of the voltage signal measured in response to an
      applied transthoracic current. Its readings have been shown in multiple studies to correlate
      well with PAC in the non-pregnant population. It has shown acceptable accuracy, precision and
      responsiveness for cardiac output monitoring in patients experiencing a wide-range of
      hemodynamic situations. However, it has not been validated in the pregnant, structurally
      abnormal heart i.e. congenital cardiac disease, as this was exclusion criteria in the
      aforementioned studies. Establishing normative values during the second stage of labor
      utilizing the NICOM in women with congenital cardiac disease has the potential to be
      clinically useful in developing goal-directed management therapy for these women.
    
  