
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is associated with behavioral, cognitive, metabolic and
      cardiovascular conditions. Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) is the gold standard
      treatment for OSA. Despite being the most effective treatment for OSA, 46 to 83% of patients
      do not adhere to CPAP. New technologies for CPAP treatment have been developed in order to
      improve patient's comfort, adherence and effectiveness in reducing apnea, hypopneas and flow
      limitation events. As an example, the FLEX- PLUS technology which increases inspiratory
      positive pressure and decreases expiratory positive pressure would soften the rhythm of
      breathing. Sensawake is another technology which evaluates breathing pattern changes during
      CPAP therapy. When the breathing pattern suggests that patient is awake, a prompt relief in
      pressure is activated, like ramp feature. However, it is not clear whether CPAP FLEX- PLUS or
      Sensawake are superior compared with fixed pressure CPAP, in terms of polysomnographic
      parameters, especially flow limitation or adherence to treatment. Objective: To compare the
      effect of fixed pressure CPAP, CPAP FLEX- PLUS and Sensawake on sleep and compliance
      parameters in patients with moderate to severe OSA. Methods: Fifty male patients with
      moderate to severe OSA will be included in a crossover design study. All patients will use
      each CPAP modality for 30 days in a randomized order, namely CPAP with Fixed Pressure, Flex-
      PLUS and Sensawake. A week of washout period will be applied between treatments. All patients
      will wear the same nasal mask brand. At the end of each treatment (every 4 weeks), patients
      will undergo polysomnography and fill out Epworth, FOSQ, Pittsburgh questionnaires and a
      visual analogue scale assessing CPAP side effects and patient´s comfort. Finally, adherence
      to CPAP modalities will be systematically checked.
    
  