
    
      Depression is one of the major metal disorders associated with symptoms such as regular
      negative moods, decreased physical activities, feeling of helplessness, and cognitive
      deficits. According to the seminal "burden of disease" study by World Health Organization
      (WHO) has predicted that by 2030 depression will be the second leading cause of disease. The
      Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) is the American Psychiatric
      Association's standard reference for psychiatry which includes over 400 different definitions
      of mental disorders. Selective and reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor, selective
      serotonin reuptake inhibitors or serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors are the
      typical antidepressants usually. Unfortunately, current drug therapies for depression are not
      ideal. Most of the drugs are synthetic nitrogen-bearing compounds which have inevitably some
      serious adverse-effects such as causing cardiovascular disease, insomnia and ovarian
      teratomas. Hence, there is an urgent need for the research and development of more effective
      antidepressants without any/ with minor adverse-effect. Up to the present, many Chinese
      medicinal plants have been successfully used to treat sentimental diseases, which is similar
      to depression in the Western medicine. Shamans of the Mazatec people of Oaxaca, Mexico have
      used Salvia divinorum for at least centuries in ethnomedical practices including spiritual
      healing and divinorum. Salvia divinorum contains the known psychoactive constituent
      salvinorin A, which is a trans-neoclerodancediterpenoid and a к-opioid agonist with no
      activity at the 5-HT2A serotonin receptor, making it an ideal agent for antidepressant.
      Salvia divinorum use occurring in Europe and Japan, and survey research suggests that user
      claim positive after-effects. Lycium, Chenpi ( Citrus reticulate Blanco ) and Dihuang (
      Rehmannia glutinosa ) were widely used in the vast majority of Chinese medicine prescription
      to treat mental disease, for example, Lily Bulb Decoction to Preserve the Lung ( Lycium and
      Dihuang ) from Analytic Collection of Medical Formula , Spirit-quieting Decoction ( Chenpi )
      form Restoring Health from Tens of Thousands of Diseases. Considering the potential
      modulatory effects of Salvia divinorum, Lycium, Chenpi and Dihuang supplementation on mood,
      this study is a clinical study of Soline® (product mixed with Salvia divinorum, Lycium,
      Chenpi and Dihuang ) supplementation to investigate the effect of attenuating the occurrence
      of depression.
    
  