
    
      The objective of this pilot study is to determine the predictive value of mucosal barrier
      dysfunction for a therapeutic response to golimumab in UC patients. This objective is based
      on the investigator's hypothesis that barrier dysfunction is a potent predictor of response
      to anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) therapy. This hypothesis is based on the following
      observations: (1) IBD patients with higher gap densities have higher mucosal pro-inflammatory
      cytokine levels; (2) the highest rates of response to biologic therapy for Ulcerative colitis
      are seen in post-operative patients, with over 90% endoscopic remission rate at one year; and
      (3) prominent barrier dysfunction is observed at the anastomotic site in animal models of
      ileal resection. Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that barrier dysfunction is a
      potent predictor of therapeutic response to golimumab in UC patients.

      In 30 UC patients who will be started on golimumab for treatment of UC (moderate to severe
      flare, steroid dependence, or failure of other therapies), epithelial barrier function will
      be characterized using probe-based CLE (pCLE). Six mucosal biopsies will be collected from
      each site (terminal ileum and rectum) for histologic verification of pCLE findings at
      baseline, and again at month 12 for a total of 12 research samples per colonoscopy, or 24
      research biopsy samples during the course of the study. The study subjects will be followed
      for a total of 1 year after initial colonoscopy with pCLE. The primary study end-point is
      clinical response at 3 months following initiation of golimumab.

      Secondary study endpoints are: (1) The rate of clinical remission at 3 months following
      initiation of golimumab. (2) The rate of clinical remission at 12 months following initiation
      of golimumab. (3) Endoscopic and histological evidence of mucosal healing at one-year
      follow-up colonoscopy.

      Clinical Response & Remission definitions are: (1) Clinical Remission: partial Mayo score of
      2 points, without any sub-score >1. (2) Clinical Response: reduction of partial Mayo UC score
      by ≥ 30% and ≥ 2 points, with a rectal bleeding sub-score of ≤ 1 or a decrease in the
      bleeding sub-score of ≥ 1.

      Endoscopic and histologic mucosal healing definitions: (1) Endoscopic: Mayo endoscopic score
      of 0 or 1. (2) Histologic: Riley's histological score ≤ 6.

      The investigators proposal is based on clinical, translational and basic evidence of barrier
      dysfunction in the pathogenesis of UC. With the development of a robust prediction model for
      therapeutic response, UC patients can be treated more effectively with golimumab. Using a
      stratified approach, higher therapeutic response rate may eventually yield a new "intelligent
      step-up" treatment strategy in this personalized medicine era.
    
  