
    
      This project will assess the feasibility of implementing pharmacogenomic testing (PGX) for
      specific genes involved in the metabolism of antidepressants (CYP2D6 and CYP2C19) into the
      child psychiatry clinic at UF.

      Although not widely implemented to date, naturalistic studies in adult psychiatry populations
      have shown that PGX testing can improve patient outcomes, increase medication adherence, and
      reduce costs. However, there have been no studies of psychiatry-focused PGX testing in
      children. One in every four children and adolescents suffers from a mental illness (more than
      half have a mood or anxiety disorder) that is severe enough to impact their functioning at
      school, at home, or in other important areas. Although psychotherapy remains the first line
      treatment for children with mild or uncomplicated symptoms, the use of psychotropic
      medications in children has increased steadily over the last decade. These medications are
      effective for many children, but carry a substantial risk of side effects, including
      gastrointestinal, cognitive, systemic, and psychiatric (including treatment emergent suicidal
      ideation). For most treatment responders, improvement is typically seen four to eight weeks
      after the target dose has been achieved (twelve weeks for obsessive compulsive disorder).
      Thus, identifying the best medication options prior to treatment initiation could decrease
      the likelihood of side effects severe enough to require medication discontinuation or
      changes, and minimize the time to response. In this study, 50 children and adolescents with
      major depression, anxiety, or obsessive compulsive disorders who are beginning treatment with
      a new antidepressant will be recruited and PGX testing will be conducted. Twenty five
      children will be randomized to receive PGX testing prior to starting/changing medications and
      25 to receive treatment as usual (these children will receive their PGX results at the end of
      12 weeks). Members of the UF Health Personalized Medicine Program will provide education to
      the prescribing clinicians about PGX testing and will create patient-specific consultations
      regarding the PGX results.

      Assess clinicians' and parents' willingness to use PGX testing in making treatment decisions,
      as well as their knowledge and beliefs about PGX testing (pre-and post-study). Also assess,
      as pilot data for a larger randomized controlled trial, differences in side effect profiles,
      treatment adherence, and symptom improvements between the PGX cases and controls.
    
  