
    
      Soybeans contain isoflavones, which are biologically active polyphenols known as antioxidants
      and phytoestrogens. These isoflavones include daidzin, daidzein, genistin and glycitin, and
      have been implicated in the beneficial effects of soy consumption.

      Daidzin and daidzein are isoflavones contained in soybean that can act as natural inhibitors
      of aldehyde dehydrogenase 2. Animal studies have demonstrated that some soy isoflavones can
      reduce the auto-administration of cocaine and suggest they might be useful to treat cocaine
      dependence.

      Aldehyde dehydrogenase inhibitors, as disulfiram, are currently used in humans to treat
      alcohol dependence because they interfere with ethanol metabolism (specifically in the
      transformation of acetaldehyde to acetate.

      Alcohol intake after disulfiram administration increases concentration of acetaldehyde in the
      blood (five to 10 times higher than that found during metabolism of the same amount of
      alcohol alone). The combination produced acute symptoms of a severe "hangover" (named
      disulfiram-like reaction), and the patient may experience symptoms as flushing of the skin,
      tachycardia, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, throbbing headache, visual disturbances,
      mental confusion, and in some cases severe reactions as postural syncope, and circulatory
      collapse.

      In addition, disulfiram have demonstrated clinical efficacy in cocaine dependence. The
      mechanism of action for that effects are related to its ability to decrease dopamine
      degradation by inhibiting the dopamine-beta-hydroxylase enzyme (metabolizes dopamine to
      norepinephrine), and increasing its concentrations in some areas of the brain.

      The aim of the study is to assess whether a soy extract containing isoflavones (daidzin,
      daidzein and genistein) could interfere on alcohol metabolism and produce adverse effects in
      humans.
    
  