
    
      Childhood obesity has dramatically increased in the past two decades. The increased
      prevalence of obesity in Hispanic children is even more alarming. Obesity is a known risk
      factor for the development of a wide range of chronic diseases in both children and adults,
      and overweight status tends to track from childhood into adulthood. Therefore, many experts
      have recommended that obesity prevention should be initiated during early childhood,
      particularly in preschool-aged children, to prevent the excess co-morbidities associated with
      obesity throughout the lifespan. However, less is known about the prevention of obesity in
      young children.

      One factor associated with the increased prevalence of overweight and obesity in children is
      a decrease in physical activity level and an increase in sedentary lifestyle. Even though
      approximately 61% of children ages 3 - 5 years of age spend a part of their day in some form
      of early child care program (day care centers, nursery schools, Head Start, and
      pre-kindergarten programs) only a few studies have been conducted to examine their daily
      physical activity level while they are attending preschool. Since the majority of young
      children spend a part of their day in a preschool setting, this setting could potential play
      an integral role in increasing their daily physical activity level.

      Experts have recommended that in order to meet the current guidelines for daily physical
      activity (at least 120 minutes/day), planned and/or free playtime should be incorporated into
      a preschooler's daily schedule. Direct observation indicates that preschoolers spend 27 - 40%
      of their recess time engaged in moderate-to-vigorous physical activity. By increasing
      children's time in recess it is possible to increase their daily physical activity level.
      Therefore the purpose of this study is to examine the effects of increasing the amount of
      time spent in recess on overall daily physical activity in preschool age children.

      Following preliminary screening, participants selected to participant in this study will
      undergo baseline assessment. All participants will complete two days of baseline conditioning
      prior to the initiation of the experimental intervention. The experimental intervention will
      consist of adding an additional recess period for two consecutive school days. Participants'
      physical activity will be monitored during the baseline conditioning and intervention days.
      The experimental intervention will last for one week.
    
  