
    
      The obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is characterized by repetitive obstruction of the
      upper airway during sleep. OSAS is associated with a wide range of health consequences such
      as daytime sleepiness, cognitive impairment and metabolic and cardiovascular diseases. In
      Spain the prevalence of this disease is 3 to 6%, constituting a public health problem. The
      recommended first line treatment for OSAS is continuous positive pressure airway (CPAP).

      Physical exercise has been shown to ameliorate the consequences of OSAS such as
      cardiovascular disease, glucose intolerance and fatigue. Scientific studies have shown that
      vigorous physical activity is associated with a decrease in the prevalence of OSAS, improved
      sleep efficiency and the Epworth Sleepiness Scale.

      Moreover, recent evidence has shown that oropharyngeal exercises can be useful in the
      treatment of OSAS decreasing neck circumference, snoring, subjective sleepiness and AHI as
      well as improving the quality of life and saturation oxygen.

      The 60-70% of patients with OSAS is overweight or obese showing that a high body mass index
      (BMI) is an independent risk factor for the occurrence of OSAS. Many studies have shown that
      weight loss is associated with significant reduction in AHI.

      However, despite the scientific evidence to justify the inclusion of these modalities, there
      is no study that has analyzed the impact of performing together all these interventions. It
      is expected that the combination can produce a cumulative effect that impacts significantly
      on improving indicators of OSAS.

      The investigators will include patients with a recent diagnosis of moderate or severe OSA.
      Patients will be randomized to interventional or control group.

      Patients included in the study will be followed for almost three months and they will be
      examined at baseline and after time of follow-up or intervention.
    
  