
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Individuals with Type A behavior are characterized as hard driving, competitive, and time
      urgent; when asked questions they are quick to answer with emphatic speech; they perceive
      themselves to be striving and competing and are prone to hostility. This core of behaviors is
      presumed to be on a continuum of intensity with well-developed Type A's at the upper end and
      well-developed Type B's at the lower end. Epidemiological studies have shown Type A's to have
      a higher prevalence and incidence of various forms of coronary heart disease than Type B's.
      The Structured Interview is a method of measuring Type A behavior in which a series of
      questions are administered about the individual's characteristic responses to situations
      relevant to the Type A behavior pattern, such as reaction to delay and reported frequency of
      anger. The Interview is delivered in challenging style designed to elicit Type A
      characteristics.

      In 1960, the WCGS recruited 3,154 employed men, ages 39 to 59, who were initially free of
      coronary heart disease and followed them for 8.5 years for coronary heart disease incidence.
      In 1972 MRFIT began recruiting 12,866 men, ages 35 to 57, selected for elevation of one or
      more risk factors, but free from coronary heart disease and followed them for an average of
      seven years after randomization to a risk factor modification group or to a control group
      referred to their own physicians for treatment. Both studies used the Structured Interview to
      assess Type A behavior.

      In 1981, Type A behavior was officially regarded as an independent risk factor for coronary
      heart disease, based largely on the findings of the WCGS. However, the MRFIT did not find
      Type A behavior to be related to coronary heart disease incidence. The manner of conducting
      the Structured Interview may have affected the predictive reliability of the Type A
      assessments.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Interviewer speech characteristics from the WCGS and MRFIT Structured Interview tape
      recordings were audited and analyzed. Each speech characteristic was scored with high
      reliability. Multiple logistic regression analyses were used to control for standard risk
      factors.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  