
    
      Rationale:

      Diffusion-weighted whole body magnetic resonance imaging (WB-MRI) is a technique that depicts
      myeloma deposits in the bone marrow. WB-MRI covers the entire body during the course of a
      single scan and can be used to detect sites of disease without using ionising radiation.
      Although WB-MRI allows for "at a glance" assessment of disease burden, it requires
      significant expertise to accurately identify and quantify active myeloma. The technique is
      time-consuming to report due to the great number of images. A further challenge is
      recognising whether a patient has residual disease after treatment. Machine learning (ML) is
      a computer technique that can be trained to automatically detect disease sites in order to
      support the radiologist's interpretation. The investigators believe this technique will help
      the radiologist to interpret the scan more accurately and quickly.

      Machine learning algorithms have been successfully developed to recognise some other cancer
      types. The investigators believe that it may be successful in patients with myeloma, in whom
      The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) recommend whole body MRI. This
      could allow the technique to be more widely used in the National Health Service (NHS). In the
      MALIMAR study the investigators will develop and test ML methods that have the potential to
      increase accuracy and reduce reading time of WB-MRI scans in myeloma patients. The
      investigators propose to develop ML tools to detect and quantify active disease before and
      after treatment based on WB-MRI.

      Research will be carried out at the Royal Marsden Hospital (RMH) NHS Foundation Trust,
      Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) London and Imperial College London. The investigators will
      use Whole Body MRI (WB-MRI) scans that have already been acquired in myeloma patients. They
      will also include 50 new scans obtained at RMH from healthy volunteer scans which will be
      used to 'teach' the computer to distinguish between healthy and diseased tissues.

      Research Design:

      The research will be divided into three parts:

        1. Development of the Machine Learning (ML) tool to detect active myeloma

        2. Measurement of the ability of the ML tool to improve the radiologists' interpretation of
           WB-MRI scans using a set of scans from patients with active and inactive myeloma and new
           scans obtained from healthy volunteers

        3. Development of the ML tool to quantify disease burden and changes between pre- and
           post-treatment WB-MRI scans in order to identify response to treatment

      The main outcome measure for this study will be the improvement in the detection of active
      disease and disease burden and the reduction in radiology reading time. The investigators
      will assess the reduction in reading time in both experienced specialist and non-specialist
      radiologists.
    
  