
    
      This is a multicenter, prospective, randomized study to evaluate the efficacy of CCE versus
      CTC in the identification of colonic polyps in a screening population.

      Subjects will be enrolled at up to 20 clinical sites in the United States. Subjects who meet
      the eligibility criteria will be screened by the gastroenterology site for study
      participation at a baseline visit which will also include a blood test for renal function
      (eGFR), and will be evaluated on the randomized procedure day (CCE versus CTC) and again on
      the day of both the blinded and unblinded OC procedures. Telephone follow-ups will be
      conducted 5 - 9 days after the CCE/CTC procedure and 5 - 9 days after the unblinded OC
      procedure to assess subject well-being and capture any Adverse Events (AEs), regardless of
      relationship to the CCE, CTC, or Optical colonoscopy (OC) procedures.

      All CCE RAPID® videos and CTC images will be evaluated by local and central readers. All
      study analyses will be based on central reader results for both CCE and CTC. Two sets of
      central readers will be utilized, one set for reading of the CCE RAPID® videos and one set
      for reading the CTC studies. Both groups of readers will be experts in the reading process
      for their respective procedures. Readers will provide a report of their findings to the
      sponsor within 2 weeks of capsule ingestion or CTC procedure in order to allow subjects to
      return within 5 weeks capsule ingestion or CTC procedure to undergo confirmatory OC. The
      first OC procedure will be performed with the clinician blinded to the CCE or CTC results.
      Immediately following this blinded procedure, the clinician will review the CCE or CTC
      results report provided by the sponsor from the central readers, and a second unblinded OC
      procedure will be performed if there are discrepancies between the CCE/CTC findings and OC.

      Colonoscopy must not be performed by the same person who conducts the local CCE reading, or
      anyone who has reviewed CCE/CTC results for that subject.

      Bowel preparation regimens for all three procedure types will be standardized across sites.
    
  