
    
      Mobilization in frail older adults (OAs) can improve cardiovascular outcomes, musculoskeletal
      function, and functional independence (Bray, Smart, Jakobi, & Jones, 2016) (Roland, Theou,
      Jakobi, & Frailty, 2014) (Theou et al., 2011). Detriments of immobility include an increased
      risk of functional disability, falls, and premature mortality (Hubbard, Parsons, Neilson, &
      Carey, 2009). There are numerous mobility interventions targeted to community-dwelling frail
      OAs (Sherrington et al., 2019); however, they either have a narrow focus on falls prevention
      (Fairhall, Sherrington, & Cameron, 2013) (Sherrington et al., 2019) or they target mildly
      frail OAs (Johnson, Myers, Scholey, Cyarto, & Ecclestone, 2003) (Giangregorio et al., 2018)
      (Binder et al., 2002). A review of home-based mobility interventions concluded that high-risk
      OAs who have been recently discharged from hospital may require an intervention that is
      tailored specifically for them (Hill, Hunter, Batchelor, Cavalheri, & Burton, 2015)
      (Sherrington et al., 2019). The intervention will focus on active range of motion exercises
      in frail OAs who are homebound or recovering from a health crisis and unable to participate
      in more rigorous exercise regimens. Gentle stretches and range of motion activities can have
      immediate benefits to frail OAs. (O'Brien Cousins & Horne, 1999).

      The first objective is to create an evidence- informed, theory-driven mobility intervention
      for community-dwelling OAs who are moderately and severely frail according to the clinical
      frailty scale (Rockwood et al., 2005). The intervention, entitled Promoting Movement in OAs
      (ProMO), will be implementable with frail OAs in partnership with any care provider in the
      home such as personal support workers (PSWs) and families. The investigators will focus the
      study on the two main providers of care- PSWs. OAs, PSWs, and caregivers will co-create ProMO
      with us. ProMO will be distinct from existing home-based exercise programs (Johnson et al.,
      2003) (Giangregorio et al., 2018) because it will optimize natural opportunities for
      mobilization during care (e.g., bathing and dressing) and will be embedded in facilitated
      activities of daily living. The second objective is to pilot and evaluate ProMO in the
      Greater Toronto Area (GTA). The primary output will be a free, user-friendly, and sustainable
      mobility intervention. A secondary output will be new knowledge about the process and outcome
      of a tailored, home-based mobility intervention.
    
  