
    
      Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a disease that has an incidence of 5% of
      hospitalized mechanically ventilated patients. ARDS is associated with high morbidity and
      mortality in critically ill patients, with mortality reported as high as 45% in severe ARDS.
      Patients who develop ARDS will require mechanical ventilation. Patients with ARDS are graded
      by the partial pressure of oxygen to fraction of inspired oxygen ratio (PaO2/FiO2) into three
      categories of severity: mild (PaO2/FiO2 201-300 mm Hg), moderate (PaO2/FiO2 101-200 mmHg),
      and severe (PaO2/FiO2 ≤ 100).

      Volutrauma and barotrauma are thought to contribute to the development of ARDS and alter
      mortality. The damage that occurs to the lungs manifests itself as inflammation, which leads
      to poor gas exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide. Several strategies of lung-protective
      mechanical ventilation have been investigated in ARDS, including the use of low tidal volume
      ventilation (LTVV) or ARDSNet strategy, high frequency oscillation ventilation (HFOV), and
      airway pressure release ventilation (APRV). Lung protective strategies may be best beneficial
      prior to the onset of the development of ARDS or early in the course of the disease. As a
      result of the ARDSNet trial, LTVV has been adopted as the usual standard of care of
      ventilation and safest mode of ventilation for patients with ARDS.

      Recently, APRV has been proposed as a potential alternative to LTVV. APRV is a form of
      ventilation that keeps the lungs inflated through the majority of the breath cycle and allows
      patients to breathe spontaneously above this level of inflation. APRV allows for spontaneous
      respiration with increased airway pressure, potentially allowing for decreased sedation,
      shorter duration of mechanical ventilation, and decreased need for vasopressors. APRV has
      been associated with possible reduction in incidence of ARDS and in-hospital mortality in
      non-randomized observational studies. In patients with established ARDS, the use of APRV has
      also not been well studied, with most studies limited to small observational studies often
      with no comparison group. One randomized trial using APRV alone had less than 30% of patients
      having a diagnosis of ARDS and did not show any difference in any outcomes. Recently, Zhou
      and colleagues conducted a randomized trial comparing APRV to conventional ventilation in 138
      mechanically ventilated patients with mild to severe ARDS and found that APRV may shorten the
      duration of mechanical ventilation and reduce intensive care unit (ICU) length of stay.

      While some of these studies had shown promise of APRV compared to LTVV, there has not been
      acceptance of APRV into guidelines as first line ventilation, and recommendations of
      institutions such as the Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technology in Health (CADTH)
      recommends interpreting these results with caution. Consequently, there remains clinical
      equipoise on this issue. Some ICU clinicians will currently use APRV as a rescue mode of
      ventilation in ARDS in their clinical practice while others will continue with the use of
      LTVV. We would like to randomize patients to LTVV or APRV and examine the feasibility of
      conducting a large multicentre randomized controlled trial in Canada.
    
  