
    
      The profound symptom burden associated with advanced lung cancer (LC) makes caregiving a
      complex and burdensome task. Despite the input of outpatient palliative care services, LC
      families are often unprepared for caregiving, have low self-efficacy for managing symptoms at
      home, report high rates of physical and emotional distress, and receive very little skills
      training or psychosocial care. To date, the few psychosocial intervention trials targeting
      the caregivers of advanced cancer patients that have been conducted have mostly targeted the
      families of hospice patients, have not been well-integrated into routine palliative care, and
      have not addressed the specific needs of LC caregivers. Based on our published and recently
      completed pilot work in LC, the investigators have developed a psychosocial intervention
      called CareSTEPS (self-Care, Stress management, sympTom management, Effective communication,
      Problem-solving, and Social support). CareSTEPS is grounded by Self Determination Theory
      (SDT) which focuses on individuals' needs for developing autonomy (a sense of choice and
      volition), competence (self-efficacy), and relatedness (a sense of belonging and connection).
      It: 1) teaches skills to enhance caregiver competence for managing symptoms, practicing
      self-care, and coping with cancer; 2) supports caregiver autonomy by providing a clear
      rationale for recommendations and a variety of options to encourage choice and elaboration;
      and, 3) seeks to improve caregivers' sense of relatedness by teaching strategies for
      effective communication and soliciting/accepting social support. 200 LC patients will be
      enrolled within one month of treatment initiation (baseline) and their caregivers and
      randomize them to either a usual medical care (UMC) condition or the CareSTEPS intervention
      (caregivers receive a manual and six 45-minute weekly counseling sessions by telephone). The
      primary aim is to determine the impact of the CareSTEPS intervention on caregiver self-care
      behaviors, physical and emotional QOL, and satisfaction with care. Secondary aims are to: 1a)
      examine the effects of CareSTEPS on the SDT constructs of competence, autonomy, and
      relatedness; 1b) test whether caregiver competence, autonomy and relatedness mediate the
      effects of CareSTEPS on caregiver outcomes as hypothesized; 2) explore whether
      sociodemographic, medical, and relationship factors moderate the effects of the CareSTEPS
      intervention on SDT constructs; and, 3) explore the effects of CareSTEPS on patient QOL,
      palliative care utilization, and satisfaction with care. CareSTEPS fills an important service
      gap by providing education, skills training, and support to the caregivers of advanced LC
      patients who are on active treatment. The home-based delivery format will facilitate future
      dissemination and outreach. By empowering families with the skills they need to provide care
      and meet the challenges of LC, CareSTEPS holds great promise for improving caregiver QOL,
      patient QOL, and the quality of palliative/supportive care services for advanced cancer
      patients and their families.
    
  