
    
      Cardiovascular disease remains a leading cause of morbidity and death in the Western World.
      Assessment of Myocardial function has proven to be a clinically relevant method for
      monitoring and evaluating outcomes of medical therapy and surgery for structural lesions or
      acquired disease.

      Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) is the most common form of cyanotic congenital heart disease with a
      prevalence of 0.26 to 0.8 per 1000 live births The current surgical approach favors primary
      repair in infancy. This decreases the necessity for palliative procedures and has a low
      operative mortality. Complete repair often results in pulmonary regurgitation (PR), which is
      generally well tolerated in infancy. Late complications may include ventricular dilatation,
      tricuspid regurgitation, diastolic and systolic dysfunction, arrhythmias and sudden cardiac
      death.

      Pulmonary valve replacement (PVR) is required in approximately 20% of patients with repaired
      TOF and has a 1-4% peri-operative mortality. Thus, early intervention may reduce irreversible
      right ventricle injury; however no definitive tools are presently available for determining
      patients at risk.

      Myocardial strain analysis has not been critically evaluated to determine its value for
      predicting RV failure. This study will investigate the practicality and accuracy of a novel
      mathematical method, developed by the investigators, for analysis of cardiac deformation
      recovery from dynamic Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance Imaging (CMRI) sequences. The
      proposed method requires structural MRI data, offering several important advantages over
      existing methods. These include reduced requirements in imaging time and analysis effort, and
      the option to use a large database of prior structural MRI studies of TOF patients in
      retrospective research.

      This three-dimensional method is mathematically based on nearly incompressible tissue
      deformations. The project proposes validation of technique, comparing its results with
      current 'gold standard' methods that presently use CMRI myocardial tagging and phase velocity
      mapping, as a pilot study for clinical validation of strain imaging in TOF patients. The
      method tracks movement of myocardial tissue throughout the cardiac cycle to compute strain
      associated with normal and a clinical disease state.

      During the study we will customize the method and software for specific use with CMRI and
      TOF. We will test the method on normal controls and TOF patients pre and post pulmonary valve
      replacement.
    
  