
    
      Metal-on-metal bearings for total hip arthroplasty are an alternative to traditional
      polyethylene bearing surfaces and hip simulators studies have shown that metal-on-metal
      bearings have lower wear than metal-on-polyethylene bearings. In addition, simulator studies
      indicate that the amount of wear decreases as head size increases allowing the use of larger
      head diameters than possible with other bearing surfaces. Since dislocation is currently the
      most common reason for reoperation in the United States, representing 22.5% of hip revisions,
      the combination of low wear and larger head sizes to reduce dislocation hold the promise of
      improving outcome among total hip arthroplasty patients. While there are potential advantages
      to metal-on-metal bearings, a few concerns have been noted in the literature. Although the
      total volume of wear is low with these bearings, the articulation generates metal debris that
      may be related to patient and surgical factors such as implant positioning. Despite a reduced
      wear volume, there is also the possibility that an increased bioreactivity associated with
      metal debris might induce an osteolytic response or local tissue hypersensitivity reaction.

      This study will retrospectively review the outcome of a consecutive series of 126 patients
      who had 131 primary THAs performed between April 2001 and November 2002 at the Anderson
      Clinic with a Pinnacle acetabular cup, an Ultamet insert and a 36-mm cobalt-chrome alloy
      femoral head. These total hip arthroplasties represent the Anderson Orthopaedic Institute's
      in initial experience with this implant. The relationship between metal ion levels, cup
      orientation, osteolysis, radiographic implant stability and clinical outcome measures
      including component revision, complications, patient satisfaction and Harris Hip Scores will
      be evaluated. The outcome data from our analysis will also be compared with the data from
      other published series with metal-on-metal bearing surfaces. Serial radiographs obtained as
      part of routine post-operative care will be used to evaluate osteolysis, implant stability
      and radiographic complications such as periprosthetic fracture. The area of each osteolytic
      region will be measured on the AP pelvic x-ray using Martell's Hip Analysis Suite. Computed
      tomography (CT) scans obtained as part of routine follow-up will be also analyzed to identify
      regions of acetabular osteolysis. The volume and location of each osteolytic defect
      identified on CT will be evaluated using three-dimensional image analysis software (Analyze,
      Biomedical Imaging Resource, Rochester, MN). A three-dimensional (3D) reconstruction of the
      pelvis, cup and acetabular osteolytic lesions will also be generated from the CT image data.
      This reconstruction will be oriented to simulate the AP pelvic radiographic view. Cobalt and
      chromium ion level data will be compiled for patients who had blood drawn to evaluate metal
      ion levels. The mean and median blood metal-ion levels for these patients will be calculated
      and the results will be compared to the metal-ion levels reported in the literature.
    
  