
    
      Transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) is a urologic surgery used in the treatment
      of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. A potential complication of this procedure is bladder
      rupture or injury secondary to adductor muscle contraction from obturator nerve stimulation.
      This risk is increased in resection of lateral wall tumors, as electrosurgical resection of
      these lesions is more likely to inadvertently stimulate the obturator nerve.

      There are several mechanisms for preventing the obturator reflex. Pharmacologic paralysis can
      reliably inhibit thigh adduction. However, TURBT is often a short procedure that is not
      amendable to intermediate duration neuromuscular blocking medications. The use of
      succinylcholine is another option but is limited by its short duration of action which may
      not be adequate for the time needed to resect the tumor. Additionally, many patients have
      contraindications to the use of succinylcholine. Spinal anesthesia does not reliably prevent
      the obturator reflex.

      Regional anesthesia is another potential treatment modality to prevent the obturator reflex
      during TURBT. Motor blockade of the obturator nerve will prevent this adduction in the event
      of inadvertent nerve stimulation. Peripheral blockade of the obturator nerve can be combined
      with either general or spinal anesthesia. Historically, obturator nerve block (ONB) has been
      considered a technically challenging procedure. Recently, however, successful ultrasound
      guided ONB techniques have been reported. To the best of our knowledge there has been no
      study to date comparing the effectiveness of ONB achieved by anatomic landmarks (with nerve
      stimulation) versus ultrasound guided ONB (with nerve stimulation) at preventing the
      obturator reflex during TURBT surgery.

      The key objective of this study is to compare success rates of ultrasound guided obturator
      nerve block and anatomic guided obturator nerve block as determined by neuromonitoring
      endpoints and surgeon observations.
    
  