
    
      The project proposed is a randomised controlled multicentre study of infants with epilepsy
      who have failed to respond to two or more pharmacological treatments (antiepileptic drugs
      (AEDs) or corticosteroids), comparing ketogenic diet to treatment with a further AED.

      Children for this study will be recruited from 8 paediatric neurology centres in the South of
      England who have an established KD service for children with epilepsy. The collaborating
      paediatric neurologists based in these centres are named co-applicants on this proposal. All
      children ages 3 to 24 months will be considered if they have a diagnosis of epilepsy, namely
      continuing seizures despite a trial of 2 or more AEDs (including corticosteroids) and are
      experiencing at least 8 seizures a week.

      Children will be excluded if they are shown to have: a metabolic disease contradicting the
      use of KD; a progressive neurological disease; severe gastrooesophageal reflux or have
      undergone a previous failed trial of KD. In addition, families should be able to attend
      clinic on the required timeline. KD meal plans will be accurately calculated for each child
      individually by a dietitian with consideration of daily calorie requirements, fat to
      carbohydrate ratio (3:1 or 4:1), adequate protein intake and vitamin and mineral
      supplementation. Ongoing adjustments to the diet by the dietitian are determined by weight
      gain and the degree of ketosis.

        1. Baseline assessment: Written consent will be obtained from eligible children. Full
           history including seizure type, neurological examination, weight, length and head
           circumference will be documented. Randomisation to KD or standard AED group will be
           carried out with the support of the UCL PRIMENT Clinical Trials Unit (CTU).

           Investigations to be performed in the KD group (or if clinically indicated in the AED
           group) will include FBC, U&Es, Glucose, LFTs, Calcium, Magnesium, Phosphate, Zinc,
           Selenium, Acylcarnitine profile, Cholesterol, Triglycerides, Urate, 25 hydroxy Vitamin
           D, urine calcium/creatinine, urine organic acids. An EEG will be performed if clinically
           indicated.

        2. Observation period of 2 weeks: No changes of regular AEDs. Emergency seizure treatments
           will continue as required( acute treatment with benzodiazepines). The following data
           will be recorded in a standardized diary (these data will continue to be recorded
           throughout the intervention period of 8 weeks): seizure types, seizure frequency, number
           of emergency seizure treatments required, contacts with the NHS due to seizure
           exacerbation (hospital admissions number of days, A&E and or GP attendances)

        3. Start of the classical KD or further AED. The classical KD will be administered as per
           protocol of the treating service. The recording of seizure types and frequency is to be
           continued.

        4. Second Assessment (4 weeks after the start of the treatment period, all patients):
           clinical review including weight; documentation of seizure frequency, and tolerability
           of the diet in randomised KD group by questionnaire.

        5. Third/final assessment (8 weeks after starting treatment/all patients). Clinical review
           including neurological examination, weight, length and head circumference. Documentation
           of seizure outcome (from seizure diaries). KD group only: completion of tolerability
           questionnaire, blood investigations (FBC, U&Es, Glucose, LFTs, plasma bicarbonate,
           calcium, magnesium, phosphate, zinc, selenium, acylcarnitine profile, cholesterol,
           triglycerides, urate, nonesterified fatty acids, blood ketones) and urine
           calcium/creatinine ratio. EEG will be performed if clinically indicated.

      Dependent on seizure response, KD (diet group) or AED (standard AED group) will then be
      continued or changed. Those in the AED group of failed will be offered KD outside the context
      of the trial. It would be anticipated that clinical data would be collected on all patients
      to 12 months to determine retention rates.

      Exit criteria: Children will withdraw from the treatment prior to 8 weeks should there be q
      >50% increase in seizure frequency from the baseline, or if intolerable side effects are not
      resolved by manipulation of KD or medication. A safety monitoring committee will be convened.
    
  