
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To examine the effects of the expansion of the current disease-management program (DMP)
           in patients with stage III or IV lung pancreatic, ovarian, or colorectal cancer.

        -  To determine whether there is a difference in resource use (number of chemotherapy
           treatments in the last 30 days of life, number of emergency room visits, number of days
           of hospice and hospitalization) among patients who have participated in a DMP compared
           to those receiving usual care.

        -  To determine whether there is a difference in patient outcomes (health-related quality
           of life, spiritual well being, satisfaction with care) among patients who have
           participated in a DMP compared to those receiving usual care.

        -  To determine whether there is a difference in caregiver outcomes (mood state,
           satisfaction with care, satisfaction with end-of-life care, and burden of care giving)
           among caregivers of patients who have participated in a DMP compared to those receiving
           usual care.

        -  To determine whether differences in patient and caregiver outcomes remain after
           controlling for the influence of demographic, clinical, and organizational covariates.

        -  To determine the extent of differences in patient and caregiver outcomes achieved
           through improvements in collaboration and problem solving.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to type of current supportive care (usual care vs
      comprehensive disease-management program [DMP]).

        -  Usual care (control group): Patients undergo usual care as determined by core cancer
           team.

        -  DMP (experimental group): Patients undergo a systematic approach regarding specific
           domains related to their disease, focusing on supportive care and symptom management
           determined by a multidisciplinary team of providers to help patients and caregivers
           manage.

      Patients and caregivers are interviewed at baseline, 3, 9, and 15 months. Patients who
      transfer to hospice/palliative care treatment complete an additional questionnaire at the
      time of transfer and 3 weeks after transfer. If a patient death occurs during study, the
      caregiver is interviewed at 2 months after death.

      Patient resource-use data is collected via billing data from hospital or clinic charts at the
      end of the patient's participation in the study and via monthly hospital and clinical chart
      review. Hospital visits, chemotherapy use, and hospice days are also measured as patient
      resource use.

      Healthcare team members are interviewed weekly to measure contact time with patients. Team
      members receive team problem solving and team collaboration tools every 4 months for up to 37
      months. Key members (nurse manager and physician clinical director) are also interviewed
      every 4 months.
    
  