
    
      The relationship between obesity and breast cancer is a complex one. Obesity is a risk factor
      for the development of breast cancer in postmenopausal women and has been linked to an
      increased risk of recurrence and decreased survival as compared to patients with normal
      weight.

      The hypothesis that led to this study is that the amount of total-body aromatization capacity
      indicated by body mass index (BMI). In postmenopausal women and in premenopausal women with
      ovarian suppression, the major source of serum estrogens is the fat tissue, in which
      precursors are metabolized to estrogens by the enzyme aromatase. Thus, an increase in BMI
      leads to an increase in total-body aromatization and, consequently, an increase in oestrogen
      serum levels, which impact on breast cancer. Taken together, this suggests that BMI may serve
      as a useful surrogate parameter for total-body aromatization and eventually may be a
      practicable tool to tailor aromatase inhibitors (AIs) therapy for individual patients.

      The study will include 360, postmenopausal patients with early breast cancer who have
      hormones receptor positive tumour as defined by the expression of oestrogen receptor (ER)
      and/or progesterone receptor (PR). Patients will be randomly assigned to receive tamoxifen 20
      mg once daily or AIs (letrozole 2.5mg/ anastrozole 1mg/exemestane 25mg) once daily for five
      years. Patients with a tumour stage IB, IC, or II irrespective of nodal stage (<10 positive
      nodes) will be included. Weight and height will be taken at baseline for calculation of BMI
      according to the WHO criteria. The frequency of adverse events will be used to assess safety
      throughout the study.

      The primary end point will be disease-free survival (DFS). Secondary end points will be
      recurrence-free survival and overall survival (OS). The data will be analyzed for DFS and OS
      according to the BMI subgroups as well as two treatment arms (tamoxifen v AIs). The frequency
      of adverse events will be used to assess safety throughout the study.
    
  