
    
      Clinical status will be evaluated during hospitalization, and then on the out-patient basis.
      All cardiovascular events (fatal or nonfatal myocardial infarction, unstable angina, sudden
      cardiac death, all-cause death, stroke, TIA) will be recorded and the patients who underwent
      acute PCI will have a follow-up coronary angiography performed according to current
      recommendations. However, the clinical analysis is not a major gaol of this study.

      The investigators plan to evaluate following parameters:

        -  Whole blood morphology, creatinine, glucose, sodium, potassium, urea, lipid profile, CK,
           AST, fibrinogen, using standard methods in hospital laboratory.

        -  Inflammation markers - fibrinogen (nephelometry, Dade Behring) high-sensitivity
           C-reactive protein (nephelometry, Dade Behring); interleukin 6 (ELISA, R&D Systems).

        -  Thrombin generation markers in peripheral blood - thrombin-antithrombin complexes [TAT]
           (ELISA, Dade Behring); prothrombin fragments 1+2 [F1+2] (ELISA, Dade Behring).

        -  Fibrin clot permeation and susceptibility to lysis - measurement of Darcy's constant
           (dimensions of pores in the structure of the clot) by measurement of volume of buffer
           (0,05 mol/l Tris HCl with 0,15 mol/l NaCl) penetrating through the fibrin gel made in
           polystyrene pipes, 1.3 mm in diameter, with 100 ul of citrate plasma and after addition
           of 1U/ml human thrombin and 20 mmol/l calcium chloride in room temperature within 120
           minutes according to methodology described by Mills and al.

        -  Fibrin gel turbidimetry - plasma mixed with Tris buffer prepared as mentioned above in
           2:3 ratio, after addition 1 U/ml thrombin and 16 mmol/l calcium chloride will be
           analyzed in the UV spectrometer (wave length 405 nm). Following variables will be
           measured: initiation time, absorption increasing time and absorption value in plateau,
           approximately 10 minutes after addition of thrombin to the mixture. After 2 hours,
           spectrophotometry assessment of the clot will be performed (400 to 800 nm) to measure
           the pore size and thickness of fibrin fibers using the Carr equation modified by
           Wolberg. Then fibrinolysis of fibrin gel will be measured by means of turbidimetry.
           Another lysis assay based on the measurement of D-dimer levels in the effluent flowing
           through fibrin gels will be performed according to the method of Collet et al.

        -  Activation of the coagulation system in a "minimally modified blood" model according to
           Rand et al. Non-anticoagulated blood will be divided into 10 1-ml samples added to the
           tubes with TF and phospholipids, and then clotting will be stopped by an anticoagulant
           cocktail. In the supernatant samples, Western blotting and HPLC analysis of
           fibrinopeptides will be performed as described previously.

      In 40 patients allocated at a random we will assess activation of coagulation system using
      the vascular injury model according to a procedure developed by us.

      We will measure:

        -  Activation of prothrombin

        -  Conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin

        -  Activation of factor V and inactivation of factor Va

        -  Activation of factor XIII

        -  Activation of TAFI

        -  Thrombin generation

      Genetic analysis The investigators will determine the PlA1 PlA2 polymorphism in the integrin
      β3 gene using the PCR technique in DNA samples collected from peripheral blood leukocytes.

      Additionally, we are going to search for polymorphism of promoter region of IL-6 /G-174C also
      by means of PCR in DNA collected from peripheral blood leukocytes, using prim-ers 5'- AAT CTT
      TGT TGG AGG GTG AG and 5'- ACA TGC CAA GTG CTG AGT CA and restriction endonuclease Sfa NI on
      2% agarose gel.
    
  