
    
      PURPOSE This prospective study aims to analyze the treatment efficacy of LNG-IUS in
      endometrial hyperplasia patients and to analyze the accuracy of office endometrial aspiration
      biopsy during the LNG-IUS is placed in uterus.

      ENDPOINTS The primary endpoints of this study is response rate. Secondary endpoint is to
      estimate the consistency of the results between office endometrial aspiration biopsy and
      dilatation and curettage (D&C) procedure.

      STUDY SETTING AND PROTOCOL REVIEW This study is a single arm, prospective multi-institutional
      study. Its protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board of each clinical trial
      institution.

      PLANNED CLINICAL TRIAL PERIOD Patient Selection and Enrollment: 12month after IRB approval of
      clinical trial Institution.

      TREATMENT METHODS LNG-IUS is inserted into uterus of which patients are histologically
      confirmed as endometrial hyperplasia. Office endometrial aspiration biopsy and transvaginal
      ultrasound is conducted every 3 months at outpatients with LNG-IUS inside in uterus.

      At the first year of LNG-IUS insertion, D&C is performed under anesthesia after the
      endometrial aspiration biopsy with LNG-IUS inside in uterus and the biopsy findings are
      compared. If the office endometrial aspiration biopsy shows exacerbation, treatment with
      LNG-IUS must be stopped and other specific treatment should be initiated.

      INVESTIGATIONAL PRODUCT

        -  General Name/Brand name: Mirena - Bayer ② Active ingredient: levonorgestrel 52mg ③
           Description: Mirena is a hormone-releasing T-shaped intrauterine system. A removal
           thread is attached to a loop at the end of the vertical stem of the T-body.

      PLANNED NUMBER OF SUBJECT 80 patients with biopsy proven endometrial hyperplasia (54 patients
      without atypical hyperplasia, 26 patients with atypical hyperplasia) STATISTICAL
      CONSIDERATIONS The primary objective of this study is to estimate the treatment efficacy of
      the LNG-IUS in endometrial hyperplasia patients with respect to the response rate. We expect
      different response rate depending on the atypia status. The atypia status will be determined
      by the office endometrial aspiration biopsy which will be performed before and three months
      after the LNG-IUS. The expected response rate would be 70% for those with Atypia,, and 85%
      for those without Atypia. Different estimation approach will be used depending on the Atypia
      status. For those without Atypia, the response rate will be estimated with margin of error of
      10%. The sample size needed for this estimation would be 54 patients after considering 10% of
      follow-up loss. For those with atypia, we will compare with the historical control where the
      expected response rate would be 40%. The sample size needed for the comparison, a total of 26
      patients will be needed after consideration of 90% power, 5% one-sided test type I error, and
      10% follow-up loss. The response rate with 95% confidence interval will be generated and the
      Z-test will be used for comparisons of the response rates.

      The Secondary objective is to estimate the consistency of the office endometrial aspiration
      biopsy and D&C. Kappa statistics will be used
    
  