
    
      More than 30% of the US population reports sleep disturbances, and the Centers for Disease
      Control and Prevention has identified insufficient sleep as a public health epidemic. Current
      evidence-based interventions for sleep disturbance (e.g., Cognitive Behavior Therapy for
      insomnia, Relaxation Therapy) are lengthy and limited due to the need for specialized
      providers. Pharmaco-therapy may help, however they have inherent limitations (e.g.,
      tolerance, side effects, interactions) to their use. Novel treatments that effectively and
      conveniently address sleep disturbances (i.e., help individuals self-manage sleep) need
      further investigation.

      Commercially available mobile applications (apps) may help individuals self-manage health
      conditions conveniently at low cost and with little to no side effects. Specifically,
      mindfulness-based interventions (e.g., mindfulness meditation) targeting sleep and delivered
      via a mobile app may be an attractive, feasible and effective solution to improve sleep. Few,
      if any sleep interventions testing mobile meditation apps have assessed their effects on
      sleep and most studies only include self-report measures rather than objective measures of
      sleep (e.g., portable sleep trackers). Additionally, no studies have assessed the
      neurophysiological changes (heart rate variability, heart rate, respiratory rate) during or
      with prolonged use of a mindfulness meditation mobile app and whether these changes vary
      based on time of day. Thus, there is an unexplored opportunity to efficiently and effectively
      test the use of a mindfulness meditation mobile app on sleep and neurophysiological outcomes.

      Findings from our previous study testing the effects of the mindfulness meditation mobile app
      called Calm on sleep outcomes (manuscript in review; PloS one), suggest that the Calm app
      improves self-reported sleep quality, and decreases daytime fatigue, daytime sleepiness, and
      cognitive/somatic pre-sleep arousal in sleep disturbed adults. However, we did not collect
      any objective data to confirm these findings and are unsure if these findings can be
      replicated in otherwise healthy adults. We also did not collect any neurophysiological
      outcomes during meditation practice.

      Therefore, the purpose of this study is to:

        1. Test the preliminary effects of using Calm (daytime vs nighttime) for four weeks on
           sleep outcomes (sleep quality, sleep onset, sleep efficiency, number of nighttime
           awakenings, total sleep time) using self-report and objective measures.

             1. Self-report: Sleep diaries (Pittsburgh Sleep Diaries), pre-sleep arousal (Pre-Sleep
                Arousal Survey), fatigue (Fatigue Severity Scale), and daytime sleepiness (Epworth
                Sleepiness Scale), insomnia (Insomnia Severity Index)

             2. Objective: Oura ring (sleep onset, sleep efficiency, number of nighttime
                awakenings, total sleep time, REM/light/deep sleep).

        2. Test the preliminary effects of using Calm (daytime vs nighttime) on neurophysiological
           outcomes [heart rate variability (HRV), heart rate, respiratory rate] as measured by the
           Oura ring during meditation and after four-weeks of mobile meditation practice.

      The Calm app provides daily, 10-minute, guided general meditations as well as sleep-focused
      meditations grounded in mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) and Vipassana meditation.
      Uniquely, Calm also offers "Sleep Stories", developed using techniques from Cognitive
      Behavioral Therapy and Relaxation Technique.

      The Oura Ring is a portable wearable device designed to be worn on the finger. The device
      includes a 3D accelerometer and gyroscope to measure light, deep, and rapid eye movement
      sleep. The device also measures heart rate, heart rate variability, and respiratory rate. The
      Oura Ring has shown promise as a tool to measure sleep outcomes when compared to the gold
      standard polysomnography.

      Study design: This is a quasi-experimental study with pre-post assessment using a convenience
      sample of Calm and Oura employees. We will employ two weeks of baseline data collection and
      administer the intervention for four-weeks. Participants will be randomized to one of three
      groups (i.e., general meditations, sleep meditations, or Sleep Stories). Self-report
      assessments will be conducted during baseline periods and during week 1 and week 4 of the
      intervention. Sleep diaries and objective (i.e., Oura ring and Calm app) usage data will be
      collected on a continual basis during intervention.
    
  