
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic, multisystem inflammatory disorder of unknown
      etiology. It is characterized by polyarthritis and systemic inflammation. The inflammation in
      the hyperplastic synovium can destruct the structure of affected joints. Although the exact
      molecular mechanism underlying the pathogenesis of RA remains unknown, it is suggested that T
      helper cell (Th) 17 plays a central role. Interleukin (IL)-17, mostly secreted by Th17, has
      synergistic effects with tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-α), IL-1β and IL-6 in cases of RA.
      Metformin, a traditional antidiabetic medication, exerts glucose lowering effects by
      activating AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK), a critical enzyme involved in the lipid and
      glucose metabolism. In addition to the antidiabetic effect, metformin has been shown to
      inhibit Lipopolysaccharide-Induced Inflammation (LPS)-induced inflammation by suppress NF-κB
      production, which is also regulated by AMPK . In addition, metformin activated AMPK may
      inhibit mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), which then regulate the differentiation of T
      cells in vitro and in vivo. In particular, AMPK has been reported to be associated with the
      inhibition of TH17 cells through suppressing the phosphorylation of mTOR and its downstream
      signal transducers, suggesting the therapeutic potential of AMPK agonists. Besides the
      imbalance between Th17 cells and Treg cells is responsible for the chronic inflammation in
      RA, synovium hyperplasia also plays a central role in the joint destruction. It has been
      reported that rapamycin, an inhibitor of mTOR, is able to significantly reduce fibroblastlike
      synovial cell invasion in RA via suppressing mTOR signaling pathway. These regulatory effects
      of AMPK on the inflammation, immune and fibroblast-like synovial cells have prompted the
      investigation on the effects of metformin on rheumatoid arthritis.
    
  