
    
      Acute myocardial infarction with ST elevation (STEMI) remains one of the leading causes of
      mortality in developed countries, in spite of the important advances in pharmacological
      therapy and in mechanical reperfusion therapy. Having an important role in provoking
      ischemia, thrombus has been studied in many clinical trials and high thrombus burden has been
      proven to be an independent risk factor for stent thrombosis and for Major Adverse Clinical
      outcomes. However large randomized controlled trials concerning thrombus aspiration showed
      controversial results, providing as a whole no evidence of distinct benefits for thrombus
      aspiration. A possible explanation could be that aspiration was performed as a routine
      strategy in all of these trials, whereas these patients should be considered as a
      heterogeneous group and thus they should be risk-stratified. For this reason, it is of
      paramount importance to classify patients according to the volume of thrombus burden. The
      currently existing classifications of thrombus burden (the most important being those of
      Gibson and of Sianos) are based on visual assessment of angiographic characteristics and thus
      they are not reflecting the volume of the thrombi in actual, absolute numbers.

      The main purpose of the study is to develop a methodology for the exact estimation of
      thrombus burden by measuring the volume and the density of aspirated thrombi in patients
      presenting with STEMI and referred for primary PCI. After being aspirated using dedicated
      catheters, thrombi will be preserved in formalin and their volume will be calculated with the
      use of micro-CT. The scanning procedure results into a series of projection images arranged
      in the form of image stacks which, in turn, are reformed in sections (cross section images)
      with the use of the NRecon (Bruker, Kontich, Belgium) software, which applies a modified
      algorithm of backward projection Feldkamp. The resulting sections will be combined to create
      the 3D models which will be further analyzed to extract useful measurements for the
      characteristics of the thrombi, such as for the volume and the elative density. Shape
      analysis on the surface and internal structure of the three-dimensional representations of
      the specimens will lead to the identification of the important features that can be used to
      estimate variability within samples and perform clustering for the significant differences
      between clots. In addition, possible differences in clot internal and external structure
      (e.g. architecture of the various cell types) will be assessed through the 3D models rendered
      from the stacks of images The Secondary end points of the study include the examination of
      the association of the aforementioned variables with the angiographic classification of
      thrombus burden (according to Sianos), with electrocardiographic and angiographic
      characteristics suggestive of poor patient prognosis and with major adverse cardiac events
      during the follow-up period of one year.

      This method could become the gold standard for the exact measurement of thrombus burden and
      could be used in larger, clinically-oriented trials to help stratify patients with thrombus
      burden according to their risk for adverse outcomes.
    
  