
    
      Admission to the intensive care unit (ICU) with critical illness is typically associated with
      profound physical impairments including peripheral skeletal muscle wasting and dysfunction.
      These effects demonstrate a rapid onset from the point of ICU admission, affect those with
      higher illness acuity to greater levels, and contribute to the development of intensive care
      unit-acquired weakness (ICU-AW) defined as severe upper and lower limb muscle weakness.

      Muscle structure has traditionally been evaluated using complex scanning approaches such as
      computed tomography or dual energy x-ray absorptiometry, however there are a number of
      caveats to their use in the clinical environment of critical care. Ionising radiation
      involved precludes their use in large populations, and especially for performance of
      sequential measurements. Whilst magnetic resonance imaging avoids this concern, practical
      limitations exist around scanning time and accessibility. In addition, all these imaging
      modalities require transfer out of the ICU environment, further restricting their application
      to acutely unwell, unstable patients. Finally, in addition to their expense, the nature of
      imaging using these approaches means that only a limited number of muscles may be assessed at
      any one time.

      Ultrasound has emerged in recent years as a technique with significant clinical utility for
      assessing and monitoring the trajectory of change in muscle during acute critical illness. A
      range of parameters of muscle architecture and quality can be measured and data from the
      critical illness population is growing. Advantages of ultrasound include feasibility of
      bedside assessment, and that is it non-ionising, non-invasive and effort-independent with
      equipment is readily available in the critical care environment. Ultrasound imaging has
      robust clinimetric properties and predictive utility for morbidity and other clinical
      endpoints including mortality and hospital readmission.

      A number of observational cohort studies have conducted sequential measurements of a range of
      respiratory and peripheral skeletal muscle groups during critical illness, characterising the
      decline in both muscle quantity and quality as a result of the acute insult. However no
      studies to date have included assessment of the abdominal muscles in critically ill patients
      necessary for core stability, trunk control and postural maintenance and therefore of
      significant clinical importance during the rehabilitation process.

      In addition, whilst hypoxia has been found to be associated with greater muscle attenuation,
      no study has examined the relative changes in muscle in patients receiving extracorporeal
      membrane oxygenation (ECMO). ECMO is a ventilator support therapy primarily delivered to
      critically ill patients with severe respiratory failure where the hypoxic state is corrected.

      The aim of this study is therefore to characterise sequential changes across respiratory,
      trunk and peripheral skeletal muscles in critically ill patients requiring ECMO.
    
  