
    
      Esophageal cancer (EC) is the eighth most common cancers in the world, with more than 480,000
      new cases and 400,000 deaths occurred annually worldwide. In China, either new cases or
      deaths account for more than half of the world. Morever, over 90% of Chinese patients have
      esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).

      Surgery is the main treatment of this disease, but the prognosis of patients with locally
      advanced esophageal cancer is rather poor. As a result of surgery alone, the 5-year survival
      rate of about 25% has not changed significantly in several decades.

      Neo-adjuvant chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery seems hopeful to improve the survival of
      EC. Recently, the CROSS trial has demonstrated that preoperative chemoradiotherapy can
      significantly increased the overall survival of patients with EC compared with surgery alone.
      However,a recent meta-analysis has indicated that an increased risk of postoperative
      mortality and treatment-related mortality was apparent in ESCC with the treatment of
      neo-adjuvant chemoradiotherapy.

      Compare to surgery alone,the advantage of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy is reflected in the
      significantly higher percentage of R0 resections and higher rate of pathological complete
      response.

      Thus,the investigators designed a new preoperative chemoradiotherapy regimen to focus on the
      most important radiation area and hope to reduce the radiation volume and try to reduce the
      postoperative mortality and treatment-related mortality.

      Radiotherapy:Patients will be conducted CT simulation, and three-dimensional radiation
      therapy or Intensity-modulated radiation therapy was performed. 1.8Gy/fraction, 5 fractions a
      week, with a total dose of 4140cgy will be delivered for all patients by 6-MV-X-ray of linear
      accelerator.

      Chemotherapy:Patients will be concurrently administered with irradiation every 4 weeks with
      PF regimen (cis-platinum of 25 mg/m2/d, d1-3; 5-fluorouracil of 500mg/m2/d, d1-4) for 2
      cycles.

      Surgery:Patients will receive operation 4-8 weeks after chemoradiotherapy.
    
  