
    
      Description of procedures/methods:

      BASELINE VISIT Once the treating ophthalmologist has made the diagnosis of OSD, subjects will
      be asked to participate in the research study. Informed consent will be obtained for all
      subjects willing to participate in the study. Afterwards, the treating ophthalmologist will
      administer a dry eye questionnaire to each subject. After completion of the questionnaire,
      subjects will be given 90-day supply of the study drug/placebo. Based on a pre-determined
      randomization list, each subjects will be randomized to receive either the study medication
      (TheraTears nutritional supplementation) or a placebo drug (olive oil capsules). All subjects
      will be instructed to continue using artificial lubrication as needed while taking part in
      this study.

      We hypothesize that therapy with an oral fish oil nutritional supplement containing 450mg
      EPA, 300 mg DHA, and 1000 mg flaxseed oil (TheraTears Nutrition; Advanced Vision Research,
      Woburn, MA) will decrease OSD-related symptoms as well as clinical markers associated with
      OSD (Schirmer test values, positive vital staining with lissamine green, fluorescein tear
      break-up time, and tear film osmolarity) when compared to administration of placebo.

      FOLLOW-UP VISIT Approximately 90 days after the baseline visit, subjects are scheduled to
      come to the clinic for their routine• eye check. At that visit, subject's O.SD will be
      re-assessed by the same examination techniques as the baseline visit. After the examination,
      the questionnaire will be administered for a second time. The study drug will be discontinued
      at that visit and standard therapy for the subject's OSO, as deemed necessary by the treating
      ophthalmologist, will be instituted.

      Statement of duration of subject participation:

      Subject will be in the study for 3 months. There will be two visits, one is the baseline and
      second is the follow-up visit. All visits will coincide with their regular clinic visit. The
      total hours of study participation is no more than 2 hours.
    
  