
    
      Background:

        -  Metastatic digestive tract cancers, in particular esophageal, gastric, pancreatic and
           hepatobiliary carcinomas, are associated with poor survival beyond five years and poor
           response to existing therapies.

        -  Data from the National Cancer Institute Surgery Branch (NCI-SB) and from the literature
           support that metastatic cancers are potentially immunogenic and that tumor-infiltrating

      lymphocytes (TIL) can be grown and expanded from these tumors.

        -  In metastatic melanoma, TIL can mediate the regression of bulky disease at any site when
           administered to an autologous patient with high-dose aldesleukin (IL-2) following a
           nonmyeloablative, lymphodepleting preparative regimen.

        -  The recent young-TIL approach, in which TIL are minimally cultured in vitro, not
           selected for tumor recognition, before rapid expansion and infusion to metastatic
           melanoma patients, has lead to objective response rates comparable to previous trials
           relying on TIL screened for tumor recognition, with no added toxicities.

        -  In pre-clinical models, the administration of an anti-PD-1 antibody enhances the
           anti-tumor activity of transferred T-cells.

        -  We propose to investigate the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of TIL adoptive transfer
           therapy in combination with pembrolizumab, administered either prior to cell
           administration or at the time of progressive disease, for metastatic cancers.

      Objectives:

      -Primary objective:

      --With Amendment BB, to determine the rate of tumor regression in patients with metastatic
      cancer who receive autologous, minimally cultured TIL in conjunction with a
      non-myeloablative, lymphodepleting preparative regimen, high-dose aldesleukin, and anti-PD-1.

      Eligibility:

      Patients must be/have:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years and less than or equal to 70 years

        -  Metastatic upper or lower gastrointestinal, hepatobiliary, genitourinary, breast,
           ovarian/endometrial cancer, or glioblastoma refractory to standard chemotherapy

        -  Normal basic laboratory values

      Patients may not have:

        -  Concurrent major medical illnesses

        -  Severe hepatic function impairment due to liver metastatic burden

        -  Unpalliated biliary or bowel occlusion, cholangitis, or digestive tract bleeding

        -  Any form of immunodeficiency

        -  Severe hypersensitivity to any of the agents used in this study

      Design:

        -  Patients may undergo resection or biopsy to obtain tumor for generation of autologous
           TIL cultures and autologous cancer cell lines, and for frozen tissue archive. Lymph
           nodes, ascites,peritoneal implants, and normal tissue adjacent to metastatic deposit
           will also be obtained when possible for ongoing and future research as described in the
           NCI-SB cell harvest protocol 03-C-0277 (Cell Harvest and Preparation for Surgery Branch
           Adoptive Cell Therapy Protocols).

        -  With the approval of Amendment BB, patients will be enrolled on Arm 3 or Arm 4. All
           patients will receive a non-myeloablative, lymphodepleting preparative regimen
           consisting of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine followed by the infusion of autologous
           TIL and high-dose aldesleukin. Patients enrolled on Arm 3 will receive pembrolizumab
           prior to cell administration and three additional doses every three weeks following the
           cell infusion. Patients enrolled on Arm 4 will receive pembrolizumab within four weeks
           after meeting progressive disease by RECIST criteria, continuing for up to 8 doses every
           3 weeks.

        -  Clinical and immunologic response will be evaluated about 6 weeks after cell infusion
           and periodically thereafter.

        -  Twenty-one patients will initially be enrolled in each group to assess toxicity and
           tumor responses. If two or more of the first 21 patients per groups shows a clinical
           response (partial response or complete response), accrual will continue to 41 patients,
           targeting a 20% goal for objective response.

        -  Up to 332 patients may be enrolled.
    
  