
    
      The scientific premise of this project is that appropriately tailored lifestyle interventions
      for weight loss can achieve clinically impactful weight loss in Hispanic adults with obesity.
      Older adults will be the focus, recognizing that requirements for tailoring may vary
      according to age group. Given that older adults have a higher risk of chronic diseases caused
      by obesity, there is a great need to focus on factors that disproportionately affect older
      Hispanic adults. The objective of this project is to tailor a validated lifestyle
      intervention developed and used by our team in ethnically mixed populations to older Hispanic
      adults with obesity. This novel intervention does not require food logging or a large
      increase in physical activity to achieve weight loss, making it more acceptable to population
      groups with low adherence to traditional interventions. The long-term goal of this work is to
      create an effective, culturally acceptable, sustainable, and scalable lifestyle weight
      management program for routine use in Hispanic adults with obesity. Findings from this work
      will be directly applicable to future community interventions and will be relevant for public
      health measures in this at-risk population.

      The specific aims are:

      Aim 1: To conduct focus groups in Hispanic older adults with obesity to identify factors that
      can be addressed in the tailored intervention. Information will be collected on practical and
      cultural barriers and promoters of successful weight management, including food access,
      dietary patterns, physical activity, time and financial constraints, and additional
      psychosocial and cultural factors.

      Hypothesis 1: Malleable dietary and psychosocial targets for weight loss and weight loss
      maintenance can be identified, including factors such as food cravings, hunger and
      disinhibited eating that have been shown to be effective targets in other population groups.

      Aim 2: To conduct a pilot behavioral intervention of an initially adapted program in Hispanic
      older adults with obesity. A prototype bilingual English-Spanish lifestyle intervention for
      weight reduction will be created. The prototype will then be iteratively refined during a
      series of short-term tests (two tests lasting 4 weeks, followed by a final test lasting 12
      weeks) of intervention delivery. In these interventions, % weight loss, % drop-out, and
      safety benchmarks will be monitored. Participant-reported barriers to adherence identified
      during group meetings and exit interviews will be targets for improvement in successive
      iterations.

      Hypothesis 2: Successive refinement of the program will result in progressive improvements in
      mean % weight loss and participant retention.

      The final products of this project will be: a) a prototype adapted intervention in older US
      adults of Hispanic background, accounting for cultural heterogeneity in this population; and
      b) identification of additional barriers that can be addressed in subsequent iterations of
      the intervention.
    
  