
    
      This study aims to compare between the efficacy of empirical use of fosfomycin trometamol and
      the use of selected antimicrobials according to urinary culture and sensitivity in curing
      asymptomatic bacteriuria.

      All women included in the study will be counseled regarding mode of intervention and informed
      consent will be obtained. All cases will be subjected to complete history taking, routine
      antenatal examination and investigations including complete blood picture, kidney functions
      and urine analysis, treatment of genital infection if diagnosed. Routine obstetric ultrasound
      examination.

      Patients will be randomized into two groups:

        1. Group (A): Fosfomycin group (FG); where all patients will receive empirical 3 gm oral
           fosfomycin fosfomycin will be taken by mouth on an empty stomach i.e. 2-3 hours after
           meals preferably in the evening before bed time after emptying the bladder.

           The contents of 1 packet of Monuril will be dissolved in a glass of water or another
           non-alcoholic drink and drink immediately. Do not mix with hot water. Do not take
           fosfomycin in its dry form.

           Nature: also known as phosphomycin, phosphonomycin, is a broad-spectrum antibiotic,
           produced by certain Streptomyces species, although it can now be made by chemical
           synthesis.

           Trade name: Monuril Company: Zambon, Pharma Con Company, Switzerland

        2. Group (B): Culture specific group (CG): where all patients will receive oral antibiotic
           according to urine culture and sensitivity, oral antibiotics will be given in the form
           of five days regimen.

      How the urine sample will be collected? The caregiver will give the patient a sterile cup and
      lid, and advice her to wash herself completely then clean the perineal area from anterior to
      posterior by water and in standing position as male begin to urinate then stop urinating put
      the sterile cup and catch the rest of urine in it. Do not touch the inside of the cup or the
      lid. Put the lid on the cup.

      One week after completing the course of treatment all patients included in the study will be
      subjected to colony count evaluation, to figure out the need for:

        1. Urine culture in fosfomycin group in case of inadequate response to treatment and to
           give antibiotic according.

        2. The change of duration or the type of antibiotic in case of inadequate response to
           initial treatment in the culture group.

      Outcomes

      Primary:

        -  Resolution of asymptomatic bacteriuria as measured by colony count.

        -  Time frame: 1 week

      Secondary:

        1. Side effects of fosfomycin as, nausea, diarrhea, headache, vaginal itching, runny nose,
           back pain Side effects from other antibiotics in culture and sensitivity group

        2. Need for further treatment, either extending the course of treatment into 5 or 7 days
           regimen or changing the antibiotic in case of inadequate initial response.

        3. Need for further investigations, as urine culture and sensitivity for fosfomycin group
           in case of inadequate response on empirical treatment.
    
  