
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the maximum-tolerated dose of everolimus when combined with carboplatin and
           paclitaxel in chemonaïve patients with unresectable or inoperable locally advanced head
           and neck squamous cell carcinoma. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the safety profile of weekly everolimus in combination with carboplatin and
           paclitaxel in chemonaïve patients with unresectable or inoperable locally advanced head
           and neck squamous cell carcinoma. (Phase I)

        -  To determine the anti-tumor activity of this regimen, in terms of objective response
           rate of the combination, according to the RECIST criteria in these patients. (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  To identify molecular markers of resistance to this regimen in these patients.

        -  To assess objective response rate before and after completion of radiation therapy in
           these patients. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study of everolimus followed by a
      phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour, carboplatin IV over 1 hour, and
           escalating doses of oral everolimus on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21
           days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive paclitaxel and carboplatin as in phase I and oral everolimus
           (at a dose determined in the phase I portion of the study) on days 1, 8, and 15.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      After the completion of combination therapy, patients may receive radiotherapy or surgery, at
      the investigator's discretion.

      Blood samples are collected for translational research and molecular markers analysis at
      baseline and weeks 1, 4, and 9. Tissue samples are collected at baseline and periodically
      during the study for biomarker and other laboratory analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 14 days and periodically
      thereafter.
    
  