
    
      There are limited data regarding the biology of diffuse intrinsic pontine gliomas (DIPG) and
      diffuse midline gliomas (DMG). This project provides the infrastructure for acquisition of
      biological specimens, imaging, and correlative clinical data to facilitate biology studies in
      this group of patients. The goal of the DIPG/DMG registry is to promote collaborations
      amongst investigators to allow timely data and/or specimen dissemination for future research
      studies and to develop classification systems, uniform standards of diagnosis, assessment and
      response, ultimately leading to the development of effective therapies for children with
      DIPG/DMG.

      This registry will collect clinical, demographic, radiological and pathological data and
      specimens (if available) from patients with DIPG/DMG, both prospectively (in newly diagnosed
      or currently living patients), as well as retrospectively (in patients who are deceased).
      Cases are identified through:

        1. Existing clinical and/or cancer registry databases

        2. Referrals from clinicians, surgeons, or pathologists

        3. Families initiating contact with Registry staff directly

      The following data/materials will be collected:

      Clinical: Demographic data, date of diagnosis, signs and symptoms at diagnosis, laboratory
      data, detailed treatment data (e.g. types and dates of surgeries (if any), chemotherapy,
      radiotherapy), best response to treatment, dates of progression, types of progression (local
      or metastatic), and follow-up data.

      Imaging: All radiographic imaging obtained since diagnosis will be requested at the time of
      study entry.

      Pathology Central Review: If glass slides (stained or unstained) or paraffin blocks of tumor
      tissue (from biopsy or autopsy) are available, they will be requested at the time of registry
      entry but are not mandatory for enrollment.

      Bioinfomatics repository: Collection of existing molecular and/or genomic data or analysis
      that has been performed as well as prospective analysis of tissue from the registry will be
      submitted to a central bioinformatics repository and may be linked to clinical data housed in
      the DIPG/DMG registry.

      Tissue Collection and Storage for Future Research: If available, participants' frozen tissue
      may be submitted for banking and future research.

      Data stored in the Registry may be used to provide statistical data for scientific
      presentations and for preparation of peer-reviewed manuscripts. No personal data can be
      traced to the study manuscripts or presentations. Data and specimens will be released for
      research proposals upon approval from the International DIPG/DMG Registry Committee.

      The International DIPG/DMG Registry and Repository is not associated with any oncology group
      cooperative study or treatment trial.
    
  