
    
      Our study will include individuals aged 40-75 years, diagnosed with ischemic or hemorrhagic
      stroke, who applied to the Kırıkkale University Faculty of Medicine physical therapy and
      rehabilitation clinic. After the patients are separated according to the specified exclusion
      and inclusion criteria, they will be divided into 3 groups using the "Online Random
      Allocation Software" program. Evaluations will be made before and after treatment.

      In addition to normal neurodevelopmental therapy (NGT) 5 days a week, respiratory
      physiotherapy will be applied. The total duration of treatment will take 6 weeks.

        1. Neurodevelopmental treatment program (BOBATH treatment approach) will be applied to the
           group.

        2. The group will have a neurodevelopmental treatment program (BOBATH treatment approach)
           and diaphragmatic breathing exercises.

        3. The group will have a neurodevelopmental treatment program (BOBATH treatment approach)
           and respiratory muscle training with the THRESHOLD IMT device.

      Inspiratory Muscle Training Program with Threshold IMT device: Constant pressure is applied
      to the inspiration phase during application. The training group is started from 40% of MIP
      and inspiratory muscle training is given. In practice, patients are asked to sit in a loose
      position on the upper chest and shoulders. After the nose clip is attached, the patient is
      instructed to tighten his lips around the mouthpiece of the instrument, making inspiration
      and expiration. After eight breathing cycles, she is asked to do 1-2 respiratory controls.

      Diaphragmatic breathing exercise: The patient is given a supine position, a pillow is placed
      under his knees and head. The patient is asked to place his right hand in the upper abdomen
      and his left hand in the upper part of his chest. The patient is told to take a slow and deep
      breath through the nose until four counts, and to hold the air in for the breathing time, and
      then to the patient, shrinking his lips like a whistle, and exhaling his breath for a long
      time. Exercises are performed two hours after meals, initially as short as 2-3 minutes,
      within 10 minutes of the patient's tolerance, with an average of 30 minutes per day.
    
  