
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To determine the optimal tolerated dose of Doxil when given in
      combination with daily oral cyclophosphamide in patients with stage IV breast cancer. (Phase
      I) II. To determine the efficacy (overall clinical response rate) of the optimal tolerated
      dose of Doxil when given in combination with daily oral cyclophosphamide and herceptin (for
      HER2 neu positive patients) in patients with stage IV breast cancer. (Phase II) SECONDARY
      OBJECTIVES: I. To assess the treatment related toxicity associated with each dose level of
      this regimen and assess efficacy (overall clinical response rate). (Phase I) II. To assess
      the safety (treatment related toxicity) of the optimal tolerated dose of Doxil when given in
      combination with daily oral cyclophosphamide and herceptin (for HER2 neu positive patients)
      in patients with stage IV breast cancer. (Phase II) III. To assess time to progression and
      overall survival following treatment with Doxil and daily oral cyclophosphamide and herceptin
      (for HER2 neu positive patients). (Phase II) IV. To compare the response rate in patients who
      are heavily pretreated to the response rate in patients who are less heavily pretreated.
      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of pegylated doxorubicin HCl liposome
      followed by a phase II feasibility study. Patients receive oral cyclophosphamide once daily
      on days 1-28 and pegylated doxorubicin HCl liposome IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 4-6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Some
      patients with HER2/neu 3+ disease may also receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes weekly
      or every 3 weeks at the discretion of the treating physician. After completion of study
      treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years,
      and then annually thereafter.
    
  