
    
      To study the epidemiological and pathogenic of dengue virus in Guangzhou, which help to
      reveal the regular prevalent pattern and the natural epidemic focus of dengue fever. To
      establish dengue virus sequence database of Guangzhou region, research the biological
      characteristics and molecular characteristics of dengue fever epidemic strains especially in
      2014 in Guangzhou region, to determine the source and variation of this epidemic strains ,
      which finally help to reveal the cause of the pandemic.

      To investigate the serum epidemiology of 7800 large groups of people in 12 county-level
      cities in Guangzhou by stratified random sampling method. It will enrich the research
      database of the dengue fever serological antibody level survey of people in Guangzhou. After
      that the investigators could provide a scientific reference for setting up a risk evaluation
      and implementation of targeted control measures, and also provide reference for analysis of
      the epidemic situation in other areas.

      To study on molecular markers predictive of severe dengue fever and protective immunity after
      dengue virus infection. The investigators will obtain both serotype-specific and
      cross-reactive antibodies, which is highly protective neutralizing antibodies. Then the
      investigators will explore the potential for clinical application about these neutralizing
      antibodies. The dengue virus were sequenced which caused dengue fever or severe dengue fever
      in 2014, and do bioinformatics analysis to find the genetic loci which may be responsible for
      virulence of dengue virus.

      To sum up the clinical and laboratory data of dengue fever in 2014, to carry out the research
      on the diagnosis and treatment of dengue fever, to explore the effectiveness, safety and
      mechanism of Integrated Chinese and Western medicine treatment for dengue fever patients，to
      establish of a more perfect system for the diagnosis and treatment of dengue fever in China.
    
  