
    
      Measurement of shoulder function is a controversial issue. There is a great variety of
      measurement tools but none of them has been universally accepted. There is therefore a need
      to develop extensively validated and convenient measurement tools.

      Embedded computerized movement analysis can potentially meet these requirements for
      measurement of shoulder function. Ambulatory measurement devices allow application in various
      clinical conditions, display adequate precision and accuracy, and are considerably more
      straightforward than laboratory-based systems.

      Using a Physilog ® II embedded system, Coley (2007) developed a relatively simple score of
      shoulder function (P Score). The method is based on arm power measurement by
      three-dimensional accelerometers and gyroscopes during seven consecutive shoulder movements.
      It demonstrated reliability, responsiveness and criterion-based validity. However, additional
      knowledge and technological progress could now contribute to further simplification of the
      testing procedure.

      Indeed, a secondary analysis of Coley's study data based on principal component analysis and
      multiple regressions highlighted that a procedure including only two selected movements
      produces comparable results to P Score. Moreover, the development of wireless systems
      considerably simplifies set up. Consequently, simpler but equivalent measurement procedure
      can now be considered.

      A pilot study (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01281085) has been conducted to prepare this
      study. it contributed to determine the number of replications of movements needed and to
      refine the testing procedure.

      The aim of this study is to proceed to an extensive validation study of the simplified
      testing procedure. Kinematic measurements will be carried out with four groups of patients
      presenting with frequent shoulder conditions (rotator cuff condition, shoulder instability,
      diaphyseal or subcapital humerus fracture, frozen shoulder) and a group of healthy people.
      Measurement procedure includes two consecutive measurements, alternatively conducted by two
      evaluators and measured simultaneously by two different movement analysis systems. Currently
      used functional questionnaires will be completed at both stages for comparison. Measurement
      will be performed at baseline and 6 months later.

      Statistical analysis will address reproducibility, responsiveness, minimal clinically
      important difference and correlation with current clinical scores.
    
  