
    
      This randomized controlled trial (RCT) will examine a case management program for 320 male
      and female patients suffering from coronary heart disease with multimorbidity in Mannheim,
      Germany. The main objectives are to evaluate how case management and social interaction alone
      compared to standard medical care affect the primary and secondary outcomes: physical health,
      quality of life, loneliness, depression, self-efficacy, outcome expectancies, social support,
      health locus of control, lifestyle behavior, social network, vulnerability, intention,
      severity, health worries and cognitive functions.

      Additionally, the secondary outcomes are studied as factors that mediate the effects of case
      management and social interaction alone compared to standard medical care on the primary
      outcomes.

      The trail consists of 3 treatment arms: 1) intensified case management; 2) social interaction
      alone 3) usual care. The intervention consists of a biweekly contact by trained case managers
      over the first 6-months and a monthly contact over the subsequent 6-months. Each contact
      involves an assessment of well-being, daily life, problems and offering emotional support and
      solutions or refer to the general practitioner if necessary (both intervention groups).

      For patients assigned to the "CM CHD" the contacts include medical control (like blood
      pressure or weight) and well-being as well as an additional core set of relevant outcome
      measures (e.g. need for treatment of fatigue).

      Patients assigned to the control group received usual care (no CM or contact). An additional
      fourth group is monitored. This group is consisting of patients who refused to take part in
      the study but gave consent to collect their practice data (not randomized).

      Each patient will be followed for 12 months. Extensive assessments and self-administered
      questionnaires take place at baseline, 6-month and 12-month for all patients in the three
      randomized groups.
    
  