
    
      Background and Rationale:

      Gastric cancer remains the second leading cause of cancer related death in the world. The
      incidence and mortality rate is predominant in East Asia[1]. Usually, gastric cancer is
      asymptomatic in early stage; therefore, most patients are in the advanced stage and incurable
      at diagnosis. The pathogenesis of intestinal type gastric cancer is sequential and multistep
      pathway. Gastric intestinal metaplasia (GIM) is the precancerous lesion for intestinal type
      gastric cancer[2]. The strategies which can detect precancerous and/or early cancerous
      transformation are very beneficial because only early gastric cancer can potentially be cured
      by endoscopic treatment. Probe-based confocal laser endomicroscope or pCLE is useful for GIM
      detection with 94% in sensitivity[3]. However, this perfect sensitivity in pCLE
      interpretation is provided in only expertise. We still do not know how to be an expert in GIM
      interpretation. No study about learning curve in GIM interpretation by pCLE published

      Observation and Measurement:

      Collect the accuracy in GIM interpretation from pCLE reported in ROC curve

      Methodology:

        1. Six inexperienced pCLE readers were recruited.

        2. All inexperienced pCLE readers must attend the learning session.

        3. Self-review from CD is recommended for all inexperienced pCLE readers

        4. Two-week interval for examination in GIM interpretation from 20 new histology-proved
           pCLE images (GIM and normal mucosa) for 5 sessions are on schedule after training
           session.

        5. All Inexperienced pCLE readers need to review the training CD at least a day before each
           examination.

        6. The accuracy rate in each examination will be recorded individually for each
           inexperienced pCLE reader.

        7. ROC curve is reported for learning curve in GIM interpretation from pCLE images.

      Data collection:

      All data will be processed and recorded by one physician.
    
  