
    
      The main research question asks to what extent does participation in a structured 3-hour
      training module (i.e., The Family Caregiver Training Program) focused on assisting family
      caregiver's with the ADLs of people with dementia effect caregiver knowledge and confidence,
      which in turn may effect caregiver burden, depression, quality of life, and occupational
      performance and satisfaction. Aim 1 will examine the relationship between the Family
      Caregiver Training Program intervention and knowledge of and confidence in the occupation of
      caregiving. Aim 2 will explore the relationship between the occupation of caregiving and
      person characteristics including burden, depression, and quality of life. Aim 3 will explore
      the relationship between the changes in the occupation of caregiving and changes in
      occupational performance.

      A feasibility of the Family Caregiver Training Program was established using a single pre-
      post- test design. A significant improvement in caregiver knowledge was found in all three
      areas of training: communication/nutrition (N=53, p<0.001), transfers and toileting (N=46,
      p=0.003), and bathing and dressing (N=45, p=0.10) (DiZazzo-Miller, Samuel, Barnas, & Welker,
      2014). This proposed study is built on the feasibility study, with the addition of
      confidence, burden, depression, quality of life, and occupational performance and
      satisfaction as outcomes using a random assignment to control group design.

      A convenience sample of 36 family caregivers was recruited through flyers, newsletters, and
      Alzheimer's Association media outlets. The intervention group received one two-hour training
      that included three modules. Module one presented information on communication,
      eating/feeding and nutrition; module two focused on transfers and toileting; and module three
      focused on bathing, grooming, and dressing. The control group received standard care based
      upon a packet developed by the Alzheimer's Association for physicians to distribute to
      families and caregivers after receiving a diagnosis of dementia.

      Results from this study will be generalizable to Metro-Detroit area family caregivers.
      Findings may offer information to enhance the caregiver training literature in the field of
      occupational therapy on the impact a community-based activity of daily living training can
      have with dementia family caregivers.
    
  