
    
      Head and neck malignancies represent a group of epithelial tumors that arise from the oral
      cavity, pharynx, and larynx and account for about 3 to 5% of all cancers in the United
      States. In 2010, an estimated 49,260 people (35,530 men and 13,730 women) will develop head
      and neck cancer, and an estimated 11,480 deaths (8,300 men and 3,180 women) will occur.

      Three modalities of therapy have established roles in the treatment of carcinoma of the head
      and neck: chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery. The choice of modality depends upon
      many factors such as the site and extent of the primary lesion, the likelihood of complete
      surgical resection, the presence of lymph node metastases, etc. Traditionally, smaller
      lesions (stage T1-T2) are effectively treated either, by surgical excision or irradiation
      whereas more advanced disease (T3-T4) is treated with combined surgery and radiation or
      chemoradiation. The goal of concurrent chemotherapy with radiation is to increase
      locoregional control and prevent distant metastases.

      A specific concomitant chemoradiation protocol for head and neck cancer known as RADPLAT
      employs the pharmacologic principles and techniques described above. Capitalizing on the
      cisplatin-neutralizing agent sodium thiosulfate and its pharmacokinetic properties, enormous
      concentrations of cisplatin can be infused directly into large head and neck tumors through a
      targeted IA approach. In a Phase I study, it was determined that cisplatin could be safely
      administered to patients with advanced and recurrent head and neck cancer at a dose intensity
      of 150mg/m2/week.

      The patient must be considered a clinical candidate for either intra-arterial or intravenous
      administration of cisplatin to be eligible for the study. Once enrolled and registered on the
      study, the subject will be randomized to either intravenous or intra-arterial administered
      cisplatin. Subjects will be assigned in a 1:1 ratio of intra-arterial versus intravenous
      administration. All patients will receive concurrent radiation therapy. Standard
      institutional practice will be applied for dose reduction and treatment of radiation therapy
      related toxicities.

      A combination of lateral opposing fields will be used for the treatment of the primary tumor
      site and upper neck when three dimensional CRT is used and is not applicable for IMRT. A
      single anterior A-P field can be used to treat the lower neck below the primary tumor/upper
      neck. When there are positive nodes in the lower neck, an additional posterior field may be
      necessary to deliver a supplemental dose to the positive nodes. All fields must be treated on
      each treatment session.

      The investigators will measure feasibility of the study protocol through enrollment and
      screen failure data. The study will test the hypothesis that intra-arterial cisplatin is more
      effective for patient outcomes in overall survival, disease free survival, cancer specific
      survival, rate of local and regional control of cancer, site of recurrence, organ
      preservation rate, toxicity, and correlative specimen availability.
    
  