
    
      This is a pilot study involving kidney transplant recipients who will be receiving a kidney
      from a live donor and receiving care at Vancouver General Hospital or St. Paul's Hospital.

      Upon enrollment baseline demographics, including age, sex, BMI, ethnicity will be recorded.
      Baseline physical measures will include resting HR and BP, 6-minute walk test (6-MWT)
      (measuring HR and RPE every minute throughout), 30-second timed sit to stand (HR and RPE at
      the end), Fried Frailty score (Subjective: weight loss, energy level, physical activity
      levels - Objective: weakness, slowed walking speed), and a quality of life (QOL) and fatigue
      survey. These baseline measures will be recorded at onset of enrollment, every 3 months,
      again 1 week prior to KT, 4 weeks post operatively, and each month after for 5 months. This
      will add up to 6 months of follow up. The patient reported outcomes - post-op recovery survey
      and fatigue survey will also be completed on day 2 and day 5 post-operatively as well as 1, 2
      and 4-weeks post-operatively.

      Questionnaire Administration:

      All questionnaires will be available electronically using Qualtrics as well via a paper copy.
      These will be administered based on patient preference; they will both be administered either
      electronically using Qualtrics or via a paper copy.

      Participant Expectations: Assessment and Follow-up

      Baseline Assessment:

      Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP), Quality
      of Life Survey, Fatigue Survey, Baseline Exercise Level Questionnaire

      Every 3 Months Leading Up to Renal Transplant:

      I.e. 3-month, 6-month, 9-month, 12-month post baseline assessment - Physical Fitness
      assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP), Quality of Life Survey,
      Fatigue Survey

      One-week Prior to Renal Transplant:

      Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP), Quality
      of Life Survey, Fatigue Survey

      Two Day Post Operation:

      Patient Reported Outcomes - Post-op recovery survey

      Five Day Post Operation:

      Patient Reported Outcomes - Post-op recovery survey

      One Week Post Operation:

      Patient Reported Outcomes - Post-op recovery survey, Fatigue survey

      Two Week Post Operation:

      Patient Reported Outcomes - Post-op recovery survey, Fatigue survey

      One Month Post Operation:

      Patient Reported Outcomes - Post-op recovery survey, Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT,
      30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP), Quality of Life Survey, Fatigue Survey

      Two Month Post Operation:

      Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP)

      Three Month Post Operation:

      Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP)

      Four Month Post Operation:

      Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP)

      Five Month Post Operation:

      Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP)

      Six Month Post Operation:

      Physical Fitness assessment (6-MWT, 30-sec sit to stand, Fried Frailty Score, HR+BP), Quality
      of Life Survey, Fatigue Survey

      Following the baseline assessment, participants will be randomly allocated to treatment
      groups (2:1) to a 1) home-based training program (exercise group) and a 2) control group (no
      prehab just regular care, which is standard procedure). This random allocation will occur via
      a computer-generated randomized scheme.

      Following enrolment, each participant allocated to the exercise group will begin the
      prehabilitation protocol shortly after the initial consultation with their attending
      urologist. The prehabilitation protocol will be performed from this initial consult up until
      the date of the scheduled KT (minimum 4 weeks). In person instruction, from a member of the
      research team with standard first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) training, and
      an instructional handout and exercise log will be provided, as well as exercise resistance
      bands to perform resistance exercises. The exercise log will be given to each study
      participant and will be used solely as a method to make organizing and recording each
      exercise session easier for the participant. The exercise log will not be collected by the
      study team. The exercise log should be completed following each exercise session and it
      should take no longer than 2-3 minutes to complete. All participants who are allocated to the
      exercise group will be asked to complete 4-5 days per week of mixed modality exercise
      incorporating aerobic, resistance, and flexibility training. The exercise intervention is
      prescribed based on the FITT principle: frequency, intensity, time and type. The 10-point
      Rating of Perceived Exertion (RPE) scale, which has been well correlated to target HR levels,
      will be used to monitor exercise intensity levels throughout the intervention, with
      participants instructed to maintain their intensity level at 3-5 during exercise sessions.
      Participant progression will be individualized and based on their subjective perceived
      intensity level using the RPE scale.

      Aerobic Component:

      The aerobic component can include any modality the patient is capable of doing, including
      walking, swimming or biking. By the end of the prehabilitation period the target will be 30
      minutes of aerobic exercise three times a week at an intensity of 3-5 RPE. Initially, the
      patient may start with 10 minutes, three times a week. Slowly progressing first with duration
      (10 to 15 min), followed by an increase in exercise intensity (increased speed or grade - RPE
      from 3 - 5).

      Resistance Component:

      The resistance component will include 5-6 exercises using body weight and resistance bands.
      The target will be 12 repetitions and 3 sets, two times a week. Initially, the patient may
      start with 8 repetitions and 1 set and progress to a maximum of 12 repetitions and 3 sets. If
      a participant is able to complete >12 repetitions and 3 sets of a specific resistance
      exercise than they will increase resistance (i.e. green band to red band). These exercises
      will be provided in the handout that each participant will receive. Lower body exercises will
      include foot, knee and hip flexion and extension, and hip adduction and adduction. Upper body
      exercises will include arm and wrist flexion and extension, and shoulder abduction and
      adduction.

      Flexibility Component:

      The flexibility component will include 5 exercises that can be completed at the end of each
      session. This should take no longer than 5-10 minutes. These exercises will be provided in
      the handout that each participant will receive. Flexibility exercises will include a
      hamstring stretch, quadriceps stretch, hip external rotation, standing lumbar extension, and
      upper body shoulder and arm stretch.

      Participants will self-report their participation in the prehabilitation program based on an
      electronic survey. The intent of the survey is to follow the frequency, time and type of
      exercise of the patient leading up to the operation and identify whether the patient is
      adhering to the exercise intervention. The survey will take an estimated 3-5 minutes to
      complete and will primarily consist of Likert-scale questions and checkboxes. Survey
      responses will be stored on University of British Columbia (UBC) owned and operated servers
      such as the Qualtrics tool supported and maintained by UBC IT.

      Self-reported exercise and physical measures will be recorded at baseline, and every two or
      three weeks prior to each patients KT as well as bi-weekly post-operatively up until 1-month
      post KT. This confidential, anonymized, electronic pre-operative survey will be used to keep
      track of self-reported physical activity levels.
    
  