
    
      Background- Adolescent idiopathic scoliosis is the most common indication for major surgery
      in adolescents (between 10 and 18 years of age). The current standard of care for adolescent
      idiopathic scoliosis (AIS) with a curve magnitude of over 40-50˚ in skeletally immature
      patients, is posterior spinal fusion with pedicle screws. The aim of spinal fusion is to
      prevent further curve progression but also to correct the spinal deformity and achieve a
      cosmetically pleasing result by reducing the rib hump and balancing the trunk and shoulders.
      While this procedure has been very successful, it has inherent downsides such as the
      decreased range of motion and loss of spinal mobility in addition to the inhibition of growth
      along the instrumentation. To prevent distal adding on (continued curve below
      instrumentation) due to continued anterior spinal growth, it is often necessary to fuse the
      spine into stable vertebra resulting into even longer spinal fusion levels in the lumbar
      spine (Sponseller et al. JPO 2016; Oksanen et al. SJS 2018). Spinal fusion increases loading
      of the remaining mobile segments (Parsch et al. JBJS Br 2001).

      In a five-year follow-up study spinal fusion resulted into better health-related quality of
      life (HRQoL) as compared with untreated AIS (Helenius et al. JBJS 2019). However, the
      function domain of HRQoL was significantly less after spinal fusion as compared with healthy
      controls. In contrast, vertebral body tethering using screws connected by a tether in the
      anterior vertebral body, has the potential to initially correct the still flexible deformity,
      but most importantly modulate growth and ultimately result in scoliosis correction with a
      mobile spine.

      There is currently a paucity of literature on the effectiveness of vertebral body tethering
      (VBT) with only retrospective case series published and reported in conference proceedings,
      and a comparative study is completely lacking. Initial complication rates with the implants
      for tethering have also sparked caution amongst surgeons and payers whether or not to adopt
      this technique despite its theoretical advantages. Thus, a high-quality comparative
      prospective study is missing to demonstrate the effectiveness and safety of vertebral body
      tethering compared to posterior spinal fusion. If this can be shown in a well-designed study,
      it is likely to result in a paradigm shift in the treatment of AIS similar to the impact
      earlier technical novelties and achievements had.

      Randomised controlled trials are rare in paediatric orthopaedic research. It would be
      unprecedented that evidence from an RCT is driving a change in practice in scoliosis surgery.

      Aims and hypothesis- To compare posterior fusion to VBT for the treatment of AIS. Aim is to
      demonstrate non-inferiority of VBT compared to posterior fusion in terms of main curve
      correction of AIS at the 2 year follow up, to demonstrate comparable outcomes for SRS-22/24
      at the 2 year follow up. Aim is also to compare complication and revision rates and to
      compare spinal mobility including flexion and side bending between the study groups.

      Inclusion criteria- The inclusion criteria would aim to restrict the study to paediatric
      patients with AIS and the following criteria: Lenke type I A,B or C, age 10-16 years,
      skeletally immature (Sanders classification between 2 and 5), Cobb angle 40-60˚, 50%
      flexibility on supine bending films, selective thoracic fusion feasible

      Exclusion criteria- Any other than idiopathic scoliosis, less than 50% curve flexibility,
      skeletal maturity (Sanders >5), patients who have evidence of neurological disorders,
      patients who have undergone intrathoracic surgery Outcome parametres- Cobb angle correction
      of instrumented curve at 2 year follow up, total score of SRS questionnaire at 2 year follow
      up; secondary outcomes: Complication and revision rates, pulmonary function at 2-year
      follow-up, spinal mobility at 2-year follow-up

      Interventions: AVBT from end to end vertebra. PSF levels using the Lenke criteria.

      Ethical aspects- Each institution in each country is responsible for obtaining either
      institutional review board approval or approval from a national ethics committee as
      appropriate. An informed consent will be obtained from all children and their parents.

      Time schedule and budget- The study will be started on beginning of 2021. Patient enrollment
      is expected to last to the end of 2023. There will be no extra costs as all information
      gathered will be part of normal surgical treatment of AIS. A part-time research nurse has
      been hired to take care of data collection into the database.

      References:

        1. Sponseller PD, Jain A, Newton PO et al. Posterior Spinal Fusion With Pedicle Screws in
           Patients With Idiopathic Scoliosis and Open Triradiate Cartilage: Does Deformity
           Progression Occur? J Pediatr Orthop 2016; 36:695-700.

        2. Oksanen H, Lastikka M, Helenius L, et al. Posterior Spinal Fusion Extended to Stable
           Vertebra Provides Similar Outcome in Juvenile Idiopathic Scoliosis Patients Compared
           with Adolescents with Fusion to the Touched Vertebra. Scand J Surg 2019 Mar;
           108(1):83-89.

        3. Parsch et al. JBJS Br 2001

        4. Helenius L, Diabakerli E, Grauers A, et al. Back Pain and Quality of Life after Surgical
           Treatment for Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis
    
  