
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the progression free survival (PFS) for paclitaxel with and without nivolumab
      in subjects with taxane naive angiosarcoma.

      II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of nivolumab in combination with
      cabozantinib S-malate (cabozantinib) in patients with taxane pre-treated angiosarcoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the ORR of paclitaxel in combination with nivolumab. II. To determine
      clinical activity of the addition of nivolumab to paclitaxel or cabozantinib in subjects with
      angiosarcoma by determination of overall survival (OS) for each combination.

      III. To determine clinical activity of the addition of nivolumab to cabozantinib in subjects
      with taxane pre-treated angiosarcoma by determination of progression free survival (PFS) at 6
      months by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1.

      IV. To assess toxicity of the concurrent nivolumab-paclitaxel and nivolumab-cabozantinib
      combinations in subjects with angiosarcoma based on National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v).5.0.

      V. To measure symptomatic adverse events (AE) for patients via Patient Reported Outcome
      (PRO)-CTCAE.

      OUTLINE: Patients who have not previously received a taxane are randomized to Arm I or Arm
      II. Patients who have previously received a taxane are assigned to Arm III.

      ARM I: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and paclitaxel
      IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every
      4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with disease
      progression may crossover to Arm III.

      ARM III: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and cabozantinib orally (PO)
      daily. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years.
    
  