
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the safety of lentiviral gene transfer for patients with Fanconi anemia
      complementation group A.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility and efficacy of filgrastim (G-CSF) and plerixafor
      mobilization in FA patients.

      II. To determine the feasibility and efficacy of lineage depletion of bone marrow or
      mobilized apheresis product.

      III. To determine the transduction efficiency for human FA patient hematopoietic progenitor
      cells transduced with a clinical grade lentiviral vector encoding the gene for Fanconi anemia
      complementation group A.

      IV. To determine if gene transfer using the clinical grade vector will result in phenotypic
      correction of gene modified cells by in vitro assays.

      V. To determine if infusion of FANCA gene-modified cells will result in engraftment and
      persistence of gene-modified cells and improvement in blood counts in FA patients.

      OUTLINE:

      STEM CELL MOBILIZATION FOR CELL COLLECTION: Patients receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC)
      twice daily (BID) for up to 6 days (on days 1-6 of mobilization). Patients receive plerixafor
      SC once daily (QD) on days 4-6 of mobilization. Peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) count will
      be checked daily starting on day 4 of mobilization. Patients who have a PBSC count of >= 5
      CD34+ cells/mcL will undergo up to 2 apheresis collections on consecutive days.

      BONE MARROW HARVEST FOR CELL COLLECTION: Patients with inadequate PBSC counts undergo bone
      marrow harvest for collection of stem/progenitor cells.

      REINFUSION: Patients receive methylprednisolone intravenously (IV) or prednisone orally (PO)
      on days -1 to 7 followed by a rapid taper over approximately 1 week and undergo reinfusion of
      genetically modified hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells on day 0.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 15 years.
    
  