
    
      This is a cluster-randomized intervention trial aimed at assessing the effect of a
      community-based demand creation intervention on couples' HIV counseling and testing (couples'
      HCT) among 1,538 married couples with no prior couples' HCT experience, resident in three
      study regions/clusters in Rakai district. The study population is composed of couples in
      which both partners have never received couples' HCT. The intervention utilizes
      couple-focused meetings and men-only meetings to promote couples' HCT while invitation
      coupons are issued to all targeted couples inviting them to come for couples' HCT at
      designated health facilities within Rakai district. Initially, a qualitative sub-study was
      implemented to explore the motivations for and barriers to couples' HCT uptake - these
      aspects are important for the design of the intervention. This was followed by a baseline
      study to document the current levels of HCT uptake in the community, and then the
      intervention implementation followed suit. The study was implemented in 12 study communities;
      6 of which served as the intervention while the other 6 served as comparison communities.
      Data collection for the post-intervention survey was completed in April 2015. Efforts are
      currently underway to assess linkage to and retention in HIV care among couples that tested
      as a result of the campaign.

      The study has 3 inter-related sub-studies (objectives), namely: (i) Exploring the motivation
      for and barriers to couples' HCT uptake at community level (b) Assessing the effect of a
      demand creation intervention on couples' HCT uptake among married couples with no prior
      couples' HCT, and (c) Determining the effect of couples' HCT relative to individual HCT on
      linkage to and retention in HIV care among HIV-positive and HIV-discordant couples that are
      not yet in HIV care. Sub-study I comprises use of qualitative research methods to explore the
      motivation for and barriers to couples' HCT uptake through 18 focus group discussions (FGDs)
      and 12 key informant interviews. Findings from this sub-study helped to inform the design of
      a demand-creation HCT intervention aimed at improving couples' HCT uptake in selected
      communities in Rakai. Sub-study II is a one-year community intervention trial aimed at
      assessing the effect of a demand-creation intervention (comprising couple-focused meetings;
      couple invitation coupons; and men-only sensitization meetings) on couples' HCT uptake among
      couples with no prior couples' HCT experience. The study will be implemented in 3 study
      regions with differing HIV prevalence levels (low (9.7-11.2%), middle (11.4-16.4%) and high
      (20.5-43%)) in Rakai district. Overall, 1,538 eligible couples were invited to participate in
      the baseline study. Of these, 2,135 were interviewed at baseline and followed up 12 months
      later. In sub-study III, the investigators will enroll 462 couples in which at least one
      partner is HIV-positive and follow them up for 1, 3 and 6 months after HIV diagnosis to
      determine the effect of couples' HCT [vis-à-vis individual HCT] on timely linkage to and
      retention in HIV care.

      To estimate the sample size for the intervention, the investigators assumed a minimum
      improvement in couples' HCT uptake of 10% in the intervention communities compared with a
      baseline of 25% in the standard of care/comparison communities (Grabowski et al. 2014). The
      investigators set two-sided alpha level at 0.05 and assumed a power of 90% to detect
      differences in the proportion of couples accepting couples' HCT between the intervention and
      comparison communities. The investigators used 12 study communities/clusters and accounted
      for cluster design effect using an intra-class correlation of 0.0039 based on an earlier
      study in Rakai (Todd et al. 2003). Based on these assumptions, the investigators estimated
      that they would need to enroll 769 couples in each arm (i.e. intervention and comparison
      communities), after adjusting for non-response rate (out-migration, refusal to participate,
      and loss to follow-up) estimated at 15% (Gray et al. 2007). The final sample was 1,538
      couples (or 3,076 individuals). Sample size estimation was done using the sampsi and sampclus
      commands in STATA (STATA statistical software, version 11.2).
    
  