
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the frequency of complete remission by a central pathology review panel in
      diagnosed endometrial intraepithelial neoplasia (EIN) patients treated for 24 weeks with oral
      continuous versus interrupted progestin therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether quality of life is superior in patients who take continuous megestrol
      versus sequential megestrol by evaluating mood, concerns about weight changes and bleeding.

      TERTIARY:

      I. To assess the expression levels of PTEN using immunohistochemistry and to explore the
      association of PTEN expression levels with patient response to treatment.

      II. To assess the expression levels of the hormone receptors ER and PR using
      immunohistochemistry and to explore the association of ER/PR expression levels with patient
      response to treatment.

      III. To assess histomorphometry and karyometry characteristics of the pre-treatment biopsy in
      this patient population.

      IV. To identify patterns of protein and glycoprotein expression associated with invasive
      cancer in serum specimens obtained from patients with a diagnosis of atypical endometrial
      hyperplasia (AEH) or EIN.

      V. To assess differences in plasma concentrations of megestrol acetate HPLC in this patient
      population.

      VI. To assess patient compliance to their treatment regimen using HPLC.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to the collection method of the initial/intake
      biopsy (dilatation and curettage vs all other methods). Patients are randomized to 1 of the
      following treatment regimens:

      REGIMEN 1: Patients receive oral megestrol twice daily every day for 24 weeks. Approximately
      twelve weeks after treatment starts, clinical blood tests are obtained and research serum and
      plasma collected. Twenty-four weeks constitutes one course of treatment and a pill count is
      performed during the 12-week f/u visit and at the completion of the treatment course to
      determine compliance. After progestin therapy the patient has an induced-withdrawal bleed.
      Patients in this arm undergo a re-evaluation biopsy and hysterectomy a minimum of two weeks
      and a maximum of eight weeks after completing the megestrol treatment.

      REGIMEN 2: Patients receive oral megestrol twice daily for two weeks continuously followed by
      no treatment for two weeks. This course is repeated for a total of 24 weeks. Approximately
      twelve weeks after treatment starts, clinical blood tests are obtained and research serum and
      plasma collected. Twenty-four weeks constitutes one course of treatment and a pill count is
      performed during the 12-week f/u visit and at the completion of the treatment course to
      determine compliance. After progestin therapy the patient has an induced-withdrawal bleed.
      Patients in this arm undergo a re-evaluation biopsy and hysterectomy a minimum of two weeks
      and a maximum of eight weeks after the megestrol treatment.

      REGIMEN 3: (Closed as of 6/3/2010) Patients do not receive megestrol. At the discretion of
      the managing physician, patients undergo the re-evaluation biopsy and hysterectomy anytime
      between 2-20 weeks after enrollment and randomization. Patients undergo biopsy and blood
      sample collection periodically for immunological and pharmacodynamic studies. Samples are
      analyzed for presence or absence of myoinvasion or deep myoinvasion in hysterectomy
      specimens, hormone receptivity status, and to compare PTEN status against treatment via
      karyometry or morphometry, expression of VEGF and tenascin-C (TN-C) via ELISA, presence of
      TN-C fragmentation via western immunoblots, additional biomarkers via proteomic analysis,
      protein and glycoprotein expression patterns via electrophoresis and image analysis, and
      plasma megestrol concentrations via high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Patients
      complete the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and two items on bleeding and
      weight gain at baseline and periodically during study. A Treatment Decision Assessment is
      completed at baseline, and for patients withdrawing from the study, a Study Withdraw
      Assessment is also completed. There will be no additional follow-up on this study after the
      patient's hysterectomy.
    
  