
    
      1. INTRODUCTION: 1.1. Disease Setting/Patient Population: Advances in HIV antiretroviral
      therapy (ART) have dramatically reduced mortality from HIV, primarily because of the
      reduction in deaths attributable to AIDS defining conditions such that a person receiving
      state-of-the-art ART may now expect to live 25 years and potentially longer. However the
      number of deaths attributable to causes not conventionally considered to be HIV related is
      increasing with up to 50% of all patients with HIV die from causes considered unrelated to
      HIV. Thus, management of HIV now involves the treatment of chronic diseases with the
      possibility of near normal life expectancy, but often with multiple co morbidities.

      1.2. Background and Rationale: Cardiovascular risk in patients on ART Metabolic
      complications, including dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, and altered fat distribution (loss
      of subcutaneous fat and a relative increase in central fat), are common in adults infected
      with HIV who are receiving ART. These complications may increase these patients' risk of
      cardiovascular disease. Recent studies suggest that some types of ART may be associated with
      increased risk of cardiovascular disease, a cause for concern given that people living with
      HIV may take ART for decades. The mechanisms causing an increased risk of cardiovascular
      disease are unclear, but it has been suggested that it may relate to dyslipidemia, insulin
      resistance, diabetes mellitus, inflammation, impaired fibrinolysis, factors specific to
      antiretroviral medications, or combinations of these factors. Grinspoon and Carr further
      speculate that both HIV and ART might be associated with many of these risk factors.

      From observational data the evidence linking ART and cardiovascular disease has pointed
      specifically to PIs as a class since they may promote the formation of atherosclerotic
      lesions, and other NRTI specific agents (abacavir, didanosine). However up to date the role
      of abacavir remain controversial. All potential cardiovascular risk factors, including
      dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, hypertension, smoking, sedentary lifestyle, weight, and
      family history, should be assessed. Ideally glucose levels and fasting lipid levels should be
      checked annually in all HIV patients on ART.

      Renal disease The use of combination, highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) since the
      mid-1990s has resulted in significant and sustained reductions in morbidity and mortality
      from HIV infection, including significant declines in HIV-associated nephropathy (HIVAN). At
      the same time, however, a variety of ART-related renal side effects have been noted,
      including proteinuria and renal tubular damage, interstitial nephritis, nephrolithiasis, and
      overall declines in glomerular filtration rate. Kidney function has been estimated to be
      abnormal in up to 30% of HIV-infected patients. In addition, other metabolic complications
      such as type 2 diabetes and hypertension may also contribute to renal dysfunction over time.

      In Sub- Saharan Africa, including Uganda, tenofovir has been included as one of the
      recommended drugs for first line regimens, due to its comparable efficacy to other first-line
      regimens containing stavudine, zidovudine or abacavir, and has the additional advantage of
      low toxicity and availability as a once-daily, fixed-dose generic formulation. Yet concerns
      regarding its renal tubular toxicity remain especially on its use in resource-limited
      settings where clinical detection of renal impairment is difficult in. Early stages of renal
      dysfunction can be are assessed through laboratory monitoring of creatinine and glomerular
      filtration rate. Current guidelines contraindicate TDF use when creatinine clearance (CrCl)
      falls below 50 ml/min unless dose reductions are made. If TDF is to be implemented in
      resource-limited settings where numbers requiring antiretroviral therapy are high but access
      to laboratory services are scarce, these monitoring protocols may need to be further
      simplified. Ideally in order to monitor patients for renal toxicity, It is recommended that
      urinalysis for proteinuria is performed routinely and creatinine clearance calculated; co
      morbidities that may contribute to elevated risk of kidney disease should be also closely
      monitored. Data from the DART trial, a prospective randomized clinical trial conducted in an
      African setting, showed a low (1.3%) rate of severe renal impairment through 96 weeks, with
      no difference in TDF-containing and non TDF-containing regimens. Similarly data from a
      routine program setting (Lesotho) shows that renal toxicity due to tenofovir is rare and
      mild.

      Late mortality:

      A multicenter cohort study from Europe and North America reported that already after 4 years
      on ART the cumulative incidence of non-AIDS-related deaths exceeded that of AIDS-related
      deaths. The most frequent non-AIDS causes of death were non-AIDS malignancy (11.8%), non-AIDS
      infection (8.2%), cardiovascular disease (7.9%, of which 40% were myocardial
      infarction/ischemic heart disease and 18% stroke), violence (7.8%, including suicide,
      substance abuse, and homicide/accident/unspecified), and liver disease (7.1%, of which 55.8%
      were hepatitis related). The most frequent sites for non-AIDS malignancies were respiratory
      tract or intrathoracic organs (36.7%); digestive organs and peritoneum (28.7%); lip, oral
      cavity, and pharynx (6.0%); and skin (4.7%).

      Rationale for this study:

      Little information is available on patients on ART for a long term period from Sub-Saharan
      Africa. Particularly no information is available on long term complications of ART and non
      HIV related events. Although data is available from resource rich settings, this information
      may not be applicable to Sub-Saharan Africa due to the different antiretroviral treatment
      drugs used and ART monitoring strategies, different HIV subtypes, as well as different
      ethnicity and endemic diseases.
    
  