
    
      Purpose To assess the efficacy of combined 5FU and Avastin injections in the treatment of
      recurrent pterygium.

      Design Pilot study. The patients will receive combined 5FU and Avastin injection.

      Methodology Patients for inclusion in the study will be identified in the specialist corneal
      clinics at Queens Medical Centre.

      5 FU injection

      Dose: 0.15 ml of 5FU (3.75mg) will be administered into the body of the recurring pterygium
      up to 5 injections as determined by response. The 5FU solution is prepared locally in the
      pharmacy for ophthalmic use. It will be delivered preloaded in a 1ml syringe containing 0.3
      ml of 2.5mg 5FU per 0.1ml. The injection will be given under topical anaesthesia. One to two
      drops of 5% povidone iodine will be instilled in the conjunctival sac 5min before the
      injection. All injections will be given in the outpatient clinic using a slit lamp. The
      needle (27Gauge) will be advanced in a zigzag manner into the subconjunctival space, avoiding
      any large blood vessels, until the middle of the lesion is reached. The solution will be then
      injected and the needle withdrawn. After the injection, 1-2 drops of chloramphenicol 0.5%
      preservative free minims will be instilled topically and continued four times a day for 3
      days after each injection. Injections will be carried out every two weeks as described above.
      Patients will have the ability to access the 24 hour on call emergency eye service, and at
      the same time be provided with contact numbers for investigators for any queries during the
      study period.

      Avastin injection

      Dose: 0.15 ml of Avastin (2.5 mg/0.1 ml) will be administered in the body of the recurrent
      lesion. Up to 5 injections could be given.

      The injection will be given under topical anaesthesia. One to two drops of 5% povidone iodine
      will be instilled in the conjunctival sac 5min before the injection. All injections will be
      given in the outpatient clinic using a slit lamp. The needle (27Gauge) will be advanced in a
      zigzag manner into the subconjunctival space, avoiding any large blood vessels, until the
      middle of the lesion is reached. The solution will be then injected and the needle withdrawn.
      After the injection, 1-2 drops of chloramphenicol 0.5% preservativefree minims will be
      instilled topically and continued four times a day for 3 days after each injection.
      Injections will be carried out every two weeks as described above. Patients will have the
      ability to access the 24 hour on call emergency eye service, and at the same time be provided
      with contact numbers for investigators for any queries during the study period.

      Fluorescein angiography (FFA) will be done to characterise the conjunctival vessels. It is a
      safe routine investigation that is done on daily basis in eye clinics.

      Patient Inclusion Criteria will be:

        -  Patients over the age of 18

        -  Able to give informed consent

        -  Patients with recurrent pterygium within 6 months of original excision[Recurrence is
           defined in the protocol (page 22)]

        -  Use of effective contraception in females of childbearing age

      Patient exclusion criteria will be:

        -  Patients under 18 years of age

        -  Patients unable or refusing to provide informed consent

        -  Patients who are needle phobic

        -  Pregnant women, women aiming for conception and breast feeding women.

        -  Patients with hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients

        -  Patients with active or suspected ocular or periocular infections.

        -  Patients with active severe intraocular inflammation.

        -  Patients with raised intraocular pressure or on glaucoma medication

        -  Patients with advanced recurrent pterygium that extends between the pupil and limbus at
           the time of presentation

      In case of bilateral eye involvement, only one eye will be treated with the study drug. The
      study participants will reserve the right to withdraw from the study at any stage, and will
      be kept up to date with any new information available about the study medication.
    
  