
    
      Up to 20 children aged 24-30 months and 20 school children aged 6-6.5 years living in each of
      2 villages in the Oio region of Guinea-Bissau (total study population up to 80, with no
      minimum recruitment number) will be recruited for this study, with ages documented by the
      official birth record, which all families possess. Villages will be a convenience sample
      chosen from villages within the network of our local research partner International
      Partnership for Human Development. Each village in this region has one school and one
      community health center per village, which will be involved in supplement distribution and
      some outcome assessments. The villages will be broadly comparable in terms of size,
      affluence, rates of malnutrition, the presence or absence of a school meal program, and
      tribal affiliation and religion.

      One village will be randomly assigned to receive the locally-prepared biscuit and a daily
      multivitamin and the other will be randomly assigned to be an assessment-only control site.
      Because this is a pilot study designed to develop methodology for a future powered trial, and
      the logistics of local supplement preparation need to be developed in advance of the study,
      the randomization will occur prior to baseline testing to allow for development of
      infrastructure for supplement preparation. However the villagers will not be informed of the
      randomization until after baseline testing is complete.

      Following baseline measurements of anthropometry, grip strength, cognition, non-invasive
      measurements of hemoglobin, and skin carotenoids, participants will receive their
      intervention for 12 weeks and the same measurements taken at baseline will be repeated during
      the last study week. Since access for the final assessment to villages may be hampered by the
      rainy season we also request permission to terminate the trial between 9-12 weeks of
      supplement consumption depending on weather conditions. Please note that cell phone access to
      villages is not influenced by local weather, thus communication regarding safety issues with
      community health workers will remain possible throughout the entire trial.
    
  