
    
      This is a randomized (the study drug is assigned by chance), double-blind (neither physician
      nor participant knows the name of the assigned drug), placebo-controlled (an inactive
      substance; a pretend treatment [with no drug in it] that is compared in a clinical trial with
      a drug to test if the drug has a real effect), parallel-group (comparing the response in two
      groups of participants receiving different treatments), fixed-dose, multi-center (when more
      than one hospital or medical school team work on a medical research study) study of
      paliperidone palmitate in participants with schizophrenia. The study will consist of 3
      periods: an up to 2-week pre-observation (screening) period, a double-blind period from Day 1
      (baseline) to Week 13 (end of double-blind period) assessment, and a post-observation period
      starting after the Week 13 assessment to Week 21. For participants who discontinue the study
      before the last assessment in Week 13, the post-observation period will start after the
      discontinuation from double-blind period assessment with follow-up visits at 4, 8, and 12
      weeks after the last injection. After completion of the double-blind period (Week 13),
      discontinuation of double-blind period treatment or withdrawal from the study, participants
      may receive treatment consistent with the usual standard of care. The total duration of the
      study will be 21 weeks, including the double-blind and post-observation periods. Participants
      will be randomly assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups in a 1:1 ratio (intramuscular injections
      of either paliperidone palmitate or matching placebo). Injections of paliperidone palmitate
      or placebo will be given at Day 1 and at Weeks 1, 5, and 9 by a study drug manager and/or
      injector. For those participants receiving paliperidone palmitate, the Day 1 injection will
      be 150 milligram equivalent (mg eq.) paliperidone palmitate, followed by 100 mg eq.
      injections of paliperidone palmitate at Week 1, and 75 mg eq. injections of paliperidone
      palmitate at Weeks 5 and 9. Participants randomly assigned to placebo will receive injections
      matching the paliperidone palmitate injections on the same days. Efficacy will be assessed
      using Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), Clinical Global Impression - Severity
      (CGI-S). Participant's safety will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  