
    
      Consenting participants will be screened and within 45 days randomly allocated to receive
      either dolutegravir and darunavir/ritonavir, dolutegravir and 2 prespecified NRTIs or the SOC
      regimen. Participants will be seen four weeks after their randomisation (week 0) visit and
      then at weeks 12, 24, 48 and 96. Consenting participants will have storage samples collected
      and cryopreserved at their week 0, 48 & 96 visits. This repository will be used in future for
      central baseline resistance testing, pharmacogenomic testing (separate consent required) and
      has inherent value for later studies of HIV pathogenesis. A 1-time PK sample will be
      collected at week four for future testing and any participants failing therapy at 24 weeks
      will have a plasma sample stored for future genotypic resistance testing.

      A number of secondary outcomes will be considered in order to compare the performance of the
      two study treatment regimens. Secondary analyses will focus on virological, immunological,
      safety, antiretroviral treatment change and medication adherence. A comparison of costs and
      estimates of cost-effectiveness for the randomised comparison will be a critical component of
      this study. ART costs will be assessed across study arms. Health-care utilisation will be
      self-reported and then used to estimate costs. Safety data, viral loads and quality of life
      data will also be analysed.

      The open label nature of the study allows routine care to be undertaken and the use of
      objective endpoints limit potential bias. The study has well defined and integrated clinical
      data collection and patient management systems that have been shown to be effective in a wide
      range of clinical settings.

      The choice of NRTIs in the SoC regimen is based on clinical judgement and may be guided by
      resistance testing if locally available, while those used with dolutegravir are predetermined
      (tenofovir and lamivudine or emtricitabine). The NRTIs are not provided via the study. At the
      end of 96 weeks (completion of the protocol) study drug can be offered to all participants
      for a further 48 weeks as informed by the 48-week study results and clinical judgement. After
      144 weeks study drug will no longer be available and composition of the participant's
      post-study regimen will be the clinician's decision.'
    
  