
    
      This study will assess the feasibility of integrating tailored aerobic exercise prescriptions
      and wearable activity trackers into a virtually delivered lifestyle medicine program in an
      outpatient clinic for adult patients with T2D.

      This will be a 6-week single-group cohort study assessing the feasibility of delivering a
      lifestyle medicine program in a virtual setting with the incorporation of wearable activity
      trackers and personalized aerobic exercise prescriptions. STAND is a lifestyle medicine
      program that is currently run by the St. Joseph's Primary Care Diabetes Support Program
      (PCDSP). Participants will be new clinic, adult (aged ≤18 years old) patients with T2DM.
      Routinely, all new patients at the PCDSP are referred by their practitioner to a general
      1-hour STAND informational class after their initial intake. Starting in June 2020, these
      classes will be offered virtually on the WebEx video platform. As such, participating
      patients must have access to technology that enables WebEx participation. At the end of this
      class, patients will be invited to participate in the study, STAND-VAT (Virtual Aerobic
      Therapy). If they agree, they will be contacted by a study investigator. Patients will be
      emailed the letter of information to review, along with copies of four brief surveys they
      will later be answering, to review. Once confirmed, the investigator will review the study
      details and answer any questions. Participants will authorize consent to participate through
      e-signature on REDCap. After consent, the study investigator will verbally go through the
      four short surveys (a brief demographics review, the PAID-5, the Stanford Self-Efficacy
      Scale, and a technology use survey). If patients do not wish to participate in the study,
      they will still be offered the opportunity to receive standard, biweekly virtual STAND
      classes delivered by SJHC staff (certified diabetes nurses, nurse practitioner, physician and
      dietician). These classes use motivational coaching and focus on practicing low carbohydrate
      nutrition, teaching patients to recognize glucose patterns using wearable flash glucose
      monitors (Libre Freestyle (Abbott Ltd., Canada)), and general advice and suggestion to get
      active, and reduce and break daily sitting.

      The intervention, STAND-VAT will take the same format as STAND, but instead of general advice
      for exercise, patients will be provided with individualized exercise prescriptions and
      exercise goal setting/counselling via an exercise specialist (UWO School of Kinesiology MSc
      Student). This study will comprise her Master's thesis. The intervention program will also
      offer the opportunity to loan a wearable activity tracker to track steps and physical
      activity levels.

      To ensure participants are medical safe to participate in exercise, after informed consent is
      obtained, two PCDSP staff and study co-investigators will review the patients electronic
      medical record to ensure inclusion criteria are met. A modified PAR-Q will be completed by a
      PCDSP clinician to ensure the patient does not suffer from unstable heart disease, vascular
      disease, etc. If they are not eligible, the PCDSP staff will inform them and work on
      optimizing their health as per routine clinical care. A functional fitness test (the 2-minute
      Step Test; number of steps completed during a 2-minute time period) will be completed in
      clinic at baseline after the participant has been medically cleared to exercise, but before
      the first group session. The test will be conducted one-on-one with the participant and the
      Master's student, but monitored by either a physician or nurse practitioner.

      The virtual intervention STAND-VAT classes will occur biweekly and be co-led by a Certified
      Diabetes Educator and Master's Kinesiology student. The classes will flow based on patient
      questions, issues, or concerns; this format will not be didactic. The classes will review
      everyone's exercise prescription as created by the exercise specialist and deliver exercise
      progression recommendations. It will also include an opportunity for participants to reflect
      on exercise barriers and successes, and the resultant glucose patterns from adjusting diet
      and exercise (using data from their glucose monitors). One day prior to each class,
      participants will always be medically screened (by completing a modified PAR-Q) by a clinic
      nurse practitioner or physician for contraindications to exercise/participation.

      Study participants will be given FitBit Inspire©'s to wear daily, using them to track daily
      step counts, exercise minutes and hourly movement goals (250 or more steps in an hour is a
      completed hour move goal). The aerobic exercise prescription will be individually tailored,
      adjusted bi-weekly and be prescribed as a daily step count goal. The daily step count goal
      will be progressed up to a maximum of 3,000 steps above baseline. Bi-weekly prescription
      adjustments will be prescribed using the mean or median daily step count from the past two
      weeks (whichever number is lower) plus an additional 500 steps. Participants will be strongly
      advised to exercise for a minimum of 10 minute bouts at least 3 times a day (or i.e. 30
      minutes a day) at a brisk walking pace (Haskell et al., 2007) (utilizing the "talk test
      strategy" which elicits a moderate intensity (Reed & Pipe, 2014)). Participants will be given
      instructions on how to use their FitBits© prior to the first virtual group class by the
      Master's Student.

      Immediately before class, participants will receive a summary email of their new step count
      prescription. Since temporal landmarks have been shown to influence health behaviours (e.g.,
      January 1, Mondays, etc.), referred to as the fresh start effect (Dai et al., 2014). It will
      be emphasized to participants in class and in the email that they will get to "start over"
      (get a 'clean slate') every two weeks, to increase motivation. This is timed at the same time
      the FreeStyle Libre patch needs replacing, and with a new step count prescription.

      The week in between classes, the Master's student will call participants to ensure exercise
      adherence and resolve any issues. If a medical question or safety issue arises, the student
      will contact a PCDSP nurse practitioner or physician to follow-up with the patient. One day
      prior to the bi-weekly classes, participants will be required to sync and share FitBit
      Inspire HR© data to the FitBit© app, then sync/connect the app to the internet. Once synced,
      participants will log on to online desktop (https://www.fitbit.com) and export their weekly
      FitBit© data to a Microsoft Excel file. The exported file will be uploaded via the SJHC
      secure file transfer website, https://filesafe.lhsc.on.ca; the Master's student will review
      the step count information and create initial exercise step prescription Simultaneously,
      participants will also re-complete the modified PAR-Q (bi-weekly) to ensure continued medical
      safety.

      Baseline demographics and a Technology Use survey will be completed at time of consent. The
      Stanford Self-Efficacy Scale, and the PAID-5 will also be completed over the phone with a
      study investigator at time of consent, and over video call within one week after week six
      (the end of the intervention). Outcomes related to step count data will be collected daily
      throughout the study by the FitBit Inspire HR©. The 2-minute Step Test will be completed in
      clinic at baseline and again immediately after the intervention. Glycemic control (measured
      by the Freestyle Libre) will be assessed using bi-weekly average time in glycemic target and
      estimated A1c (glycated hemoglobin, a clinical measure of longer-term glucose levels). These
      averages will be collected throughout the six-week intervention from flash glucose monitor
      data. The change in exercise volume will be measured using repeated, average daily step
      counts each week collected by the FitBit Inspire HR© during baseline, week one to week six.

      Data analysis will performed on SPSS version 25 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, Illinois, USA).
      Recruitment levels will be defined as the number of people signed up over number of eligible
      people approached, presented as a percentage of sign up rate. Retention will be assessed as
      number of participants completing the post-intervention follow up divided by number of
      initial sample size, presented as a percentage retention rate. Acceptability data gathered
      from the exit survey will be analyzed in a qualitative or descriptive fashion, using
      frequencies and means (i.e. "this many rated the lottery draw as a motivation to get them to
      attend class as "strongly agree": 93%"). Additionally, number of reported technology issues
      will be reported as a total in addition to average mean # of technology issues per person.
      Counting will be used based on type of issue using categories like a) lost/disrupted internet
      connection or unable to connect or hear or see during class; b) issues utilizing
      FitBit/FitBit app c) Issues with uploading FitBit data; d) other.

      Adherence will be measured by the percent of biweekly classes attended and check-in phone
      calls answered, number of data submissions (all out of three) as well as percent of days with
      FitBit worn (>500 steps) and average percent Libre sensor is active. Change in weekly average
      step counts and sedentary minutes will be analyzed using a one-way repeated measures ANOVA.
      Exercise prescription adherence will be calculated as percent of step goals achieved compared
      to total days participated in the study over the course of the six weeks. Weekly averages
      (over the six weeks) of estimated A1c, percent coefficient of variation, and "time in target"
      from the FreeStyle Libre data will be analyzed using a one-way repeated measures ANOVA.
      Changes of functional fitness levels from baseline to post-intervention will be compared
      using a paired t-test. The change in scores from baseline to week six for the Stanford
      Self-Efficacy Scale and PAID-5 will be evaluated using paired t-tests.
    
  