
    
      Peritoneal dialysis (PD) is used for the treatment of end-stage renal disease in
      approximately 25% of patients requiring dialysis in Canada. The most common PD related
      complication is infective peritonitis, a syndrome of acute pain, cloudy peritoneal dialysate,
      and infection. Although many cases of peritonitis can be treated as an outpatient, recurrent
      or unresolving infections can result in fibrotic changes in the peritoneal membrane, catheter
      removal or patient death. Gram positive organisms are amongst the commonest causes of PD
      peritonitis; however, recent trends show an increasing rate of gram negative and fungal
      infections. Strategies to prevent peritonitis include the use of prophylactic topical
      mupirocin at the site where the PD catheter exits from the abdominal wall. Despite this and
      other innovations peritonitis is still diagnosed, on average, in one patient out of every 24
      patients followed for a month. The aim of this study is to determine if the incidence of
      catheter related infections (exit site infection, tunnel infection or peritonitis) is
      significantly reduced by the routine application of Polysporin Triple in comparison to
      mupirocin ointment.A multi-centre randomized double blind, controlled study is proposed.
      Polysporin Triple will be compared against the current standard of care. All patients
      currently being treated with, or starting onto, peritoneal dialysis will be eligible.
      Participants will be randomized to one of two treatment arms (mupirocin; Polysporin Triple)
      and stratified according to a) centre b) vintage (incident versus prevalent), and c) type of
      PD (chronic ambulatory peritoneal dialysis vs. automated PD). Patients will be followed for
      18 months or until the first catheter related infection, death or catheter removal due to
      technique failure. Catheter related infections will be strictly defined using current
      guidelines and categorized into exit site infections, infective peritonitis or tunnel
      infections.
    
  