
    
      This translational research part is aiming to give more insights in the way radiation injury
      and tumour response develops.

      It involves three parts:

        1. Repetitive FDG-PET-CT scans in order to assess early tumour response monitoring.

        2. Blood sampling before, during and after radiotherapy in order to find predictors for
           normal tissue injury and for tumour response.

        3. Extra staining of tumour biopsies

      The FDG-PET-CT scan with i.v. contrast gives information of the tumour metabolism and its
      morphology. Therefore, one extra FDG-PET-CT scans will be done during radiotherapy at day 8.
      Tumour response will be determined by FDG-PET-CT scans 3 months after radiotherapy.

      Blood samples

        1. Before radiotherapy, 12 millilitres of blood (EDTA tubes) will be taken according to
           serum protocol (appendix 5).

        2. At day 7, day 14 during concurrent chemo-radiation, 7 days after the end of this
           treatment and 3 months and 9 months after the end of radiotherapy, 12 millilitres serum
           (EDTA tube) will be taken to investigate the evolution of the proteins [In the first
           place, plasma concentrations of osteopontin and soluble CA9 for hypoxia, CRP and IL-6
           for inflammation, total and free VEGF for angiogenesis and total and cleaved cytokeratin
           18 for necrosis/apoptosis will be determined] during and after treatment, for its
           kinetics may be important as predictive factors. Standard ELISA tests will be used to
           determine these levels.

        3. Before radiotherapy, at day 7 and at day 14 during radiation, 7 days after the end of
           this treatment and 3 months and 9 months after the end of radiotherapy, 24 millilitres
           of blood (EDTA tubes) will be taken to investigate the evolution of circulating cells
           and their progenitors during and after treatment.

      The tumour biopsies may be stained with markers for proliferation (e.g. KI 67), apoptosis
      (e.g. M30), hypoxia (e.g. CA 9, Glut 1 and 3) and others (e.g. EGFR and EGFRvIII), in order
      to correlate these measurements with response.
    
  