
    
      Trial design The study aims at motivating smokers to have quit attempt using nicotine
      replacement therapy (NRT) sampling. We will firstly train nurses and university undergraduate
      students as outreach smoking cessation ambassadors. These trained ambassadors will
      proactively approach the smokers at outdoor smoking hotspots, where rubbish bins with a
      collector of cigarette butts are nearby, and invite them to participate in the RCT.

      Subjects Smokers with the following inclusion criteria will be invited to participate in our
      RCT: (1) Aged 18 years or above; (2) Smoke 10 cigarettes or more per day in the past week;
      (3) Able to read and speak Chinese; (4) Have not used NRT for the past 3 months; (5) Have no
      severe angina and serious cardiac arrhythmias; (6) Have not suffered from acute myocardial
      event in the past 4 weeks; and (7) Not pregnant and breastfeeding The recruitments of
      subjects will take place at 9 outdoor urban places where smokers stayed and smoked from July
      2015 to September 2015 (To be confirmed) Procedures We target to train nurses and smoking
      cessation ambassadors for the recruitment and providing intervention to the subjects.
      Recruitment of outreach smoking cessation ambassadors will be conducted through sending mass
      mails to students of the University of Hong Kong. Retired nurses who are now providing
      counselling services in our existing smoking cessation projects will be recruited. They will
      be invited to participate in a training programme which provides them an overview of the
      smoking cessation counselling and pharmacotherapy in helping smokers quit smoking. Our
      research team (comprised of physicians and nurses) will develop the training material and
      intervention guide based on the principles of the US Agency for Health Care Policy and
      Research (AHCPR) guidelines in the US [28], the guidelines of the National Institutes of
      Health [29] and World Health Organization [30]. The training content will cover (1) smoking
      trend in Hong Kong; (2) health hazards of smoking, (3) basic skills in assessing smoking
      dependence and quitting readiness; (4) knowledge of smoking cessation medication (types of
      NRT, adherence and side effects etc.) and (5) brief counseling skills. At the end of the
      training, participants should be capable of delivering brief intervention of smoking
      cessation including the advice on using NRT.

      Smoking cessation ambassadors will approach the smokers and distribute souvenirs with smoking
      cessation messages at the outdoor smoking hotspots. The souvenir will be a small pack of
      tissue paper, with motivational messages (e.g. 1 in 2 smokers will be killed by smoking),
      quitline number (e.g. Quitline of Tobacco Control Office 1833183) and other resources for
      quitting printed on the tissue pack. If the smoker is willing to accept the souvenir and talk
      to the ambassador, the ambassador will ask further questions related to the eligibility
      through an informal conversation. If the subject is eligible, the ambassador will seek
      his/her consent to receive further intervention and provide his/her mobile phone number.

      Interventions The intervention group will receive a free pack of one-week NRT. The nurse will
      help the subject to decide which NRT product (patch, gum and lozenge) he/she can use and
      advise how to use the NRT based on his/her smoking habit and amount of cigarette consumption,
      followed by the delivery of the sampling, instructions of using the NRT sampling, an
      education card about NRT and a 12-page smoking cessation booklet (Figure 1). Based on the
      experience in the previous trials, the choice of NRT (either patch, lozenge or gum) will be
      made according to subject's preference, and the counsellors will provide medication
      counselling [25-27]. If the subject is willing to continue the counselling at recruitment,
      the ambassador will further introduce the NRT's side effects, adherence and effectiveness
      (Table 1). Otherwise, the ambassador will contact the subject for providing these details and
      enquiring the usage through telephone within 2 days.

      Some subjects may not be interested to use NRT sampling or some may not use them for quitting
      it. An envelope with a return address and pre-paid postage will be given with the NRT
      sampling, so that subjects can send back any unused NRT sampling to us to avoid wastage.

      The control group subjects will only be advised by the ambassador to purchase the NRT on
      their own, but will not be given the sampling. The same education card and the 12-page
      smoking cessation booklet will be provided.

      Outcomes The primary outcome of the RCT is the proportion of any self-reported quit attempt
      (no smoking for at least 24 hours) in the past month at the 1- and 3-month follow-up. The
      secondary outcomes are (1) self-reported 7-day point prevalence of abstinence at 1-, 3- and
      6-month follow-up; (2) perceived importance, confidence and difficulty to quit (scale 0-10)
      at all the follow-ups; (3) proportion of using all free NRT samples; (4) biochemically
      validated abstinence at 1-month follow-up.

      At 1 week, 1, 3 and 6 months after the recruitment, all subjects will be contacted by a
      trained interviewer via telephone to assess their smoking status and discuss any difficulties
      they might have encountered. At least 7 call attempts at different time will be made before
      the subject is considered as loss to follow-up. Subjects who report no smoking in the past 7
      days will be considered as self-reported quitters. Self-reported quitters at 1 month will be
      invited to participate in a biochemical validation including measurement of exhaled carbon
      monoxide (CO) and salivary cotinine level by NicAlert® strips (www.nymox.com). The criteria
      for validated abstinence were exhaled CO < 4 ppm and salivary cotinine < 10ng/ml [31, 32].

      Sample size determination Since the RCT will test the feasibility and generate preliminary
      estimates of effectiveness of the NRT sampling, we propose the sample size as 50 for each arm
      (i.e. total sample size = 100). A similar RCT conducted by Jardin et al. (2014) which
      evaluated the effectiveness of 2-week free NRT to help non-motivated smokers to quit smoking
      was chosen for the power estimation. The results showed that the 3-month quit attempt rate of
      receiving free NRT was significantly higher than those who only received a quitline referral
      only (32% vs 16%, p=0.05). The relative risk (RR) is therefore determined (32%/16% = 2.0).
      Based on the RR of 2.0, and the 100 subjects, the power and type I error for detecting the
      difference using the Fisher's exact test will be 69.7% and 0.08.

      Randomization Sequentially numbered, opaque sealed envelopes (SNOSE) and block randomization
      will be used to allocate subjects into two RCT groups. The primary investigator will prepare
      100 identical, opaque, sealed, A5-sized envelops. 50 of them will each contain an eligibility
      form, an education card of NRT, an action plan for the intervention group, and an empty box
      of NRT. The other 50 envelops will contain the same eligibility form and education card, and
      an action plan for the control group. The ambassador will create a block of 4 envelops, with
      2 in the intervention group and 2 in the control, and shuffle them thoroughly and contain
      them in a separate pile. Recruitment staff will use 1 of the 25 piles of the envelopes and
      randomly select 1 envelope for the intervention.

      Allocation concealment The group allocations were concealed to the subjects and the
      ambassador. Subjects will not be aware of the allocation throughout the study.

      Blinding As the assessors of the outcomes will be blinded to the group allocation, this RCT
      will be single-blinded.

      Data analyses All data will be entered and analyzed with SPSS for Windows version 20. The
      rate of quit attempt and 7-day abstinence will be assessed with t-test and odds ratio from
      logistic regression. Both intention-to-treat (assuming missing subjects have no changes) and
      complete case analysis will be done.

      Ethics NRT for smoking cessation was proved as an effective and safe aid to smoking
      cessation, which can be purchased over-the-counter in pharmacy or freely prescribed in the
      smoking cessation clinics in Hong Kong. Common side effect of nicotine patch is skin
      reaction. About 50% of patients using the nicotine patch will experience a local skin
      reaction. The reaction is usually mild and self-limiting, but occasionally worsens over the
      course of therapy. Local treatment with hydrocortisone cream (1%) or triamcinolone cream
      (0.5%) and rotating patch sites may ameliorate such local reaction. In fewer than 5% of
      patients, such reaction requires the discontinuation of the NRT. Other side effects are
      insomnia and/or vivid dreams. Common side effects of nicotine gum include mouth soreness,
      hiccups, dyspepsia, and jaw ache. These effects are generally mild and transient and often
      can be alleviated by correcting the patient's chewing technique. [10] These effects are
      generally mild and can be alleviated by correcting the patient's using habit. All subjects
      will be asked at the first 7-day telephone follow-up if they have the above side effects. If
      so, the counsellor will provide counselling on the usage. If the side effects are serious,
      counsellor will ask them to cease the usage and mail back the sampling.
    
  