
    
      Introduction: In Colombia it is anticipated that demographic changes will have the effect of
      increasing the number of older adults who will require care by families, accompanied by a
      greater demand for institutional care services, due to the prevalence and confluence of
      various chronic non-communicable diseases (NCD) in this age group, where
      cardiocerebrovascular diseases especially stand out, which can additionally generate
      functional sequelae in the patient at a physical and cognitive level. The presence of
      specifically cardiocerebrovascular CNCD compromises the sick person and their family
      caregiver, who assumes this function within the home without receiving any type of economic
      remuneration, training, social support or any type of additional service offered by the
      system to cope with this role. Taking great importance the ability to care on the part of the
      caregivers of these people and its impact on their survival and on the management of the
      disease. Additionally, the events that frame the care of a person with NCD, added to the
      demand for direct care and the lack of social support, can trigger the family caregiver to
      present overload. Therefore, it is essential to create and implement interventions that
      promote the caregiving ability of family caregivers, from different approaches and
      perspectives, so that a multicomponent and interdisciplinary intervention becomes essential
      in this process.

      Objective: To determine the efficacy of a multicomponent and interdisciplinary intervention
      in B-Learning modality and a clinical simulation component on the ability to care and the
      burden on family caregivers of people with chronic cardio-cerebral vascular diseases in a
      condition of disability, of home care programs and home hospitalization in the cities of
      Bogotá and Bucaramanga.

      Method: a study with an experimental design type double-blind controlled clinical trial
      (blinding of the people in charge of both initial and final measurements, and of those who
      perform the data analysis), with a mixed approach (QUAN + qual), with a group intervention
      and a control group. The study will be carried out in the cities of Bogotá and Bucaramanga.
      For the collection of the information, the characterization format of sociodemographic and
      clinical variables will be used for family caregivers and people in their care, the Ngozi
      Nkongho care skill instrument and the Zarit care burden instrument, mainly. Similarly,
      participant observation will be carried out in face-to-face workshops where the body
      dimension is addressed as a means for the recognition of family caregivers, their abilities
      and achievements. Likewise, focus groups will be held at the end of each workshop with the
      caregivers who wish to participate, until the theoretical saturation is achieved. The
      analysis of quantitative data will include descriptive statistics, inferential analysis, and
      a repeated measures ANOVA to assess the intragroup and intergroup effects of the response
      variables. The analysis of the qualitative data will be carried out using content analysis
      techniques (coding) and grounded theory (open and axial coding), and then carry out a data
      triagulation within the method (qualitative), to complement the understanding of the
      phenomenon. study and as validation. Finally, a methodological triangulation (between
      methods) will be carried out based on the general objective of the study.
    
  