
    
      Doctors' surgical skills have consequences for patients outcomes and continued training and
      assessment of surgeons has the potential to improve patient safety and shorten learning
      curves in the operation room.

      Traditionally, surgeons have acquired their skills by observation, supervision and direction
      of masters in the field. Such education is indispensable. Only, with the increasing demands
      on production, patient safety issues and decreasing working hours a need for alternatives to
      the classical surgical training has awoken.

      Simulated surgeries make it possible to repeat and perfect performances until reaching a
      proficient level. Virtual reality (VR) simulators can provide continuously automated feedback
      while the doctor is performing the procedure and thus direct the training.

      Thus, in the last decades simulators for surgical skills training have gained increasing
      popularity. Simulation training has been found efficient in skills acquisition in a variety
      of surgical procedures.Simulators allow repeating training until reaching a proficiency level
      in the skill. Ultimately, the doctor reaches a minimum competent skill acquisition in the
      procedure prior to advancing to surgeries on patients.

      Mastery Learning (ML) is a strict proficiency training concept, in which the learner trains
      until reaching a minimum acquisition level. The endpoint of the training is hereby a
      predefined competency level, and not an arbitrary amount of training hours. Hence, ML ensures
      a minimum skill acquisition level.

      In the initial learning phase of the learning curve the use of ML simulation training has
      been proven superior to traditional apprenticeship.

      To identify proficiency, assessments are needed. The assessments should be based on solid
      evidence of validity. The development and validation of tests are essential in a
      proficiency-based curriculum.

      Constructing a training curriculum in surgery should be based on a defined framework. Zevin
      et al. proposed a training-design framework composed of three steps: cognitive knowledge
      (conceptualization, visualization and verbalization), psychomotor skills training (deliberate
      and distributed self-regulated training to a targeted proficiency-level, with continuing
      feedback and maintenance) and non-technical skills (communication, collaboration,
      professionalism and management). Thomas et al. proposed a six-step approach for curriculum
      development including problem identification, need assessment, goal setting and teaching
      objectives, educational strategies, implementation and evaluation and feedback.

      A needs assessment analysis among residents and urologists in Denmark from 2017 confirms the
      feasibility and necessity of comprehensive ex-vivo simulation-based curriculum in TUR-B.
      TUR-B simulators have been available for a decade but some have proven insufficiency, others
      promising, but there is a need for creation of evidence-based simulator training programs and
      development of valid assessments tool to evaluate the performances.

      The effect on training of a novel curriculum can be explored and evaluated using a framework
      such as Kirkpatrick's model for evaluation of training effect on skills, transfer from
      simulation to workplace, benefits for patients, and finally economics and return of
      investments.

      This trial aims to develop an evidence-based TURB training and certification program
      including an assessment tool for clinical procedures (trial 1.1), learning curve study (trial
      1.2) and pre- and post-training study and effects on operation room TURB performance (trial
      1.3) and explore the prognostic clinical value of performance on simulation-based test (trial
      1.4).
    
  