
    
      The use of specific protocols for antisepsis, sterilization and infections' prophylaxis is
      widely diffused, but, however, surgical site infection rate is still high. Wound infection is
      often considered as a minor morbidity if compared with other complications, but it is able to
      considerably increase the length of hospital stay, health care and assistance related costs
      affecting patients' quality of life. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has
      published specific guidelines for surgical site infection (SSI) prevention that includes
      hairs removal, intravenous antibiotics on the basis of the type of procedure planned for that
      patient, skin antisepsis, surgical team antisepsis, sterility, blood glucose levels control,
      body temperature control and optimal perfusion of all tissues. At the end of the surgical
      procedure, surgical incision is covered with a sterile dressing that usually is changed after
      24/48 hours. Clean-contaminated procedures like pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD), total
      pancreatectomy (TP) and palliative procedures like gastric by-pass and hepaticojejunostomy
      GEA/HJ) are considered at high complexity with a high incidence of SSI, especially dealing
      with patients at high surgical risk. Since from the introduction of negative wound pressure
      therapy in 1997, these devices have been used only for the treatment of acute and chronic
      wounds with loss of tissue, but recently have also been proposed in the setting of SSI
      prevention. Negative wound pressure systems have higher costs, the use in the outpatients
      setting may be complex consequently the use in the setting of SSI prevention could not result
      cost-effective.

      The rationale for the use of negative pressure therapy in the prevention of SSI relies in the
      complete clearance of dead-space under the incision, fluids and blood removal with consequent
      reduction of fluids infections, edema reduction, blood flow improvement and tissue
      oxygenation. Similar results can be obtained through a less expensive, disposable,
      canisterless, negative pressure wound therapy device (Pico®, Smith&Nephew). This system is
      cheaper, is portable, and can produce a continue vacuum with a nominal pressure of -80mmHg
      being able to achieve a rapid discharge at home with less frequent medications, improved
      comfort and aesthetic result.

      The following study is designed to assess the effect of a disposable, canisterless, negative
      pressure wound therapy device in the reduction of SSI in high risk patients if compared with
      a sterile standard dressing after major pancreatic procedures.
    
  