
    
      When a subject with an eligible distal forearm fracture is identified, the subject will be
      approached for enrollment and consent. Fracture hematoma size will then be estimated using
      bedside ultrasound operated by trained pediatric emergency faculty or fellows. Ultrasound
      measurement of the dimensions of the fracture hematomas will be performed at the subject's
      bedside in the Emergency Department by pediatric emergency physicians trained in ultrasound
      use and in the specific methods for fracture hematoma size measurement. Obtaining the
      measurements of hematoma size will be performed by a standard protocol: The fractured bone
      will be scanned longitudinally on the dorsal-lateral surface to obtain the largest
      measurement of the length and depth of the associated fracture hematoma. Transverse scan will
      be obtained on the dorsal-lateral surface to determine width at the largest measurement.
      These measurements will then be used to calculate the total volume of the hematoma. If no
      dorsal hematoma is noted, an attempt at identifying volar hematoma may be made and its
      presence noted.

      50% nitrous oxide/50% oxygen then will be administered to the subject by face mask for a
      minimum of 2 minutes before venous catheter insertion (50% nitrous oxide will continue to be
      administered until fracture reduction is completed). Nitrous oxide currently is administered
      regularly in the St. Louis Children's Emergency Department for painful procedures including
      fracture reduction, abscess incision and drainage, laceration repair and venous catheter
      placement. Nitrous oxide 50% blended with 50% oxygen will be administered for this study by
      credentialed emergency unit staff using a continuous flow delivery system that includes
      scavenging of exhaled nitrous oxide. Standard monitoring for deep sedation will be used as
      described in the clinical protocol.

      A venous catheter then will be inserted into the uninjured arm. A lidocaine hematoma block
      will be injected by an orthopedic surgery resident using 2.5 mg/kg, maximum of 100mg, of 1%
      buffered lidocaine. The recommended lidocaine dose for hematoma block in children is 3-5
      mg/kg. However, in a previous study, in another pediatric trial, and in the single report of
      plasma lidocaine levels in adults, 2.5 mg/kg of 1% lidocaine based upon the patient's weight,
      maximum 100 mg, was found effective and without adverse effects.

      The Pediatric Sedation State Scale will be administered by the sedation provider, and a
      research assistant when available, and used for subsequent analysis to quantify subjects'
      responses to the injection of the hematoma block and fracture reduction. This scale has been
      validated for procedural sedation. Pediatric Sedation State Scale scores will be determined
      before nitrous oxide is begun (baseline), as the hematoma block is placed, at 60 second
      intervals during reduction and moulding, and 15 minutes after moulding is completed. The PSSS
      during each interval will be averaged when multiple time points are available.

      Serial blood samples will be drawn through the indwelling venous catheter by a nurse or medic
      at 5, 10, 20, 40 and 60 minutes after injection of the hematoma block. Serial plasma
      lidocaine levels will be measured as follows. 5 mL samples of blood will be obtained via the
      indwelling venous catheter at 5, 10, 20, 40 and 60 minutes after injection of the lidocaine
      hematoma block. The samples of blood will be collected in standard red top vacutainer blood
      tubes and processed, frozen and stored in the SLCH/BJC Lab.

      At 5 minutes after the hematoma block injection, the orthopedic surgeon will attempt fracture
      reduction. If the subject has minimal response to squeezing the fracture site prior to 5
      minutes post injection, reduction may begin at that time. Nitrous oxide administration will
      be stopped and administration of 100% oxygen will begin when the orthopedic surgeon indicates
      satisfactory fracture reduction as determined by bedside fluoroscopy (standard procedure), a
      cast or splint has been applied, and, if necessary, the cast has been split. Oxygen
      administration will be stopped when the subject's exhaled nitrous oxide concentration falls
      below 10% or the subject pulls the nitrous oxide mask off the face.

      If the subject resists the fracture reduction or verbally indicates significant pain,
      ketamine sedation will be administered via the indwelling venous catheter and fracture
      reduction completed under deep sedation. Post procedure pain score via the Wong-Baker Faces
      scale, and post procedure surveys will be administered 15 minutes after nitrous
      administration is stopped. After the subject's recovery from sedation, the subject, subject's
      parents/guardians, physician providing sedation (inhaled nitrous) and the orthopedic surgeon
      will be asked to rate their satisfaction with the sedation and analgesia for the fracture
      reduction using a Likert scale ranging from 1 (not satisfied at all) to 10 (very satisfied).
      Recovery from sedation satisfactory for discharge home is indicated by a score of 10 on the
      Modified Aldrete Scale below, and the child can sit up unaided along with control of pain and
      vomiting. Family will be contacted via telephone 48 hours after their visit to assess for any
      late adverse effects.

      Adverse events will be documented on a data collection sheet using consensus-based
      definitions that include the event, time and any intervention employed. In addition, the
      subject will be asked about symptoms typically seen with procedural sedation and lidocaine
      toxicity including: vomiting, nausea, tinnitus, circumoral or tongue numbness, metallic taste
      in mouth, nystagmus, vision changes, muscle twitching, tremors, seizure, respiratory
      depression, chest pain, difficulty breathing, palpitations, ECG changes on monitor (type
      noted, ECG strip printed), and any other unpleasant or euphoric symptom.
    
  