
    
      Valved conduits used for the reconstruction of right-ventricular outflow tract are applied in
      the surgical repair of complex congenital heart disease(CHD) such as pulmonary atresia(PA),
      truncus arteriosus, severe tetralogy of Fallot(TOF) for their significant roles in reducing
      pulmonary valve regurgitation and preserving right ventricle function. With a rising cases of
      complex CHD and patients after surgical repair of TOF with pulmonary valve regurgitation, a
      progressive need is underway for valved conduits. Meanwhile, biological valved conduits used
      in foreign countries are lacked in China, with the disadvantage that a high failure rate of
      biological conduits increasing the chances of reoperation which greatly reduce the long-term
      survival rate. Thus, a new, low failure rate valved conduit with effective performance is
      urgently needed.

      Our team manufactured a new valved conduit with 0.1mm expanded polytetrafluoroethylene and
      blood vessels. This valved conduit exhibited a fine anti-regurgitation effect and a
      relatively low failure rate through in vitro fluid test and animal model. Besides, our team
      manufactured templates for the conduit and also simplified the suturing process so that the
      repeatability of suturing valved had been risen. Our team have already applied a patent for
      inventing and a utility model patent for this technique. Several papers have also been
      published.

      Till now, over 70 cases have been involved with this valved conduit with positive early and
      mid-term follow-up results. Our team have promoted this technique to several heart center
      such as Zhongshan Hospital affiliated to Fudan University, Shanghai Children's Medical Center
      and Nanjing Children's Hospital and all department have achieved satisfactory effects.

      Despite the progress which have been made, there are still problems remained to be solved to
      prove the superiority of valved conduits. First, systematic prospective comparative study is
      required. Second, 70 cases are not enough and currently this is just a single-center study.
      Third, follow-up time is too short to evaluate the long-term effect. Last but not least,
      imaging data are blank for evaluating the function of the conduit and right ventricle.

      In this prospective comparative research, the new designed PTFE valved conduit and bovine
      jugular vein valved conduits are conducted as a randomized controlled trail. Cardiac magnetic
      resonance imaging is used to precisely evaluate the anti-regurgitation effect of the valved
      conduit and the right ventricle function. Investigators can further access the application of
      this newly designed PTFE valved conduit. Investigators aim to provide a self-manufactured,
      low failure rate valved conduit.

      Method

        1. Patients involved in this research should meet the requirement that they need valved
           conduits to reconstruct right ventricular outflow tract, first time operation and
           reoperation to change the fail conduit included. Our team expect 200 patients to meet
           the requirement.

        2. In this prospective comparative research, all patients will be divided into two groups
           randomly with 100 patients in each group. One group will use the new-designed PTFE
           valved conduits and another one will implant the bovine jugular vein valved conduits.

        3. All patients will receive standard cardiopulmonary bypass through a mid-sternum incision
           and new-designed PTFE valved conduits or bovine jugular vein valved conduits will be
           implanted.

        4. Pre-operation, operation and post-operation materials will be collected. Besides, every
           one month, three months, six months, twelve months and twenty-for months after surgery,
           echocardiography and electrocardiogram will be conducted on each patient. 12 months and
           24 months after the surgery, our team will arrange MRI test with the patient on
           telephone.

        5. Assessment:

      i. Echocardiography: regurgitation of the valve in the conduits, the position of the
      regurgitation, the length of matched valve margin, volume of right ventricle, velocity of
      blood flow through pulmonary valve and pressure gradient will be monitored.

      ii. Electrocardiography: arrhythmia and the width of 'QRS' wave. iii. MRI: regurgitation
      index of valved conduit, RVEDVI, RVESVI, McGoon index, NAKATA index, d survival rate, free
      from stenosis rate, free from reintervention rate, free from endocarditis rate.

      f) MRI test: Using a Siemens Avanto 1.5T MRI spectrometer with a retrospective gated rate
      coding sequence to conduct the examination. Scanning parameters are set at view 400 mm, TR27
      ms, TE 3.2 ms, matrix 240 x 256, layer thickness 5 mm, flip angle 30 degrees. Patients will
      breath calmly and apply the iPAT (parallel acquisition) technology to reduce imaging time and
      artifacts. The average examination time will be 20 to 30 minutes.

      i. Measurements of valve regurgitation of the conduit: Take the sagittal long axis section of
      the right ventricular outflow tract and locate it at the level of the valve, and set the flow
      rate at 200 cm/s to produce a phase contrast sequence diagram. The valve section is circled
      where white represents the forward blood flow signal and black represents the reflux blood
      flow signal. The pulmonary flow velocity-time curve is generated by Argus software and
      calculate the pulmonary artery forward blood flow (FFV) and reverse blood flow (BFV). 2
      measurements were taken and averaged. The regurgitation index will be calculated according to
      the formula BFV/FFV × 100%.

      ii. Measurements of right ventricle function: Using a Siemens Avanto 1.5T MRI spectrometer
      with the Truefisp or flash flair. Scanning parameters are set at view 400 mm, TR2.2 ms, TE
      1.5 ms, matrix 128 x 256, layer thickness 5 mm, flip angle 45 degrees. Patients will breath
      calmly and apply the iPAT (parallel acquisition) technology to reduce imaging time and
      artifacts. In the short-axis view of the ventricle, the contours of each layer's endocardium
      at the end of diastolic and end-systolic phases of the right ventricle will be traced, and
      RVEDV, RVESV, and RVEF will be generated by Argus software.

      g) Echocardiography examination: Images will be collected and stored using the PhiliPsIE33
      color ultrasound system. The parameters including RVEDV, RVESV, and RVEF will be measured on
      the machine using QLAB 4.0 software.

      Manufacture the new designed conduit: First, turn the inner surface of the conduit to the
      outside of the conduit and then use template A to draw the stitching positions(three "T"
      lines and three midpoints). After that, apply template B to draw on 0.1mm PTFE patch and cut
      into three connected "U" shapes, surrounding the conduit. Suture the patch to the conduit
      before restoring the conduit to normal. The valve is formed at the boundary. (0.1mm PTFE
      patch and conduits have been used clinically, provided by Gore)

      Reconstruction of the right ventricle outflow tract:

      All patients will be divided randomly into two groups. One will implant the new-designed PTFE
      valved conduits and another one will implant the bovine jugular vein valved conduits.

      A mid-sternum incision will be applied for each patient and standard cardiopulmonary bypass
      will be constructed. Cardiac malformation will be repaired under cardiac arrest. The
      new-designed PTFE conduit or bovine jugular conduit will be used to connect the right
      ventricle and pulmonary artery. The distal end of the valved conduit is cut into a bevel
      surface, and the end of the conduit is merged with the pulmonary artery for end-to-end
      anastomosis, so that the valve can get closer to the pulmonary artery which will reduce the
      possibility of valve regurgitation due to blood flow filling pulmonary artery. After the
      anastomosis, the aorta clutch will be removed, and the heartbeat will recover. The next step
      is to start the anastomosis of the proximal end and right ventricular. The posterior wall of
      the anastomosis is sutured directly, and the anterior wall is expanded with autologous
      pericardium to avoid the narrowing of the proximal anastomosis.

      Postoperative anticoagulation: Heparin will be administered intravenously 5~15u/kg/h 4 to 6
      hours after surgery if without active hemorrhage. After that, oral anticoagulation with
      warfarin will be used for 6 months, and the INR should be maintained at 1.5~2.5. 6 months
      later aspirin will replace warfarin with 3 ~ 5mg / kg / time, once a day, until 2 years after
      surgery.
    
  