
    
      Gray-scale sonography is generally considered as a first-line diagnostic tool for patients
      with suspected gallbladder (GB) diseases. Once the gallstone is detected in a patient who is
      complaining abdominal pain in the right upper quadrant, the second concern is to differential
      diagnosis, biliary colic or acute cholecystitis. Certain diagnosis of acute cholecystitis is
      important, because of these two entity require different treatments. Gray-scale sonography
      has proven to be a valuable imaging technique in differential diagnosis for acute or chronic
      cholecystitis (1). In the presence of gallstones, sonographic findings such as GB wall
      thickening and the Murphy's sign has 90% sensitivity for the diagnosis of acute cholecystitis
      (2). On the other hand, abdominal pain and accompanying GB wall thickening can be seen in
      different clinical scenarios such as, pancreatitis, hepatitis, cirrhosis, and congestive
      heart failure. Thus, the specificity of these sonographic findings are not as high as their
      sensitivity. To eliminate this diagnostic concern, the need for correlation between
      diagnostic tool and disease physiopathology was realized. The GB wall is thickened and the
      vascularisation is increased in acute cholecystitis, but in the chronic cholecystitis the
      thickening of the GB wall is caused by fibrosis. This pathologic difference is to key point
      of distinguishing between acute and chronic cholecystitis. Determining the vascularisation of
      the GB wall with Doppler sonography was showed valuable diagnostic benefits, and the
      diagnostic superiority was obtained especially with power Doppler sonography (3).

      Today, laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) has become the gold standard treatment for benign
      biliary diseases. Although, the laparoscopic approach to acute cholecystitis have a lot of
      advantages, such as; less postoperative pain, shorter hospital stay and better cosmetic
      results, timing of the operation and intraoperative findings of GB wall inflammation and
      adhesions are critical for performing a safe cholecystectomy. The risk of bleeding and bile
      duct injury are significantly increases in the presence of severe inflammation and adhesions
      (4). These findings may lead surgeon to convert LC to an open cholecystectomy.

      In theory, increased vascularity of GB wall could be associated with intraoperative findings,
      such as, GB wall inflammation and accompanying adhesions. There are not enough reports in the
      literature describing the correlation between GB wall vascularity and operative findings
      according to adhesion scoring scale. In this prospective clinical study, we aimed to
      highlight the correlation between preoperative power Doppler sonography detected GB wall
      vascularity and intraoperative findings - postoperative outcomes of chronic and acute
      cholecystitis patients.
    
  