
    
      The influence of postmenopausal hormone treatment on dementia is not clear. Recently an
      overview was published.

      Dysfunctions in the metabolism of amyloid in the disease of Alzheimer result in an elevated
      presence of degradation products in cerebrospinal fluid. There are tests developed to detect
      those degradation products in blood.

      The degradation products in blood will be analysed during the trial, to get better insight in
      menopause and the start of hormonal therapy. The participants will be asked to come 2 times
      to the hospital. At every study visit, blood will be taken and questionnaires will be
      completed. The first study visit will take place before the start of the hormonal treatment,
      the second visit will take place 6 months after the start of the hormonal treatment.

      There will be 30 patients included per study group. There are 10 groups in total:

        1. Postmenopausal women who start oral hormonal treatment

        2. Postmenopausal women who start transdermal hormonal treatment

        3. Postmenopausal women who start oral hormonal treatment and had a hysterectomy in their
           medical history

        4. Postmenopausal women who start transdermal hormonal treatment and had a hysterectomy in
           their medical history

        5. Postmenopausal women who start oral hormonal treatment and have an intra-uterine device

        6. Postmenopausal women who start transdermal hormonal treatment and have an intra-uterine
           device

        7. Postmenopausal women with breast cancer taking selective oestrogen receptor modulators

        8. Postmenopausal women with breast cancer taking aromatase inhibitors

        9. Postmenopausal women with breast cancer taking duavive

       10. Postmenopausal women with no breast cancer and do not start with hormonal therapy

      The questionnaires that needs to be completed are:

        1. Mini Mental State Examination (only at the first visit)

        2. Targeting Aetiology of Nocturia Guides Outcomes Short Form (TANGO-SF) (visit 1 and 2)

        3. International Consultation of Incontinence Modular Questionnaire (ICIQ) (visit 1 and 2)

        4. Perceived stress scale (Cohen) (visit 1 and 2)

        5. Pittsburgh sleep quality
    
  