
    
      Specific Aims ==========

      This is a pilot study of the Supportive and Palliative care Review Kit (SPaRK) model of care,
      which is integrated palliative care and oncology care for advanced cancer patients, and will
      be focused on improving outcomes in lung cancer patients in the acute hospital inpatient
      setting. The current usual care will be provided in the first 3-month period from 1 October
      to 31 December 2015, and the novel SPaRK model of care will be piloted in the latter 3-month
      period from 1 January to 31 March 2016. The overall aim of this pilot study is to facilitate
      the planning of an upcoming phase III trial.

      Specific aim 1: To estimate the recruitment rate and data completion rate of the FACT-G
      instrument We will estimate the recruitment rate and data completion rate for FACT-G, which
      will demonstrate the feasibility and help in the planning of the future Phase III trial. The
      measurement properties of FACT-G will be detailed later in the 'Methods' section of this
      proposal. The FACT-G questionnaire will be administered at up to four time points - day 1, 4
      and 7 of hospital admission and day of discharge.

      Specific aim 2: To obtain tentative estimate the effect size of SPaRK on change in FACT-G
      from day 1 to day 7 of hospital admission The control group will be hospital admissions that
      are managed under the current model of care. The intervention group will be hospital
      admissions that are managed under the new SPaRK model of care. We hypothesize that the SPaRK
      model of care will result in a greater improvement in FACT-G score from day 1 to day 7 of
      hospital admission.

      Specific aim 3: To explore the responsiveness to change of FACT-G from day 1 to day 4 of
      hospital admission Within the three-day period from day 1 to day 4 of hospital admission, we
      expect the acute problems that prompted the admission to be addressed. The patient's 'phase
      of illness' will be recorded by the primary medical oncology physician on day 1 and day 4 as
      part of the study protocol. For patients who change from an 'unstable phase' on day 1 to
      'stable phase' on day 4, we will estimate the responsiveness to change of FACT-G score in
      terms of association with this change. Even though FACT-G uses a recall period of seven days,
      we hypothesize that FACT-G score will nonetheless increase among patients who change from an
      'unstable phase' to 'stable phase' over the shorter time period of three days from day 1 to
      day 4 of hospital admission while there is no change in FACT-G score among patients who
      remained in the 'unstable phase. This would be useful for measuring outcomes in patients who
      are discharged before day 7 of hospital admission.

      Specific Aim 4: To explore the views of healthcare professionals regarding SPaRK as a model
      of integrated palliative care and oncology care service delivery Semi-structured interviews
      will be conducted among a purposive sample of healthcare professionals, management and key
      decision makers involved in the pilot study. We will explore their views on how integrated
      palliative care and oncology care can be delivered in the acute hospital inpatient setting,
      and whether SPaRK is an acceptable model for providing this care.

      Methods

      =======

      Study setting This study will be conducted in Singapore General Hospital (SGH), which is a
      1,597-bedded acute hospital with more than 78,000 admissions per year. About 5,000 hospital
      admissions per year are under DMO, out of which about 70% are unplanned admissions for
      advanced cancer patients, with a mean length of hospital stay of 7.2 days. These inpatients
      are cared for by one of four Division of Medical Oncology (DMO) teams broadly organized by
      tumor site -gastrointestinal (GI), lung, breast and lymphoma.

      In the current model of service, if the inpatient DMO team decides that a patient would
      benefit from palliative care input, they would request for a review from the Division of
      Palliative Medicine (DPM) team. The DPM team will provide palliative care (PC) by reviewing
      the patients and making suggestions for patient management, but the patient remains under the
      care of DMO.

      Study design This is a cluster-controlled study with 1 control cluster and 1 intervention
      cluster, with patient admission episodes as units of inference. The control cluster will
      comprise patient admission episodes occurring during the 3-month control period (1 October to
      31 December 2015) when the current model of care is in place; the intervention cluster will
      comprise patient admission episodes during the subsequent 3-month intervention period (1
      January to 31 March 2016) when the SPaRK model of care is in place.

      Study patients This pilot study will only be conducted in the DMO lung team as their cohort
      of patients has the highest percentage of our target population - advanced cancer patients
      (86.0%) with unplanned hospital admissions (84.6%). Furthermore, the patients under the DMO
      lung team also have the highest unplanned readmission rate (11.8% within 7 days, 35.3% within
      30 days), which is a surrogate marker for unresolved palliative care problems.

      All advanced cancer patients who have an unplanned admission under the lung team during a
      6-month period from 1 October 2015 to 31 March 2016 will be included. In the first 3-month
      period from 1 October to 31 December 2015, current usual care will be provided and baseline
      data collected. The novel SPaRK model of care will be piloted in the latter 3-month period
      from 1 January 2016 to 31 March 2016.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  21 years old and above

        -  Has an unplanned admission to SGH under the care of the inpatient DMO Lung team

        -  Has a cancer diagnosis of stage 4 solid tumor

        -  Has capacity to give written informed consent to participate in the study (for patients
           who complete the patient questionnaires)

      Exclusion criteria - Unable to complete self-administration of the FACT-G questionnaire

      The SPaRK intervention The SPaRK intervention will be piloted in the DMO lung team for latter
      3-month period (1 Jan to 31 Mar 2016).

      All advanced cancer patients who have an unplanned admission in the SPaRK model of care will
      receive palliative care, which will be provided by the DMO team in conjunction with a
      palliative care advanced practice nurse (APN) and a part-time specialist palliative care (PC)
      physician who will be integrated members of the DMO team (the DPM/DMO SPaRK team. It is
      envisaged that PC physician will spend an average of 2 hours per weekday discussing cases
      with the APN, reviewing selected cases in person and participating in a weekly team meeting
      with the medical oncology team where the inpatient list is discussed. In the current model of
      care, patients referred to DPM for PC are also discussed in a weekly team meeting to
      establish their plan of care.

      The components of palliative care (PC) that is provided in the control group by the DPM team
      and in the intervention group by the DPM/DMO SPaRK team will include assessments of physical
      symptoms, functional status, psychosocial issues and spiritual issues, followed by the
      formulation of a problem list and establishment of a care plan.

      If any patient has complex palliative care needs that cannot be met by the SPaRK team, then
      either the DMO consultant, palliative care APN or palliative care physician will trigger a
      formal referral to the DPM team for review.

      Data collection and instruments Patients will complete the FACT-G questionnaire (Available
      English, Chinese [simplified], Malay and Tamil validated translations will be used). The
      doctor in charge will complete the 'phase of illness' and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group
      (ECOG) score.

      We will be using FACT-G to measure the primary outcome of patient's health-related quality of
      life (QOL) as it is an established instrument that has been well-validated both
      internationally and locally for patients with many kinds of cancer. It has a low level of
      noise, as evidenced by reliability measures consistently shown to be between 0.8 and 0.95,
      which is suitable for comparison between groups. 21, 22, 24 As compared to some popular
      alternatives in cancer QoL research, FACT-G has been shown to be more sensitive in detecting
      differences between groups. It covers four QOL domains: physical well-being (7 items),
      social/family well-being (7 items), emotional well-being (6 items) and functional well-being
      (7 items), and each item has response choices in a 5-point Likert-type scale. We will adopt
      the official scoring method, which is part of the validated instrument that has been
      demonstrated to have good measurement properties as aforementioned. Response scores on
      negatively phrased questions are reversed so that higher scores always mean better QOL. The
      domain score will be obtained by summing individual item scores within the domain, subject to
      imputation for item non-response by the "half-rule", i.e. missing item score replaced by
      average of other scores in the subscale if more than 50% of the items in the same subscale
      were answered. It has been shown that the half-rule is very robust and that very few
      Singaporean cancer patients who participated in FACT-G assessment had item non-response not
      imputable by the half-rule. The total FACT-G score is the sum of the four domain scores.

      The FACT-G questionnaire will be administered at four time points: T1 - day 1 of hospital
      admission; T2 - day 4 of hospital admission (if patient has not been discharged); T3 - day 7
      of hospital admission (if patient has not been discharged); T4 - day of discharge. The
      standard administration method of FACT-G is self-report. Hence self-administration is the
      chosen mode of questionnaire completion. As there is some evidence that FACT-G is not
      equivalent between self-administration and interviewer-administration, we will not be using
      interviewer-administration in this study.

      At all time points, the patient's 'phase of illness' will also be recorded. The standard
      definitions of the five phases are:

      Phase 1 - Stable: patient problems and symptoms are adequately controlled. Phase 2 -
      Unstable: an urgent change in the plan of care or emergency treatment is required because the
      patient experiences a new problem that was not anticipated in the existing plan, or care
      and/or the patient experiences a rapid increase in the severity of a current problem, and/or
      family/carers circumstances change suddenly impacting on patient care.

      Phase 3 - Deteriorating: the care plan is addressing anticipated needs but requires periodic
      review because there is a gradual worsening of an existing problem or there is a new but
      anticipated problem.

      Phase 4 - Terminal: death likely within days. Phase 5 - Bereavement: patient has died.

      The 'phase of illness' will be used to determine responsiveness to change of FACT-G,
      specifically for patients who change from an 'unstable phase' to 'stable phase'.

      The following demographic data and background information will also be collected: age,
      gender, ethnicity, primary cancer diagnosis, stage of cancer and Eastern Cooperative Oncology
      Group (ECOG) performance status score. The ECOG score is a set of standard criteria for
      measuring how the disease impacts a patient's daily living abilities and describes a
      patient's level of functioning in terms of their ability to care for themself, daily
      activity, and physical ability (walking, working, etc.).

      The following data for each patient will be obtained from the computer system:

        -  Hospital length of stay

        -  Discharge destination (e.g. home, nursing home, inpatient hospice)

        -  Referral to DPM during the admission and date of referral to DPM

        -  The presence of a plan for follow up by community palliative care services upon
           discharge from hospital (including outpatient palliative care clinic, home hospice, day
           hospice and inpatient hospice)

        -  The occurrence of another unplanned hospital admission within 7 days and 30 days after
           being discharged from hospital

      These outcomes reflect the usage of acute hospital and community palliative care resources
      and will be used to decide if any of these outcomes would be suitable for further study in
      the future Phase III trial.

      Data analysis and sample size planning Recruitment rate and data completion rate for FACT-G
      It is estimated that there will be 95 eligible patient admissions per month (based on data
      from May 2013-June 2014), and thus approximately 280 patient admissions in the 3-month
      control period and 280 patient admissions in the 3-month intervention period, totally 560
      eligible patient admissions. We assume that, on average, one patient may have about 1.5
      admissions during the study period, and that the intra-class correlation coefficient between
      outcomes measured at two admissions is about 0.5. This implies a design effect of about 1.25
      and this is taken into account in the sample size planning to allow for clustering of data
      within the patient.

      This study will update the percentage of eligible patient admissions, recruitment rate and
      data completion rate for the measured outcomes. A total of 560 eligible admissions in six
      months (effective sample size 450 after discounting for design effect) will allow us to more
      accurately estimate of the consent cum data completion rate with 95% confidence interval of
      approximately +/- 4%.

      Effect size of SPaRK on change in FACT-G from day 1 to day 7 of hospital admission (T1 to T3)
      Assuming about 25% consent cum data completion rate for FACT-G at T1 (day 1 of hospital
      admission) and T3 (day 7 of hospital admission), we would have approximately 75 patient
      admissions each in the control group and intervention group (total 150 patient admissions)
      with complete FACT-G at both time points. This sample size would provide about 80% power at a
      20% 1-sided Type 1 error rate to detect an effect size of 0.3 (PASS 13 software).

      Responsiveness to change of FACT-G from day 1 to day 4 of hospital admission (T1 to T2)
      Sensitivity to change tests the ability of an instrument to detect important changes over
      time in the concept being measured. For patients who change from the 'unstable phase' at T1
      (day 1 of hospital admission) to the 'stable phase' at T2 (day 4 of hospital admission), we
      will estimate the sensitivity to change of FACT-G scores between T1 and T2. We hypothesize
      that FACT-G scores will improve for patients whose phase of illness changes from 'unstable
      phase' at T1 to 'stable phase' at T2 while there will be no significant change in FACT-G
      score among patients who remain in the 'unstable phase' in the same period.

      Views of healthcare professionals regarding SPaRK as a model of integrated palliative care
      and oncology care service delivery

      Healthcare professionals involved in this pilot study will be invited to participate in
      one-to-one interviews. Purposive sampling will be used. Heads of department from the DMO, DPM
      and the nursing division will also be included. The format of the interviews will be
      semi-structured, where participants will be asked to discuss their responses to the following
      questions:

      i) How do you think integrated palliative care and oncology care should be delivered in the
      acute hospital inpatient setting? ii) What do you think of the SPaRK model as a possible way
      of delivering integrated palliative care and oncology care to advanced cancer patients? iii)
      How can the SPaRK model be modified to improve its effectiveness in providing integrated
      palliative care and oncology care? iv) What do you perceive to be the role of the palliative
      care nurse and palliative care doctor in the oncology team? v) Do you think the SPaRK model
      should be implemented and why?

      The interviews will be audio-taped and transcribed verbatim. Written notes will also be taken
      during the interview. Interview transcripts will be analyzed using framework analysis.

      Conclusion

      ========= This is a pilot study of the SPaRK - a novel model of integrated palliative care
      and oncology care for advanced cancer patients who have an unplanned hospital admission. The
      overall aim of this pilot study is to establish the feasibility of a larger-scale Phase III
      trial of SPaRK. If successful, this pilot study will help design and plan the subsequent
      phase III trial, which will test a potentially viable as well as effective way of providing
      early palliative care for advanced cancer patients in the acute hospital inpatient setting.
    
  