
    
      This Phase I-II dose-finding trial to determine the optimal dose of intravenous (IV)
      injection dose of donor-derived cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) specific for CMV, EBV, BKV and
      Adenovirus. A maximum of 36 patients will be treated in up to 18 cohorts each of size 2, with
      the first cohort treated at the lowest dose level 1, all successive doses chosen by the
      EffTox method, and no untried dose level skipped when escalating.

      The scientific goal of the trial is to determine an optimal IV-CTL cell dose level among the
      three doses 1.0x107cells/m2, 2 x107cells/m2 and 5x107cells/m2., hereafter dose levels 1, 2,
      3. Dose-finding will be done using the sequentially adaptive EffTox trade-off-based design of
      Thall et al. To implement the design's model using the latest EffTox version 4.0.12 program,
      doses will coded numerically to be 1, 2, 3.

      CMV/AdV /EBV/BKV specific T cells will be thawed and given or thawed and diluted into a total
      volume of 10 mL of Plasmalyte A by slow intravenous injection over 1-2 minutes. This is a
      traditional Phase I dose escalation study of a single infusion of CMV/AdV/EBV/BKV-specific
      CTLs to patients at risk for CMV and EBV reactivation and Adenoviral and BK virus infection
      after umbilical cord blood transplantation. Three dose levels will be explored. The lowest
      dose level will be 1x107cells/m2 and the highest will be 5x107/m2. There will be 2-6 patients
      at each dose level (depending on toxicity) following the scheme below. The decision on
      whether it is safe to escalate to next dose level or not will be made after at least two
      patients in each dose level have finished their 45-days toxicity follow up. If the first two
      patients have not finished their 45 days follow-up, up to 2 additional incoming patients can
      be enrolled at the current dose level. In addition, we will give the option of administering
      2 additional doses (at the same dose level), 28 days after the first infusion of the same
      dose, in subjects who have a partial response after one dose or who have received other
      therapy that may affect the persistence or function of the infused CTL in vivo. If there are
      no toxicities and immunological efficacy is not seen at any dose, then the doses will be
      further escalated after additional local and federal approval.

      Dose Levels and Dosing Schedule

      Dose Level CTL Dose Given from Day +30 post SCT

        1. 1x107/m2

        2. 2.0x107/m2

        3. 5x107/m2

      Escalation of Multi-virus-specific CTL infusions

      CMV/AdV/EBV/BKV CTL will be given from day +30 either as prophylaxis or treatment for CMV,
      EBV, BK and/or adenovirus infection. If the patient has viral reactivation or evidence of
      CMV/EBV/AdV/BKV disease (e.g. pneumonitis, gastroenteritis and/or retinitis or Post
      Transplant Lymphoproliferative Disorder (PTLD) or hemorrhagic cystitis the CTL can be given
      with concurrent antiviral pharmacotherapy.

      A dose escalation scheme utilizing cohorts of two patients will be used

      Each cohort of 2 patients will be treated and observed for 45 days for toxicity, dose
      escalation, and GvHD. The algorithm described in Section 9 will be used to determine the dose
      for each cohort. If 1x107CTL/m2 results in unacceptable toxicity or efficacy, the study will
      be closed to accrual.

      The Optimal Dose of Infused CMV/AdV/EBV/BKV-Specific CTL

      After all patients in the trial have been evaluated, the optimal dose of infused
      CMV/AdV/EBV-specific CTL will be determined by the algorithm using the sequentially adaptive
      EffTox trade-off-based design of Thall et al.
    
  