
    
      Stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is a very heterogeneous disease and current
      treatment guidelines recommend concurrent chemoradiation therapy or combined neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy, surgical resection, and sequential adjuvant therapy. When incidental N2 disease
      is found despite thorough preoperative staging, adjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy with or
      without adjuvant radiotherapy is recommended.

      Although guidelines suggest preoperative mediastinal staging with endobronchial
      ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA), this method does not allow
      approach of the sub- or para-aortic lymph nodes. Therefore, patients with suspected stage
      IIIA NSCLC and N2 disease only at the sub- or para-aortic level should undergo several
      processes if combined neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgical resection is planned. First,
      video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) should be performed to verify whether the sub- or
      para-aortic lymph nodes are involved. If a frozen-section biopsy reveals no malignant tumor
      involvement in the sub- and para-aortic lymph nodes, the affected lung can be resected. If
      there is sub- or para-aortic lymph node involvement, further neoadjuvant chemotherapy is
      required before surgical resection and adjuvant therapy.

      Studies have shown that stage IIIA NSCLC with only sub- or para-aortic lymph node involvement
      has better outcomes than other stage IIIA NSCLC. Moreover, the five-year survival of patients
      with stage IIIA NSCLC with only sub- or para-aortic lymph node involvement is similar to that
      with stage II NSCLC. However, those studies were retrospective with relatively small sample
      sizes. Therefore, we evaluated the outcomes of combined surgical resection with adjuvant
      chemotherapy and radiotherapy in patients with stage IIIA NSCLC and N2 disease at only the
      sub- or para-aortic level.
    
  