
    
      Group B streptococcus (GBS) or Streptococcus agalactiae is a gram-positive bacterium that
      colonizes 10-40% of maternal gastrointestinal and urogenital tract sites. Maternal
      colonization remains the primary risk factor and the leading cause of early onset GBS disease
      in infants in the United States. Transmission of GBS to the neonate in early onset GBS cases
      occurs at the time of labor and delivery, with a transmission rate of 52.5% if no intrapartum
      antibiotics are used. Of those neonates, 1-2% term infants and 8% of preterm infants will
      develop early onset disease.

      The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommends universal screening at 35-37 weeks via
      culture of the vagina and rectum. If this is performed ≤5 weeks before delivery, it has a
      sensitivity of 85% and a negative predictive value of 95-98%. There is a downside to
      screening remote from delivery however; vaginal GBS colonization fluctuates in the same woman
      over time, thus rendering possibly inaccurate GBS results. It has been reported that at least
      10% of antenatal GBS negative women turned positive at the time of labor. This may suggest
      that screening at the time of delivery is a more accurate method of predicting actual GBS
      colonization status. In fact, a majority of neonatal GBS sepsis occurs in infants born to
      mothers with a negative antepartum screening culture.

      Currently, a standard GBS culture may take up to 3 days to obtain results. A rapid diagnostic
      test has more recently been studied as a possible method of GBS screening - real-time
      polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Prior studies of RT-PCR, specifically the Cepheid
      GeneXpert GBS assay used at Miller's Children's and Women's Hospital, have reported
      sensitivity from 85-98.5% and specificity of 96-99.6% using data from term gestations. The
      CDC currently permits the use of RT-PCR as a rapid screening test for those with unknown
      status at term.

      Several reports demonstrate that RT-PCR is a rapid, more sensitive method than standard
      culture for determining the intrapartum GBS colonization status. Some studies have also
      demonstrated the ability of RT-PCR to identify patients who would otherwise be missed by
      traditional GBS culture. A study by Mueller et al demonstrated that out of 64 patients with
      positive RT-PCR results, 10 were actually negative on culture. A cost-effectiveness analysis
      has demonstrated that PCR intrapartum screening strategy is not any less cost-effective than
      traditional culture and confers a significant decrease in early onset GBS disease in term
      gestations.

      Preterm infants suffer the highest rate of mortality from GBS infection, with up to 30%
      mortality in those < 33 weeks affected by GBS sepsis. Identifying GBS colonization is thus
      imperative in the 7-11% of all pregnancies affected by preterm labor, given that they will
      not have undergone universal screening yet (which typically occurs at 35-37 weeks). While the
      CDC recommends giving antibiotics to patients with unknown GBS status at substantial risk for
      preterm delivery, implementation of this recommendation is poor.

      Advantages of the RT-PCR are that its results will come back much more rapidly than the
      standard culture and may assist in management of these critical patients, 75 min vs 3 days,
      respectively. Accurate screening for GBS in a rapid fashion, especially in preterm infants,
      where the risk of GBS infection is most serious, can potentially allow antibiotics to be used
      appropriately.

      The investigators seek to evaluate the utility of RT-PCR for screening of GBS in women at
      risk of preterm labor with an unknown GBS status. The investigators also aim to identify the
      ability of RT-PCR to identify GBS colonization in patients who would have otherwise been
      missed by culture.
    
  