
    
      Title: Vaccination with autologous dendritic cells loaded with autologous tumor lysate or
      homogenate combined with immunomodulating radiotherapy and/or preleukapheresis IFN-alfa in
      patients with metastatic melanoma: a randomized "proof-of-principle" phase II study.

      Short Title/Acronym: ABSIDE (ABScopal effect-Interferon alpha-DEndritic cells)

      Protocol Code IRST172.02

      Phase: phase II clinical trial

      Study Design: Randomized selection design, proof of principle study

      Study Duration: 36 months

      Study Center(s): Monocentric (IRCCS IRST Meldola)

      Objectives:

      Primary objectives

        1. Safety assessments: to determine the safety of the autologous tumor lysate loaded DC
           vaccine in combination with IFN-alfa and/or radiotherapy in patients with advanced
           melanoma.

        2. Clinical objective: to select the regimen that has the best immune related Disease
           Control Rate (irDCR) in the different external immunostimulant conditions utilized in
           combinations with autologous tumor lysate loaded DC vaccine.

        3. Immunological objective: to compare between the different treatment arms the immunologic
           efficacy, defined as the proportion of subjects developing positive DTH to ATL and/or
           KLH, combined with quantification of tumor antigen-specific circulating immune effectors
           performed by IFNalfa-ELISPOT analysis at the base line and after at least 4
           immunizations, if DTH analysis will not detect differences in terms of immunologic
           efficacy between the different arms.

      Number of Subjects: 24 evaluable patients

      Diagnosis and Main Inclusion Criteria: Patients with non resectable stage III or stage IV
      malignant melanoma carrying at least 2 measurable lesions, any line after 1st line
      Vemurafenib in patients carrying BRAF mutation-positive melanoma and/or ≥ 2nd line
      Ipilimumab.

      Study Product, Dose, Route, Regimen and duration of administration:

      Intradermal Autologous Dendritic Cell vaccine loaded with autologous tumor lysate or
      homogenate on weeks 1, 4 6 and 8 during induction phase, and every 4 weeks during maintenance
      phase up to a maximum of 14 vaccine doses (each dose followed by IL-2 3 MU day 2-6) COMBINED
      OR NOT WITH

        -  IFN-alfa 3 MU daily for 7 days before leukapheresis AND/OR

        -  Three daily doses of 8 Gy up to 12 Gy delivered to one metastatic field between vaccine
           doses 1 and 2 (optional to one additional field between doses 7 and 8) utilizing
           IMRT-IMAT techniques.

      Statistical Methodology: The RANDOMIZED SELECTION DESIGN was chosen basing on the assumption
      that immunotherapy is expected to be effective only in patients showing efficient induction
      of antitumor immune responses ("targeted endpoint"), allowing to reduce the number of
      patients required to evaluate the potential efficacy of an experimental treatment.

      The Steinberg and Venzon approach will be employed to select one among different treatment
      arms as being worthy of further evaluation. This method requires that an adequate gap in the
      number of responses among different arms be observed in order to limit the probability that
      the selected arm is actually inferior by more than an indifferent amount. Assuming an error
      probability of selecting inferior arm pW =10%, with 6 patients per arm, regardless of
      proportion of irOR expected in each arm, the gap of 2, the largest minimal difference in the
      number of irOR which must be observed in order to select the arm with the higher number of
      irOR, provides that difference between highest probability of response and the maximum on the
      remaining arms is 15%. Therefore, outcomes of at least 4/6 versus the maximum on the
      remaining 3 arms of 2/6, at least 5/6 versus the maximum on the remaining 3 arms of 3/6 and
      so forth will lead to selection the most promising arm on the basis of irOR. with an error
      probability of 10% Otherwise no treatment arm could be considered better than others.
    
  