
    
      Numerous studies have shown that influenza vaccines, prepared against the relevant epidemic
      seasonal vaccine strains, are an effective remedy in prevention of this mass disease and are
      able to protect about 80% of otherwise healthy children and adults. However, to develop
      vaccines against the emerging new pandemic strain of the influenza virus and produce them in
      the necessary amounts requires at least 6 months. During such interim periods, sufficient
      protection of the population is essential by effective measures for treatment and prevention
      of influenza.

      This randomized, single-blind, clinical study was conducted to investigate the clinical
      efficacy and safety of the drug Amizon (N-methyl-4-benzylcarbamidopyridinium iodide,
      international nonproprietary name enisamium iodide) compared with placebo, for the treatment
      of patients with ARVI, including influenza.

      Enisamium iodide is an antiviral small molecule. Enisamium can directly inhibit influenza
      viral RNA replication.

      The study design was: randomised, single-blind, 2 parallel groups. Adult patients (18-60 y)
      with symptoms of ARVI, including influenza took either Amizon tablets (active ingredient
      enisamium iodide) for 7 days; in the control group patients took placebo tablets for 7 days.
      Study visits occurred on Day 0 (screening, examination, check inclusion/exclusion criteria,
      enrollment, randomization, and first intake of study drug); further study visits were on Day
      3, Day 7, and Day 14.

      The effect of treatment was assessed by questioning the patients regarding ARVI and influenza
      symptoms that included pain, headache, general weakness, sore throat, pain in the joints,
      fatigue, runny and itchy nose. The severity of symptoms was recorded using a 4-point Likert
      scale.

      Further evaluation of the treatment was performed by measuring the vitals signs, laboratory
      tests that included blood and urine analysis, biochemical analysis, as well as assessing the
      immune status (including measuring the absolute lymphocytes count, and evaluating the
      relative concentration of interferon (IFN)-alpha and IFN-gamma, and immunoglobulins (IgA,
      IgM, and IgG).
    
  