
    
      Anticipated Impacts on Veterans' Healthcare: Urinary tract infection (UTI) is the single most
      common hospital-acquired infection. However, the majority of cases of nosocomial
      catheter-associated urinary tract infection (CAUTI) are really asymptomatic bacteriuria
      (ABU). ABU is not a clinically significant condition, and treatment is unlikely to confer
      benefit. Overtreatment of ABU is a quality, safety, and cost issue, particularly as
      unnecessary antibiotics lead to emergence of resistant flora. The proposal to bring clinical
      practice in line with published guidelines has significant potential to decrease CAUTI and
      associated inappropriate antibiotic use in VA hospitals. The study will also provide
      information about how to maximize effectiveness of audit-feedback to achieve guideline
      adherence in the inpatient VA setting.

      Project Background/Rationale: Evidence-based guidelines recommend that providers neither
      screen for nor treat ABU in most catheterized patients. However, a significant gap between
      these guidelines and clinical practice has been documented at the investigators' VA hospital
      and throughout the world. Since many VA patients in both acute care settings and sub-acute
      care settings, such as intermediate and long-term care, have a legitimate need for a urinary
      catheter, the issue of overtreatment of catheter-associated ABU is an active problem for the
      VA.

      Project Objectives: The investigators hypothesize that implementing the existing
      evidence-based guidelines about non-treatment of ABU will dramatically reduce the unnecessary
      use of antibiotics to treat ABU and the incidence of incorrectly diagnosed CAUTI. The first
      objective is to improve quality of care concerning ABU in terms of specific clinical outcomes
      (inappropriate screening for and treatment of ABU) through implementation of an
      audit-feedback strategy. The investigators also hypothesize that successful implementation of
      an audit-feedback strategy will result in measurable changes in clinicians' knowledge and
      attitudes concerning ABU practice guidelines. The second objective is to assess through
      surveys the effect of the implementation on clinicians' guideline awareness, familiarity,
      acceptance, and outcome expectancy.

      Project Methods: The investigators' guidelines implementation strategy will employ
      audit-feedback, applied as a post-prescription antimicrobial review based on established
      guidelines. The study population for the clinical outcomes is all inpatients on certain wards
      at the intervention site (Houston VA) and the control site (San Antonio VA). The
      investigators' study population for the audit-feedback intervention and surveys is the health
      care providers on these wards. The investigators propose a 3-year study. During the first
      year the investigators will observe the baseline incidence of inappropriate screening for and
      treatment of ABU at both sites. Blinded monitoring of clinical outcomes will continue during
      the next 2 years of the study. During the second year, the investigators will distribute the
      guidelines at both sites. Clinicians at the intervention site will receive individualized
      feedback, either by telephone or in person, about whether their management of bacteriuria was
      guideline-compliant. Unit-level feedback will also be provided. During the third year,
      individualized feedback will cease, but unit-level feedback will continue as this constitutes
      a sustainable intervention. Clinicians will complete pre/post surveys of awareness,
      familiarity, acceptance, and outcome expectancy at the intervention site in year 2 and at
      both sites in year 3. Differences in outcomes between the individualized intervention in year
      2 and the group-level intervention in year 3 will help to determine the necessary intensity
      of intervention for dissemination and implementation in other VA facilities.
    
  