
    
      Background:

      The number of hemodialysis patients in the world are increasing. In order to receive an
      efficient dialysis, the patient needs a well-functioning and stable vascular access.
      Presently there is three options: an arteriovenous fistula (AVF), an arteriovenous graft
      (AVG) and a central venous catheter (CVC). CVCs are associated with an increased risk of
      stenosis of the central vessels, thrombosis in the AVF, infections and death. AVGs are
      associated with increased risk of infections, stenosis in the AVG and loss of access. This is
      why, the AVF is the preferred vascular access. But this vascular access does not come without
      risks. After the creation of an AVF there is a risk of 50 % for never maturing, which means
      the AVF cannot be used. Furthermore, the risk of stenosis in the AVF is also high, up to 67 %
      of the AVFs will have a stenosis, that needs an intervention. During this time the patient
      needs an alternative vascular access, such as a central venous catheter, which is related to
      an increased risk of infection, more hospital days and death.

      The maturation of the AVF depends on several patient related, but also surgically related
      factors. Factors such as comorbidity, female sex, length of end stage renal disease, anatomy
      of the vessel, surveillance after AVF placement and the operations itself have all been shown
      to affect the AVF maturation. Fistula stenosis emerges from an endothelial dysfunction,
      inflammation and smooth muscle cell proliferation leading to intimal hyperplasia and in the
      end stenosis. Factors such as increased blood flow, inflammation, uremia and percutaneous
      transluminal angioplasty has been shown to affect the stenosis, It is not well understood,
      which molecular mechanism are responsible for the intimal hyperplasia.

      There are few and not well established studies on how to improve the AVF survival and
      maturation.

      Far infrared radiation (FIR) is an electromagnetic radiation (heat therapy), that is given
      directly on the skin above the AVF. In a few single center studies in Taiwan it has been
      shown to decrease the risk of stenosis and increase the fistula survival and maturation.
      However another study is disputing this. The mechanism behind FIR and better fistula survival
      is not fully understood. The infrared light is supposed to have a thermal effect, which leads
      to vasodilatation and a non-thermal effect, which influence the endothelial function and
      vasodilation and thereby it may decrease the inflammation and proliferation in the fistula,
      primarily through the releasing of several anti-inflammatory and vasodilating factors. This
      is not well documented.

      Hypothesis:

      Treatment with FIR for 40 minutes three times a week on the patients AVF will improve the AVF
      survival and maturation

      Method:

      This study is a randomized, controlled multicenter study on western patients

      There will be 2 patient categories:

        1. A group (82 patients) of dialysis patients with a newly created AF

        2. A group (104 patients) of dialysis patients with an existing AVF

      The patients will randomly be randomized 1:1 to either the treatment group or a control
      group. For group 2 the patients will be block randomized according to their access flow (AF)
      (above or below 950 ml/min). Furthermore these patients will be stratified according to
      interventions in there AVF (no interventions >/= 1 intervention) For the FIR treatment Ws Far
      Infrared Therapy Unit, model TY-102F (Medical device Class 11a CE0434) is being used. The
      patients will receive 40 minutes of infrared radiation on the skin of their fistula during
      each dialysis treatment for one year. The control group will not receive any FIR treatment,
      but will be followed according to the protocol and in line with the treatment group.

      The patients will be followed until end of study or lost-to-follow-up (death,
      transplantations, change of renal replacement therapy, abandoned AVF, change of vascular
      access to CVC, consent withdrawal or if the patients moves away).

      In order to explore the long term effects of FIR the patients will be followed for an extra 6
      months according to the endpoints. In a subset of 2x20 patients of the randomized controlled
      trial we further wish to explore the influence of infrared therapy on endothelial function
      and inflammation during a FIR treatment session. Blood samples will be collected before and
      immediately after infrared treatment directly from the treatment site, since 2 needles are
      placed in the fistula during the dialysis treatment. The same samples will be collected in
      the control group and in the intervention group during the dialysis before the first infrared
      intervention in order to reduce the interindividual variation in the biomarkers.The changes
      in markers of endothelial dysfunction and inflammation during treatment and control dialysis
      session will be examined and compared.

      Furthermore a blood sample from each patient will be collected at study start. The predictive
      value of the biomarkers of endothelial dysfunction and inflammation for the treatment
      response to infrared therapy and the prognosis for fistula maturation, stenosis and survival
      will be evaluated after the randomised controlled trial has ended.

      Arterial stiffness (measured by Mobil-O-Graph) will also be evaluated as a marker for fistula
      survival and maturation.

      A total of 186 participants will be recruited from 9 dialysis centres. If the study shows
      positive results, the implication of FIR in the clinic will have a huge beneficial effect for
      the hemodialysis patients vascular access and perhaps also patient survival. FIR is an easy
      treatment with a low cost-effectiveness and minimal or no side effects for the patient.
    
  