
    
      Rotator cuff injuries are among the most common soft tissue injuries of the shoulder.
      Characterized by insidious onset of progressive pain and weakness, with concomitant loss of
      range of motion, patients with pathological conditions of the rotator cuff are often unable
      to associate the onset of symptoms with a specific traumatic event. Loss of continuity of the
      rotator cuff can be described in several ways, including acute or chronic, partial or
      full-thickness and traumatic or degenerative. For this study, only patients with radiography
      confirmed large rotator cuff tears (> 3 cm) resulting from trauma and/or degeneration will be
      observed.

      Historically, many operative procedures have been used by surgeons in the treatment of large
      rotator cuff tears including open rotator cuff repair, mini- open rotator cuff repair,
      arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, bridging techniques, debridement, arthroscopic rotator cuff
      repair with acromioplasty, arthroscopic rotator cuff repair without acromioplasty, surgical
      augmentation, debridement etc. While the surgical repair of large rotator cuff tears has
      resulted in pain relief and improved function, the re-tear rate (55%-94%) has remained high
      despite advances in repair techniques. The re-tear rates correlate with the size of the
      rotator cuff tear as well as with other factors such as muscle atrophy, tendon quality, and
      postoperative rehabilitation protocol.

      With an effort to improve healing rates, surgeons have used various biologic tissues to
      either substitute for or augment the repair of the rotator cuff. These tissues include the
      patients' biceps tendon, fascia latae allografts and autografts, freeze-dried rotator cuff
      allografts, and synthetic materials such as polypropylene mesh.1 A new scaffold material made
      of highly purified, type I collagen from bovine tendons has shown great promise as a
      bioinductive implant that helps induce the formation of new tendon-like tissue over the
      surface of partial- or full-thickness rotator cuff tears.This new graft material has the
      benefit of decreasing surgery time, as it takes a few minutes to put in place, while
      increasing healing and tendon thickness.

      The investigators hypothesize that arthroscopic augmentation using a bioinductive collagen
      implant will have superior outcomes in terms of increasing healing, thereby decreasing
      re-tear rate, as compared to participants who are treated with the current gold standard
      treatment (consisting of debridement, acromioplasty, and rotator cuff repair). The
      investigators hypothesize that the participants with graft augment will have decreased pain
      both during the early recovery phase and two years post-operatively as compared to the
      non-augmented group. Additionally, the investigators hypothesize that participants with the
      collagen scaffold will have better outcome scores at two years, as compared to the
      non-augmented group.
    
  