
    
      Surgical procedures(Experimental group ):Placing the grasping forceps on the neck of the
      gallbladder, then retracted upwards and towards the left, so that the posterior aspect of the
      hepatobiliary triangle is exposed. the sulcus is seen running to the right of the hilum . In
      some patients, the lips of the sulcus are partially fused, with only a small cleft visible
      laterally. The sulcus indicates reliably the plane of the common bile duct; dissection may be
      started safely by division of the peritoneum immediately ventral to the sulcus and continued
      in a triangle bounded by the liver surface, the neck of the gallbladder and the plane of the
      sulcus. Even if the bile duct is tented upwards by the traction that has been exerted on the
      gallbladder, dissection will be safely ventral to the plane of the duct. Posterior branches
      of the cystic artery, may lie in the area of dissection and must be identified with care.Once
      a plane has been opened posteriorly, attention may be turned to the anterior dissection,
      using the posterior landmarks as a guide. The anterior and posterior dissections can then be
      made to meet, thus opening the hepatobiliary triangle completely.

      Surgical procedures(Control group ):A small periumbilical incision is made, with the location
      and orientation depending on the patient's body habitus and cosmetic considerations.The
      laparoscope is used to explore the abdomen for adhesions and potential injuries that may have
      occurred during port placement，ratcheted grasper is inserted through the lateral 5-mm port to
      retract the gallbladder fundus in cephalad fashion. An atraumatic grasper is inserted through
      the middle 5-mm port to retract the gallbladder infundibulum laterally, exposing the
      anteromedial aspect of the triangle of Calot. A hook cautery is used to carefully incise the
      peritoneum overlying the triangle of Calot, continuing along the medial aspect of the
      proximal gallbladder. As the infundibulum is retracted superomedially, peritoneum overlying
      the posterolateral aspect of the triangle of Calot is similarly incised using hook cautery.
      All remaining connective tissue is dissected out of the triangle of Calot using blunt
      dissection and hook cautery as needed to fully mobilize the gallbladder infundibulum.
    
  