
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the safety and toxicity of intravenous injections of autologous
      cultured dendritic cells pulsed with either gp100 and tyrosinase peptides or autologous
      melanoma tumor cell lysates in patients with metastatic melanoma. II. Determine whether
      treatment with melanoma tumor antigen pulsed autologous dendritic cells results in increased
      in vitro tumor specific cytotoxic T-cell responses. III. Determine whether this treatment can
      induce positive skin test responses to tumor antigens. IV. Evaluate the disease free and
      overall survival of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, dose escalation study. Approximately 1-2 weeks following
      surgical lymphadenectomy, patients undergo leukapheresis to collect dendritic cells and are
      then divided into 3 groups. Group A consists of patients without adequate tumor for
      preparation of tumor lysate and who have tumors that express tyrosinase or gp100 with types
      HLA-A1, A2, or A3. Group B consists of the patients who have adequate tumor for lysate
      preparation but who do not type for HLA-A1, A2, or A3 (required for the peptide pulsed
      protocol). Group C are the patients with adequate tumor who are eligible for the peptide
      pulsed protocol. Group A patients receive autologous dendritic cells pulsed with appropriate
      peptide antigens. Group B patients are treated with autologous dendritic cells pulsed with
      autologous tumor cell lysates. Group C patients are randomized to receive dendritic cells
      pulsed with either peptide antigens or tumor lysate. All patients are administered
      intravenous active immunotherapy for 4 monthly intervals. The dose of the immunizations is
      escalated for each cohort of three patients that is accrued in each of the groups mentioned
      above. Each immunization at each dose level is followed by three days of interleukin-2
      administered subcutaneously twice daily. Patients are followed at least 5 years for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: There will be 100 patients accrued in this study over 2 years. There will
      be 50, 20, and 30 patients in groups A, B, and C, respectively.
    
  