
    
      This study is part of work package 2 of the Periscope consortium. The Periscope consortium
      brings together internationally renowned scientists with many years of experience in B.
      pertussis research, clinical trials, bioinformatics, immunology and public health to promote
      scientific and technological innovation in pertussis vaccine development and to foster the
      creation of a laboratory and scientific network that facilitates the testing and helps
      expedite the development of novel pertussis vaccines in Europe. This study, the development
      of a human challenge model for B. pertussis, is one of the models that will accelerate the
      development and registration of novel pertussis vaccines and will provide samples for studies
      performed within the network.

      This is a prospective controlled human challenge study consisting of two phases; Phase A:
      Development of a B. pertussis human challenge model; pilot to establish the standard inoculum
      The first aim of phase A is to determine a 'standard inoculum' (SI), which results in safe
      colonisation of 70% of volunteers. This level of colonisation of 70% has been selected so
      that baseline immune profiles of individuals who are, or are not colonised following
      challenge can be assessed and biomarkers of protection from colonisation identified. It is
      acknowledged that for the future use of the human challenge model for efficacy evaluation of
      experimental vaccine candidates, it would be optimal if the percentage of subjects
      successfully colonised were at least 70%. The SI will be identified in a dose escalating or
      de-escalating experiment commencing at 103 colony forming units B. pertussis administered
      intranasally. Each group of 5 volunteers will be sequentially inoculated at half log-fold
      increasing/decreasing doses until the endpoint is reached. The experiment will be continued
      until the SI yields 10 subjects who are colonised at day 14. Volunteers will be screened to
      exclude those with evidence of recent B. pertussis infection using anti-pertussis toxin (PT)
      immunoglobulin G (IgG) ELISA as evidence to allow evaluation of seroconversion. Following the
      challenge chemical, haematological and clinical parameters will be monitored and nasal swab
      samples will be cultured at regular intervals to assure safety of the volunteers and to
      identify the presence of B. pertussis. At day 14 after the challenge, or at the onset of
      symptoms, whichever occurs soonest, eradication therapy in the form of azithromycin 500 mg
      once a day for 3 days will be given. Further mucosal and blood samples will be taken over the
      follow up period of one year.

      The second aim of phase A is to identify the 'colonisation period'; the earliest day after
      inoculation at which colonisation of the nasopharynx (as detected by culture) is observed in
      100% of those volunteers who show seroconversion at day 28. This time period will be used to
      establish the length of participation required from volunteers in future studies. The
      colonisation period will be deemed biologically relevant if B. pertussis specific mucosal and
      systemic antibodies are elicited in people who are colonised for the colonisation period. A
      quantitative PCR assay to detect B. pertussis in nasopharyngeal samples will be evaluated to
      determine if this can provide more rapid information in addition to culture.

      The third aim of phase A is to access environmental shedding of B. pertussis following nasal
      inoculation of healthy volunteers with B. pertussis. These shedding results will used to
      determine the length of admission and isolation in phase B. The shedding of B. pertussis by
      challenged volunteers will be assessed using personal aerosol samplers and environmental
      sampling. Efficacy of eradication therapy will be assessed.

      Phase B: Development of a modified B. pertussis human challenge model In phase B the pilot
      study data from phase A will be used to design a more practical model, if possible conducted
      partially in an outpatient setting, which will be conditional on safety and transmission
      evidence. The final protocol for phase B will be presented as a protocol amendment, because
      it will be based on the standard inoculum and colonisation period identified in Phase A.

      Volunteers in phase B will not be preselected to exclude those with evidence of recent B.
      pertussis infection. The standard inoculum determined in phase A will be used for all
      volunteers and eradication therapy will be given after the colonisation period based on the
      data of phase A. Approximately 30 individuals will receive the intranasal SI and as control
      group approximately 15 individuals will receive intranasal sham. Both groups will be treated
      with azithromycin for three days at the end of the colonisation period.

      Aims:

        -  To confirm that the following parameters of the model in phase B are similar to that
           seen in phase A:

             -  Volunteer safety

             -  Colonisation rate

             -  Colonisation period

             -  Genetic/expression changes in B. pertussis during challenge

             -  Environmental shedding

             -  Efficacy of eradication therapy

        -  To compare the pattern of detection of B. pertussis in nasopharyngeal samples by qPCR to
           that seen in phase A.

        -  To assess B. pertussis-specific immunity before and after inoculating healthy volunteers
           with B. pertussis, comparing the data from successfully colonised participants with the
           data from those not colonised and the control group.
    
  