
    
      The initial pilot will consist of 30 patients per arm and will provide estimates of effect
      size, event rates, and recruitment rates. It will mirror the final study in terms of
      methodology. This will occur at the Hamilton General Hospital (Hamilton, ON. Canada)

      Patients will be randomized to either the exposure group or control group by the study
      coordinator. Patients will be block randomized among surgeons (6), so that each surgeon has
      an equal number of patients in the control and exposure arms. Randomization will occur once
      an operative date has been booked for a patient. The arm they are assigned to will be how the
      patient is treated, regardless of if they are cancelled and re-booked. Should patients be
      done as an emergency procedure, prior to their index procedure (when the beads would be
      implanted), they will be excluded from the study. As no intervention has occurred at this
      point, there will be no informative loss to follow-up or censoring and therefore this will
      not impact validity of the design. We are unable to provide beads for emergency procedures,
      as the research pharmacy is not open.

      The research coordinator will inform the research pharmacy to produce calcium sulfate beads
      impregnated with Vancomycin (1g) and Tobramycin (240mg) for the exposure arm. The control arm
      will receive standard care. The only difference between standard care and the treatment arm
      is the use of the antibiotic calcium sulfate beads. Beads will be delivered in a sterile
      manner to the OR. For each patient half of a standard 10cc kit will be delivered (5cc of
      Stimulan Calcium Sulfate). As the beads are being applied only to a groin incision(s) this
      will provide an adequate volume of beads. It will also prevent insertion of excess beads.

      Surgeons will insert the beads loosely within the soft tissue of groin incisions, so as not
      to distort the normal anatomy. This technique will be discussed with all surgeons prior to
      pilot initiation as a group. This will aim to standardize the method among involved surgeons.
      At the end of the study we will complete a focus group with surgeons to discuss their
      experience using the beads to better inform the protocol for the final RCT. Patients are
      randomized as a unit and therefore, if there are bilateral groin incisions, both will be
      treated as per their randomization.

      Patients will be blinded to which treatment they receive. The beads are believed to be
      non-detectable to the patient. Only by means of wound dehiscence would a patient be expected
      to determine their treatment group. For practical reasons the surgeon cannot be blinded to
      treatment. Nurse assessors and study authors conducting review of patient records will be
      blinded to patient treatment.

      Patients will be recruited from all patients consented for an included procedure at HGH. A
      study coordinator or a resident will obtain consent. The patient's primary physician will not
      be involved in the consent process.
    
  