
    
      Design:

      The investigators design a prospective randomised multicenter study to assess the diagnostic
      value of cryobiopsy in patients with suspected Idiopathic Interstitial Pneumonia by comparing
      two different interventional methods.

      Patients with suspected ILD in which the clinical, radiological and BAL-data are insufficient
      to establish a definitive clinical diagnosis, requiring then tissue specimen to determine a
      diagnosis would be included.

      Therefore this all patients will undergo transbronchial cryobiopsy. If a definitive diagnosis
      even after cryobiopsy and MDD cannot be made, SLB will be recommended.

      For the cryobiopsies the 1.9 mm cryoprobe and ERBECRYO®2 with carbon dioxide will be used.
      All transbronchial cryobiopsies have to be obtained of one or two lobes of the same lung and
      in at least two different segments. The bronchopulmonary segment for the cryobiopsy will be
      selected based on the radiological features shown on a high resolution computed tomography
      (HRCT) of the chest. The areas with exclusively fibrotic changes should be avoided. After
      having touched the pleura with the cryopobe, the probe is retracted one to two centimetres
      and then in this position the freezing process will be initiated. The flexible bronchoscope
      with the inserted cryoprobe will be removed through the rigid bronchoscope after the sample
      was obtained.

      The cryobiopsies can be performed in rigid or flexible bronchoscopy. The use of a Fogarty
      occlusion balloon is left to the discretion of the bronchoscopist.

      Experimental Groups:

      Group nº1: A total of 3 samples with a freezing time of 7 seconds at least for the first
      biopsy and a freezing time from ≥5 seconds for the following biopsies.

      Group nº 2: A total of 8 samples with a freezing time of 3 seconds at least for the first
      biopsy and a freezing time from <5 seconds for the following biopsies.

      Patient preselection:

      Inclusion criteria

        1. Inpatients with suspected ILD based on clinical and radiological features

        2. Inpatients with probable pulmonary sarcoidosis without hilar or mediastinal lymph node
           enlargement

        3. Male or female patients aged ≥18 years

        4. Signed the informed consent

      Exclusion criteria

        1. Bleeding risk:

             1. Known predisposition to bleeding

             2. International randomised ratio (INR) >1,5,

             3. Elevated partial thromboplastin time (PTT)

             4. Platelet count < 80000/ul)

             5. Patients who required full-dose therapeutic anticoagulation or double antiplatelet
                therapy which can not be stopped as recommended before the cryobiopsy

        2. Oxygen saturation < 90% with supported Oxygen 2l/min

        3. Diffusing capacity (DLCO) <35% or FVC< 50%

        4. Significant pulmonary emphysema

        5. Severe cardiac disease (angina pectoris, acute myocardial infarction in the last 6
           month, acute hearth failure)

        6. Documented pulmonary hypertension PAP sys >50mmHg

        7. Typical UIP-Pattern in HRCT

      Patient's recruitment:

      The recruited patients who present all characteristics of the inclusion criteria and none of
      the exclusion criteria and who signed the inform consent undergo cryobiopsy. All patients
      undergo a clinical evaluation.

      After the clinical evaluation a MDD will take place. In the first MDD a provisional clinical
      diagnose is proposed. If a transbronchial cryobiopsy is indicated by the MDD, patients are
      randomised to the groups 1 or 2 immediate before the bronchoscopy.

      Once the histological result is achieved, another MDD including the pathologist for
      establishing the definitive clinical diagnose take place. As all local pathologists of the
      participating centres are experienced in ILD, the samples are evaluated by the respective
      pathologist. If case of uncertainty, the samples can be evaluated by a second pathologist in
      one of the participating centres.
    
  