
    
      Firstly, a biomechanical analysis of gait will be performed at CAMD, using a modular
      electronic baropodometer (Diagnostic Support Walk®), Milletrix Applicazione MFC® (Diasu,
      Italia) and a video camera (Diagnostic Support S.R.L., Diasu, Italy). We will measure the
      parameters characterizing lower limb overpronation. The parameters measured during walking
      will be: Fick angle, femorotibial angle and Helbing angle. Skin Surface markers on anatomical
      references were placed to measure femorotibial and Helbing angle. To measure the Fick angle
      we will take a footprint.

      Children in the experimental group will be treated with functional exercises consisting of a
      therapeutic exercise program based on concentric strengthening the gluteal muscles (maximus,
      medius and minimus) , the tensor fasciae latae muscle and the pyramidal muscle; ischiotibial
      muscle stretching ; and empowerment in eccentric and stretching of the gastrocnemius muscle,
      soleus muscle, tibialis posterior muscle and flexor of the big toe muscle.

      The selection of the prescribed exercises will be performed according to the principal
      activity of different muscles and functional impact on the gait. Previous experiences in
      implementing this exercises program has shown us positive results after three months of
      application. That is why this temporary intervention for the period was determined.

      Parents of children will be instructed to monitor the exercises. They will be given a
      timetable for controlling autonomous treatment sessions, as well as the dates of the
      revisions with the evaluator. These reviews will be conducted every 15 days, analyzing the
      evolution of musculoskeletal disorders, and, if necessary, modifications will be applied in
      the exercise program.

      After three months, a new evaluation will be performed in the same manner as the initial
      assessment. The purpose of this evaluation is to determine the existence or not of changes in
      biomechanical parameters studied due the exercices program application.
    
  