
    
      BACKGROUND:

      While advances have been made in control of some coronary heart disease (CHD) risk factors,
      especially smoking and high dietary fat intake, much of the decline in age-adjusted CHD
      mortality rates has been due to medical treatment and procedural interventions for overt CHD
      as well as hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. In this context, the availability of an
      inexpensive, sensitive and specific method for noninvasive detection of both early coronary
      atherosclerosis and asymptomatic but advanced CHD could allow beneficial treatments to be
      targeted at many high-risk individuals. The study was designed to determine whether
      fast-gated helical computed tomography (FGHCT), a more advanced and readily-available variant
      of a technique (EBCT) that has not achieved its full promise, could play such a role.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Dr. Crouse and his colleagues augmented ongoing case-control studies, HL35333, "Carotid
      Atherosclerosis Progression Study" and HL59503, "Vascular Disease, Structure and Function".
      HL35333 comprises 280 symptomatic individuals > 45 years equally divided between men and
      women, half with and half without angiographically defined coronary artery disease evaluated
      for risk factors and extracranial carotid intimal-medial thickness (ECIMT, with B-mode
      ultrasound) at baseline and yearly for three years. The grant has quantified the associations
      of coronary artery disease and coronary artery disease risk factors for ECIMT and its
      progression. HL59503 quantifies flow-mediated brachial artery reactivity (FM-BAR) in this
      cohort. Literature review suggests that while ECIMT predicts coronary artery disease status
      in clinical samples it does less well in asymptomatic samples; longitudinal data (CLAS study)
      suggest that progression of ECIMT best predicted incident coronary artery disease, and
      Electron Beam Computed Tomography (EBCT) quantification of Coronary Artery Calcium (CAC)
      likely has even greater discriminatory power for coronary artery disease than ECIMT. However,
      EBCT has limited accessibility.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  