
    
      In earlier studies, interventions to treat acute kidney injury (AKI) were started after a
      functional damage of the kidneys was already established. However, none of the interventions
      had an effect in treating AKI. The Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) clinical
      practice guidelines recommend implementing different measures in patients at high risk for
      AKI, but the evidence that the implementation of the bundle (consisting of optimization of
      hemodynamics and perfusion pressure, avoidance of nephrotoxins and hyperglycemia) can prevent
      AKI is very weak. Biomarkers can be used to identify patients at high risk for AKI after
      surgery (prior to the development of AKI). The cell-cycle arrest biomarkers, Tissue Inhibitor
      of Metalloproteinases-2 (TIMP-2) and Insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 7 (IGFBP7),
      have been demonstrated to have the best predictive performance for the development of AKI
      after surgery as compared to other biomarkers. In addition, these biomarkers are not
      influenced by different co-morbidities or other clinical situations. In the BigpAK1 trial,
      which was a single-center trial, the authors investigated whether a biomarker-guided
      implementation of the KDIGO guidelines can reduce the occurrence of AKI in patients
      undergoing major non-cardiac surgery. The results demonstrate that the implementation of the
      KDIGO bundle in high risk patients for AKI ([TIMP-2]*[IGFBP7] between 0.3 and 2)
      significantly reduced the occurrence of AKI compared to the standard of care group. However,
      this was a single center trial which needs to be confirmed in a large trial. Therefore, based
      on these data, a definitive, prospective, randomized controlled, multicenter study including
      1302 surgical patients at high risk for AKI identified by [TIMP-2]*[IGFBP7] will be
      performed.

      The goal of this trial is to investigate the effect of the implementation of the KDIGO bundle
      in patients at high risk for AKI after major non-cardiac surgery compared to standard of care
      in the same patient population. This biomarker-guided approach (individualized therapy)
      enables to treat patients at high risk for AKI prior to a functional damage of the kidneys.
    
  