
    
      Abnormal liver biochemical and function tests are frequently detected in symptomatic patients
      since many screening blood test panels routinely include them. A population-based survey in
      the United States conducted between 1999 and 2002 estimated that an abnormal alanine
      aminotransferase (ALT) was present in 8.9 percent of respondents. These patients are often
      referred to hepatology to elucidate the cause of these abnormal liver tests and potential
      liver disease. Identifying the cause of specific pediatric liver diseases is critical to the
      management and treatment. Liver biopsy provides histological information often needed to make
      a conclusive diagnosis and has historically been accepted as the best way to measure liver
      fibrosis.

      Given that the current gold standard for assessing for liver fibrosis is via liver biopsy,
      there are several reasons why the field is looking for a non-invasive method that correlates
      highly with liver histology. Hemorrhage, infection, the need to often be observed overnight,
      anxiety, and need for sedation are the accepted risks for all liver biopsies. The histologic
      grade on liver biopsy (grades 0-4) is used to grade the severity of hepatic fibrosis and make
      clinical decisions such as initiating treatment with antiviral or immunomodulator therapy.

      Ultrasound imaging (sonography) uses high-frequency sound waves to view soft tissues such as
      muscles and internal organs, limited primarily by non-sound transmitting tissues such as air
      and bone. Ultrasound is an excellent modality for the pediatric population and provides far
      ranging diagnostic possibilities, limiting the use of radiation whenever possible. Sheerwave
      elastography is a complimentary noninvasive, real-time sonographic technique that has been
      shown to have a wide range of clinical applications, including the ability to assess the
      degree of liver fibrosis in chronic liver disease. Tissue has an inherent elasticity which
      may be altered by pathologic processes such as inflammation, fibrosis, and tumors.
      Elastography has been used extensively in breast imaging showing much promise in detecting
      non-compressible masses associated with an increased risk of malignancy. Elastography has the
      ability to assess small changes in pliability of liver tissue across the entire liver.
      Elasticity of tissue in the context of elastography is the ratio of tension (stress) needed
      to produce a relative change in length (strain), and quantifies how much pressure must be
      placed on tissue in order to cause elastic deformation. Ultrasonic elastography has been
      performed to detect hepatic fibrosis in patients with fatty liver disease in adults, but not
      yet in children with viral hepatitis B or C.

      Performance compression ultrasound require no more than 5-10 additional minutes of imaging
      and have no known associated risks.

      Serum fibrosis markers are promising non-invasive indicators of fibrosis and progression to
      cirrhosis in adult liver diseases: e.g. the commercially available Fibrotest® is used to
      detect hepatic fibrosis in hepatitis C and in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
      However, marker patterns appear to be disease and development (age) specific, making some of
      the adult markers of doubtful value in children. As proof of principle, in a biopsy study of
      another pediatric fibrosing liver entity, cystic fibrosis liver disease, specific marker
      patterns derived from mechanistic studies were found to highly correlate with F3/4 fibrosis
      vs F0/1.

      The rapid onset of liver disease in some children (i.e. HBV, genotype C) indicates a need to
      identify early markers of liver fibrosis to help facilitate early intervention. Serum
      chemistries used to assess hepatic inflammation and injury are not reliable. Empirically
      identified markers identified by genomic, proteomic, and metabolomic technologies, as well as
      targeted serum marker analysis, offer new strategies with which to diagnose and predict
      outcomes in pediatric liver diseases. Preliminary studies in children with fibrotic liver
      diseases have identified specific markers reflecting matrix re-modeling, hepatic stellate
      cell activation and chemoattractant expression in this age group.
    
  