
    
      Hypertension is one of the most important risk factors that induce cardiovascular and
      cerebrovascular disease. Reducing the blood pressure levels of population can not only
      control the incidence of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease effectively, but also
      reduce the mortality. Anti-hypertension drug therapy has been proven to be an effective
      method to reduce blood pressure. Dietary sodium restriction and potassium supplementation is
      the core of dietary approaches to stop hypertension. Tibet is located on the Tibetan Plateau
      with an average altitude about 4000 meters above sea level. Tibetan diet is rich in meat but
      poor in vegetables and fruits. Salt intake is quite high due to habitual drinking of salty
      butter tea. Former national surveys showed a high prevalence of hypertension in Tibet. The
      investigators conducted this randomized controlled intervention study to test whether the
      investigators can offer a cost effective way to lower blood pressure and control hypertension
      in a sample of subjects from Yangbajing and Gongtang in Dangxiong County, Lhasa, Tibet.

      A randomized controlled trial was conducted in Yangbajing Township and Gongtang Village in
      the Dangxiong county , Tibet. A total of 282 hypertensive patients were chosen as study
      subjects. The regular salt or salt substitution were randomly allocated to the two groups.
      The whole intervention last for 6 months, with Phase 1 for three months and a following Phase
      2 for another three months. For Phase 1, the study subjects were allocated the regular salt
      or the salt substitute after a randomization. For Phase 2, the study subjects continued the
      intervention of regular salt or salt substitute while the ones with a blood pressure above
      140mmHg/90 mmHg will be given low-dose diuretic for further anti-hypertensive therapy. During
      the whole intervention period, the study subjects were not informed of what kind of salt they
      were taking. Blood pressure was the major outcome and would be measured at baseline, 3 months
      and 6 months.
    
  