
    
      Participants follow standard fertility protocols to stimulate the growth of multiple egg
      follicles. When the egg follicles are mature, the eggs will be removed under sedation,
      examined by an embryologist under a microscope and the mature eggs will be immediately frozen
      and kept frozen in tanks at Penn Fertility Care using the same methods of labeling and
      quality assurance currently in place for frozen embryos.

      Eggs will be thawed in the future when the participant wishes to attempt pregnancy and
      fertilized by standard methods used during In Vitro Fertilization (IVF). Resulting embryos
      will be placed into the uterus by a procedure that will require approximately 15-30 minutes.
      The number of embryos to be transferred will be dictated by standard clinical practice. After
      embryo transfer, subjects will return for serum pregnancy tests at 14 days after the embryo
      transfer. For those who are not pregnant, there will be no further participation in the
      study. For those who do achieve pregnancy, trans-vaginal ultrasound will be performed at
      approximately 6 weeks gestation and weekly thereafter until 8 weeks gestation at which time,
      they will be referred to their general obstetrician for prenatal care. Participants will be
      asked to provide the study team with information about birthweight, height, length,
      gestational age at delivery, complications at delivery, and infant number. This information
      is routinely collected from patients undergoing conventional IVF in order to maintain quality
      assurance as recommended by the American Society of Reproductive Medicine. Information will
      also be collected from the participant's medical records including physical characteristics,
      medical and fertility history, semen analysis of the partner if appropriate, egg stimulation
      characteristics including medications, days of stimulation, number of egg follicles, number
      of mature and immature eggs retrieved, number of eggs frozen, number of eggs thawed, number
      of embryos, disposition of embryos, pregnancy test results, number of pregnancies that
      survived the first 12 weeks and prenatal screening tests.
    
  