
    
      This project will address the Research Question: Can a non-intrusive physical activity
      tracking tool, combined with a group education session and advice from a physiotherapist
      (PT), increase physical activity in patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA)? The investigators
      focus on knee OA because it is common (affecting 1 in 10) and can be debilitating. Being
      physically active improves pain, mobility and quality of life; however, less than half of
      patients are active. Combining the best evidence in OA care and digital technology, the
      investigators propose a new model of care for improving physical activity in patients with
      OA. Our primary objective is to determine whether a model involving 1) a group education
      session, 2) the use of Fitbit Flex, a commercially available physical activity tracker, and
      3) remote coaching by a PT can improve physical activity and reduce sedentary time in
      patients with knee OA. This model of care is in line with the goal of Mary Pack Arthritis
      Program (MPAP) to optimize activity independence of OA patients with MPAP's available human
      resources. In this proof-of-concept randomized controlled trial (RCT), the investigators
      hypothesize that compared to a control group (i.e. the Delayed Intervention group),
      participants in the Immediate Intervention Group will 1) increase moderate/vigorous physical
      activity (MVPA), 2) reduce sedentary time, 3) improve in OA disease status, and 4) improve in
      their self-efficacy of OA management, 4) To examine whether individuals in the Intervention
      Group will show improved cognitive function over the intervention period compared to the
      control group, and 5) To examine the pre-intervention factors that predict the degree to
      which individuals in the Intervention Group increase MVPA and reduce sedentary time.

      The investigators will use a mixed-methods approach, involving a RCT and in-depth interviews.
      The proof-of-concept study will employ a stepped wedge RCT design, whereby the intervention
      will be sequentially rolled out to participants over a number of time periods. The order in
      which individuals receive the intervention will be determined at random. The strength of this
      design is that it can properly address the efficacy question, while avoiding the dilemma of
      withholding the intervention to some participants, as in a parallel group design.
    
  