
    
      Objective: To evaluate pediatric emergency department (ED) provider lumbar puncture success
      with and without the Compass Lumbar Puncture Enhanced, a new pressure transducer, in order to
      determine: the proportion of lumbar punctures (LPs) where a) any cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is
      obtained on the first attempt, b) any CSF is obtained on any attempt, and c) sufficient CSF
      is obtained for standard tests (culture, chemistries, cell count); the time to provider
      success in obtaining a) a drop of fluid from the needle, and b) opening pressure measurement;
      the proportion of successful lumbar punctures that contain blood; and provider satisfaction.

      Background: Lumbar punctures are necessary to diagnose meningitis, neurological diseases and
      some cancers. They are common pediatric emergency department procedures that frequently
      require repeated attempts or are only partially successful, with sufficient blood to limit
      interpretation. Measuring cerebrospinal fluid pressure during a lumbar puncture is
      recommended but rarely done, due to limitations of current technology. Liquid column
      manometry is cumbersome, time-consuming and frequently impractical. Existing pressure
      transduction probes that connect via tubing to external monitors are not designed or
      recommended for LPs. The pressure is displayed on a monitor that is difficult to view during
      the lumbar puncture procedure and they equilibrate too slowly to keep pace of pressure
      changes during lumbar puncture. The Compass Lumbar Puncture Enhanced is a new, inexpensive,
      disposable, medical device, specifically designed for use during lumbar punctures, that has
      the potential to increase lumbar puncture success and decrease blood contamination. It
      attaches to the spinal needle and displays both a numeric pressure value and a pressure
      waveform, allowing physicians to more readily identify the cerebrospinal fluid space and
      measure cerebrospinal fluid pressure. The device is small, easy to use, and readily
      incorporated into standard practice.

      Methods: This randomized clinical trial will test adding the Compass Lumbar Puncture Enhanced
      vs. standard care in 60 children 0-16 years old who are receiving a lumbar puncture in the
      Seattle Children's Hospital Emergency Department. We will test the Compass Lumbar Puncture
      Enhanced against standard care in 60 children receiving lumbar puncture, comparing success,
      pressures obtaining, time to success, complications (e.g. >200 red blood cells/mm3) and
      provider satisfaction. Results will be compared with chi-squared tests, regressions,
      Kaplan-Meier and logrank tests. We expect improved success, decreased time to success and
      complications and high provider satisfaction.

      Impact: Currently, one third of lumbar punctures require multiple attempts, 7-20% contain
      blood that limits interpretation, and 6% are unsuccessful. This results in unnecessary
      hospitalizations, increased hospital days, increased antibiotic use and increased numbers of
      repeat procedures. The Compass Lumbar Puncture Enhanced uniquely provides immediate feedback
      about pressure that will allow physicians to more quickly and confidently identify the
      cerebrospinal fluid space, and instantly determine cerebrospinal fluid pressure when the
      space is reached. We believe the Compass Lumbar Puncture Enhanced will increase lumbar
      puncture success and decrease the proportion containing blood. It has the potential to become
      the standard of care and be used in every lumbar puncture procedure. This study is expected
      to demonstrate the clinical utility of the Compass Lumbar Puncture Enhanced to the medical
      community.
    
  