
    
      Introduction Approximately 8,000 primary knee arthroplasty procedures are performed annually
      at Danish hospitals (1). Infection is a serious complication that occurs with a frequency of
      around 2 %.

      A mean of hindering infection is the use of IobanTM, an incisional drape impregnated with
      iodine. This costs 69 DKK pr. sheet. A two-stage stage operation for infection costs 253,122
      DKK. (2) Using IobanTM for 8000 knee operations costs 552,000 DKK. Besides high socio
      economic costs infections cause considerable morbidity and have severe consequences for the
      independent mobility of the patient (3-5).

      As the estimated number of arthroplasty procedures continuously increase so will the number
      of infections (6), and prevention is therefore of high priority.

      Aim

      The inestigators' purpose is to gain insight in to the causes of post-operative infection in
      joint arthroplasty surgery. The investigators' hypothesis' are:

        1. The patient's skin flora is the main source for intraoperative microbial contamination,

        2. Intraoperative contamination can be reduced by using an iodine impregnated incisional
           drape,

        3. Intraoperative contamination strongly predicts postoperative infection

        4. Unsuccessful clinical outcomes of knee arthroplasty are caused by low-grade infections.

      Perspectives If intraoperative contamination can be shown to be a strong predictor of
      postoperative infection, then contamination will be an obvious outcome parameter for studies
      of preventive measures for infection. Demonstration of a strongly predictive role of
      intraoperative contamination may allow new prophylactic strategies for preventing
      postoperative infection, and one will have to consider prolonged antibiotic prophylaxis or
      treatment for patients, where contamination has been demonstrated.

      Results of the study will provide information that will shape future strategies for
      preventing, diagnosing and treating peri-prosthetic joint infections.

      The risk of adverse outcome for the participants is largely outweighed by the probability of
      discovering an early infection following surgery. This project's findings will be of great
      value for future patients undergoing knee replacement surgery.

      Background and theory Recent studies have shown that a considerable proportion of orthopedic
      procedures performed under supposedly sterile conditions are contaminated. Contamination of
      the surgical field is found using swabs during surgery. There are several possible sources of
      intraoperative contamination. An obvious source is the patient's skin flora. Under normal
      circumstances, these bacteria are considered harmless, but in the presence of biomaterials
      like prosthetic implants, they have a significant pathogenic potential (7). It is well
      recognized that these bacteria adhere to the surface of the implant, where they multiply and
      transform into a biofilm formation making them more resistant to antibiotics and host defense
      mechanisms (8, 9). As a result they are involved in the development of low-grade persistent
      infections, which today still represent a major diagnostic challenge.

      Furthermore, it is suggested that an unknown proportion of implant loosening are caused by
      infections of low virulence that do not result in recognizable infection (10). In this
      respect, reported infection rates are probably underestimated.

      Standard procedures have been developed to reduce skin contamination including the use of
      preoperative skin antiseptics. However, even with optimal skin preparation, total
      sterilization of the skin is not possible. Some microorganisms will remain in the deeper
      parts of the skin, such as the hair follicles, and appear at the skin surface during surgery,
      where they will potentially contaminate the surgical field (11). One strategy of preventing
      microbial re-colonization on the skin is the application of an iodine impregnated incision
      drape preoperatively. In theory, this drape provides continuous antimicrobial activity
      throughout the surgical procedure thereby reducing skin contamination.

      There are only few studies on the efficacy of iodine impregnated drapes. Some studies show
      reduced contamination rate with or without impact on infection rate. Other studies, however,
      have not been able to support this observation (12-14). All of these studies have had an
      insufficient amount of patients included. Consequently, there are no conclusions for
      standardized practice regarding the use of iodine impregnated incisions drapes. To clarify
      their correlation with intraoperative contamination as well as their preventive effect on the
      development of peri-prosthetic infection, large clinical trials are needed.

      Cost benefit analysis One sheet of IobanTM costs 69 DKK. A two stage operation with removal
      of implant, implantation of a spacer and subsequent removal of spacer and implantation of a
      secondary implant costs 253.122 DKK (2). The one year revision rate I 1.8 % and a total of
      8298 knees operated. Assuming half of these revisions are due to infection and are operated
      on using a two stage technique 18.731.028 DKK could be saved every year. These numbers are
      solely covering hospital expenses and not physiotherapy or rehabilitation or any other costs
      related to the surgery.

      Using IobanTM in all patients undergoing total knee joint replacement costs 572.532 DKK a
      year. If this can prevent half of the one year revisions rates a total of 18.2 mio DKK could
      be saved each year. There is reason to believe that the investigators' findings could be
      extrapolated to other orthopedic procedures were implants are used saving the hospital large
      amounts of money on revisions every year. Not to mention the amount that could be saved on
      sickness benefit.

      Feasibility An unpublished pilot study, performed by this research group, of 86 primary
      arthroplasty procedures showed a 10.5 % frequency of intraoperative contamination. Two of
      nine intra-operatively contaminated patients developed infection post-operatively, whereas
      only one of the 77 non-contaminated patients developed post-operative infection. A randomized
      sub-study showed that the use of an iodine impregnated incisional drape resulted in no
      intra-operative contamination in 19 patients compared to 3 cases of contamination in 11
      patients operated without the use of an incisional drape.

      400 patients are already included in this study and have been operated and have had samples
      taken. Preliminary results show a contamination rate of 5 %.

      Samples will be collected at Orthopedic Departments at Herlev og Gentofte Hospital,
      Frederiksberg Hospital, Nordsjællands Hospital Hillerød and Aarhus Universitetshospital.

      The samples will undergo plating and susceptibility testing at the Clinical Microbiological
      Departments of Herlev og Gentofte Hospital and Aarhus Universitetshospital.

      All orthopedic departments involved are highly dedicated to this project.

      Sample size calculations There are large variations in the reported frequencies of
      intraoperative contamination, presumably because of differences in sterile techniques and
      sample methods. According to the investigators' calculations a sample size of 1200 operations
      are needed. To demonstrate the effect of incisional drape on intraoperative contamination the
      investigators' have chosen to make the two groups of equal size with 600 operations in each
      group.

      Materials and methods

      The study is centered on an infection paradigm where intraoperative contamination plays a
      pivotal role, and the study has two main arms:

        1. Intraoperative contamination (source, patient/surgeon, incisional drape).

        2. Postoperative infection (correspondence with intraoperative contamination, microbiology,
           radiology, serology, patient-reported outcomes).

      These arms together form a comprehensive study of the effects of intraoperative
      contamination. The study will attempt to answer all questions that arise secondary to the
      paradigm above, and this will be done in stages. The first stage will aim to document that
      patients with intraoperative contamination do indeed have a larger risk of developing
      post-operative infection. The first stage will also include a study of the effect of iodine
      impregnated incisional drape. The second stage will include highly sensitive methods of PCR
      and fluorescence microscopy, to demonstrate bacterial contamination and/or infection of any
      implants removed during the study period.
    
  