
    
      The purpose of this research study is to investigate the use of pocket ultrasound device,
      called Vscan, in guiding diuretic therapy in ambulatory and inpatient Congestive Heart
      Failure (CHF) patients. Specifically, Vscan will be used to monitor Inferior Vena Cava (IVC)
      diameters with the goal of reaching a 50% reduction in IVC when compared to baseline
      measurements. We hypothesize that compared to the conventional clinical assessment Guided
      Diuretic Therapy, this new proposed Vscan guided therapy will result in reduction in
      hospitalization rates. This study is composed of two independent non-interacting randomized
      single blinded trials-one in the outpatient setting and one in the inpatient setting. 138
      total patients and 300 patients will be recruited to the ambulatory trial and inpatient trial
      respectively.

        1. Objectives The objective of the study is to determine whether a simple one step protocol
           of increasing diuretics to guide a 50% reduction of IVC diameter from baseline
           measurements results in reduction in hospitalization rates as compared to those seen in
           therapy determined on the basis of conventional clinical evaluation by a CHF specialist.

        2. Background Congestive heart failure (CHF) remains a leading cause of death in
           industrialized countries. Despite advances in medical treatment, an estimated
           250,000-300,000 CHF patients are hospitalized in the United States each year for
           symptoms caused by low cardiac output (CO). Although the events that cause acute
           decompensation are multifactorial, the common pathway associated with decreased
           ventricular function are autonomic dysfunction and fluid retention. It has been
           previously suggested that an estimated 50%-66% of CHF hospitalizations may be
           preventable with improved monitoring of fluid volume status. The size and shape of the
           inferior vena cava (IVC) is correlated to the central venous pressure and circulating
           blood volume. Therefore evaluation of the IVC provides an instantaneous non-invasive
           measure of volume status.
    
  