
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride) and
      irinotecan (irinotecan hydrochloride), in relation to presence or absence of UGT1A1*28
      polymorphism, in patients with advanced solid tumors that overexpress epidermal growth factor
      receptor.

      II. Determine the dose-limiting toxicity of these regimens in these patients. III. Determine
      whether erlotinib alters the disposition of irinotecan using a previously described limited
      sampling model.

      IV. Determine factors that influence the disposition of these drugs, including genetic
      variation in UGT1A1 and BCRP, in patients treated with these regimens.

      V. Determine factors that influence the disposition of these drugs, in terms of tumor
      BCRP-expression, in tumor samples from patients treated with these drugs at the MTD.

      VI. Evaluate the effect of this regimen on epidermal growth factor receptor phosphorylation
      in these patients.

      VII. Assess, preliminarily, any antitumor activity in patients treated with these regimens.

      VIII. Correlate, preliminarily, EGFR phosphorylation and/or BCRP -expression with response in
      tumor samples from these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are stratified according to UGTA1A
      genotype (all patients regardless of genotype [closed to accrual as of 9/15/04] vs UGT1A1 6/6
      genotype vs UGTA1A 6/7 or 7/7 genotype).

      Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride daily on days -6 to -1. Patients then receive
      irinotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1 and oral erlotinib once
      daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients per stratum receive escalating doses of erlotinib hydrochloride and
      irinotecan hydrochloride until the MTD is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.
      Additional patients are treated at the MTD.

      Patients are followed for 3 months.
    
  