
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a highly prevalent disease with major neurocognitive and
      cardiovascular sequelae. Obesity is a major risk factor for OSA, but the underlying
      mechanisms remain unclear. Given the rising prevalence of obesity and the lack of adequate
      therapies for some afflicted patients, further mechanistic work is clearly required.
      Bariatric surgery is being done increasingly with compelling outcome data emerging; however,
      clinical response to weight loss is highly variable. In some patients, OSA is not present at
      baseline, despite morbid obesity, in other patients, OSA resolves following bariatric
      surgery, while other patients have persistence of OSA despite weight loss, and still other
      patients can experience re-emergence of OSA in long term follow-up studies after bariatric
      surgery. OSA can occur due to several major pathophysiological factors including pharyngeal
      anatomy, pharyngeal dilator muscle dysfunction, unstable ventilatory control, end- expiratory
      lung volume and arousal threshold. As a result considerable complexity exists in the
      obesity/OSA relationship, suggesting the need for further research. First, the investigators
      will perform a baseline evaluation of pathophysiological traits among obese people prior to
      weight loss surgery. Because some people will have OSA and some will not, the investigators
      will define the potential mechanisms underlying OSA and potential protective mechanisms among
      obese people without OSA (pharyngeal critical closing pressure Pcrit primary outcome).
      Second, the investigators will re-evaluate these same individuals from the standpoint of
      sleep study and pathophysiological traits six months following bariatric surgery after a
      variable degree of weight loss. The investigators anticipate that some OSA patients will have
      resolution of OSA whereas others will have persistence of disease. For non-OSA patients
      undergoing weight loss, the investigators will have a positive control group which will allow
      the investigators to account for non-specific effects of weight loss. This aim will allow the
      investigators to test the hypothesis that pharyngeal mechanics is the predominant mechanism
      whereby weight loss leads to improvement in OSA. Third, the investigators will perform
      magnetic resonance imaging during wakefulness at functional residual capacity, total lung
      capacity and residual volume on participants at baseline and 6months following bariatric
      surgery. This aim will allow the investigators to perform structure/function assessments in
      our participants, to define the impact of weight loss on pharyngeal anatomy, and to quantify
      the lung volume dependence of the upper airway before and after weight loss. The acquired
      data will also be used for computational modeling including dynamic assessment of pharyngeal
      function during tidal breathing. As a result of the proposed research, the investigators are
      confident that the investigators will gain major insights into the as yet unanswered question
      "why does obesity (sometimes) cause sleep apnea". This research will have major therapeutic
      implications as it will allow the investigators to individualize therapy for afflicted
      patients.
    
  