
    
      The primary goal of this study is to compare the efficacy of IV acetaminophen to placebo in
      pediatric patients undergoing posterior fossa surgery, with the primary outcome measure being
      postoperative opioid requirements (morphine equivalent mg/kg). This will be a prospective,
      randomized, double blind control trial. The patient, research team, surgeon, and
      anesthesiologist will all be blinded to the patient's treatment group. Patients will receive
      either IV acetaminophen or equal volume normal saline (placebo) in the perioperative period.

      The interventional component of this study involves the intraoperative and postoperative
      administration of IV acetaminophen. Intraoperative and postoperative data pertaining to
      adverse events would be collected for safety monitoring purposes.

      Enrolled subjects will be randomized to receive either IV acetaminophen or equal volume
      saline placebo during surgery and for 24 hours postoperatively. According to a
      computer-generated table of random number assignments, each patient will be randomly assigned
      to receive one of the following two treatment groups:

      Treatment group 1:

      IV acetaminophen 15 mg/kg (1.5 mL/kg) IV loading dose prior to incision, followed by a 15
      mg/kg (1.5 mL/kg) dose given every 6 hours for the first 24 hours after surgery (total of 4
      doses postoperatively). This dosing regimen was chosen based on pharmacokinetic data and
      recommended dosing guidelines for IV acetaminophen in children 2 to 12 years of age.

      Treatment group 2:

      Equal volume of normal saline (placebo control) at the same dose and frequency as treatment
      group 1.

      Loading dose volumes and subsequent doses every 6 hours will be determined based on weight of
      the patient such that they will receive equal volumes of either IV acetaminophen or saline.

      Maintenance of anesthesia, including opioid administration, and perioperative management will
      proceed as per routine care.

      POSTOPERATIVE ANALGESIA

      At the completion of surgery, the anesthetic agents will be discontinued as per routine care.
      Per routine care, after tracheal extubation, morphine (0.05 mg/kg/dose) will be administered
      as needed by the blinded assessor until the patient appears comfortable, defined as the
      absence of any verbal or behavioral expression of pain. Patients will then be transferred to
      the intensive care unit (ICU).

      Time of entry into the intensive care unit will be recorded. The following assessments will
      be recorded at time of admission to the ICU:

        -  vital signs (heart rate, respiratory rate, blood pressure)

        -  oxygen saturation

        -  pain score

        -  sedation score

      As part of routine care for postoperative analgesia, patients will receive morphine sulfate
      at standard doses (0.05 - 0.1 mg/kg/dose every 3 hours as needed for pain). The frequency and
      dose of morphine will be adjusted according to the patient's pain score, with a goal to
      maintain a pain score of < 6. In addition, patients will transition to oral opioids as soon
      as their diet allows.

      The following parameters will be used to measure short-term postoperative analgesia and side
      effects:

        -  Daily opioid consumption (mg/kg/24h in morphine equivalent using the conversion)

        -  Pain scores at rest

        -  Sedation score

        -  The incidence of post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV) will be assessed by the need
           for rescue antiemetics: i.e. ondansetron or promethazine given as needed.

        -  The incidence and severity of pruritus will be assessed by the need for rescue
           anti-pruritic: i.e. diphenhydramine or hydroxyzine given as needed for pruritus

        -  The incidence of pyrexia (defined as core temperature ≥ 38º Celsius). Ketorolac will be
           administered 0.5 mg/kg q6h prn as needed for pyrexia as per routine care.

      Data collection will continue for up to 72 hours postoperatively.

      DATA ANALYSIS

      Data will be analyzed to determine the decrease in postoperative opioid requirements with or
      without IV acetaminophen after posterior fossa surgery as the primary outcome. The
      investigators hypothesize that IV acetaminophen will decrease postoperative opioid
      requirements, pain and sedation scores, and opioid-induced side effects in children
      undergoing posterior fossa surgery.
    
  