
    
      The prospective observational study entitled "Heidelberg Study on Diabetes and Complications"
      is designed to show that diabetes according to the current medical definition does not exist.
      Without question, there is an autoimmune disease that destroys beta cells in the pancreas,
      which leads to absolute insulin deficiency with consecutively elevated blood glucose levels.
      This disease is defined as diabetes mellitus type 1. Insulin treatment is absolutely
      necessary in this state, since absolute insulin deficiency leads to lipolysis with
      consecutive ketoacidosis and eventually death. On the other hand, type 2 diabetes is
      generally defined as relative insulin deficiency with consecutively elevated blood glucose
      levels. This disease is often mentioned in the context of the metabolic syndrome, which
      additionally comprises obesity, arterial hypertension, dyslipidemia, and cardiovascular
      diseases. Therefore, only the name "diabetes mellitus" is shared by these two diseases, which
      means "sweet flow", therefore only describing a symptom.

      Multiple interventional studies were aimed on avoiding or reducing the development of late
      diabetic complications (nephropathy, neuropathy, retinopathy, microangiopathy). This is true
      for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. Up to this day, no study was able to demonstrate that
      treatment of normalization of blood glucose levels reduces or even reverses development of
      these complications. Moreover, several type 2 diabetic patients developed typical diabetic
      complications before definitive manifestation of the actual disease.

      Therefore, we hypothesize that late diabetic complications stand in no primary context with
      blood glucose control, but are associated with other metabolic disorders. One aspect are
      reactive metabolites (glyoxal, methylglyoxal, 3-DG), which are formed in glycolysis and
      lipolysis in the context of energy production of cells. These metabolites are detoxified to
      lactate by certain enzymes. In case this detoxification is compromised, or production of
      these metabolites elevated, so called advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) can form.
      Moreover, within the process of energy production, reactive oxygen species (ROS) and
      oxydative stress are more pronounced, which can have direct influence on cellular metabolism.
      This interaction leads to inflammation and DNA damage. Survival of the cells is dependent on
      defense mechanisms, which seem to be genetically determined, with cellular ageing playing a
      role as well (cellular senescence). With advanced ageing, cells lose these defense mechanisms
      against these permanent metabolic attacks.

      Therefore, the following hypotheses arise:

        1. Diabetes mellitus type 2 is no independent disease, but a late complication of metabolic
           imbalance

        2. Typical "late diabetic complications" are not based on insufficient blood glucose
           lowering therapy, but on the basis of this metabolic imbalance, and can therefore affect
           every patient, even without manifested "diabetes mellitus type 2"

        3. Diabetes mellitus type 1 is an autoimmundisease with consecutive absolute insulin
           deficiency, however manifestation of late diabetic complications is based on the same
           metabolic dysbalance (overlap with type 2).

      In order to investigate these hypotheses, study participants will be profoundly examined once
      yearly concerning glycemic metabolic state and clinical findings related to micro- and
      macrovascular diabetic complications, Moreover, reactive metabolites like AGEs, ROS,
      methylglyoxal, and DNA damage as well as other parameters associated with cellular senescence
      will be examined. We will also collect information concerning quality of life, well-being,
      depression, and neuropathic pain.

      This is the first study of its kind to include non-diabetics, pre-diabetics, and diabetics
      with the possibility to study differences and common ground regarding cellular metabolism.
      Moreover, to the best of our knowledge, there is no precise clinical characterization of
      peripheral nerve function in pre-diabetics, although some of these patients already complain
      about neuropathic symptoms. In addition to that, the natural clinical course not only in
      diabetics, but also in pre-diabetics will be observed over a longer period of time. Finally,
      changes in surrogate markers over the natural course of pre-diabetes can be observed for the
      first time, onset of type 1 or type 2 diabetes can be registered immediately, and all
      patients can be directly compared to healthy controls.
    
  