
    
      The post thrombotic syndrome (PTS) is a form of secondary chronic venous insufficiency (CVI)
      that develops after a deep vein thrombosis (DVT). It affects up to 50% of patients after a
      proximal DVT (i.e. DVT involving popliteal vein or more proximal veins), and 5-10% of
      patients develop severe PTS. PTS is a chronic condition that reduces quality of life (QOL)
      and for which no curative treatment is available. Cornerstones of PTS treatment include the
      use of elastic compression stockings (ECS) to reduce leg symptoms and prevent PTS
      progression. However, ECS are incompletely effective, burdensome and costly to patients.
      Micronized Purified Flavonoid Fraction (MPFF, Venixxa), a venoactive drug, has been reported
      to be effective in reducing venous symptoms and signs and improving QOL in patients with CVI
      and has the potential to be effective for the treatment of PTS. Further, use of Venixxa is
      safe, with only few very mild and reversible reported side effects. However, studies of MPFF
      in patients with CVI have been of low to moderate quality, and there has been little use of
      this drug in North America. In addition, the effectiveness of MPFF has never been
      specifically evaluated in patients with PTS. Given that the pathophysiological mechanism of
      PTS is complex and unique (combination of obstructive and reflux mechanisms as well as
      inflammation), it is uncertain if MPFF is effective in patients with PTS, even if it may be
      effective for CVI more generally.

      The MUFFIN-PTS study will be a multicentre (8-10 centres), randomized, placebo-controlled
      trial. Patients will be randomized (1:1 with stratification by centre) to receive 1000 mg of
      oral MPFF (Venixxa, one 500mg tablet BID) or an identically appearing placebo (one tablet
      BID) for 6 months, in addition to their usual PTS and DVT treatment (i.e. ECS and/or
      anticoagulation, at their treating physician's discretion). Its objectives are to evaluate
      the effectiveness and safety of MPFF (Venixxa) compared to placebo for the treatment of PTS.

      86 patients with lower limb PTS will be enrolled in the study.
    
  