
    
      Study Design: Prospective single centre double-blind randomized controlled trial

      Study endpoints/outcomes

      Primary outcomes:

        -  30 day mortality

        -  Functional neurological outcomes at 6 months based on Extended Glasgow Outcome Scale
           (GOS-E)

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  Acid-base and electrolyte balance

        -  Daily mean change in intracranial pressure (ICP)

        -  Episodes of intracranial hypertension

        -  Duration of mechanical ventilation

        -  Length of ICU stay and ICU mortality

      Study Duration: 2 years Site: UMMC. Departments involved: Emergency Medicine, Surgery,
      Anaesthesiology and Pharmacy

      Methodology. Investigators will assess patients admitted to the Emergency Department, UMMC,
      for eligibility.

      Randomisation:

      Investigators will randomize patients in a 1:1 ratio to either 0.9% saline intravenous fluid
      group or Sterofundin® intravenous fluid group. An independent statistician not involved with
      the research will perform a block of eight randomisation using computerised number generator
      list.

      Conduct of study The Department of Pharmacy will identically seal all 0.9% saline and
      Sterofundin® intravenous fluid bottles and label them, according to their type, as either A
      or B. The patients, investigators and medical and nursing staff will not be aware of the
      designation of the letters A and B to the fluids.

      Investigators will administer the study fluid will immediately after patient randomisation
      and this will last for 72 hours.

      Other general care of the traumatic brain injury patients from both study arms will continue
      as per Neurosurgical Unit protocol and Brain Trauma Foundation guidelines.

      Data handling

      Investigators will collect all data relevant to both primary and secondary outcomes (see also
      attached proforma):

      Statistical analysis Investigators will conduct students t test, Chi squared and the
      Mann-Whitney U test as appropriate. Investigators will adjust results with univariable and
      multivariable logistic regression and report their odds ratio. Investigators will present
      survival analysis using Kaplan Meier curves and compare them using log rank test.
    
  