
    
      Specific Aims:

      Angiography in interventional radiology is still most commonly performed through femoral
      arterial access, wherein patients are committed to invasive procedures through access at
      their groin, which entails anxiety, embarrassment, pain and discomfort, the inability to
      resume normal activities for a week, serious complications like retroperitoneal hemorrhage,
      and increased hospital admissions. Angiography through access at the wrist (transradial
      angiography) has been shown with some recent data to circumvent these complications and, in
      general, provide a more satisfactory and safe patient experience. Although transradial
      angiography has been rapidly accepted by some operators, especially in Cardiology, the
      absence of evidence for technical details and safety has resulted in much debate in the
      literature and in recent conferences. Specifically, there is no literature reported in
      children. The benefits of a method which would allow mobility immediately after the procedure
      in children are self-evident - this would potentially result in less rebleeds, require little
      or no sedation, allow sitting up and feeding, and allow parents to interact with their child
      and feel more comfortable. On the flip side, the feasibility and potential complications in
      children are unknown, and thus this technique cannot be integrated into clinical practice
      without interrogating this. This should be ideally performed in a high volume pediatric
      center with expertise in not only pediatric neuroangiography, but also for minimally invasive
      arterial access with interventional radiology, to minimize complications. Given the size
      consideration of arteries in children, we believe a good start point for this study would be
      with adolescent children.

      The Investigator's objective is to provide the highest level of evidence (RCT data) for
      feasibility, safety and technique of transradial angiography in adolescents, by comparing it
      against the current gold standard, trans-femoral angiography. This will provide data for
      subsequent practice guidelines.

      This study will be performed in a tertiary pediatric institution, with collaboration between
      interventional radiologists, neuroradiologists, pediatricians, neurosurgeons, technologists,
      statisticians, research co-ordinators and imaging physicists. A large number of clinical
      cases, established pipelines for clinical workflow and research collaborations and imaging
      laboratories with personnel and students would enable us to successfully complete this
      project in a timely manner.

      Neuroangiography and neurointerventions are predominantly performed via femoral access, which
      has several limitations and complications - pain and discomfort, arterial occlusion,
      retroperitoneal hemorrhage, activity limitations, and increased admissions. Transradial
      angiography has shown promise to circumvent these problems, but this has not been studied in
      children, whose unique anatomical and physiological aspects require that this be evaluated
      rigorously.

      Primary aim:

      To evaluate procedural comfort and acceptance of transradial vs. transfemoral
      neuroangiography in a cohort of randomized adolescent children. This will be performed using
      patient self-reported pain and satisfaction scores.

      Secondary aim:

      1. To evaluate procedural safety for transradial vs. transfemoral neuroangiography in a
      cohort of adolescent children. This will be performed by comparing fluoroscopy time and dose,
      procedural and long-term complication rates, study completeness and admission times.

      Methods: Children (8-18 years) scheduled for supra-aortic angiography will be approached to
      participate. Inclusion cut-offs: radial artery ultrasound diameter >20mm and positive Allen
      test. For 95% power (primary aim), the Investigator will require a sample size of 56.
      Neuroangiography will be performed as clinically indicated, with collection of demographics,
      procedural details (screening time, radiation dose, completeness and complications) and
      post-procedural details (visual analog pain scale, satisfaction score, complications). A Data
      & Safety Monitoring board will audit the trial.

      Outcome Measures: Self-reported scores will be compared between groups for procedural
      acceptance; complications will be compared for procedural safety.

      Significance: 1) This study will provide the highest level evidence regarding role and safety
      of transradial neuroangiography in children. 2) Subsequent development of practice guideline
      recommendations for a standardized protocol for transradial angiography in children.
    
  