
    
      The microbiome exists in a complex symbiotic relationship with its human host, the
      characterization of which is imperative for understanding a myriad of diseases. Until
      recently, much of gut microbiome research has focused on gastrointestinal disorders. Recent
      research, however, has implicated the gut microbiome in psychological disorders as well
      through a proposed gut-brain axis. Of particular interest is characterization of the
      microbiome of individuals with severe alcohol use disorders, as alcohol has been known to
      profoundly alter the gut microbiome. For many years, scientists have theorized a connection
      between the proinflammatory mediators produced by ethanol consumption, liver disease and the
      gut microbiome. This study represents the first instance in which the naturalistic time
      course of changes in the gut microbiome will be followed in alcoholics in whom detailed
      history of alcohol consumption and diet have been obtained. We hypothesize that the gut
      microbiome will renormalize spontaneously and without specific intervention over a time frame
      of one or two weeks. Alcoholic patients also suffer from serious oral hygiene problems
      associated with alterations in oral microbial flora. We hypothesize that abnormalities in the
      oral microbiome will be detectable on admission, and that these will also rapidly renormalize
      with abstinence and resumption of ordinary diet and oral hygiene. If not, the findings in
      this study could point to the need for other interventions, such as administration of
      probiotics. Twenty evaluable participants admitted to the Clinical Center for alcohol
      detoxification will be enrolled. All patients will be admitted under the Unit and Clinic
      Evaluation, Screening, Assessment, and Management protocol (14-AA-0181), which includes
      adults 18 years of age or older seeking treatment for severe alcohol use disorders. Oral
      (tongue brushings) and gut (stool) specimens will be collected daily until for the first
      week. And then once a week for 28 days. Demographic characteristics, detailed drinking and
      dietary histories, measures of addiction severity, comorbid mental disorders, and metabolic
      indicators of other disease will be collected for correlation with microbiological results.
      Dietary records will include use of probiotics. Exclusion criteria include use of
      antibiotics, corticosteroids or immunosuppressive agents within the past month. Informed
      consent will be obtained after consent for the screening and treatment protocol (14-AA-0181)
      and in accordance with policies protecting participants with impaired decision-making.
      Microbial identification will include 16S rRNA analysis and a validated Next Generation
      Sequencing analysis pipelines. Statistical comparisons between each patient s oral and gut
      microbiome samples will be evaluated and all results from this population will also be
      compared to published microbiomes in both healthy volunteers as well as existing data from
      alcohol dependent individuals. Participants will be compensated for research-related
      discomfort and inconveniences in accordance with NIH guidelines.
    
  