
    
      This randomized double-blind, placebo controlled trial (RCT) aims to evaluate the effect of
      oral administered E. coli phage in children aged 4-60 months of age with proven ETEC and EPEC
      diarrhea. Children will be screened to exclude V. cholerae infections by dark field
      microscopy, rotavirus by stool ELISA, and invasive diarrhoea clinically as well as by stool
      microscopy, to identify children with possible ETEC and EPEC diarrhoea. Enrolled children
      will be randomly assigned, in equal numbers, to receive either: (i) a new T4 phage cocktail
      or (ii) Russian anti-E. coli phage cocktail (Microgen) at the dose recommended by the
      manufacturer or (iii) only oral rehydration solution (placebo) for 5 days in addition to
      management of dehydration and continued feeding in accordance with WHO guidelines. Duration
      of diarrhea, daily and cumulative stool output, volume of oral rehydration solution intake,
      stool frequency, time to recovery and weight gain will be the main outcome measures. As the
      dose of phage we intend to use in this therapeutic trial is higher than the dose administered
      to young children in earlier safety trial, we plan to initially conduct a safety study with
      these three study products in 45 children with non cholera, non rotavirus and non invasive
      diarrhea, to randomize equally in the three intervention groups, as for the final study
      mentioned above. The outcome measures in this safety part will include assessment of
      laboratory parameters including renal and liver function tests, haematological indices, and
      microbiological efficacy of phage by measuring phage and E. coli titre in daily stool
      samples. If the higher dose is found safe, tolerable, and not associated with any significant
      adverse event, we will proceed to the clinical efficacy trial.

      We believe if T4 coli phage is assessed to be effective in the overall diarrhea management,
      this might lead to development of an affordable and sustainable adjunct to the currently
      available case management of E. coli diarrhea, benefiting millions of children worldwide.
    
  