
    
      The long-term goal of our research is to understand why immune complexes (ICs) are produced
      in patients infected with HCV, and whether these complexes affect virus interaction with
      target cells. We have found that many patients infected with HCV have an increased frequency
      of circulating B cells, but no evidence that the increased B cells are activated of
      proliferating. One possible mechanism for such an increase would be a change in levels of
      chemokines that influence B cell localization and trafficking. Our studies are aimed at
      testing the following hypotheses:

        1. One hypothesis is that HCV infection results in increased levels of specific cytokines
           and chemokines that may affect the motility and localization of immature and mature B
           cells. An alternative model is that HCV infection leads to chronic antigenic stimulation
           of B lymphocytes, and that the abnormalities of B cell function associated with HCV
           infection reflect this chronic antigenic stimulation.

        2. A second hypothesis is that autoantibodies and immune complexes present in HCV patient
           serum contribute to the persistence and spread of viral infection.

      To test these hypotheses, we are measuring levels of chemokines, the frequency of circulating
      B cells (mature resting B cells, mature activated B cells, memory B cells, and immature B
      cells), and the levels and components of ICs in the blood of HCV-infected patients. Controls
      include healthy volunteers and patients with chronic liver disease unrelated to HCV
      infection. No interventions in patient care are planned. When patients elect to undergo
      standard antiviral therapies under the supervision of their hepatologists, we will study the
      outcomes of therapy (no virologic response, partial or transient virologic response,
      sustained virologic response) to determine whether any of the observed alterations in
      chemokine levels, B cell frequency or activation, or immune complex levels correlate with the
      patient's response to antiviral therapy.
    
  