
    
      About 20% of pregnant Singaporean women are diagnosed with gestational diabetes (GDM),
      defined as the onset of glucose intolerance that is first recognized in pregnancy. These
      women are at seven times higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes in the future. About 20 -
      50% of women who were diagnosed with GDM during their pregnancies eventually develop type 2
      diabetes, with resultant huge health care costs for Singapore and other countries globally.
      The Diabetes Prevention Program Study has shown that lifestyle changes resulting in modest
      weight loss are effective in preventing type 2 diabetes in women with a history of GDM. The
      investigators estimate that about 50% of all type 2 diabetes in women in Singapore occurs
      when they have a history of GDM and represent a sizeable subpopulation where primary
      prevention could have a highly significant national impact. Preliminary data indicates that
      after birth, women with GDM are overwhelmed with care for the newborn and tend to neglect
      their own health needs. They welcome reminders and coaching but are time-challenged and
      cannot attend regular on-site lifestyle coaching sessions.

      Hypothesis:

        1. Use of an INTERACTIVE SMARTPHONE APP that can track weight, diet and activity linked to
           an interactive lifestyle coaching intervention can restore optimal weight in women with
           recent GDM. The team hypothesizes that at 4 months post-delivery, participants in the
           intervention arm will have significantly higher probability of returning to weight at
           the start of pregnancy, a significantly improved cardiometabolic status and overall
           lower risk profile for type 2 diabetes development compared with those receiving
           standard care (control).

        2. The use of this INTERACTIVE SMARTPHONE APP is cost-effective from the perspective of the
           Singapore healthcare system.

      Aims:

        1. To conduct a randomized control trial to examine the efficacy of an INTERACTIVE
           SMARTPHONE APP, customized for Singaporean women with recent GDM, in optimizing
           post-delivery weight and metabolic profiles compared with standard care.

           Primary outcome:

             -  Restoration of booking weight if previous booking BMI ≤ 23

             -  Weight loss of 5% with respect to booking weight if BMI > 23

           Secondary outcomes:

           - Improved cardiometabolic and inflammatory markers: fasting and 2h post-glucose load
           plasma glucose in an oral glucose tolerance test, HbA1C, advanced glycation
           end-products, C-peptide, HOMA-IR, lipid profile, liver function, hsCRP, IL-6.

        2. Evaluate the relative cost-effectiveness of this INTERACTIVE SMARTPHONE APP compared to
           standard care within the Singapore healthcare system in terms of improvements in quality
           of life, feasibility, acceptability, scalability and sustainability.
    
  