
    
      In cardiac surgery, the use of cardiopulmonary bypass may alter the kinetics and plasma
      concentration of drugs, including antibiotics. On the other hand, infection of the surgical
      field and/or mediastinitis are serious complications of cardiac surgery, with incidence
      ranging from 1.9 to 15%, especially when considering the lower limb infections. Inadequate
      prophylactic antibiotic therapy, besides not preventing infection, it can select resistant
      microorganisms. The second-generation of cephalosporin antibiotics have been the most used as
      prophylactic antibiotic for cardiac surgery due to its low toxicity and cost, good tissue
      penetration, good spectrum of activity against bacterias that often cause postoperative
      infection, i.e. Staphylococcus aureus and coagulase negative Staphylococcus, which colonize
      the patients' skin, and Escherichia coli, Klebsiella spp, Enterobacter spp, Proteus spp, and
      Pseudomonas spp, bacteria common in the lower limb or perineum which may contaminate the
      chest or the location of the saphenectomy. Regarding cefuroxime, it is important that the
      plasma concentration four times higher than the MIC (minimal inhibitory concentration), i.e.
      16 g/L is maintained throughout the surgical procedure.

      However, there is no consensus on the ideal dosage to be used to maintain this concentration
      for prevention of infection in patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary
      bypass (CPB). Nascimento et al. demonstrated that, in patients undergoing coronary artery
      bypass graft (CABG) with CPB, the cefuroxime in a dose of 1.5 g every 12 hours, for 24 hours
      showed plasma concentrations below antibiotic prophylaxis with 16 g/L MIC after the ninth
      hour.

      After these results, the institutional dosing changed to 1.5 g bolus at induction of
      anaesthesia, followed by a bolus of 750 mg every 6 hours, for 24 hours. It is necessary a
      study to test this dosing regimen and the influence of CPB on plasma concentrations and
      pharmacokinetics of cefuroxime
    
  