
    
      We will recruit and randomly assign, following a baseline assessment, 246 dyads will be
      enrolled and randomly assigned to one of two groups: 1) Caregiving Condition or 2) Health
      Promotion (Nutrition) Condition. The entire study is home-based. The intervention will be
      delivered over 6 months using computer tablet technology in Spanish or English. Assessments
      will occur in the beginning of the study, 6 months, and 12 months (after completion of the
      intervention)

      Interested participants (caregivers) can contact us via telephone or email after seeing a
      flyer posted in various WCM/NYP locations including the Irving Sherwood Wright Center on
      Aging. One of our research associates (RA) will provide more information about the study to
      potential participants. The trained RA will use a telephone script with consent language to
      obtain permission to ask them questions to determine their eligibility through a phone screen
      script. If the participant is ineligible for the study, all screening data will be deleted.
      If the caregiver participant is eligible for the study, an appointment will be provided, and
      one of our RAs will visit the participants (caregiver and care recipient) and conduct the
      baseline assessment at the participants' home in their preferred language (Spanish or
      English). This assessment with the caregiver will last between 2 and 3 hours, additionally
      the assessment with the care recipient will last approximately 1.5 hours. We will use
      Qualtrics (online survey/data collection service) to administer the assessments.

      The baseline assessment with the caregiver (CG) consists of a series of questionnaires
      assessing the help provided by the CG to the care recipient (e.g., ADLs/AIDLs), the level of
      burden, stress, and depression perceived by the CG while providing the care, the amount of
      social support available to the CG, and the preparedness of the CG to provide continuing care
      to their loved ones. The assessment with the care recipient consists of measures of
      depression, executive functioning (Trails A & B), working memory (Letters and Number set),
      processing speed (digit symbol), and verbal fluency (category fluency). In addition, the care
      recipient will complete a computer-based suite of tasks (e.g., ATM, prescription refill,
      forms filling, etc) assessing their functional status. The assessment with the caregiver and
      care recipient might not be completed in the same home visit. The study protocol allows
      multiple visits to complete the assessments.

      During the baseline home visit, the RA will go over the written informed consent and HIPAA
      authorization with the participants (caregiver and care recipient). The assessment will not
      begin unless the participant has a full understanding of the informed consent form and has
      signed the form. The care recipient will additionally be given a Consent Feedback Tool, as an
      added step to make sure they understand the consent form since they have mild cognitive
      impairment.
    
  