
    
      Background:

      A scar represents dermal fibrous replacement tissue and results from a wound that has healed
      by resolution rather than regeneration. Undesirable scars, such as hypertrophic or keloid
      scars, occur most frequently over the anterior chest, shoulders, scapular area, lower abdomen
      and suprapubic region. Many of the investigators' microtia patients complained postsurgical
      hypertrophic scar. The incidence of hypertrophic scars after microtia reconstruction could be
      6.29%.

      Effort to reduce post-surgical scar is especially important for microtia patients. Even the
      scar lies posterior to ear auricle, but hypertrophic scar contracture may limit the ear
      auricle projection. If the scar is hypertrophic and conspicuous, this stigmata will
      accompanies the child for many years. The micropore tapes is very useful for facial scars.
      However, because of retroauricular contour and hairline, micropore tapes is difficult to
      retained over it place. Self-dry silicone gel is effective in both treatment and prevention
      of hypertrophic scar. It is consider first line for hypertrophic prevention in last update of
      facial scar care.

      The main objective aim of this study is to examine whether post-operative use of silicone gel
      can improve scar formation for microtia reconstruction scars.

      Patients and Methods:

      This is a prospective randomize clinical trial primarily designed to compare the scarring
      after second stage of microtia repair with post-operative use of self-drying silicone gel.
      The control group did not use self-drying silicone gel for their scar care. The study group
      will receive application of self-dry silicone gel (Dermatix Ultra Gel - Invida, Hanson
      Medical Inc, USA) twice a day.

      Six months after surgery, Vancouver scar sale and Visual analogue scale will be used for
      subjective scar measurement. Standard craniofacial photograph will be taken at the same time.
      A surgical ruler will be placed underneath the op wound. The scar width will be measured
      using with commercial software.
    
  