
    
      Shoulder arthroplasty is a procedure used to relieve pain and dysfunction associated with
      arthritic destruction of the gleno-humeral joint. It has been demonstrated that in patients
      with concomitant rotator cuff deficiency, reverse total shoulder arthroplasty (rTSA) is an
      efficacious procedure that relieves pain as well as increases the lever-arm of the deltoid
      muscle, thus improving post-operative strength and range of motion.

      However, perioperative blood loss in total shoulder arthroplasty can be significant, with an
      overall rate of allogeneic blood transfusion reported to be 7.4%-43% [1-5]. Patients
      undergoing reverse total shoulder arthroplasty are at even further risk of requiring a
      postoperative blood transfusion [2]. Blood transfusions are associated with significant risks
      to patient health that range from mild to life threatening.

      Tranexamic acid (TXA) is an antifibrinolytic medication (reduces the destruction of blood
      clots, thus promoting the ability to stop bleeding) that is frequently used to reduce
      perioperative blood loss, blood transfusions and associated costs in major cardiac, vascular,
      obstetric, and orthopedic procedures. Currently, TXA is increasingly used in orthopedic joint
      reconstructive surgery and has proven to be safe and effective in reducing blood loss
      following total knee arthroplasty (TKA) and total hip arthroplasty (THA) [11-33]. Multiple
      recent meta-analyses have found that use of TXA in the setting of TKA and THA leads to
      significantly less overall blood loss and lower rates of blood transfusion without increasing
      rates of venous thromboembolism (VTE) or other complications [34-37]. TXA is now on formulary
      at William Beaumont Hospital.

      100 patients slated to undergo elective reverse total shoulder arthroplasty will be recruited
      and randomized to receive either an infusion of the standard dose of TXA (10mg/kg) or placebo
      (an equivalent volume of normal saline) within 60 minutes prior to surgery and at wound
      closure.

      Adult subjects 18 years of age or older will participate in this study after the objectives,
      methods, and potential hazards of the study have been fully explained, and after they have
      signed the informed consent form. The Investigator or designee is responsible for keeping a
      record of all subjects who sign an informed consent form for entry into this study

      DATA AND SAFETY MONITORING PLAN Beaumont Research will follow their standard operating policy
      and procedure for establishing a group of designated Beaumont Hospital faculty that will be
      responsible for data and safety monitoring. This group will include a clinician, physician,
      scientific member and statistician. They will meet twice throughout the course of the study.
      A medical monitor was not appointed since this is a single-site study; Dr. J. Michael Wiater
      will personally oversee the health and well-being of all patients and submit AE reports, and
      the designated group will directly review all adverse event reports. Beaumont's Human
      Investigation Committee will review the data safety monitoring plan as part of their IRB
      approval process.

      Study data will be transcribed by study personnel from the source documents into an
      electronic database maintained in Excel. The data collections forms are to be completed by
      the research nurse at the time of the data collection so that they always reflect the latest
      observations on the subjects participating in the study. Demographic data will be filled in
      preoperatively, intraoperative blood loss will be recorded in the OR, postoperative blood
      loss and transfusion will be collected retrospectively, and complications will be recorded as
      they occur or at 2 and 6 week follow-up. All data entries, corrections and alterations must
      be made by the investigator or other authorized study personnel. The Research Institute will
      complete internal auditing at random intervals during the study for data integrity, proper
      informed consent process implementation and documentation, protocol adherence, and patient
      safety reporting compliance to regulatory bodies.

      Descriptive statistics will be provided for all data collected. Missing data will remain
      missing and will not be replaced by substitutions or interpolations. Statistical software
      (SPSS, IBM, Inc) will be used for all analyses. Baseline and demographic data will be
      compared between the 2 randomization arms to determine if any imbalances exist. Categorical
      variables will be shown as counts and % frequencies. They will be examined using Pearson's
      Chi-square where appropriate (expected frequency>5), otherwise a Fisher's Exact test will be
      used. Continuous variables will be examined for normality. Normally distributed variables
      will be analyzed using t-tests and non-normally distributed variables will be examined using
      non-parametric Wilcoxon rank tests. All continuous variables will be shown as means+/- the
      standard deviation followed by the median and (25th, 75th percentiles) where needed.

      The primary outcome of intraoperative and postoperative blood loss and postoperative drop in
      Hb will be examined for normality. Normally distributed variables will be analyzed using
      t-tests and non-normally distributed variables will be examined using non-parametric Wilcoxon
      rank tests. Total number of postoperative transfusions and total number of patients requiring
      postoperative transfusions will be shown as counts and % frequencies. They will be examined
      using Pearson's Chi-square where appropriate (expected frequency>5), otherwise a Fisher's
      Exact test will be used.

      The secondary outcomes of systemic and surgical site complications will be examined between
      the two randomization arms using Pearson's Chi-square where appropriate (expected
      frequency>5), otherwise a Fisher's Exact test will be used.
    
  