
    
      Treatment Patients deemed candidates for CRRT and antimicrobial therapy for a proven or
      suspected Gram-positive bacterial infection that includes vancomycin at the time of CRRT
      initiation or at any time during the CRRT course. If vancomycin is part of the empiric
      regimen or needed for definitive therapy an assessment will be made whether the vancomycin
      can be administered via a continuous infusion by mixing the vancomycin in the CRRT
      solution(s).

      Intervention Administration of continuous infusion vancomycin via mixing vancomycin in the
      CRRT solution(s). The CRRT solution will be prepared at the time it is needed following
      current standard operating procedures of the Department of Pharmacy at St. Christopher's
      Hospital for Children for sterile product compounding. The amount of vancomycin to be added
      to the CRRT solution will be determined by the clinical condition such as the site of
      infection,infecting organism(s), and serum drug levels. The mixed solution will be infused
      for the duration it is prescribed for CRRT. Vancomycin is stable with the components of the
      CRRT solution for at least 96 hours, therefore the frequency with which each CRRT solution
      bag will be prepared will not exceed 96 hours.

      Vancomycin dosing and concentration adjustments:

      For patients started on vancomycin after initiation of CRRT, a single loading dose of 15-20
      mg/kg of total body weight will be given intravenously over 60 minutes, after which the
      vancomycin will be added directly to the CRRT solution(s). Vancomycin will be added at a
      final concentration of 30 mg/L at CRRT initiation, regardless of age. For patients receiving
      vancomycin prior to the initiation of CRRT, if the last dose administered is > 8 hours prior
      to CRRT initiation, a loading dose of 15-20 mg/kg of total body weight will be given
      intravenously over 60 minutes, after which the vancomycin will be added directly to the CRRT
      solution(s). Vancomycin will be added at a final concentration of 30 mg/L at CRRT initiation,
      regardless of age. The first serum vancomycin level will be determined 8-12 hours after
      initiation of CRRT mixed with vancomycin. All serum for vancomycin concentrations
      determination will be obtained directly from the patient via a central line, arterial line or
      peripheral venipuncture and no vancomycin concentrations will obtained from the CRRT circuit
      for analysis.

      Vancomycin concentrations in the CRRT solution(s) will be adjusted based on the initial
      vancomycin serum plateau level, and subsequent levels will be obtained based on these
      changes. The target vancomycin plateau serum concentrations range is 15-30 mg/L. If the first
      vancomycin plateau level obtained is within range, daily vancomycin plateau levels will be
      obtained for the duration the vancomycin is mixed in the CRRT solution. If the first
      vancomycin plateau level is not within range, the vancomycin concentration in the CRRT
      solution will be adjusted. Subsequent vancomycin plateau levels will be obtained 8-12 hours
      after the vancomycin concentration change and this process will continue until a therapeutic
      plateau level is obtained. Once a therapeutic plateau level is obtained, daily vancomycin
      plateau levels will be obtained for the duration the vancomycin is mixed in the CRRT
      solution.

      Blood samples for vancomycin analysis will be obtained 8-12 hours after starting the CRRT
      solution mixed with vancomycin. Based on the first drug level obtained, changes to the
      concentration may be made to adjust to the desired serum concentration and serum levels will
      be obtained 8-12 hours after each change to the vancomycin concentration in the CRRT
      solution. Once a therapeutic level is obtained, serum levels will be obtained as needed but
      usually not more frequently than daily.

      If the first vancomycin plateau level is < 10 mcg/mL, then a single, supplemental dose of 10
      mg/kg of vancomycin will be given while the vancomycin CRRT concentration is being adjusted.
    
  