
    
      The proposed treatment is expected to reduce symptoms of PTSD particularly re-experiencing
      and hyperarousal symptoms. These improvements in symptoms are expected to translate into
      improved social and occupational function for subjects with PTSD.

      Specific Aim 1: The investigators will test (1) the efficacy of neurofeedback in subjects
      with PTSD attempting to upregulate ventral medial PFC and simultaneously downregulate
      amygdala, and (2) determine the number of neurofeedback sessions (dose) needed for target
      engagement and transfer. Prior to the neurofeedback training, participants' baseline ability
      to regulate in the absence of neurofeedback from real-time fMRI will be ascertained. Then
      during session, participants will receive veridical real-time feedback in the scanner
      indicating the activation level of ventromedial PFC minus amygdala. Participants will attempt
      to regulate to achieve a predetermined target level known to the participant. Neurofeedback
      conditions will include (1) false feedback (sham) shows a thermometer that indicates false
      feedback consisting of noise, (2) view condition shows a thermometer that indicates true
      activation of ventromedial PFC minus amygdala but the participant is asked not to attempt
      neuroregulation, (3) free regulate shows a thermometer that indicates true activation of
      ventromedial PFC minus amygdala while the participant attempts neuroregulation. The
      investigators will enroll 10 participants who will engage in a six weekly neurofeedback
      sessions to assess target engagement and dosing.

      Specific Aim 2: The ability for participants to regulate will be further challenged by
      explicit exposure to trauma relevant stimuli that elicit increased amygdala activation in
      patients with PTSD. The investigators will follow the same procedure as the previous aim
      except that free regulate condition (condition #3) will be replaced with conditions (4)
      trauma regulate shows a participant-specific trauma-relevant image and the thermometer that
      indicates true activation of ventromedial PFC minus amygdala while the participant attempts
      neuroregulation, and (5) neutral regulate shows a trauma-unrelated image and the thermometer
      that indicates true activation of ventromedial PFC minus amygdala while the participant
      attempts neuroregulation. The investigators will enroll 10 participants who will engage in a
      six weekly neurofeedback sessions to assess target engagement and dosing.

      Participants will be assessed for PTSD and related symptoms before and after to the 6-week
      intervention using the Clinician Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS) (Appendix XVI) and Beck
      Depression Inventory (BDI-II) (Appendix IX). The investigators hypothesize enhanced
      neuroregulation and transfer will be associated with a concomitant reduction in PTSD severity
      and lower comorbid anxiety symptoms.

      Specific Aim 3: Participants will be assessed before and after the 6-week intervention with a
      brief neurocognitive battery of episodic memory, working memory, executive function, and
      sustained attention. The investigators hypothesize that successful neuroregulation and
      transfer will be associated with concomitant cognitive performance improvements.
    
  