
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, inpatient/outpatient study to assess
      the safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of SRT501 in subjects diagnosed with
      colorectal cancer and hepatic metastases. Fifteen subjects aged 18 years of age and older who
      fulfill the inclusion/exclusion criteria, will be enrolled in this study. Ten subjects, if
      eligible, will be randomized to receive SRT501 and 5 subjects, if eligible, will be
      randomized to receive placebo. Subjects will sign the informed consent form prior to any
      study-related procedures. If eligible, subjects will consent to receive 5.0 g of SRT501 or
      placebo, to be administered once daily as an oral reconstituted powder, for 14 days at the
      same time each day. On Days 1 and 2, SRT501 or placebo will be administered approximately
      15-30 minutes following the consumption of a standardized breakfast to allow for PK sample
      collection. On all other days, SRT501 or placebo will be administered approximately 15-30
      minutes following the consumption of the evening meal. Following the course of SRT501 or
      placebo administration, subjects will undergo scheduled surgical removal of their metastatic
      liver disease as well as non-diseased tissue and these samples will be evaluated for SRT501
      concentrations and pharmacodynamic markers of neoplastic activity (such as cell
      differentiation, apoptosis, proliferation, etc.). Due to scheduling and surgical
      availability, subjects can receive SRT501 or placebo for a minimum of 10 days and a maximum
      of 21 days. If diseased colon tissue is also scheduled to be removed during resection, both
      diseased and normal colon tissue will also be collected for analysis. Participants will be
      required to return to the study center on Day 2 for a 24-hour PK sample and the evening prior
      to their scheduled surgical resection as well as per the Institution's standards of care for
      recovery following the surgical procedure.
    
  