
    
      We compared intra-coronary infusion of the mobilized PBSCs with G-CSF (n=10) and mobilization
      alone with G-CSF (n=10) in patients with myocardial infarction in MAGIC Cell -1 trial and
      G-CSF alone (n=6) and control (n=6) in MAGIC Cell-2 trial.

      This study was a randomized, controlled phase II clinical trial. The Institutional Review
      Board of Seoul National University Hospital approved the study protocol. The informed written
      consents were obtained from patients after explaining the procedure and risk.

      This study consisted of 2 sub-studies; MAGIC Cell (Myocardial Regeneration and Angiogenesis
      in Myocardial Infarction with G-CSF and Intra-Coronary Stem Cell Infusion)-1 and 2 trial.

      In brief, MAGIC Cell-1 trial enrolled patients with acute and old myocardial infarction, and
      had two groups of cell infusion, and G-CSF alone. PBSCs were mobilized by daily subcutaneous
      injections of G-CSF (Dong-A pharmaceutical, Seoul, Korea) with 10 g/kg body weight for four
      days before percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). After completion of G-CSF injection,
      all patients underwent PCI and implantation of stents for the culprit lesion of infarct
      related artery. Immediately after PCI, patients in the cell infusion group received
      intra-coronary infusion of the collected PBSC, which were mobilized and collected before PCI.
      The enrollment of patients to MAGIC Cell-1 trial was terminated prematurely due to potential
      adverse reaction of increased restenosis. However, follow up of the enrolled patients were
      completed until 1 year as scheduled. MAGIC Cell-2 trial enrolled patients with acute
      myocardial infarction presented within 12 hours after onset of chest pain who underwent
      successful primary PCI. We randomized patients into the G-CSF group and the control group.
      The patients in the G-CSF group received G-CSF of 10 g/kg body weight for four days at least
      24hours after primary PCI. The enrollment of patients to MAGIC Cell-2 trial was also
      terminated prematurely due to potential adverse reaction of increased restenosis reported in
      MAGIC Cell-1 trial. However, follow up of the enrolled patients were also completed until 1
      year as scheduled
    
  