
    
      INTRODUCTION Background Children Cancer in Pakistan: Millions of people are affected by
      cancer worldwide. Cancer is one of the major health problems in Pakistan . About 8,000
      children below 18 year were diagnosed with cancer annually. Most children diagnosed in
      advance stage . In Pakistan 31% children had leukemia, 20% had Lymphoma, 08 % had sarcoma, 8
      % had bone tumor, 7% had brain tumor, 6 % had retinoblastoma, 5 % had wilms tumor, 4% had
      germ cell tumor, 4 % had neuroblastoma and the other had 7 % .Cancer affects family
      emotionally and physically.

      Chemotherapy and side effect: Millions of people are also facing difficulties due to
      chemotherapy worldwide. If the patient will not prepare for chemotherapy treatment properly
      he/she can face problem in future .Chemotherapy is the common method of treatment. The common
      side effects of chemotherapy are diarrhea, nausea and vomiting, hair loss, neuropathy, weight
      loss, dysphagia, oral ulcer, fatigue, dyspnea, constipation, insomnia and cognitive
      impairment, also affects quality of life, economic conditions, emotions and social wellbeing.
      Before starting chemotherapy treatment the patient should receive written information about
      diagnoses, treatment goal, chemotherapy duration, side effects of drugs, the material should
      design at the level of patient knowledge.

      Cancer vs anxiety depression: The anxiety is due to unawareness about chemotherapy side
      effect. 47% victims of patient have anxiety due to cancer . The power to control disease can
      be lost due to anxiety .Side effect of chemotherapy management required self-care and it is
      can be effect due to depression. Anxiety and depression has an association with cancer,
      chemotherapy related fatigue, lack of education about chemotherapy side effect management and
      long term exposure of children in hospital . Cancer treatment required nursing intervention
      to reduce anxiety and depression . Anxiety leads to delay chemotherapy treatment and
      prognoses.

      Evidences of Multimedia education to reduce Anxiety and depression: It is the main
      responsibility of Oncology nurse to educate patient about the management of side effect of
      chemotherapy but mostly patient received written material only. The recommended practice to
      reduce anxiety of patient is to educate about side effect of chemotherapy. The patient should
      be education both for short term management and long-term management. Education about side
      effect helps to decrease anxiety. The effect of multimedia education to reduce anxiety is
      evident in mammography, MRI, ECT, cardiac surgeries, gynecological laparotomy, laparoscopic
      cystectomy, hemodialysis, teeth removal and peptic ulcer disease. Nursing intervention
      through education helps to reduce anxiety and stress , after chemotherapy, promote side
      effect management, decrease complications and increase psychological wellbeing. Many resource
      centers for patient education on cancer are available on internet about chemotherapy and side
      effect to increase the psychosocial health. The resources can be utilized as a part of
      continuous nursing education.

      Anxiety and depression in Pakistan: Anxiety and depression is more common in Pakistan due to
      lack of infrastructure for mental health services.

      Aim of the study: The main aim of this study is to find the effect of nurse let chemotherapy
      education on parent's anxiety as in children case parents are the key role for securing among
      children cancer. The study will help to examine the effect of psycho-education about
      chemotherapy and side effect management on parent's anxiety and depression at Indus children
      cancer Hospital, Karachi Pakistan.

      Literature Review

      International Findings:

      European study found that 20 minutes of video education is more effective with verbal and
      written education . A randomize control trial was done by Williams and Schreier (2005), on
      RCT(N=71), the experimental group (n-38) received audiotaped 20 minutes of education on
      management of fatigue, sleep disturbance and anxiety along with standard care and the control
      group (n=33) received verbal instruction and written material. The anxiety level was measured
      at 1 month and 2 months. Larger number of patient (n=16) in control group reported anxiety as
      compared to experimental group (n=10) significantly (p=0.001). Similar result were found from
      the study of Malone (2007) that education helps to reduce anxiety. Another study mentioned
      that familiarity with environment of chemotherapy is necessary as it also impact on anxiety.
      Almost 50% cases diagnosed with cancer reported the symptoms of anxiety. According to NCCN
      guideline, the anxiety management related to chemotherapy and side effect management is the
      primary responsibility of oncology team including oncology nurse . Study from USA mentioned
      that, the caregiver of children diagnosed with cancer have 44% greater stress as compared to
      24% parents of healthy children . Another study mentioned that 98% participant were satisfied
      with chemotherapy educational experience, 100 % participants mentioned that educational
      environment is supportive, 81% feel that quality of life can be improved through education .
      Another study mentioned, 87.6% participant were satisfied with chemotherapy education, 87.5 %
      agree that it helps to reduce anxiety, 93.3% participant felt that it will be effective if
      given first time before chemotherapy, 86.6% participant was satisfied for 30 minutes of
      education timing before chemotherapy treatment. 85.7% participant report that quite room
      environment is effective for chemotherapy education .In another study mentioned that, 84%
      patient report that educational class was help to reduce anxiety and 64.7% participant
      disagree for education in group . A randomize control trail was conducted in Greenville and
      founded that 23% participant in control group report anxiety after 1 month of treatment as
      compared to 14% in interventional group significantly . Written information before
      chemotherapy should be provided to patient, the information should include chemotherapy and
      side effect, future plan, and follow-up . Many studies had mentioned that that
      psycho-education is effective to reduce anxiety during chemotherapy management.

      Local findings:

      A study from Rawalpindi reported that 10-25% participant reported anxiety and depression
      during chemotherapy and 16% have anxiety and 27% have depression . Another study mentioned
      that myeloid leukemia is commonly diagnosed in younger age but mostly reported in chronic
      phase . A study from Lahore mentioned that 56% parents have depression, higher in mothers
      specially those who are low educated and had poor socio-economical class. A study from
      Karachi mentioned caregiver stress related to cancer patient s, 17% mild, 34% moderate and 49
      % severe stress. It was also conclude that caregiver stress for cancer patient had
      significant association with caregiver age, relationship with child , female gender and
      longer duration of care.

      Statement of Problem Children cannot look after themselves. Parents are the primary caregiver
      of children. If they initially feel anxiety and depression, it will be difficult for them to
      manage chemotherapy and side effects. Education about chemotherapy is neglected due to heavy
      workload and other responsibilities. More than 50% of individual newly diagnosed with cancer
      have unknown anxiety related to chemotherapy and their side effect . Those who do not receive
      chemotherapy education prior to treatment face difficulties in later life . The side effects
      of chemotherapy like vomiting, nausea, loss of appetite and fatigue were managed through
      self-care . After an intensive literature review it was found that no study was conducted in
      Pakistan focusing effect of nurse-led multimedia education and telephonic follow up, on
      chemotherapy side effects management for parent's anxiety and depression.

      Rationale of Study Pediatric cancer is the leading cause of children mortality and morbidity
      in Pakistan. More than 8,000 children under 18 year of age were diagnosed with cancer in a
      year. Cancer treatment were managed by the parents specially mother. Evidences showed lack of
      knowledge about chemotherapy and dissatisfaction of the information about what they have
      received, leads uncertainty, apprehension and delay continuation with chemotherapy treatment.
      Many organization developed booklet for patient education about chemotherapy and side effect
      management. They also have provided online resources. The patient read information at their
      own efforts. Multimedia education and Tele- nursing follow up was found cost effective method
      to reduce family anxiety in many countries . Parent's anxiety and depression leads poor
      management of cancer treatment for their child. Literature evidence that Nurse led
      psycho-education through multimedia education telephonic follows up is cost effective method
      to reduce anxiety and depression related to treatment process. According to senior oncologist
      Pakistan, Parents are anxious not only about Chemo side-effect but also about disease itself.
      Most parents have same knowledge of side effects of chemotherapy because of their experiences
      with friend's relatives who have undergo to course treatment. Secondly, side effect is
      mentioned at first counseling session by primarily oncologist.

      Objectives To measure the effect of nurse-led multimedia education, booklet providence and
      telephonic follow up about chemotherapy and side effects management on parent's anxiety and
      depression of children receiving chemotherapy for the first time.

      Operational Definitions Nurse-Led: Any intervention given by the nurses under professional
      guidelines. Multimedia education: Education given by using PowerPoint presentation or by
      using multimedia projector.

      Telephonic Follow up: The continuation of educational process by using Tele-communication.

      Chemotherapy side effect: The adverse effects of chemotherapy other than therapeutic effect.

      Parent's anxiety and depression: Feelings of concern, uneasiness, nervousness and sadness of
      parents related to child, diagnosed with cancer and undergoing for chemotherapy first time.
    
  