
    
      Most patients with colorectal carcinoma (CRC) accumulate high numbers of endogenous tumor
      antigen specific cytotoxic and helper memory T cells in their blood. Upon appropriate
      reactivation, tumor antigen specific T cells can recognize and eliminate autologous tumor
      cells. This can be achieved ex vivo by their stimulation with antigen pulsed autologous
      dendritic cells in the absence of regulatory T cells. Upon adoptive transfer, specifically
      reactivated T cells from cancer patients can efficiently reject autologous human tumors in
      vivo.

      A major target antigen of anti tumor effector T cells in CRC patients is p53, which is
      overexpressed in many colorectal cancers. Within this clinical trial, high numbers of
      endogenous tumor specific T cells will be harvested by leukapheresis from the blood of CRC
      patients harbouring p53-reactive T cells. Isolated T cells will be depleted from regulatory T
      cells and specifically reactivated for three days ex vivo with three synthetic long peptides
      containing the most immunogenic regions of p53 using autologous dendritic cells as antigen
      presenting cells. Activated T cells will be re-infused into the patients.

      Ten patients with CRC stage UICC IV under routine first line FOLFOX 6/Bevacizumab therapy are
      planned to receive a singular treatment with an autologous T cell product at a dose of 5x10^7
      (first three or six patients) or 5x10^8 (last four or seven patients) cells.

      Patient treatment and follow-up will be performed at the National Center for Tumor Diseases
      (NCT) and at the Department of General, Visceral and Transplantation Surgery, University of
      Heidelberg. Leukapheresis will take place at the DRK-Blutspendedienst
      Baden-Württemberg-Hessen in Mannheim and generation of therapeutic cells will be performed at
      the GMP Unit Cellular Therapy of the DKFZ. Analysis of blood samples with respect to special
      immune parameters is carried out at the Immune Monitoring Laboratory, Department of
      Translational Immunology at the NCT, Heidelberg.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of an adoptive
      transfer of ex vivo reactivated p53 specific T cells obtained from peripheral blood.
    
  