
    
      Participants will receive 120 minutes of upper extremity training X 5 days per week for 4
      weeks in addition to their daily rehabilitative routine (total therapy time 40 hours in
      addition to daily routine treatments of approximately 60 hours). Each session will be staffed
      with a 1:1 PT/OT to patient ratio.

      The aim of the program is to increase the time spent on tasks using customized game-based
      platforms that include highly immersive, challenging and rewarding virtual environments for
      upper limb training. The focus of these game-based platforms is to reduce upper extremity
      impairments through emphasizing the quality of movement execution.

      In one platform, the participant controls virtual dolphin movements by moving his/her paretic
      upper limb. The game utilizes advanced artificial intelligence (AI) analysis of the video
      recordings in real-time. In case the participant needs arm weight support, the practice will
      perform the task with a mechanical wearable exoskeleton vest, EkssoUE (Ekso Bionics) that can
      provide support at different weight levels. Arm weight support will be titrated as the
      patient progresses through each session and will be reduced/removed if no significant
      compensatory strategies were used.

      The second platform, the HandTutor system (MediTouch) consists of an ergonomic wearable glove
      and a dedicated software with games that allow practicing active wrist movements, grip
      control and finger individuation in a challenging and motivating environment. Participant
      progresses through simple to difficult games while adjusting the range of motion that is
      being practiced according to participant's abilities.

      Training in both platforms will be conducted in sitting. Participant will continue with their
      regular rehabilitative routine that includes daily physical and occupational therapy sessions
      and speech therapy if needed as well as group work and gym.

      To assess the feasibility of the proposed intervention the following data/measures will be
      documented:

      Adherence rates; Time on task (in minutes); Progression in game levels and the amount of
      weight support; Attendance to routine rehabilitative sessions; Visual Analogue Scale will be
      used to monitor the levels of pain; Rating perceived exertion (RPE), the revised
      category-ratio scale (0 to 10 scale) will be used to monitor and guide exercise intensity;
      The Pittsburgh rehabilitation participation scale (PRPS); The Intrinsic Motivation Inventory
      (IMI) - will be assessed at the end of intervention period; Acceptability and satisfaction of
      the intervention to participants will be assessed at the end of training period using a
      self-designed questionnaire/rating scale; Adverse events; Problems/difficulties related to
      intervention equipment (software, hardware, vest etc.).

      To evaluate the potential effectiveness of the intervention the following data/measures will
      be conducted at baseline (prior training), immediately post intervention and at 12 (±14) and
      24 (±14) weeks post stroke:

      Fugl-Meyer upper extremity assessment (FM-UE); Action research arm test (ARAT); Stroke Impact
      Scale (SIS) hand domain, version 2.0; Upper extremity impairment and function will be
      assessed using a reaching and a grasping tasks that will be recorded using multiple high
      resolution video-cameras and analyzed using AI algorithm (OpenPose).
    
  