
    
      Rationale:

      The adrenal glands are a predilection site for distant metastases (M1b) in patients with lung
      cancer.

      However, even in a patient with a confirmed lung cancer an enlarged adrenal lesion is still
      more likely to be benign than to be malignant(4). Therefore tissue sampling of the left
      adrenal gland (LAG) is obligatory to either confirm or rule out metastases. Sampling is
      regularly performed by a transgastric endoscopic approach using a conventional GI-EUS scope.
      The aim of this study is investigate the success rate of endoscopic ultrasound guided
      fine-needle aspiration using the EBUS scope (EUS-BFNA) for left adrenal gland analysis in
      patients with lung cancer and an on imaging suspected left adrenal gland.

      Hypothesis:

      EUS-B guided transgastric FNA of suspected left adrenal glands (LAG) reduces the need for
      conventional EUS- FNA by half.

      Study design:

      A prospective cohort design Setting: international, multicenter

      Study population:

      Patients with (suspected) lung cancer, an indication for mediastinal nodal staging and a for
      malignancy suspected LAG on imaging.

      Intervention:

      All patients will undergo a mediastinal nodal staging procedure with the EBUS scope (EBUS +
      EUSB) (routine clinical care) followed by an evaluation of the LAG including LAG sampling
      (experimental). Subsequently, all patients undergo a conventional EUS procedure with sampling
      of the LAG (current standard of care)

      Main study endpoint:

      The proportion of patients with a successful EUS-B-FNA procedure for LAG analysis. Successful
      is defined as: LAG is visible, sampling is possible and adequate material for
      cytopathological evaluation is obtained. Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated
      with participation, benefit and group relatedness: Distant metastases of lung cancer like LAG
      metastases have significant impact on both the prognosis and treatment. In the majority of
      patients with an indication for LAG sampling by endosonography, there is also an indication
      for mediastinal nodal tissue sampling. In case both the mediastinal lymph nodes and the LAG
      can be evaluated with the same scope, patients can be evaluated for nodal and distant
      metastasis with just a single instead of two separate scopes. This will be beneficial for
      patients (reduced investigation time) and is additionally cost -effective. So far EUS-B of
      LAG has been shown to be safe and feasible.
    
  