
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) as determined by Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) of adavosertib (AZD1775) alone or in
      combination with olaparib in women with recurrent ovarian cancer in whom progression has been
      documented following poly ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitor therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the overall safety and tolerability of AZD1775 alone or in combination with
      olaparib in this population.

      II. To evaluate the disease control rate (DCR) = overall response rate (ORR) plus stable
      disease rate for 16 weeks.

      III. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of this
      population following AZD1775 alone or in combination with olaparib.

      IV. To evaluate the duration of response by RECIST version (v)1.1.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the efficacy of each arm by BRCA-mutation status (BRCA-mt) and homologous
      recombination deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair deficiencies (HRD).

      II. To describe endogenous and dynamic markers of DNA damage response in tumor tissue and
      circulating surrogates, such as circulating tumor cells (CTC), circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA),
      exosomes (cellular/nuclear), cell cycle kinetics (CDKs), and immunophenotype.

      III. To examine genomic alterations associated with response and mechanisms of resistance to
      olaparib and/or AZD1775.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. If enrollment pauses for 1 arm, patients
      will be assigned to the enrolling arm.

      ARM I: Patients receive adavosertib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5 and 8-12. Cycles
      repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive olaparib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 and adavosertib PO QD on
      days 1-3 and 8-10. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and periodically
      afterwards.
    
  