
    
      Increasingly, Veterans are prescribed potent opioid analgesics for the treatment of chronic
      pain despite limited evidence for efficacy and increasing evidence of serious harms including
      addiction and non-fatal and fatal overdose. While guidelines recommend consideration of dose
      increase for patients not benefitting from opioid therapy, the rates of major harms are
      directly related to dose. Higher doses may also be more likely to precipitate opioid-induced
      hyperalgesia, a paradoxical increased pain response, in susceptible individuals. In summary,
      opioid dose increase, a currently accepted clinical response to poorly controlled pain, may
      offer little benefit and certainly increases risk, especially in patients already on
      moderate-high doses (30-100 mg daily morphine equivalents). Alternative treatment strategies
      to opioid dose escalation that lessen risk and possibly increase benefit are much needed.

      Switching to buprenorphine/naloxone (BUP/NX), a partial opioid agonist approved for use in
      the treatment of opioid abuse/dependence, may be a safe and effective alternative strategy to
      opioid dose escalation in the treatment of chronic pain. As a partial agonist, there is a
      ceiling to BUP/NX's respiratory depressant and other opioid-like effects, meaning it is less
      likely to cause addiction and overdose. Additionally, there are pre-clinical data to suggest
      BUP/NX is less likely to produce opioid-induced hyperalgesia and may even reverse it in
      patients switched from full agonist opioids. Case series have demonstrated improvements in
      pain, functional status and quality of life among patients switched from full agonist opioids
      to BUP/NX for chronic pain. Controlled trials are needed to establish BUP/NX's efficacy
      compared to opioid dose escalation in the treatment of poorly-controlled pain.

      The investigators propose a pilot 12-week, open label randomized trial of BUP/NX compared to
      opioid dose escalation among patients with poorly-controlled pain on the primary outcome of
      pain intensity. As patient acceptance of either opioid dose escalation or BUP/NX is unknown,
      the investigators' first objective is to assess willingness to enroll in a randomized trial
      and reasons for and against enrollment among eligible patients. The study will compare
      treatments on the primary outcome of pain intensity, measured using the 11-point pain
      numerical rating scale, and secondary outcomes of pain interference, using the Brief Pain
      Inventory functional interference subscale, medication adherence and patient global
      assessment of change. Mixed models will be employed in the analysis to accommodate potential
      unbalanced repeated measures with missing data. Effect size estimates will be used to
      generate sample size projections for a definitive trial. This line of research is a direct
      extension of the PI's HSR&D-funded CDA-2 project developing a screening tool to identify low
      efficacy opioid use in primary care and also well-aligned with the Strategic Plan and Focused
      Area of Research of the Pain Research, Informatics, Medical comorbidities, and Education
      (PRIME) Center's proposal for a Center of Innovation (COIN) and its strategic objective to
      "Promote access, continuity, and sustainability of safe and effective interventions for pain
      and pain-related disability."
    
  