
    
      Background: Worldwide, more than 50 million children under 5 are wasted
      (weight-for-length/height Z-score (WLZ) <-2) and over 150 million children under 5 are
      stunted (length/height-for-age Z-score (LAZ) <-2); such wasting and stunting often begin
      during infancy. Optimal early nutrition can prevent wasting and stunting. In low income
      countries, there is therefore a need to understand early weight patterns and how they relate
      to dietary intakes.

      Objectives: The proposed study will assess the relationship between infant dietary intake and
      weight change in low income countries by characterizing neonatal weight loss/gain patterns,
      dietary intake, and growth.

      . Methodology: We will use a prospective cohort study design to describe early infant weight
      patterns and their relationship to dietary intake. Up to 880 newborns and their mothers will
      be enrolled in four countries: Guinea-Bissau, Nepal, Pakistan and Uganda (up to 220
      newborns/site). Enrolled infants will be followed from birth until one month of age and will
      be assessed by anthropometry, dietary survey and hemoglobin measurement. Mothers will also be
      assessed for anthropometry and hemoglobin. Infants' fathers and next-oldest siblings will
      also be enrolled for anthropometry if available and willing to participate.

      Descriptive statistics will be used to describe sample characteristics. We will use various
      regression modeling techniques to examine the links between individual, family, and community
      characteristics and early infant weight patterns. Logistic regression models will also be
      used to consider potential confounding.

      Study findings will allow us to describe weight patterns in the first 30 days after birth and
      their relationship to the dietary intake during that time. We hypothesize that infants who
      lose 6% or more of their birth weight prior to beginning weight gain will have lower WAZ at
      30 days of age. We also hypothesize that at 12 days of age, weight change relative to birth
      weight will be lower for infants born <2500g then for infants born ≥2500g.
    
  