
    
      The Patient-Reported Outcomes (PRO) Computer System:

      The PRO computer system used in this study has been designed to help doctors and nurses check
      the symptoms and overall health status of patients with cancer by reviewing the computer
      entries of patients and caregivers. The system has also been designed to help doctors and
      nurses make decisions about how to care for patients based on the computer entries.

      Questionnaire and Review Session:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will have an questionnaire and review session at
      the Palliative Care outpatient clinic. The session will be conducted by a research staff
      member, but the study chair and/or other study staff members may also attend the session. The
      questionnaire and review session will have 3 steps, which are described below:

        -  If you are a patient receiving palliative care, you will use the PRO computer system to
           complete 2 questionnaires about any symptoms you may be experiencing and your overall
           health. If you are a caregiver for someone who is receiving palliative care, you will
           use the PRO computer system to complete 2 questionnaires about any symptoms that the
           patient you are caring for may be experiencing and their overall health. The study staff
           will instruct you on how to use the PRO computer system.

        -  If you are a physician or nurse, you will use the PRO computer system to complete 4
           questionnaires about the symptoms and overall health of patients who are receiving
           palliative care. The study staff will instruct you on how to use the PRO computer
           system.

        -  You will then look at the results of the questionnaires you have completed, which will
           be shown to you in both number and graph form. You will also be shown other features and
           potential uses of the PRO computer system.

        -  Last, you will be asked about how easily you were able to use the computer system. You
           will also be asked about any changes you think could make the program easier to use.

      The questionnaire and review session should take about 30 minutes to complete.

      Study Data:

      Your responses to the questionnaires will be destroyed after the questionnaire and review
      session. The responses you give when asked about the use of the PRO computer system will be
      kept after the questionnaire and review session. Only the study staff will have access to
      your responses. However, your responses will be coded with a study ID number, not by your
      name. Your saved responses will be stored in password-protected files that are available only
      to the study staff for 3 years.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after you complete the questionnaire and review
      session.

      This is an investigational study.

      Up to 9 patients and 9 caregivers will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.

      Up to 9 physicians and nurses (4-5 of each) will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  