
    
      Design Overview This will be a prospective, double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled
      trial comparing buccal versus vaginal misoprostol in equal doses (25 mcg every 4 hours). Each
      participant will receive one buccal and one vaginal tablet, only one containing misoprostol.
      The administration will be repeated every four hours if contractions are inadequate
      (frequency less than every 5 minutes) until the cervix is favorable, spontaneous rupture of
      membranes occurs, or the patient is in active labor. Patient will be continued on
      intermittent fetal heart monitoring 1 hour after administration. Prior to discharge women in
      the study will be asked to complete a questionnaire as to their preferences of route of
      administration and side effects.

        1. Recruitment, Consenting, and Confirming Eligibility: Women with obstetric, medical, or
           psychosocial indications of induction of labor at University of California, Los Angeles
           Ronald Reagan Medical Center will be evaluated for participation. Those who meet
           eligibility criteria will be invited to participate. The subject will be counseled about
           the study, and if interested, will undergo the consent process. Each potential subject
           will receive a thorough overview of the study protocol and will review the consent form
           with study staff. All questions will be answered. The subject will be advised that a
           decision not to participate in the study will not affect the quality or availability of
           medical services she will receive at the hospital. She will also be advised that she can
           stop participating in the study at any time, for any reason, and that this will not
           impact the services she receives. If the subject elects to participate, two copies of
           the consent will be signed by the subject and research staff. A signed consent, along
           with a copy of the Experimental Subjects Bill of Rights, will be given to the subject.
           The other consent will be filed in a locked file cabinet.

           A general medical and gynecological history and physical will be done as is standard of
           care. Routine obstetric labs and any other medically indicated labs will be sent as is
           standard of care. Patients will undergo a non-stress test and uterine contraction
           monitoring prior to induction of labor. Obstetrical ultrasound will be reviewed or
           performed if indicated per the physician. Assessment of the cervix and Bishop score,
           pelvis, fetal size, and presentation will be performed. An unfavorable cervix is defined
           as Bishop score of 6 or less (ACOG). Women with ruptured membranes will not be able to
           participate. Gestational age will be determined on the basis of last menstrual period,
           confirmed by earliest ultrasound, or a corrected estimated date of confinement by the
           earliest ultrasound.

        2. Misoprostol Administration/ Evaluation: The subject will be randomized to either of two
           groups. Each participant will receive both a vaginal and buccal tablet, with one tablet
           containing misoprostol. Subjects will be instructed by a nurse regarding buccal
           placement and to swallow any residue remaining after 20 minutes.

           Intravaginal administration of pill will be performed by a resident Physician or
           midwife. The subject will remain recumbent for at least 30 minutes. The subject will
           undergo fetal heart rate (FHR) and uterine contraction monitoring for at least 1 hour
           after misoprostol administration. The subject may undergo further FHR and uterine
           contraction monitoring per physician discretion. If the subject does not have adequate
           uterine contractions (uterine contraction occurring at least every 5 minutes), the same
           dosage and route of administration regimen will be repeated to 6 maximum dosage (maximum
           of 150mcg). Cervical assessment of Bishop score will be performed with each treatment
           during vaginal administration.

           Treatment will continue until spontaneous rupture of membranes, active labor, or
           favorable cervix (Bishop >6). Augmentation of labor using pitocin may start after 4
           hours of last misoprostol dose according to routine protocol. Amniotomy may be performed
           at the discretion of the managing obstetrician. If labor is not achieved after receiving
           150mcg of misoprostol, it will be categorized as a failed induction. At this time, the
           subject may be offered oxytocin induction, foley bulb mechanical dilation, or cesarean
           section, according to the fetal and participant condition. Terbutaline 0.25mg
           subcutaneous may be given for tachysystole (5 uterine contractions in 10 minutes) with
           FHR changes or FHR category II-III changes (minimal variability, prolonged deceleration,
           repetitive variables, sinusoidal pattern, repetitive late deceleration) that are not
           responsive to resuscitative measures ( oxygen supplementation, side positioning,
           intravenous fluids) according to physician's discretion.

        3. Follow up: A short survey questionnaire assessing gastrointestinal side effects,
           experiences, and preferences of route of administration will be given prior to
           discharge.
    
  