
    
      A total of 60 patients will be recruited from Scott Medical Health Center in Pittsburgh, PA.
      Inclusion criteria for the study are knee OA patients who are eligible for HAM and HUMCWJ
      therapy of their knee, no previous HAM or HUMCWJ therapy, between the ages of 50-85,
      independently residing in the community, no previously diagnosed cognitive decline or mental
      illness, and not taking pain medication more than once per week for a condition other than
      knee OA. Recruitment will be done in two parts as participants will self-select to
      participate in one of two study groups. All participants who elect to have the procedure done
      at the initial consultation, meet inclusion criteria, and agree to be in the study will be
      placed in Group 1. Participants who do not wish to have the procedure, meet inclusion and
      exclusion criteria, and agree to be in the study will be placed in Group 2. Those
      participants who are unsure about the procedure and need more time to decide will be
      contacted 2 weeks later and then group will be determined by their decision. All participants
      will be required to sign a written informed consent prior to data collection. Following
      written consent, all participants will undergo data collection (T0). At T0, participants will
      complete a demographic and medication use questionnaire, the Western Ontario and McMaster
      Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC), knee survey, and be timed during a single trial of
      three functional tasks. Participants will also provide a pain rating while completing each of
      the functional tasks. Group 1 will then undergo HAMS injection to the OA affected knee
      immediately following the testing battery. Group 2 will delay the HAMS injection to the OA
      affected knee for at least 3 months or never receive the injection. All participants will
      complete T1 data collection approximately 4 weeks following completion of T0 data collection
      and T2 data collection approximately 3 months following completion of T0 data collection. The
      T1 and T2 data collections will use the same data collection procedures and questionnaires.
    
  