
    
      Intravitreal injection of different anti-VEGF agents such as bevacizumab (Avastin, Genentech,
      Inc., South San Francisco, CA, USA) ranibizumab (Lucentis; Genentech, Inc., South San
      Francisco, CA, USA) and aflibercept (Eylea, Regeneron, Tarrytown, NY, USA) has been a widely
      common practice for treatment of choroidal neovascularization and retinal vascular diseases
      [1]. Several ocular and systemic adverse events have been reported with the use of anti-VEGF
      agents [7]. Elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) is a serious ocular adverse event that
      may be associated with intravitreal injection of anti-VEGF agents. IOP elevation with
      anti-VEGF injection may have variable presentation ranging from acute transient post
      injection elevation to the development of persistent IOP elevation that mandates pressure
      lowering therapy[8].

      Patients with previously existing glaucoma may have a higher rate of persistent IOP elevation
      associated with intravitreal injection of anti-VEGF agents. Good et al, reported the rate of
      persistent IOP elevation after intravitreal anti-VEGF to be 33% in glaucoma patients versus
      3.1% in eyes without previous diagnosis of glaucoma [9]. Tseng et al, reported 25 eyes with
      sustained elevation of IOP after serial intravitreal injections of anti-VEGF agents (mean =
      20injections). All the 25 eyes were normotensive prior to the study and 23 of them were not
      previously diagnosed with glaucoma[10].

      Multicenter clinical trials that studied the intravitreal injection of anti-VEGF agents, such
      as MARINA and ANCHOR for ranibizumab, VISION for pegaptanib and PACORES for bevacizumab, did
      not show sustained IOP elevation with the intravitreal injection of the study agents [12-15].
      However, a subgroup analysis of the data of MARINA and ANCHOR trials showed at least 6 mm Hg
      increase of IOP from baseline in 2.1% of eyes in MARINA trial and 3.6% of eyes in ANCHOR
      trial [16]. A retrospective chart review of 207 patients over a 6-months follow up period
      after serial intravitreal injections of anti-VEGF reported an IOP elevation greater than 5 mm
      Hg in 2 consecutive visits compared to baseline in 11.6% of the treated eyes versus 5.3% in
      control eyes [17].

      The pathophysiology of the reported IOP elevation associated with intravitreal injection of
      anti-VEGF is unknown. Anti-VEGF compounds might increase aqueous humor inflow by the
      breakdown of the blood-aqueous barrier or reduce uveoscleral outflow by the ciliary body
      vasculature. These potential changes could translate into elevated IOP and glaucoma.
    
  