
    
      Participants will be recruited through the Thoracic Oncology Program and the Head and Neck
      Cancers Program. At the time of their initial surgical consultation, surgeons and their
      support staff in the Thoracic Oncology Program and Head and Neck Cancers Program will advise
      all of their patients about the present smoking cessation study as well as the Smoking
      Cessation Service at Smilow Cancer Hospital/Yale-New Haven Hospital and other resources in
      the community. Patients who express interest in the study and agree to quit smoking will be
      met at Smilow/YNHH for an intake appointment by a research assistant. Informed consent will
      be obtained prior to any other procedures, then during the intake session medical and tobacco
      use histories and breath carbon monoxide (CO) levels will be obtained from all participants.
      Study eligibility will be determined in concert with the surgeon and the principal
      investigator. As agreed upon by the surgeons, if participants meet eligibility criteria,
      their surgery will be scheduled for approximately 3 weeks after they enter the study.

      Eligible participants will be randomized to either: 1) standard care (i.e., 4 counseling
      sessions and NRT) or 2) standard care + contingency management (i.e., 4 counseling sessions
      and NRT + 3x/week meetings with positive reinforcers). After this, all subjects will be met
      by a study therapist for their first counseling session, which is a preparation to quit
      session. The study counseling protocol will be based on practical counseling, which is a
      cognitive behavioral evidence based smoking cessation treatment modality (Fiore, Jaén et al.
      2008). All participants will be asked to set a quit date within a week after this session.
      Consistent with the standard practice of the Smoking Cessation Service, all patients will
      receive pharmacotherapy in conjunction with counseling.
    
  