
    
      All participants will complete the Evaluation Protocol at baseline, after 3 weeks (PERIOD
      1),after 6 weeks (PERIOD 2), and for follow-up at 3, 6, and 12 months post-treatment. During
      PERIOD 1 (first 3 weeks), participants in ARM 1 will receive Vocal Hygiene Training as well
      as Airflow Exercise Training and participants in ARM 2 (the Control Arm) will receive only
      Vocal Hygiene Training. Vocal hygiene training alone has been demonstrated to have minimal
      impact on voicing32-34. During Period 2 (second 3 weeks), participants in BOTH ARMS will
      receive Vocal Hygiene Training and Airflow Exercise Training (Fig 3). Thus, participants in
      Arm 2 will receive no Flow Phonation for initial controlled comparison then 3 weeks of Flow
      Phonation for dose response comparison to Arm 1 (non-control) participants.

      Assessment Protocol

      Each participant will receive the Complete Evaluation Protocol at Baseline, after 3
      weeks(PERIOD 1), after an additional 3 weeks (PERIOD 2), as well as at 3, 6, and 12 months
      posttreatment. These will include:

      a. Laryngostroboscopic Examination b) Perceptual Voice Analysis/CAPE-V48-49 c) Acoustic
      Analysis/Computerized Speech Lab(CSL, KayPENTAX Corp) d) Aerodynamic Analysis/The KayPENTAX
      Phonatory Aerodynamic System (PAS) Model 6600 (KayPENTAX Corp.

      e) Patients' Perception of Voice Handicap/Voice Handicap Index

      Treatment Protocol Flow Phonation Each treatment session will take place in the same clinical
      room as the assessment and utilize three exercises: gargling, cup bubble blowing, and stretch
      and flow. Each exercise uses a built in form of biofeedback (water or tissue) and the same
      basic progression of activities (with minor alterations): 1) airflow task without voicing to
      establish positive airflow; 2) adding voicing to the task; 3) moving up and down the pitch
      range during the voicing task; 4) moving to a speaking/voicing task; and 5) removing
      biofeedback. During each vocalization attempt, the clinician listens for a clear and
      effortless vocal quality and trains the participant to listen.

      Vocal Hygiene Training Vocal hygiene training centers on three factors: 1) hydration, 2)
      exogenous inflammation control, and 3) abstinence from yelling and screaming. Information
      will be provided initially as a Powerpoint presentation, during which each participant will
      have a manual and will write down answers to specific questions. Based on responses to the
      questions, the study clinician, in concert with the participant, will develop a set of
      recommendations for vocal hygiene. Examples of potential vocal hygiene targets are provided
      in Table 2. Three to five recommendations will be targeted for each participant, based on
      clinical judgment, although these numbers will serve only as a guide.

      Participants will be provided a daily log to utilize where they can mark each target daily
      and make comments on how the target was met or not met. Each treatment session where Vocal
      Hygiene Training is targeted, alone or in concert with Airflow Training, participants will
      first present their goals, then provide the daily log and discuss successes and failures
      since the prior session. The study clinician and participant will then discuss the benefits
      of the successes and problem solve ways to improve upon failures.
    
  