
    
      In severely under-resourced areas of the world, such as the Haydom area in Tanzania (TZ),
      poor nutrition continues contributes to worsened health-related outcomes including growth and
      cognitive development. Haydom Global Health Research Center at Haydom Lutheran Hospital in
      north central Tanzania represents an important rural setting for performing high-quality
      medical research in sub-Saharan Africa. Through ongoing work in the area around Haydom in the
      MAL-ED and ELICIT studies, we have been attempting to improve outcomes for children in an
      area of severe poverty, where there is considerable malnutrition and potential sequelae:

      1. Growth deficits: Poor weight gain and linear growth failure in childhood are often seen as
      surrogates for overall health status; persistently poor growth has implications for future
      work potential and lower human capital. There was a high degree of stunting in the Haydom
      site of Tanzanian in the multi-country observational MAL-ED study, which found that the
      Haydom site had the highest prevalence of stunting among all the MAL-ED sites. This degree of
      stunting is likely multi-factorial, though one contributor is food availability, as rates of
      key factors such as birthweight vary significantly according to food availability. An interim
      analysis of data from our ongoing ELICIT study (for Early Life Interventions for Childhood

      Developmental delays: Perhaps there is no more important outcome (with the exception of
      mortality) than the cognitive, social and emotional development of a population, with clear
      extensions to human capital, economic productivity and quality of life in communities.
      Indeed, many observational and interventional studies (including the current study) follow
      growth as an outcome because of its overall association with cognitive development. In MAL-ED
      assessments, TZ children had fewer words than seen among US children. The reasons for
      potential developmental delays are multifactorial, but again malnutrition may play an
      important role. Studies in other developing areas have demonstrated improved cognitive
      development following delivery of nutrition support.

      Nutritional Causes of Poor Growth

      While the causes of the stunting and developmental delays are multifactorial, a potential
      contributor is early-life nutritional deficiencies, including inadequate dietary protein. One
      likely source of low protein delivery to infants is from low intake among area mothers during
      lactation, with potential effects on breast milk protein content and child weight gain.
      Indeed, the first six months of life represents a critical phase of nutrition for the
      developing infant, in which all (or nearly all) nutrition is delivered through the mother's
      breast milk. However, it is not known whether protein supplementation during lactation in
      this setting would improve childhood growth and reduce stunting-or whether any improvements
      in growth would continue beyond the period of maternal supplementation.

      Assessing the potential effect of mothers receiving protein supplementation-using a balanced
      energy protein supplement-on childhood growth and development would require an approach that
      incorporates an effective distribution network, a means of assessing adherence, and a
      thorough knowledge of community acceptance, as well as accurate measures of endpoints on a
      large enough sample to be powered to detect reasonable changes in linear growth. In order to
      assess the feasibility of this type of approach on a smaller scale (which could be later be
      expanded), the current pilot project will evaluate the effectiveness of distribution and
      adherence on approximately 100 mother/child dyads. If this experimental approach is feasible
      and shows promise, it is our hope to follow it with a larger study that offers more
      definitive evidence of efficacy.
    
  