
    
      This is a qualitative project requested by the World Health Organisation (WHO), and planned
      by Norfolk and Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust and the University of East Anglia. The research
      aims and design have been developed in consultation with service users, clinicians, academics
      and the World Health Organisation (WHO). These groups have told the investigators that mental
      health diagnosis can have unintended, negative consequences. This is supported by a large
      body of existing research. It has been suggested that patient experiences and outcomes may be
      affected by the diagnostic classifications used (i.e. labels and language). The investigators
      plan to explore service users' and clinicians' views on the proposed ICD-11 diagnostic
      classifications. To do this, the investigators will provide participants with the proposed
      ICD-11 diagnostic classification relevant to their experience, and conduct focus groups to
      explore people's views of the new diagnostic classifications, including judgement about the
      clinical accuracy, the language used, what people think is helpful and unhelpful, and what
      could be improved. The topic guide for the focus groups will be developed in consultation
      with the advisory group (comprising service users, carers and clinicians).

      The investigators will conduct separate focus groups for service users and clinicians as the
      investigators believe joint groups may impact the findings. The investigators will collate
      findings to produce recommendations for the criteria and language proposed for ICD-11. These
      recommendations will be discussed in feedback groups of service users, carers and clinicians,
      which will provide further participants an opportunity for additional thoughts and
      reflection.

      Inclusion

        -  Adult service users will have formally received one of the five diagnoses under
           investigation: Unipolar Depression,Schizophrenia, Bipolar Disorder, Generalised Anxiety
           Disorder or Personality Disorder.

        -  Individuals will be excluded if their participation is deemed unsafe to themselves or
           others by their clinical team or clinicians on the research team.

        -  Clinicians will have had experience working with mental health, either as a GP or
           psychiatrist, where diagnosing one of the above five diagnoses is part of their role.

        -  Carers will have had experience looking after someone diagnosed with one of the five
           diagnoses mentioned above.

        -  Participants who have been involved in one aspect of the study will be excluded from
           taking part in any other aspects (e.g. participants in the focus group may not be
           involved in other focus or feedback groups).

        -  Participants with multiple diagnoses will only be allowed to attend one focus group, but
           they may choose which one of the relevant focus groups they would like to take part in.

      Exclusion:

        -  Non-English speakers will not be included in the study.

        -  Individuals under 18 years old will be excluded.

        -  Individuals who do not have capacity to give consent will be excluded. Individuals who
           lose capacity at any point between referral and the end of their participation will be
           removed from the study.
    
  