
    
      This trial seeks to add GMCI to stage III/IV NSCLC patients who are on standard of care first
      line ICI with evidence that the treatment may not be optimal but have the potential for
      delayed clinical benefit such that continuing the ICI is indicated. Studies of first line ICI
      have shown that most patients that will respond, respond in the first few weeks of treatment.
      However, a small percentage of patients have a delayed response with ICI. GMCI has been shown
      to increase the response rate to ICI in animal studies. Safety and potential efficacy of GMCI
      has been seen in clinical trials in over 650 patients with cancer (lung, pancreas, brain and
      ovarian). The goal of this study is to evaluate if adding GMCI can increase the percentage of
      patients that respond to the continued ICI. Patients may receive whatever standard of care
      therapy is indicated for their disease, such as maintenance chemotherapy, bevacizumab or
      focal radiation, in addition to continuing ICI. The eligibility criterion for determining
      that the ICI may not be working is based on time on ICI and response status with 3 cohorts as
      follows:

      Cohort 1 is for patients with stable disease at least 18 weeks after starting ICI treatment,
      thus they have radiographic stable disease and clinically are stable but appear to have
      disease that is not responding further.

      Cohort 2 is for patients with evidence of radiographic progression at least 18 weeks after
      starting ICI treatment but who are clinically stable. Examples that would fit this cohort
      would be patients that have disease that decreased or was stable with initial ICI therapy,
      and then is slowly progressing or a new distant lesion appears on imaging, but the patient is
      otherwise clinically stable.

      Cohort 3 is for patients who have new lesions or progression of existing lesions at least 9
      weeks after starting ICI but who are clinically stable.

      The specific ICI treatment regimen on this protocol is not specified to allow for different
      standard of care options with or without chemotherapy; for example, pembrolizumab alone,
      pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy, atezolizumab or atezolizumab plus chemotherapy. In addition,
      it allows stage III patients after chemoradiation who may be on durvalumab as their standard
      of care. For example, a stage III patient may be eligible for cohort 2 if they have
      radiographic progression but are clinically stable 18 weeks after starting durvalumab or
      cohort 3 if they develop a new lesion at 12 weeks after starting durvalumab.
    
  