
    
      Teriparatide (PTH) is the only bone formation therapy that has been approved for the
      treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis in Canada. Randomized controlled trials have shown
      that teriparatide increases bone mineral density (BMD) at the lumbar spine and total hip,
      while BMD at the forearm may decrease after 20 months of therapy. It is believed that the
      decline in BMD at the distal radius observed during teriparatide therapy may not be
      indicative of decreases in bone strength, but may be a result of increases in the width of
      the radius. Teriparatide works by inducing new periosteal bone apposition, which results in
      improved bone geometry and increased bone strength that may not be reflected by BMD
      measurements. However, there is no published data on bone geometric changes at the radius
      either by bone biopsy or by HR-pQCT in patients receiving teriparatide therapy. It is our
      intention to fill this gap in knowledge with regard to how teriparatide affects BMD and bone
      structure at the radius and tibia in men and women with osteoporosis.

      The main objectives of this study are to determine the effect of 24 months of teriparatide
      therapy on cortical thickness, trabecular thickness, trabecular number, trabecular separation
      and BV/TV, as measured by HR-pQCT (XtremeCT, Scanco Medical, Switzerland) at the radius and
      tibia in men and women with osteoporosis. The primary outcome will be cortical thickness; the
      other measures will be secondary outcomes. The secondary objective is to determine the effect
      of 24 months of teriparatide therapy on moment of inertia, connectivity index, and bone
      strength, as measured by the HR-pQCT and calculated using finite element modeling analysis at
      the radius and tibia in men and women with osteoporosis.

      This is an open label before and after study of a cohort of 100 men and women taking
      teriparatide for 24 months. As this is an observational study, study medication will not be
      supplied to study participants.

      Recruitment of these subjects will be by referral from specialty clinics of the participating
      investigators. Participants will undergo two (2) procedures on five (7) separate occasions
      (at baseline, 6, 12, 18 and at 24 months, and then post therapy at 36 and 48 months). The
      procedures are HR-pQCT and DXA. In addition to the above procedures, subjects will be asked
      to complete blood tests which are part of standard clinical practice. Blood will be done both
      at baseline, 1 month and at 18 month. A follow up phone call will also be made to the patient
      at 1 month to discuss any updates in patient's health status and to ensure that patients
      complete the 1 month blood tests.

      Understanding the effect of teriparatide on bone geometry and BMD will enable us to better
      understand the effect of teriparatide on bone strength at the radius and the tibia, and bone
      strength in general, even when the BMD stays the same or decreases after a course of
      treatment.
    
  