
    
      Urgent or emergency surgery requires that fasting rules observed in elective settings are not
      respected. Patients who are anesthetized in such conditions are at risk for regurgitation and
      subsequent broncho-aspiration during induction of anaesthesia due to a full stomach; they
      often have ingested food or liquids before the injury, or they may have swallowed blood from
      oral or nasal injuries. Also, gastric emptying is delayed in these patients due to the stress
      of trauma.1 Already in 1946, Mendelson described the consequences of bronchoaspiration.2
      Since, anaesthetists and emergency physicians have tried to avoid broncho-aspiration in
      emergency patients using premedication with pro-kinetic drugs (for instance, metoclopramide)
      or its complications with antacid substances, and through the use of a rapid sequence
      intubation procedure with cricoid pressure.

      The incidence of aspiration is low, about 1.4 to 6 in 10'000 anaesthetics.3 About 6 in
      100'000 anaesthetics will lead to a pulmonary complication due to broncho-aspiration and
      about 1 in 100'000 patients is likely to die due to aspiration.4 Thus, although episodes of
      broncho-aspiration are rare, efficacious prevention of this potentially lethal complication
      is important. One method to reduce the risk of broncho-aspiration during induction of
      anaesthesia is the pharmacological reduction of the gastric content (i.e. pre-treatment).

      The primary objective of this study is to investigate the effect of a short intravenous
      infusion of erythromycin 3 mg/kg, administered 20 min before intubation on gastric emptying,
      in adults scheduled for rapid sequence intubation for full stomach. After intubation a
      gastroscopy will be done to see if there is any content in the stomac. The secondary
      objective is the assessment of tolerability and safety of a single intravenous dose of
      preoperative erythromycin in surgical patients.

      This study is a single centre, stratified (according to emergency setting), randomised,
      placebo-controlled, double-blinded study.
    
  