
    
      The clinical picture of COVID-19 disease is in a broad spectrum, which includes asymptomatic
      infection, a mild upper respiratory tract infection, respiratory failure, and even severe
      viral pneumonia with death. The alarming levels of spread and severity of COVID-19 caused a
      global emergency and this outbreak has been characterized as a pandemic by the World Health
      Organization (WHO).

      Coronavirus entry into host cells is an important determinant of viral infectivity and
      pathogenesis. SARS-CoV S1 contains a receptor-binding domain (RBD) that specifically
      recognizes angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) as its receptor. SARS-CoV spike needs to be
      proteolytically activated at the S1/S2 boundary, such that S1 dissociates and S2 undergoes a
      dramatic structural change. These SARS-CoV entry-activating proteases include cell surface
      protease TMPRSS2 and lysosomal proteases cathepsins. These features of SARS-CoV entry
      contribute to its rapid spread and severe symptoms and high fatality rates of infected
      patients.

      Ribavirin is a guanosine analog that interferes with the replication of RNA and DNA viruses.
      Ribavirin was used during the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak in
      combination with corticosteroids, which have an anti-inflammatory effect. Favipiravir is a
      substrate for viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and showed anti-influenza virus
      activity. Favipiravir is effective against other RNA viruses, poliovirus, rhinovirus, and
      respiratory syncytial virus and evaluated and developed as a broad spectrum anti-RNA virus
      drug, including lethal RNA virus infections.

      According to national guidelines, Favipiravir treatment is applied to COVID-19 infection in
      Turkey. The main purpose of this study is to obtain efficacy and safety data for ribavirin
      and favipiravir in the Turkish patient cohort diagnosed with COVID-19.

      This study designed as an open-label, multicenter, parallel-group, randomized, phase II/III
      clinical drug trial.

      This study will be conducted in 4 sites.
    
  