
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The AIDS epidemic has focused considerable attention on the risks associated with blood
      transfusions. Perhaps of more importance, hemolytic transfusion reactions and
      post-transfusion non-A non-B hepatitis continue to be significant concerns. However,
      guidelines for blood transfusions in the surgical patient vary considerably in the medical
      literature. Some recent texts stress the need to consider factors such as patient's age,
      surgical procedure, co-morbid illness, predicted blood loss, and cause of the anemia, as well
      as the hemoglobin level. Nonetheless, in practice many surgeons still adhere to the 10g/dl
      threshold for transfusion. The lack of consensus guidelines can probably be attributed to the
      dearth of studies exploring the indications for transfusion. The few studies which have
      examined this question are limited because they fail to analyze subsets of patients by age,
      co-morbid illness, or blood loss. The need to develop peri-operative transfusion guidelines
      based on multivariate analysis, therefore decreasing the frequency of unnecessary
      transfusions resulting from the common use of a hemoglobin threshold, is especially important
      in light of the hazards and costs associated with blood transfusions. Jehovah's Witnesses
      were chosen as the study population because they decline blood transfusion for religious
      reasons.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The retrospective case-control study explored the possible associations between
      peri-operative anemia and post-operative mortality status. Cases were defined as those who
      died within 30 days of the operative procedure and controls as all those who survived. There
      were approximately eight controls per case. Participating surgeons who operated on Jehovah's
      Witness patients within the preceeding five years provide a list of patients. Charts of
      patients were reviewed to determine if any died within 30 days of surgery. If the patient was
      discharged prior to 30 days postoperatively, then the National Death Index was used to assess
      the patient's status 30 days after surgery. The incidence of post-operative death, with 95
      percent confidence levels, was calculated for strata of pre- and post-operative hemoglobin
      levels and operative blood loss. The death rate was calculated after stratifying the patients
      based on status with regard to co-morbid diseases or other possible risk factors.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  