
    
      Currently, in Latin America and in the world, there is a strong focus on treatment and
      prevention in the population of all ages, with an emphasis on identifying and reducing
      modifiable risk factors that increases the possibility of chronic disease development among
      smokers.

      Due to limited knowledge, people have develop the conception that Tai-Chi is not effective as
      much as high intensity exercises such as hiking, jumping ropes, biking and other aerobic
      exercises. Since last three decades the controversy related to effectiveness of Tai-chi
      exercises was persistent and to avoid the confusion a research was conducted on 25 Tai-chi
      students age range between 20-60years. The students were enrolled in the course of 7 years
      and was learning Yang style of Tai chi. The researchers have selected blood pressure, pulse
      and heart rate to assess the effectiveness of Tai-chi techniques and the data was recorded
      before and after the training of Tai-chi techniques. Through the findings of the study, they
      have observed that with light or easy frequency, the heart rate out of the maximum heart
      rate, the cardiovascular stimulus reached between 60 to 80% of the criteria introduced by the
      American Heart Association (AHA).

      Accordingly, if these exercises performed at high performance, there was a minimum
      stimulation of the heart and observed at less than 60% of the maximum heart rate. Therefore,
      people who suffer from high blood pressure, or those who recovered from heart attacks or
      heart surgeries, high performance is a better option. According to specialists, a person can
      easily reach the standards set by the AHA by practicing Tai Chi three times a day.

      When Tai Chi movements are performed quickly, they have the same beneficial effect on the
      cardiovascular system as aerobic exercise without creating the tension or stress. The
      physical stimulation can the be achieved by practicing the slow movements while using weights
      on the ankles, arms or body. Tai Chi is a very safe way of doing exercises and offers the
      same benefits as aerobic exercises, with no subsequent consequences.

      Researchers state that high intensity exercise cannot be considered a complete physical
      activity. Although their influence on cardiovascular and muscular disorders is very high, but
      they do not necessary benefit other part of the body. On the other hand, Tai Chi has a
      significant impact on the overall body system and has the ability to rehabilitate any kind of
      body functioning disorder as compared to aerobic exercises. Along with that, age limitation,
      muscle strength and other environmental factors are the major concerns that influence the
      ability of performing Aerobic exercises with the full capacity. However, this is not the case
      with Tai-Chi exercises, in fact clinicians advise older people to perform the Tai chi
      technique to reduce the effect of cardiac disorders and improve body immune system.

      On the other hand, traditional and advanced medical treatment, physical activity and exercise
      in the form of aerobic exercises are well-organized therapies for Heart failure risks.
      Although, researchers have presented controversial arguments related to the effectiveness of
      aerobic exercises with respect to rehabilitation, and continuous practice of such technique
      has shown quite positive and admirable effects to improve cardiac function, and reduced
      symptoms related to HF. In people with normal cardiac function, the practice of aerobic
      exercise results in a better cardiovascular function and better oxygen consumption as well as
      a lower heart rate at rest and a greater double product. The improvement in oxygen
      consumption is the result of an increase in cardiac performance and a greater extraction of
      oxygen in the muscles that are working. The best cardiac performance results from an increase
      in ventricular filling and beat volume.

      Most importantly, Taichi not only supposes a multitude of advantages in the systems and parts
      of the body that habitually can improve with other exercises, but also it affects the
      circulation of the blood and the arterial tension because it activates intestinal functioning
      of the nervous system. Each of the movements of Tai Chi seeks to channel and release all
      energy to achieve a state of maximum peace of mind. In order to achieve the desired effects,
      concentration is extensively important along with breathing and movements.
    
  