
    
      Study Design:

      Prospective randomized open blinded end-point (PROBE) study

      This is a phase 2 randomized single-center open label clinical trial with randomization of
      1:1 to either best medical management vs. best medical management and endovascular
      revascularization of COICA.

      Screening, Enrolling, & Randomization:

      All subjects who presents to our tertiary hospital with a diagnosis of COICA will undergo
      full evaluation including 1) documenting previous history of transient ischemic attack (TIA)
      and/or stroke; 2) cervical and brain CT angiography (CTA) to document complete occlusion; 3)
      CT perfusion (CTP) to assess for presence of penumbra evident by increased mean transient
      time (MTT) in the ipsilateral side of COICA; and 4) Montreal cognitive assessment (MoCA)
      score. If any subject is found to have complete occlusion of COICA, evident of
      abnormal/prolongation of MTT on CTP, previous history of TIA and or stroke, and MoCA <26 or
      abnormal response on another neuropsychological assessment preformed in the screening
      battery, then further evaluation is obtained including: MRI spectroscopy to assess for
      presence/absence of lactate in the ipsilateral watershed area (centrum semiovale), and size
      of ipsilateral hippocampus and amygdala, additional cognitive testing battery, and digital
      subtraction angiography (DSA) to document adequately the type of COICA the subject have (type
      A-D).

      If a subject meets all inclusion criteria (complete occlusion, MoCA <26 and/or abnormal other
      neuropsychological test result, abnormal CTP) they will be randomized, after consent is
      obtained. If all inclusion criteria are met other than the CTP, they will be enrolled but not
      randomized. These subjects will only be eligible for best medical management- not surgical
      intervention.

      If any subject does not have complete occlusion or abnormal MoCA >26 or other
      neuropsychological assessment, then the subject is excluded and no further testing needed
      (see exclusion criteria).

      If the subject meets all inclusion criteria, then a baseline of complete neurological
      testing, full demographics, CTA or MRA, CTP, MoCA, additional neurological testing, MRI
      spectroscopy and DSA are obtained and subject is randomized 1:1 to either best medical
      management or best medical management + endovascular balloon angioplasty and stenting. Follow
      up clinic visits are arranged at 6 and 12 months. Repeat testing of MoCA and additional
      cognitive testing battery are done at these clinical follow-up visits (6 and 12 months). MRI
      of the brain and is done at 6 and 12 months. DSA is performed at 1 year follow-up for
      intervention subjects to assess brain bio-markers and revascularization respectively.
    
  