
    
      Postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) occurs in 30-40% of older adults after undergoing
      surgical procedures. POCD be subtle, such as a formerly avid reader unable to read for
      comprehension, to more overt, such as the inability to perform self-care. This deterioration
      in cognitive function leads to increased mortality, premature departure from the labor market
      and economic hardship. With 25 million people over the age of 60 undergoing surgical
      procedures annually in the United States and most of them living long into their 8th decade,
      prevention of POCD is an important public health issue.

      The causal mechanism of POCD remains unclear, though older patients who receive general
      anesthesia are at increased risk relative to younger patients. While the association between
      age and POCD is not fully understood, several normal, age-related changes to brain anatomy
      and physiology may explain the increased susceptibility. These include decreased brain
      volume, notably in the prefrontal cortex, cortical thinning and altered neurotransmitter
      function. Taken together, these changes decrease the anesthetic requirements for older
      patients to achieve a similar anesthetic state and make them susceptible to overdosing of
      anesthetic agents. This is supported by studies using electroencephalography (EEG) to measure
      cerebral cortical activity which have demonstrated profound age-related differences for
      patients receiving general anesthesia. Older patients are more likely to develop burst
      suppression, an EEG pattern associated with an excessive anesthetic state. Currently, a major
      limitation in the field is the absence of studies that have used raw EEG data to examine the
      association between the dosing of anesthetic agents and POCD in older patients. Although
      prior studies have used EEG-derived depth of anesthesia indices to explore this association,
      these indices have been shown to be an unreliable measure of anesthetic state in older
      patients. Thus, the question of whether an excessive anesthetic state in this population
      causes POCD remains unanswered.

      The investigators will recruit 100 adults over 60 years of age who undergo elective surgery
      under general anesthesia with EEG monitoring. A brief neurocognitive test battery will be
      conducted before surgery, 3-7 day post-surgery, and 3 months post-surgery to assess the
      association between EEG suppression and POCD.

      In this study, the investigators hypothesize that the duration of EEG suppression is
      associated with POCD.
    
  