
    
      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in children,
      resulting in an estimated 173,000 emergency department (ED) visits and 14,000
      hospitalizations each year in the US. The estimated rate of TBI visits increased 57% from
      2001-2009, and in 2010 there were more than 2.5 million TBI-related ED visits. Most patients
      are discharged from the ED and diagnosed with a closed head injury, minor head injury,
      concussion, or other unspecified head injury. After discharge, patients, family members, and
      other care partners may report certain mTBI symptoms that may lead to unnecessary utilization
      of healthcare services.

      Novel, effective, and cost-effective solutions for mTBI symptom management post ED discharge
      are needed to improve the patient's understanding about their symptoms after discharge. Use
      of mobile technology to interact with mTBI patients may: 1) extend the reach of clinicians,
      2) offer patients diagnosed with a mTBI a form of ongoing tailored clinical support, and 3)
      contribute to improved health outcomes and optimization of health care utilization. Previous
      research shows high compliance with text-message based interventions, measurable change in
      behavior, and prolonged adherence to clinical guidance. A recent randomized trial of mTBI
      patients showed high-compliance with text-message assessments following ED discharge, and a
      trend towards fewer and less severe post-mTBI symptoms in the intervention group. The
      investigators propose to develop and pilot a novel mobile phone text-messaging platform to
      perform real-time assessment and intervention of mTBI patients discharged from the ED. This
      intervention will empower patients to actively participate in the management of their
      condition. Use of this technology with the mTBI patient population is feasible and
      cost-effective. Over 90% of Americans own a cell phone or smartphone, and 80% send and
      receive text-messages.

      The first objective of this research study is to develop and pilot the novel use of an
      existing technology, mobile phone text-messaging, to perform real-time assessment and
      feedback regarding symptoms of mTBI patients post-discharge from the ED. A second objective
      is to assess the effect of a brief, real-time, tailored intervention designed to impact
      patient and caregiver understanding of their mTBI related symptoms. The overarching goal of
      this proposal is to build on the work of Dr. Hirsch, et al. who found that: 1) mTBI patients
      report a poor understanding of concussion; 2) mTBI patients reported insufficient
      communication with clinicians regarding their symptoms following ED discharge (e.g., balance
      and sleep); and 3) mTBI patients reported poor care coordination, poor follow-up, and limited
      access to specialist physicians post-discharge.

      Hypothesis: Based on prior work, implementation of a text-based tool for assessment and
      intervention of mTBI patients post-discharge from the CMC-Main & LCH EDs will improve patient
      engagement related to mTBI. It is anticipated that 50% of potential study subjects will elect
      to receive text messages and that the differences in characteristics of enrolled participants
      versus non-participants will not be statistically significant. It is anticipated that > 75%
      of participants will respond/comply with the symptom assessment messages.
    
  