
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility of performing positron emission tomography-computed tomography
           (PET-CT) imaging for early discrimination of treatment response and post-therapy neck
           management in patients with locally advanced cancer of the head and neck treated with
           definitive chemoradiotherapy.

      Secondary

        -  Perform semiquantitative analysis of tracer uptake in these patients using standard
           uptake values and qualitative analysis of tracer uptake using pure visual analysis.

        -  Determine the feasibility of distinguishing benign from malignant processes during
           initial tumor staging of these patients by whole-body PET-CT imaging.

        -  Correlate staging by whole-body PET-CT imaging with staging by standard CT/MRI, clinical
           exam, and pathologic specimen.

        -  Determine the feasibility of PET-CT imaging in these patients in treatment position for
           radiotherapy treatment planning, correlate the results with standard CT/MRI images, and
           record the differences.

        -  Perform PET-CT imaging in these patients during weeks 2 and 4 of chemoradiotherapy to
           evaluate the predictive value of response to treatment at these time points.

        -  Determine if the time interval for treatment monitoring at 6 and 12 weeks post
           chemoradiotherapy is important for the predictive value of PET-CT imaging.

        -  Evaluate patients with clinical or radiographic abnormalities worrisome for residual or
           recurrent disease with PET-CT imaging at 6 and 12 weeks post chemoradiotherapy to assess
           the need for additional therapies (i.e., neck dissection).

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

      Patients receive fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG) IV over 90 seconds prior to the initial scan.
      Patients undergo whole-body computed tomography (CT) imaging with contrast followed by
      positron emission tomography (PET) imaging (approximately 1 hour after FDG injection) for
      initial staging and simulation for radiotherapy treatment planning. After PET-CT evaluation,
      patients with locoregional disease are recommended for standard-care chemoradiotherapy.
      Patients with evidence of M1 disease that is confirmed by CT/MRI and/or biopsy are treated at
      the discretion of the attending clinician. During chemoradiotherapy, patients undergo PET-CT
      imaging, as described above, at the beginning of week 2 and during week 4 for treatment
      monitoring and early detection of recurrent or residual disease. Follow-up PET-CT scans are
      performed, as described previously, at 6 weeks and then at 3 months after completion of
      chemoradiotherapy.

      After completion of study procedures, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.
    
  