
    
      MH59803 demonstrated that AMPH (20 mg p.o.) significantly increased PPI and neurocognitive
      performance (MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery; MCCB) in HS characterized by specific
      performance-based or genetic biomarkers, including the val/val genotype for the rs4680
      polymorphism of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT). Mechanistically-informative results were
      detected in studies of AMPH effects on PPI in rats with high vs. low brain regional Comt
      expression. Together with several reports of improved neurocognition and no adverse effects
      of acute or sustained AMPH administration to antipsychotic (AP)-medicated SZ/SZA patients,
      MH59803 findings provide a strong rationale for the next goal of this application: to test
      the potential utility of AMPH in a paradigm of biomarker-informed "PACTs". This "next step"
      is highly innovative - never previously reported, or perhaps even attempted - and consistent
      with National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) objectives, directly challenges existing
      models for SZ/SZA therapeutics. Investigators will determine whether a test dose of 10-20 mg
      AMPH p.o. administered to biomarker-identified, AP-medicated SZ/SZA patients generates
      predicted increases in PPI, MCCB performance, and sensory discrimination learning in a
      Targeted Cognitive Training (TCT) module. In total, Investigators will leverage knowledge
      generated through converging cross-species studies in MH59803, to directly advance scientific
      and clinical domains, by testing the effects of a pro-cognitive drug on neurophysiological
      and neurocognitive performance, and Targeted Cognitive Training, in biomarker-stratified
      subgroups of SZ/SZA patients.

      Aim: To assess acute effects of AMPH (0, 10 and 20 mg po) on PPI, neurocognition and
      computerized TCT in AP-medicated SZ/SZA patients. Hypothesis: PPI- and MCCB-enhancing effects
      of AMPH seen previously in HS will also be detected in SZ/SZA patients, as will TCT-enhancing
      effects of AMPH. Prediction: In a within-subject, placebo-controlled, randomized design, AMPH
      (10 and/or 20 mg po) will increase PPI and enhance MCCB and TCT performance in medicated
      SZ/SZA patients, particularly among those characterized by low basal performance levels
      and/or the val/val rs4680 COMT polymorphism. Concurrent HS testing will confirm (20 mg) and
      extend (10 mg) findings of AMPH effects on PPI and neurocognition, and help interpret
      findings in SZ/SZA patients.

      In all participants, the aim to assess acute effects of 10 mg po dextroamphetamine (AMPH) on
      Prepulse Inhibition (PPI), neurocognition MATRICS: Consensus Cognitive Battery; MCCB, and
      computerized Targeted Cognitive Training (TCT).

      Hypothesis: AMPH will enhance:

        1. PPI

        2. neurocognition (MCCB performance)

        3. computerized TCT performance in biomarker-identified SZ/SZA patients.

        4. The PPI and MCCB-enhancing effects of AMPH seen previously in HS will also be detected
           in SZ/SZA patients, as will TCT-enhancing effects of AMPH.

      Prediction: In a within-subject, placebo-controlled, randomized design, AMPH (10 and/or 20 mg
      po) will increase PPI and enhance MCCB and TCT performance in medicated SZ/SZA patients,
      particularly among those characterized by low basal performance levels and/or the val/val
      rs4680 COMT polymorphism. Concurrent HS testing will confirm (20 mg) and extend (10 mg)
      findings of AMPH effects on PPI and neurocognition, and help interpret findings in SZ/SZA
      patients.
    
  