
    
      Less than optimal bone health has been seen in children that have inflammatory bowel disease
      (IBD), including Crohn disease (CD). This can present as low bone density or altered bone
      structure, weakening the bones and increasing fragility and fracture risk. As adolescence is
      especially important in bone development, conditions such as CD during this time can lead to
      long term bone issues. The underlying mechanisms are not well understood, but what is known
      is that red bone marrow converts to fat-rich yellow marrow. This pilot study aims to focus on
      abnormalities in bone marrow, and specifically whether adolescent girls who have been
      diagnosed with CD have more bone marrow fat.

      The primary hypothesis is that newly diagnosed CD is associated with increased fat levels in
      bone, which is associated with lesser bone formation and worse bone health. The central
      objective is to obtain pilot data on the differences in bone marrow between healthy
      adolescent girls and those with CD. Long term, the investigators want to study how abnormal
      fat tissue and sub-optimal bone health relate to each other.

      The study involves 10 adolescent females recently diagnosed with CD and 10 healthy females.
      Eligibility criteria include no other chronic diseases that affect bone health and limited
      use of bone altering medications in the last three months. The CD females will be matched
      with healthy females based on age, stage of puberty, height percentile, and BMI percentile.
      Additional data on CD participants will be collected via a chart review that will enable us
      to more fully characterize their CD.

      Imaging will include MRIs of the knee. Measurements will include a visual assessment and
      quantitative marrow fat analysis, dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), and peripheral
      quantitative computed tomography (pQCT). All scans will be for research purposes only. The
      MRIs will be evaluated for any abnormalities, and if there is an incidental finding, it will
      be reported to the primary care physician.
    
  