
    
      The study is designed to address the specific requirements from National Commission for the
      Evaluation of Medical Devices and Health Technologies (CNEDiMTS) and to complete data
      obtained up to now, with a larger cohort and in real life settings.

      In order to increase variability in the profiles of patients included and to be as
      representative as possible of all eligible patients, 20 centers will participate in the
      study, both private and public, with a mix of university and regional centers and 348
      patients will be included consecutively.

      The inclusion period lasts 6 months and each patient will be included in the study for a
      period of 2 weeks of run-in and 1 year of treatment. An inclusion period of 6 months is
      enough according to investigation site data and estimation of inclusion over 6 months
      (detailed in part Healthcare professional and investigation centers recruitment).

      This study is observational. Patients included follow their usual medical care and will only
      be asked for the specific need of the study to answer two questionnaires (at the beginning
      and at the end of the study) and give their HbA1c results performed in their current medical
      follow-up. As it is a post-registration study, medical devices are provided to patients on
      medical prescription by healthcare providers, which have signed a distribution agreement with
      and have been trained by Diabeloop. Patients have their system for 4 a maximum of 4 years
      (life duration of the medical device (DBLG1 System)).

      Patients follow-up visits are not mandatory and no frequency is imposed. Investigators,
      according to their habits, have follow-up visits corresponding to what they usually propose
      to patients having a new treatment.

      During the whole study and apart from scheduled visits (inclusion, beginning of run-in,
      beginning of treatment , enf of study), each patient may contact his/her clinician
      investigator in case of issue he/she judges as serious, for questions, etc. In that case, the
      clinician may program a visit with the patient and deal with adverse events. Phone calls are
      recorded in Case Report Form (CRF), as well as on-site visits.

      Note: with Yourloops; investigators may follow the state of their patients, regarding the
      time in range, mean glycemia value etc. Based on this, they may require a visit at their
      convenience with the patient in order to change parameters of the system, discuss adverse
      events, etc.

      Objectives are the following

      To evaluate improvement in blood glucose control with use of DBLG1 System after one year in
      real life.

      To evaluate details of glycemic control improvement, safety and adverse events due to the
      DBLG1 System, evolution of quality of life after one year in real life and healthcare
      professional support.

      Study endpoints Improvement of the time in glycemic range 70 - 180 mg/dL, in percentage, on
      24hours and nighttime.

      HbA1c Mean CGM glucose - on 24hours and nighttime Time in 70 - 140 mg/dL range on 24hours and
      nighttime only Time in hypoglycemia (under 70 mg/dL, 60 mg/dL and 50 mg/dL) - on 24hours and
      nighttime Time in hyperglycemia (above 180 mg/dL, 250 mg/dL and 300 mg/dL) - on 24hours and
      nighttime Percentage of time using activated loop mode vs. deactivated loop mode Standard
      Deviation (SD) and Coefficient of variation (CV) of Continuous Glucose Monitoring (CGM)
      values on 24hours and nighttime Number and type of adverse events Overall and
      diabetic-specific quality of life Quantification of the healthcare professional support
      required
    
  