
    
      The study will be carried out in primary educational establishments. In the experimental
      group, the proposed intervention will be conducted during the school year. The control group,
      with similar characteristics, will carry out regular curricular activities.

      Informative talks will be given to parents of potential participants, teachers and managers
      of educational establishments, in order to inform about research objectives and methodology.
      The nature of voluntary participation in any of the activities and procedures, as well as the
      confidential treatment of the information will be duly clarified. Informed consent will be
      requested from parents if they agree to participate in the project.

      The intervention program will consist of a weekly meeting of approximately 1 hour during the
      school year, and will be conducted by the researchers together with the teacher in charge of
      the group. This program will include practices that promote self-perception, interoception
      and collaborative activities, followed by an instance of group reflection that promotes
      perspective taking (as in Lozada et al 2017).

      The practices of self-perception and interoception consist, for example, in focusing
      attention on breathing for a period of time that will gradually increase (mindfulness).
      During collaborative actions, children will carry out activities in dyads or in small groups
      that promote empathy and pro-social behavior. The last activity of the intervention will
      consist of an instance of group reflection in which experiences and perceptions of the
      participants will be shared in order to favor perspective taking (i.e. the cognitive ability
      to consider the world from the point of view of the other).

      The variables (pro-social behavior and hair cortisol levels) are quantified at the beginning
      and at the end of each intervention (ie, pre and post-test evaluation). To assess the
      differences in each group, pre-post levels will be compared by means of the paired t test,
      and comparisons between the experimental and control groups will be made by means of variance
      analysis tests and Mann Withney tests and Kruskal Wallis.

      Children participating in the experimental and control groups will be individually evaluated
      using the following methods:

      3) Sociometric questionnaire.

      Stress levels are quantified through:

      1) Hair cortisol dosing. This parameter is an indicator of chronic stress whose advantage is
      that it does not show marked variability throughout the day such as salivary cortisol. For
      this, it is necessary to cut a small strand of hair that will be analyzed later by Pharmacy
      and Biochemistry researchers from the University of Buenos Aires.
    
  