
    
      The involvement of Substance P (SP) in depression and anxiety has been credibly demonstrated
      in a recent clinical trial. Although the precise physiological activation mechanism of the SP
      system is not yet known, the likelihood of exaggerated SP pathway activity in the
      pathogenesis of anxiety is supported in numerous animal studies that illustrate the
      anxiogenic, and anxiolytic effects of SP and SP antagonists (SPAs), respectively. Studies
      have further shown that SP release occurs in response to noxious, or aversive stimulation. SP
      stimulates NK1 receptors that then undergo endocytosis (i.e., internalization) resulting in a
      decrease in number of NK1 receptors on the cell surface. NK1 receptor quantification before,
      and after an aversive event, provides a dynamic measurement of SP neurotransmission.

      In this protocol, we will use a new PET ligand that has demonstrated ability to serve as an
      NK1 receptor antagonist, [18F]SPA-RQ ( [18F]-labeled Substance P Antagonist Receptor
      Quantifier). Using this tracer, we will: 1.) quantify NK1 binding parameters and determine
      the reliability and reproducibility of these measures in 10 healthy controls, 2.) we will
      look for regional differences in NK1 receptor binding in 10 patients with panic disorder (PD)
      versus 10 normal controls, and 3.) We will perform a single-blind, placebo-controlled study
      to evaluate NK1 receptor binding in PD patients and controls following either saline or
      doxapram infusion, which is a respiratory stimulant, in 20 patients with panic disorder (PD)
      versus 20 normal controls. Doxapram acts on both peripheral and medullary chemoreceptors to
      increase the rate and depth of breathing. It appears to be a potent and specific panicogenic
      agent, triggering panic attacks. The majority of PD patients, but not controls, are expected
      to experience a panic attack (aversive event) following the doxapram infusion. Comparison of
      pre-panic and post-panic NK1 receptor binding in PD patients will provide an estimate of SP
      release. The goal of the present study is to demonstrate the involvement of SP in panic
      disorder, and thereby, further our understanding of its role in the psychopathology of this
      illness.
    
  