
    
      This study will assess feasibility, efficacy and tolerance of a repositioning schedule
      applied to ICU adult patients. The repositioning schedule will be daily adapted to pressure
      ulcer risk of the patient assessed with Braden scale.

      If results of this pilot study show improvement by the application of the repositioning
      schedule, they will argue the realization of a multicenter randomized clinical trial. This
      larger study will assess the expected decrease of pressure ulcers incidence due to the
      schedule and of its benefit-risk ratio.

      This is a one-center prospective pilot study which includes two one-month consequential
      periods:

        -  During the first period, care will be delivered according usual practice. It is an
           observational phase.

        -  The second period will begin with medical and nurse staff training. Then, care will be
           delivered according the repositioning schedule. It's an interventional phase.

      The procedure will be prescribed every day on patient's prescription by the doctor in charge
      (that will be filed with medical record).

      - During the two periods: Every morning, inclusion and non-inclusion criteria will be sought
      for every patient intubated for at least 24 hours. This evaluation will be made by a nurse
      during daily medical staff meeting.

      Eligible patients will be informed. Their consent will be collected and they will be included
      in the study. Patient characteristics (age, gender, BMI, simplified acute physiology score
      SAPS II, Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) Score, length of mechanical ventilation,
      length of stay and mortality in ICU) will be taken from the PMSI. Those data are usually
      daily collected.

      During the second period: data about Braden scale, positioning schedule, different positions
      applied, possible adverse events during positioning and presence of pressure ulcer will be
      collected by caregivers and nurses caring the patient.

      Those data will be collected on the "daily positioning sheet" made available in patient's
      room. Skin condition will be evaluated on the 28th day, or when leaving ICU wall, or at death
      if it occurs before. Clinical research technician will control concordance between
      repositioning data and position applied by caregivers and nurses and those recommended by the
      schedule.
    
  