
    
      The standard of care (SOC) treatment of patients with malignant gliomas is - independent of
      molecular markers - still confined to surgery, irradiation and alkylating chemotherapy as
      targeted therapies to date have failed to prove superiority over standard of care in
      controlled trials. At the same time, novel concepts in immunotherapy have evolved with the
      identification of potential (neo)epitopes and phase III clinical trials investigating the
      efficacy of checkpoint inhibitors. Despite patients frequently undergoing resection of
      recurrent tumor, patient selection criteria for innovative immunotherapy in glioma have been
      hampered by the lack of availability of post-treatment tumor tissue. Neoepitope-specific
      vaccines have gained considerable interest also in a challenging disease such as glioma.
      IDH1R132H, a frequent driver mutation in gliomas, was previously identified to contain a
      neoepitope. A peptide vaccine targeting this epitope is currently tested in a phase I
      first-in-man multicenter clinical trial. The clinical phase of this trial was completed in Q3
      2017 with 32 patients treated. The primary endpoints were met by demonstrating safety and
      immunogenicity. Checkpoint inhibitors are tested in unselected populations of glioma patients
      despite evidence that response is associated with high mutational load, which is infrequent
      in untreated gliomas, but may occur particularly after long periods of exposure to alkylating
      chemotherapy.

      The trial will address safety and tolerability of the combination of the IDH1R132H-specific
      vaccine with checkpoint blockade and seeks to explore predictive biomarkers for response to
      checkpoint blockade in post-treatment tumor tissue. The study will enroll 48 evaluable
      patients (presumably, 60 in total) with IDH1R132H-mutated gliomas with an unfavorable
      molecular profile (no 1p/19q co-deletion, nuclear ATRX loss) progressive after radiotherapy
      and alkylating chemotherapy eligible for re-resection. After diagnosis of recurrent disease
      on imaging patients will be randomized assigned in a 1:1:2 ratio into three arms. Arm 1 (12
      patients) will receive three IDH1R132H peptide vaccines alone in two week intervals. Arm 2
      (12 patients) will receive three IDH1R132H peptide vaccines in combination with three doses
      of Avelumab, a humanized anti-PD-L1 antibody approved for patients with Merkel cell carcinoma
      and urothelial cancer, in two week intervals. Arm 3 (24 patients) will receive three doses of
      Avelumab in two week intervals. After 6 weeks of treatment patients (Arms 1-3) will undergo
      planned re-resection. A safety MRI will be performed three weeks after initiation of the
      experimental treatment. Four weeks after the operation treatment will be resumed consisting
      of five additional vaccines (Arm 1+2) in 4 week intervals, followed by maintenance vaccines
      until progression in three months' intervals after a pause of 16 weeks. Avelumab will be
      administered in monthly intervals in Arms 2 and 3 starting four weeks after the operation
      until progression.

      Key outcome parameters will be safety and immunogenicity (Arms 1 and 2) based on peripheral
      and intratumoral immune analyses assessed 9 months after re-resection. Additional exploratory
      analyses will determine efficacy (all Arms), dependent on predictive molecular immune and
      imaging biomarkers, such as increased mutational load (Arm 3). Based on the experience in the
      NOA-04 and CATNON trials the expected time to second progression is 9-12 months.

      The trial is supported by the German Cancer Consortium (DKTK) and the Neurooncology Working
      Group of the German Cancer Society (NOA).
    
  