
    
      Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) is the most common infection leading to hospitalization in
      intensive care units and the most common cause of death associated with infection disease.

      Epidemiological studies have shown that respiratory tract infections are associated with an
      increased risk for the development of acute cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events.

      This link is further supported by studies indicating that influenza vaccination is associated
      with a reduced risk of hospitalization for pneumonia as well as heart disease,
      cerebrovascular disease and the risk of death from all causes during influenza seasons in
      elderly.

      Data connecting acute respiratory tract infections and cardiovascular events stemmed almost
      exclusively from cross-sectional or retrospective studies and the pathophysiological
      relationship between pneumonia and cardiovascular damage is still elusive.

      The first aim of the study will be to analyze the prevalence of major adverse cardiac and
      cerebrovascular events (MACCE) in patients hospitalized for CAP, followed up for two years
      after hospitalization.

      During hospitalization myocardial damage will be strictly monitored by measuring cardiac
      troponins until discharge.

      Cardiac troponins are established markers of myocardial damage. Cardiac troponin elevation is
      seen not only in the setting of acute coronary syndromes but also in a variety of conditions
      not directly related to flow-limiting coronary stenosis or occlusion of the coronary
      arteries, such as pulmonary embolism, sepsis, heart failure and stroke. In these settings, it
      is well documented that elevated circulating levels of troponins are associated with poor
      prognosis, regardless of underlying disease.

      Sparse information exists concerning the significance of troponin elevation during
      respiratory tract infections. Most of the studies investigated the role of troponin elevation
      in patients admitted in hospital for acutely exacerbated chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD); only a recent study investigates specifically CAP, showing a correlation
      between troponin elevation and oxygenation impairment; however, the underlying mechanism was
      not explored.

      Inflammation plays a major role in the pathogenesis of coronary artery disease. The increased
      concentrations of proinflammatory cytokines together with the activation of coagulation, the
      down-regulation of anticoagulant mechanisms and the enhanced platelet aggregation may trigger
      atheroma's instability, plaque rupture and thrombus formation.

      Systemic coagulation abnormalities including clotting activation and inhibition of
      anticoagulant factors have been observed in patients with severe sepsis; in patients with CAP
      similar changes have been detected only in the lung compartment. Changes of clotting system
      activation are of potential relevance as they could elicit myocardial damage with several
      mechanisms including coronary ischemia and/or direct inflammation of cardiac cells.
      Concerning this last point it is of interest that Protein C, an anticoagulant factor with
      anti-inflammatory property, is reduced in severe sepsis where it correlates with disease
      severity and mortality. Accordingly, infusion of recombinant human activated Protein C
      improves survival of patients with severe sepsis due to pneumococcal pneumonia.

      Until now no data exists about the behavior of Protein C in patients with CAP and its
      interplay with myocardial damage.

      Moreover no data on platelet reactivity and activation during pneumonia exist. Very limited
      data is only available on common viral respiratory tract infections in which enhanced
      platelet reactivity has been shown.

      The investigators speculated that inhibition of Protein C as well as enhanced platelet
      activity may be implicated in myocardial damage in patients with CAP. Therefore the
      investigators will perform a prospective study to investigate whether this relationship
      exist.

      Data obtained could have important clinical consequences: new therapeutic strategies
      targeting these systems could prevent myocardial damage and eventually MACCEs in these
      patients.
    
  