
    
      The field of lipid treatment for atheroprevention, and of HDL-raising in particular, was
      shaken by the unexpected finding of a net adverse clinical effect of torcetrapib, a
      Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) inhibitor with HDL-raising effects far more
      dramatic than that of niacin or fenofibrate.

      Trilipix (ABT 335, choline fenofibrate, or fenofibric acid) is approved by the FDA (12/2008)
      for treatment of dyslipidemia and may act as a new fibrate for treatment of dyslipidemia and
      atheroprevention. It is the first fibrate with sufficient evidence for safety in combination
      use with a statin to receive an FDA indication for that combination use. Thus, there is
      minimal safety risk to prospective research subjects, who in any case will have the very
      dyslipidemia for which this combination is approved and recommended. With the ongoing
      development of this agent through a time of great scientific controversy regarding
      torcetrapib and HDL, it is urgent to explore the HDL-related mechanisms by which Trilipix may
      be atheroprotective, with special attention to changes in HDL composition and function.

      Novel methods have been developed for measuring HDL composition and function and have been
      added to state-of-the-art technologies to assemble the uniquely comprehensive panel of HDL
      parameters in this study. Such methods can now be employed in exploring potentially
      beneficial effects of promising HDL-active agents such as Trilipix. In addition, improvements
      in HDL with fibrates appear to be related to other favorable lipoprotein changes, such as
      reduced remnant levels and increased LDL particle size, and these likely help explain
      arterial benefits with these agents.

      The recent advent and validation of many non-invasive methods for measuring arterial function
      allows characterization of arterial effects of lipid agents in a time- and cost-effective
      way, alternative to standard event-driven trials. This study offers a uniquely comprehensive
      panel of these arterial parameters in order to characterize the likely atheropreventive
      effects of Trilipix.

      This study will investigate changes in both panels of endpoints (state-of-the-art measures of
      HDL and related lipoproteins, and of arterial function) with Trilipix, which will more
      clearly and broadly define the benefits of this agent than has been done for any other lipid
      therapy. In addition, analyses of the intercorrelations of the changes among these several
      parameters should strongly suggest mechanisms of atheropreventive benefits of Trilipix.

      Finally, with regard to subject selection, most patients with insulin resistance are at high
      risk for atherosclerosis, even those without concurrent diabetes mellitus. Importantly,
      favorable effects of fibrates are most pronounced in patients with insulin resistance,
      whether manifested traditionally by central obesity, adiposity, glucose and insulin
      abnormalities. Beta-cell dysfunction, generally seen in conjunction with insulin resistance,
      might also predict benefit with fibrate therapy. Body composition (as adiposity or central
      obesity) is a strong correlate of these abnormalities and will be measured during the study.
      Already at present, and more so in the future, the standard of care for insulin resistant
      patients will be statin monotherapy. In addition, however, fibrates are being increasingly
      advocated as adjunctive therapy for patients with residual abnormalities of triglyceride and
      HDL-C after statin monotherapy. Thus, the best way to assess the likely benefits of Trilipix
      in the usual clinical practice setting is to do so against a background of stable statin
      therapy.
    
  