
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and tolerability of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) in HIV-infected patients
      on effective antiretroviral therapy and with relapsed/refractory or disseminated acquired
      immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS)-defining or non-AIDS defining malignancy.

      II. To assess the safety and feasibility of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) administration as first
      systemic therapy for HIV associated Kaposi sarcoma in patients on effective antiretroviral
      therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To obtain preliminary insights into clinical benefit (e.g., tumor shrinkage or
      stabilization >= 24 weeks) across a variety of tumors in patients infected with HIV and on
      effective antiretroviral therapy.

      II. To evaluate the response rate in Kaposi sarcoma impacting physical and/or psychological
      wellbeing and not amenable to local therapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the correlation of pre-therapy tumor programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1)
      expression and T-cell infiltration on clinical benefit.

      II. To assess the effect of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) on circulating HIV and the HIV viral
      reservoir in patients on effective combination anti-retroviral therapy (cART), as measured by
      plasma HIV single copy ribonucleic acid (RNA), cluster of differentiation (CD)4+ T-cell
      associated HIV unspliced RNA, CD4+ T-cell associated integrated HIV deoxyribonucleic acid
      (DNA) provirus, ratio of HIV unspliced RNA/DNA, "Tat/Rev induced limiting dilution assay"
      (TILDA), and phylogenetic analysis of HIV-1 molecular evolution.

      III. To evaluate the effect of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) on host gene expression in circulating
      blood cells.

      IV. To evaluate the effect of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) on circulating HIV-specific CD8+ T-cell
      cytotoxicity against autologous HIV infected CD4+ T-cells in patients on effective
      antiretroviral therapy.

      V. To evaluate the effect of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) on circulating lymphocyte and monocyte
      numbers and phenotypes.

      VI. To assess biopsied tumors from participants that progress by immunohistochemistry arrays
      and gene expression analysis to evaluate potential reasons for the lack of response to
      MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) or progression such as a lack of T cells within or around tumor.

      VII. To evaluate the effect of pembrolizumab on Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV)
      viral load in the blood, KSHV seroreactivity and KSHV specific CD8+ T-cell activity.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Patients continue
      receiving their recommended combination antiretroviral therapy orally daily. Cycles repeat
      every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up 30 days and then every 12
      weeks.
    
  