
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, blinded study. Participants will be
      enrolled preoperatively. After postoperative extubation, eligible patients will be randomly
      allocated in a 1:1 ratio to receive either suvorexant 20 mg or placebo.

      Study procedures will start on preoperative night 3 when the patient is first asked to report
      information about their sleep using the Richards-Campbell Sleep Questionnaire (RCSQ).
      Patients will complete the RCSQ every morning during the 3 days prior to surgery. The
      intervention (study drug) will be applied for 7 nights starting the night after postoperative
      extubation in the ICU. Primary and secondary outcomes will be assessed once during the night
      of the sleep trial in the ICU. The sleep trial will take place during the first night after
      extubation if the patient has been extubated before 7pm. Exploratory outcomes will be
      assessed from day of extubation until hospital discharge.

      Suvorexant 20 mg or placebo will be administered p.o. once a day between 9:00pm and 10:00pm
      for a maximum of 7 days starting the night after extubation in the ICU. The study drug will
      be discontinued after 7 consecutive doses following extubation; or at hospital discharge (if
      less than 7 days after extubation); or at ICU discharge, if patient showed signs of airway
      obstruction during sleep or when strong inhibitors of CYP3A are co-administered; or in the
      event of early termination, subject withdrawal of consent, investigator withdrawal for
      toxicity or other reasons.

      If deemed necessary by the treating clinicians, melatonin or benzodiazepine may be added for
      treatment of insomnia. All patients will receive usual supportive care as per the treating
      physicians and standard practice.

      Duration of nighttime wakefulness after persistent sleep onset (WASO), total sleep time
      (TST), time to sleep onset (TSO) will be measured by electroencephalogram (EEG) using a Next
      Generation SedLine® Brain Function Monitor during the night of the sleep trial. Incidence of
      postoperative in-hospital delirium and increases delirium free days will be assessed using
      Confusion Assessment Method (CAM).
    
  