
    
      Patients following the inclusion criteria will be randomized into two groups:

        1. Control group: All blastocyst embryos will be biopsied on day 5/6, but the biopsies will
           be frozen and will not be analyzed before replacement. Blastocyst embryos will be
           vitrified for future frozen embryo transfer (FET) cycle. Patients will have a single
           hatching blastocyst (*) thawed and transferred into the uterus in a FET cycle based on
           standard embryo quality assessment without NGS. After transfer, all biopsied samples
           will be analyzed (the replaced embryo also, in order to do a non-selection study). If
           patients in the control group do not have a pregnancy to term from that FET cycle,
           euploid frozen blastocysts will be thawed and transferred on the next FET transfer.

        2. Test group: All blastocyst embryos will be biopsied on day 5/6, and the biopsies will be
           analyzed using NGS. (*) and Biopsied blastocyst embryos will be vitrified for a future
           frozen embryo transfer (FET) cycle. Patients will have a single hatching euploid
           blastocyst (*) thawed and transferred into the uterus in a FET cycle

      (*) Hatching blastocysts as described by Gardner and Schoolcraft (1999)

      The Primary efficacy endpoint of comparing the study group with the control will be ongoing
      implantation rate (# fetus reaching 2nd trimester / # embryos replaced).

      All biopsied embryos from the test and control group will have their mitochondrial DNA
      analyzed, but that information will not be used for purposes of choosing embryos for
      replacement. Retrospectively but blindly (see blinding of results section), the information
      will be used at the end of the study to determine which embryos have a higher chance of
      implanting. If at that point the participating patients have remaining embryos frozen, they
      will be able to use that information for purposes of embryo selection.
    
  