
    
      Every patient who is seen in the ED for opioid overdose and has received naloxone either by
      emergency medical services (EMS) or in the ED will be eligible to participate in this study.
      When patient is alert, they will be asked if they would be interested in participating in the
      study and consented when appropriate. Patients will receive a buprenorphine/naloxone
      induction protocol, prior to discharge and referral to the OBOT clinic.

      OBOT Follow-up The patient's follow-up care will take place at the OBOT clinic, supervised by
      an Addiction Medicine specialist (physician) with a buprenorphine-waiver and an license
      clinical social worker (LCSW). Scheduling of all OBOT visits during this study are in
      alignment with the OBOT standard of care, including frequency and duration of visits. A total
      of 10 visits will be scheduled over the course of 6 months.

      Month 1:

      Visit 1:

      The first OBOT visit will last approximately 60 minutes and will entail the following:

      A standard initial evaluation, urine drug screen, urine pregnancy test, method of
      contraception, administration of the Brief Addiction Monitor (BAM), HIV-Risk Taking Behavior
      Scale, discussion of treatment plan and goals, and buprenorphine/naloxone prescription from
      physician.

      Visits 2 through 4:

      Each visit will last between 16 minutes to 1 hour. During each visit, the following tasks
      will be accomplished:

      The subject will be asked about their drug use, urine drug screen, urine pregnancy test,
      method of contraception, discussion of treatment progress and adherence to plan and goals,
      therapy, and buprenorphine/naloxone prescription from physician.

      Month 2:

      Visits 5 and 6:

      Each visit will last between16 minutes to 1 hour. During each visit, the following tasks will
      be accomplished:

      The subject will be asked about their drug use, urine drug screen, urine pregnancy test,
      method of contraception, discussion of treatment progress and adherence to plan and goals,
      therapy, administration of BAM and HIV-Risk Taking Scale once (either of Visit 5 or 6),
      HIV-Risk Taking Behavior Scale and buprenorphine/naloxone prescription from physician.

      Months 3 to 6:

      Visits 7 through 10:

      Each visit will last between 16 minutes to 1 hour. During each visit, the following tasks
      will be accomplished:

      The subject will be asked about their drug use, urine drug screen, urine pregnancy test,
      method of contraception, discussion of treatment progress and adherence to plan and goals,
      therapy, administration of BAM and HIV-Risk Taking Scale, and buprenorphine/naloxone
      prescription from physician.
    
  