
    
      1. Objectives

             -  The primary objective of this study is to determine the feasibility of replacing
                Day-0 CT with intra-operative 3D C-arm imaging. The main benefit of this change is
                to receive immediate feedback on the quality of treatment. This can lead to the
                possibility of performing "live" adjustments to the treatment plan based on
                feedback of actual seed positions achieved after implantation.

             -  Secondly, by replacing Day-0 CT, a separate scan performed in a different site will
                be eliminated from the treatment procedure, freeing up the CT scanner for other
                clinical uses

        2. Hypotheses

             -  Primary hypothesis: Intraoperative use of 3D C-arm cone-beam CT can eliminate the
                need for Day-0 CT for post-implant dosimetry in prostate LDR brachytherapy by
                providing similar or improved dosimetric accuracy

             -  Secondary hypothesis 1: Dosimetric values obtained with the TRUS probe inside the
                rectum are not significantly different from those measured when the probe is
                outside the rectum

             -  Secondary hypothesis 2: Sagittal TRUS imaging provides better seed and boudnary
                detection for dosimetric purposes compared to transverse imaging

        3. Justification

           Standard post-implant quality assessment at the BC Cancer Agency involves a pelvic CT
           2-3 hours after treatment. This scan is performed outside the operating room, in a
           different location. As a result, it is not possible to receive immediate feedback on the
           quality of treatment. Furthermore, soft tissue visualization is poor in CT imaging and
           contouring variability is large. The use of other imaging modalities such as ultrasound
           would be beneficial. However, since the scan is performed at a different time, and with
           the patient in a different position, registering the images would be challenging.

           Intra-operative C-arm CT imaging would provide immediate feedback on the quality of
           treatment, provide the opportunity of using information from intra-operative ultrasound
           imaging for soft tissue visualization, and eliminate the need for a separate scan in a
           different location.

        4. Research method

           Patients who are receiving low-dose-rate brachytherapy and consent to participate will
           undergo the additional imaging interventions described in section 5.7 of the
           application.

           Patients will also undergo a pelvic CT as the standard of care.

           To limit patient exposure to additional radiation dose, the investigators will divide
           the participants into 3 groups, each of which will receive a portion of the
           abovementioned scans. Details are described in the attached protocol.

           Seed locations will be identified on the 3D C-arm volume. The prostate volume on the
           TRUS images will be delineated and the contours will be mapped onto the 3D C-arm volume
           to compute standard dosimetric parameters (V100, D90). Seeds and contours will be
           outlined on the corresponding Day-0 CT and standard dosimetric parameters will be
           computed. Day-0 CT will be contoured by multiple observers to compute variability in the
           resulting dosimetric parameters. Dosimetric values from the 3D C-arm will be compared to
           those of Day-0 CT and their intra-observer variability.

           The seeds will be identified on 3D C-arm volumes with the TRUS probe inserted and
           retracted to create two seed clouds. Corresponding seeds will be matched. The difference
           between the seed locations in the two seed clouds will be used to model the prostate
           deformation due to the presence and absence of the TRUS probe.

        5. Statistical analysis This is mainly a descriptive one-arm study. No comparative
           statistical tests will be applied
    
  