
    
      Before recruitment of the patients, they will be subjected to detailed history taking and
      full ear nose throat examination. Body mass index and neck circumference will be measured.
      All the patients will undergo sleep study and the following parameters will be documented:
      Apnea hypopnea index (AHI), lowest O2 saturation index (LSO2), mean O2 saturation and
      percentage of sleep time with O2 saturation below 90% (CT90%). Day time sleepiness will be
      assessed using Epworth sleepiness score (ESS), we will use the Arabic translated version of
      ESS translated and validated after a multicentric study. All the patients will be examined by
      flexible fiber optic nasopharyngoscopy to determine the level of obstruction using Muller's
      maneuver. All the patients will be subjected to Drug Induced Sleep Endoscopy (DISE) to
      confirm the level of obstruction and the surgeon will comment on the lateral wall collapse at
      the level of oropharynx and hypopharynx. All the patients will be counseled about the other
      options of non-invasive treatment and importance of weight reduction. All the patients will
      sign an informed consent.

      Surgical techniques:

      The first step was bilateral tonsillectomy with identification and meticulous sparing of the
      palatoglossus and palatopharyngeus muscles; the most important trick was to spare as much as
      possible the mucosal covering of both anterior and posterior pillars. Two weakening or
      releasing partial incisions were done by a pinpoint bowie (Colorado) at the inferior (caudal)
      part of the palatopharyngeal muscle. A full thickness (mucosa and muscle) triangle was
      removed at the superolateral corner of the tonsil to obtain a wider and most squared
      oropharyngeal inlet. The center of the palate was marked at palatal spine also the
      pterygomandibular raphe in both sides were located by digital palpation and marked. We used a
      single barbed suture, bidirectional polydioxanone absorbable monofilament, size 0, with
      transition zone in the middle. One needle was introduced at the center point then passed
      laterally within the palate, turning around pterygomandibular raphe till it comes out at the
      most superior part of the raphe at one side; the thread is pulled until it hangs at the
      central transition zone which is a free zone present between the two directions of the
      thread. The needle again is re-introduced close to point of exit, passing around the
      pterygomandibular raphe, till it comes out into the tonsillectomy bed, then through the upper
      part of the palatopharyngeus muscle and comes out near to mucosa of posterior pillar not
      through it. The posterior pillar is entered at the junction between the upper third and the
      lower two-thirds. Then, again the needle is passed back through the tonsillectomy bed and
      then this suture will be suspended around the raphe again; a gentle traction is then applied
      on the thread only and no knots are taken. This leads to a stable re-positioning of the
      posterior pillar to more lateral and anterior location without any knot, then Marking the
      center of palate, pterygomandibular raphe and squaring of anterior pillars. The barbed suture
      around the upper part of the right raphe and it hangs at the central transition zone. c The
      needle is passed through the upper part of the palatopharyngeus muscle and comes out near to
      mucosa of posterior pillar not through it. The needle is passed through the upper pole and
      suspended around the raphe, pulling of barbed suture without taking of knots this stitch is
      repeated at least three times between raphe and muscle till the lower pole of the muscle is
      reached. The opposite side is done by the same way. Finally, each thread comes out at the
      raphe of the same side, for locking of the stitches and looseness prevention; a superficial
      stitch in the opposite direction is taken, and then the thread is cut while bushing the
      tissue downward for more traction.

      Hyoid suspension (Thyro-hyoid-pexy) will be done. The hyoid suspension procedure will be
      performed under general anesthesia, with the patient in supine position with the neck
      extended. Skin marks over the mandibular margin, hyoid bone, thyroid notch and sternal notch.
      The skin incision followed a horizontal skin crease between the body of the hyoid bone and
      the thyroid notch. The incision will be carefully extended through the subcutaneous tissue
      and platysma muscle, as the muscle is less defined in the midline. Upper and lower
      subplatysmal flaps will be elevated to expose the strap muscles, which will be separated in
      the midline. The plane of the thyroid cartilage and the surface of the hyoid bone will be
      exposed and the thyrohyoid membrane was clearly defined. Vicryl 0 will be wrapped around the
      body of the hyoid bone on each side of the midline with a sharp needle and then directed to
      the thyroid lamina of the same side piercing it from the lateral to the medial surface, about
      ½ cm from the upper border of the cartilage. Two sutures will be performed on each side. The
      sutures will be tied steadily and gently,with the neck in neutral position. The wound will be
      closed in layers. A suction drainage will be placed for 48 hours.

      Sample size:

      In this prospective study, 31 patients will be included and will be randomized into two
      groups. Sample size calculation was done using sample size calculator software on
      ww.calculator.net website.

      Randomization:

      Patients will be randomized in two groups; Group (A) will undergo Barbed Reposition
      pharyngoplasty only and group (B) will under go Barbed Reposition pharyngoplasty and hyoid
      suspension. Simple randomization will be done by allowing the patients to choose between two
      sealed envelope.

      Neither the pulmonologist or the phoniatricians or the surgeon who will perform post
      operative sleep study, post operative nasopharyngoscopy and post operative sleep endoscopy
      will know the type of operation performed to the patients.

      Follow up:

      Patients will be subjected to another sleep study, flexible fiber optic nasopharyngoscopy,
      drug induced sleep endoscopy and day time sleepiness evaluation using (ESS) 4 months after
      the surgery.

      Statistical analysis:

      The data will be tested for normality using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test and for homogeneity
      variances prior to further statistical analysis. Chi-square and fisher exact tests will be
      used to compare between categorical variables. Unpaired t-test will be used to compare
      between continuous variables for normally distributed data and Mann Whitney U for
      non-normally distributed data. A two-tailed p < 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant. All analyses were performed with the International Business Machines Statistical
      Package for the Social Sciences International Business Machines 20.0 software.
    
  