
    
      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Beginning in 1991, genetic variations in the gene products of A-IV, E, H, and APO(a) were
      determined by isoelectric focusing and SDS/immunoblotting; gene variations at the APOB, D,
      LDL receptor, hepatic lipase, lipoprotein lipase, and cholesteryl ester transfer protein were
      assayed by polymerase chain reaction protocols and by using cloned cDNA probes for
      restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analyses. Direct haplotype analyses of
      individuals employed a strategy using RFLP analysis combined with the use of allele specific
      oligonucleotides. Quantitative levels of apolipoprotein B, E, H and APO (a) were determined
      by immunological techniques. These data and prior data on levels of triglycerides, total
      cholesterol, HDL-, LDL- and HDL subfraction cholesterol were used in the quantitative genetic
      analysis. Estimates of the effect of alleles at each of the genetic loci on the quantitative
      apolipoprotein and lipoprotein levels employed the measured genotype approach. The effects of
      multisite haplotypes for RFLPs at various loci were estimated using the same methods. For
      common alleles in each system, estimates were made of the interaction of alleles at
      independent genetic loci in determining quantitative variables. Dietary information from the
      San Luis Valley population was used to estimate cholesterol intake identified. Allelic
      effects were estimated in these groups to gain insight into the effect of dietary cholesterol
      intake of the estimated allelic effects.

      The study was renewed in fiscal year 1996 to determine the contribution of polymorphic
      variation in nine candidate genes involved in lipid metabolism [APO(a), APOD, hepatic lipase
      (HL), cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP), LDL receptor related protein (LRP), 3-
      hydroxy-3 methyl glutryl-coenzyme A (HMG COA), VLDL-receptor, Lecithin cholesterol
      acyletransferase (LCAT) and paraoxonase (PON)] in determining quantitative lipoprotein-lipid
      levels in Hispanics and non-Hispanic Whites of the San Luis Valley, Colorado. The study also
      determined the molecular basis of the functional mutation in the lipoprotein lipase (LPL)
      gene which is associated with plasma triglyceride and HDL cholesterol variations. The
      objectives were achieved by fulfilling the following specific aims: 1) by PCR, DNA sequencing
      and SSCP analyses, all coding exons and putative regulatory elements in the LPL gene of
      individuals who were homozygous for the HindIII restriction site to detect nucleotide changes
      in the coding region which affected directly triglycerides and HDL-cholesterol levels
      werescreened, in vitro mutagenesis and expression studies were conducted to confirm which of
      the putative functional mutations was the actual functional mutation; 2) genetic variations
      in genes coding for CETP, HL, LRP, APOD, HMG COA, VLDL-receptor, LCAT and PON were identified
      by PCR or standard Southern blotting techniques, and the impact of individual polymorphisms
      and the joint impact of polymorphisms at different loci (genotype-genotype interaction) in
      determining quantitative lipoprotein-lipid levels in Hispanics and non-Hispanic whites were
      estimated; and 3) the distribution of APO(a) kringle 4 and pentanucleotide polymorphisms were
      determined by SDS-agarose gel electrophoresis and PCR, respectively, and LP(a) levels were
      quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and the correlation between APO(a)
      polymorphisms and LP(a) levels were investigated.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  