
    
      The over-arching goal of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness and feasibility of the
      voluntary assisted partner notification (VAPN) intervention in real-world programmatic
      settings in high burden facilities in 6 priority districts in Malawi.

      The primary objective is to compare effectiveness of standard of care (SOC) (i.e., use of the
      family referral services (FRS)) with SOC plus VAPN in reaching contacts of index clients with
      HIV testing services. The percentage of contacts who receive HIV testing services within 1,
      2, and 3 months of the initial offer of services to the index client will be compared between
      the SOC phase and the intervention phase (SOC plus VAPN).

      Secondary objectives include:

        1. To evaluate feasibility of implementing VAPN in real-world programmatic settings in high
           burden facilities in 6 priority districts in Malawi. Two key quantitative measures of
           feasibility will be used as follows:

             -  What is the cumulative percentage of eligible index clients offered VAPN services
                by study end?

             -  To what extent were the interventions implemented with fidelity? For example, a key
                measure of the fidelity of the Client Referral VAPN option is to assess what
                percentage of contacts, who did not return for their scheduled first appointment at
                the clinic, were subsequently traced according to the specified algorithm (i.e., up
                to 5 phone calls, and up to 2 home visits)?

        2. To monitor trends in HIV diagnostic yield from SOC plus VAPN over time.

      The study will include three options in additional to the FRS as part of the World Health
      organisation-recommended index testing approach. The first option is contract referral, in
      which the index client can choose to enter into a "contract" with the healthcare provider
      whereby he or she agrees to disclose their HIV status to all partners and refer them to HIV
      testing services (HTS) within a certain time frame. If the partners do not access HTS within
      this period, the providers will contact the partners directly to notify them that they may
      have been exposed to HIV; the providers will then offer voluntary HTS while maintaining the
      confidentiality of the index client. The second option is that of provider referral, in which
      the index client can choose to have the healthcare provider contact the client's partners
      directly, provide them with an appropriate health message, and offer them voluntary HTS,
      while maintaining the confidentiality of the index client. The third option is dual referral,
      in which the index client can choose that a trained provider sits with the client and his/her
      partner at a suitable time and location (usually a private room at the health facility) to
      provide support as they potentially test together or the index client discloses his/her HIV
      status with the provider offering voluntary HTS to the partner.
    
  