
    
      Due to advances in the ability to detect early stage prostate cancer better than before, more
      men diagnosed with the disease are able to be cured. Methods of prostate cancer treatment
      include having laparoscopic surgery, open surgery to remove the prostate, receiving radiation
      therapy, or brachytherapy (placing high energy x-rays to destroy the cancer cells). Although
      these treatment options have the potential to cure patients, these treatments have drawbacks.
      The healing time following the removal of the prostate can be substantial and local
      treatments from standard radiation and brachytherapy have potentially negative long-term
      effects. The CyberKnife system is a new type of radiation machine that uses a special system
      to precisely focus large doses of x-rays on the tumor. The device is designed to concentrate
      large doses of radiation using robotic image guidance onto the tumor specifically so that
      injury from radiation to the nearby normal tissue would be minimal. The high doses of
      radiation directly to the tumor would provide a shorter series of treatments and a faster
      recovery time. The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of CyberKnife
      radiosurgery in patients with prostate cancer. The purpose of this evaluation is to see if
      the treatment will help patients with low to intermediate risk prostate cancer and to
      evaluate the effect of this treatment on the patients' quality of life over time.

      Prior to entrance of this study patients will already have had their prostate specific
      antigen (PSA) checked and a prostate biopsy within the last 6 months. To be included in the
      study, the results of the biopsy must show that the patient has prostate cancer. In addition,
      a patient will have a digital rectal exam (DRE) to determine if the cancer can be felt. Based
      on the results of these tests and examination it has been determined that the patient's
      prostate cancer is an early stage and has not likely spread outside the prostate or anywhere
      else in his body. If the patient agrees to be in this study, he will be asked to read and
      sign a consent form before having any procedure that is required for participation. The
      patients will be asked to complete some short questionnaires before their CyberKnife
      treatment. These questionnaires will ask multiple choice questions about the patient's bowel,
      bladder and sexual function. They will also ask the patient some general questions about his
      mood, activity and energy levels, and general health. The patient will also have a physical
      examination and a procedure to place 3 to 5 small gold seeds into the prostate. This
      procedure is commonly done in patients receiving standard external beam radiation (a type of
      radiation treatment) for prostate cancer and is not an experimental procedure. These gold
      markers will be used to determine the location of the prostate during the CyberKnife
      treatment. An ultrasound probe is placed into the rectum and needles containing the gold
      seeds are guided into the prostate and then the seeds are deposited. The patient will need to
      clean out their rectum and take antibiotics the day of the seed placement. Within 5-10 days
      after placement of the gold seeds, the patient will be asked to return to the hospital to
      have a planning CT scan (a procedure that takes 3 dimensional images) of the pelvis. This is
      a regular CT scan and is standard procedure for patients receiving external beam irradiation.
      The images obtained during the scan will be used to plan the CyberKnife treatments. The
      patient will also have an MRI scan of the pelvis, unless medically contraindicated (for
      example if they have a pacemaker) which will be used for treatment planning purposes. The
      patient may be asked to undergo these scans with a urethral catheter in place. The CyberKnife
      treatment will usually be started after the CT scan of the pelvis. The patient's course of
      radiation will consist of 5 separate CyberKnife treatments usually delivered over 5 week days
      (maximum 14 days), with no less than 12 hours between any two fractions. Each treatment
      session will take approximately 1.5-2.5 hours. The patient will lie on the treatment table
      and breathe normally while receiving radiation treatment. On the last day of treatment a
      research team member will ask the patient questions about possible side effects. After
      CyberKnife treatment, the patient will need follow-up visits to determine how effective the
      treatment was and if they are having any treatment related side effects. One to two weeks
      after treatment is completed, a member of the research team will call the patient to see how
      they are doing. At 1 month after completion of the CyberKnife treatment, the patient will be
      asked to return to the hospital for a follow-up examination to check for any side effects.
      The patient will also be asked to complete the same questionnaires they completed prior to
      CyberKnife treatment. These questionnaires will ask about bowel, bladder and sexual function,
      as well as mood, activity and energy levels, and general health. At 3 and 6 months after
      completion of the CyberKnife treatment, the patient will be asked to return to their
      physician for an examination and a blood test to measure PSA level. This is the standard
      procedure for follow-up visits and will occur every 6 months thereafter for 5 years. At some
      of these visits, the patient will also be asked to complete questionnaires about their bowel,
      bladder and sexual function as well as quality of life. If it is suspected that the tumor is
      growing or if there are concerns about disease progression on the patient's PSA exam, a
      prostate needle biopsy of the tumor may be performed.

      Primary Objective: The primary safety goal of this study is to estimate, in both low-risk and
      intermediate-risk cohorts, the rates of acute and late grade 3-5 gastrointestinal and
      genitourinary toxicity observed following CyberKnife SABR for prostate cancer. The primary
      efficacy goal is to document the rate of biochemical Disease-Free Survival (bDFS) using the
      Phoenix and American Society of Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) definitions, at 5 years.

      Secondary Objective: To measure the following in the study population: rates of local
      failure, distant failure, disease-free survival, disease-specific survival, and overall
      survival; quality of life (QOL) in generic and organ-specific domains.
    
  