
    
      The current study is designed to identify biomarkers for the prediction of differential
      treatment outcomes between the SSRI antidepressant sertraline (SERT) and placebo (PBO) in a
      randomized trial for patients with MDD. In addition, a second stage will collect data to
      explore moderators and mediators of treatment outcomes between pharmacologically distinct
      active treatment arms: sertraline (SERT), a serotonergic antidepressant or bupropion (BUP), a
      nonserotonergic antidepressant. To reduce biologic heterogeneity, we will only enroll
      patients with early onset of DSM IV MDD (before age 30) because these criteria in probands
      have been shown to be associated with increased familial loading in families. Patients will
      also have recurrent MDD with 2 or more recurrences (including current episode). Additionally,
      patients will be required to have a current symptom severity score of 14 or more on the Quick
      Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology - Self Report (QIDS-SR), both at study screening and
      at the randomization (baseline) visit. In the first stage, patients will receive an 8-week
      course of treatment in one of the two study arms. As part of the Sequential Multiple
      Assignment Randomized Trial (SMART) design patients that have not achieved a response at the
      end of 8 weeks to their stage one treatment, defined by < 50% improvement on the Clinical
      Global Improvement scale (CGI), will be switched to Stage 2 treatment (8 weeks). Patients who
      have achieved satisfactory response (>= 50% improvement on the CGI) will be continued on
      treatment for an additional 8 weeks.

      Specific Aims

      Moderator Aims (Aim 1): To identify baseline clinical, neuroimaging, neurophysiological, and
      behavioral moderators of differential treatment outcome (mean symptom change and
      tolerability) for sertraline (SERT, a serotonergic antidepressant) versus placebo (PBO) for
      the treatment of MDD. Symptom change will be measured using the mean change from baseline in
      the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD17). Tolerability will be measured
      using the Frequency, Intensity, and Burden of Side Effects Rating (FIBSER) and the Treatment
      Emergent Symptom Scale (TESS).

      Mediator Aims (Aim 2): To identify early phase (week 1) changes in neuroimaging,
      neurophysiological, and behavioral tasks as mediators of differential treatment outcomes
      (symptom change, tolerability) to SERT and PBO.

      Main Treatment Effects Aim (Aim 3): To compare the 8-week outcomes of SERT vs. PBO using
      mixed model regression analysis to maximize power to discriminate treatment efficacy
      differences.

      Primary Outcomes:

      - 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HRSD17)

      Secondary Outcomes:

      - the Frequency, Intensity, and Burden Side Effects Rating (FIBSER)
    
  