
    
      Labor induction is one of the most common obstetric procedures performed in the U.S. In 2013,
      the last year for which data is available, 23.1% of all deliveries were the result of
      inductions. Labor induction often first requires cervical ripening, which can be accomplished
      by several different methods.

      Pharmacologic cervical ripening approaches include vaginal or oral prostaglandin
      administration. Mechanical cervical ripening methods include osmotic dilators such as
      laminaria, and transcervical Foley catheters with or without extra amniotic saline infusion.
      The ideal cervical ripening tool is effective, safe for both mother and fetus, incurs low
      cost, does not require extensive monitoring, and causes minimal maternal discomfort.

      Several recent meta-analyses have demonstrated both the safety and efficacy of the Foley
      catheter for pre-induction cervical ripening. When compared to prostaglandins, studies have
      shown that use of the transcervical Foley catheter for pre-induction cervical ripening
      results in either shortened or no statistically significant difference in vaginal delivery
      rates at 24 hours. No studies have demonstrated longer duration to vaginal delivery and
      cesarean delivery rates are equivalent. In addition, women with Foley catheters experience
      less uterine hyper-stimulation resulting in fetal heart rate changes as compared to those who
      receive prostaglandins. Other than one study suggesting increased risks of chorioamnionitis
      and neonatal infection, the vast majority of research suggests Foley catheters are
      overwhelming safe with little risk of severe maternal or neonatal morbidity.

      Due to its safety profile and the ongoing desire to reduce healthcare costs, many
      institutions have initiated outpatient cervical ripening protocols. Studies suggest that
      outpatient cervical ripening with transcervical Foley catheter is both safe and effective. In
      addition, some studies demonstrate women who underwent outpatient cervical ripening spent
      less time in the hospital during their labor induction, sometimes resulting in significant
      cost savings at those institutions. The combination of safety, ease of use and cost savings
      potential make outpatient cervical ripening with a Foley catheter an appealing tool for both
      clinicians and patients. However, data on patient satisfaction with almost all methods of
      cervical ripening is sparse. Existing data on patient satisfaction of outpatient versus
      inpatient induction of labor stems from prior studies which used vaginal misoprostol gel or
      isosorbide mononitrate as induction agents. While one study suggests overall satisfaction
      with outpatient Foley catheter cervical ripening, a randomized controlled trial on this topic
      has yet to be performed.
    
  