
    
      Rationale of induction chemotherapy:

      Distant metastasis is the major cause of treatment failure and deaths in patients with
      loco-regionally advanced NPC.

      Concurrent chemoradiotherapy may prolong survivals for patients with advanced NPC, but it is
      still flawed by high incidence of distant metastasis.

      Induction chemotherapy with MEPFL has been shown to reduce the incidence of distant
      metastasis in a Phase II study.

      Induction chemotherapy plus concurrent chemoradiotherapy may improve the survival of patients
      with advanced NPC.

      Objectives:

      Investigate the effect of induction MEPFL chemotherapy followed by concurrent
      chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) on the disease control and survival in treatment of patients with
      advanced NPC.

      Study design:

      This is a randomized, multi-center Phase III study. Patients will be randomized to CCRT with
      or without the MEPFL induction chemotherapy.

      Type and number of patients:

      Patients with stage IVA (T4) and/or IVB (N3) but without distant metastasis will be enrolled.
      A total of up to 480 patients will be randomized to detect an improvement of median overall
      survival from 5.8 to 8.7 years, with an a=0.05 and power of 0.8 using a two-sided logrank
      test with one interim analysis.

      Treatment schedule:

      Induction chemotherapy and CCRT:

      Arm A: Weekly cisplatin concurrently with radiotherapy Arm B: Induction MEPFL three cycles
      followed with weekly cisplatin concurrently with radiotherapy.

      Study endpoints:

      The primary endpoint is the disease-free survival that will be calculated as the duration
      between the date of randomization and the date of recurrence of NPC at any site including
      persistent disease after +induction chemotherapy/CCRT, or death from any cause (failed), or
      the date of withdrawal (last contact date, censored), or the scheduled data analysis date
      (censored).( revised 8/27/2004)
    
  