
    
      The Study Imaging Techniques for Radiation Treatment Planning:

      The standard way to set up a patient to receive radiation therapy on the lymph nodes in the
      neck is by using an EPID, which uses high-energy X-rays to make images to see if the
      patient's body positioning for radiation therapy is correct or not. It is important for the
      doctors to see the position of the patient's lower neck so that radiation can be delivered to
      the right place.

      The position of the patient's body during radiation therapy is typically checked once a week
      using an EPID or a similar device. While the patient is lying on the treatment table, the
      EPID system takes the necessary images. In this study, along with using an EPID, researchers
      will use the OBI KV system and CBCT scanning, in order to look at how well the standard EPID
      is describing the patient's neck position.

      OBI KV imaging is designed to make images using low-energy X-rays, and the images are
      considered reasonably clear and easy for the doctors to read. CBCT scanning uses low-energy
      X-rays that let the doctors see the lymph nodes in the lower neck. Unlike regular CT
      scanning, CBCT scanning does not require "contrast" material to be used.

      Since all 3 of the pieces of equipment (the EPID, OBI KV, and CBCT systems) are built into
      the same treatment machine, you will not need to move for the extra pieces of equipment that
      are being used in this study. You will lay very still, as usual, and the images will all be
      taken in a row.

      Screening Tests:

      The study doctor will review your medical chart to decide if you are eligible to take part in
      this study. If you are found to be eligible and you agree to take part, you will then begin
      the normal radiation treatment planning process. You will sign a separate consent form that
      will describe the radiation therapy and EPID procedures in more detail, as well as their
      risks.

      During the treatment period when you are receiving radiation treatments once a day for 5
      weeks, you will have CBCT scanning and OBI KV imaging performed once a week.

      Before you receive radiation treatment, while you are lying on the treatment table, the EPID
      will be used. After that, the OBI KV and CBCT devices will rotate around you to take the
      images for this study. During the radiation therapy treatment, the EPID, OBI KV, and CBCT
      scans will be performed once a week, on the same day if possible. Sometimes the EPID and OBI
      KV scans will be performed during the same treatment, while the CBCT scan may be performed
      during another treatment that same week. It should take about 30 minutes to finish taking
      both the OBI KV and CBCT images.

      The results of the CBCT scanning and OBI KV imaging will not, in any way, be used to plan
      your radiation therapy.

      Length of Study Participation:

      After your 5-week radiation treatment period, your participation in this study will be over.

      This is an investigational study. The EPID is commercially available and FDA approved for use
      in setting up a patient to receive radiation therapy. OBI KV imaging and CBCT scanning are
      also commercially available and FDA approved for use in this purpose, but they are not
      typically used. What is experimental in this study is using additional procedures (OBI KV
      imaging and CBCT scanning) to check how reliably the EPID can set up a patient to receive
      radiation therapy on the lymph nodes in the neck.

      Up to 30 evaluable patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  