
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) increases the risk for pulmonary complications in the first 24
      hours after surgery, by more than 3-fold, suggesting an enhanced sensitivity to
      opioid-induced ventilatory depression (OIVD), in this patient population. Obesity and OSA,
      two highly comorbid conditions, are common among victims of postoperative life-threatening or
      fatal OIVD and increased somnolence preceding the onset of a critical event, is an almost
      ubiquitous clinical finding.

      These clinical observations are in agreement with recent evidence that decreased wakefulness
      is an important contributory mechanism of OIVD in OSA patients who receive opioid analgesia
      in the postoperative period. Studies that examined the effect of opioids on breathing in
      awake, sleeping, or anesthetized patients with OSA, support overall that OSA is not
      associated with increased sensitivity to OIVD in awake subjects. In contrast, diminished
      wakefulness has been shown to worsen, leave unaffected, or even slightly improve breathing
      and oxygenation in patients with OSA, who are treated opioids.

      Decrease in the tonic activity of the pharyngeal muscles with the progression from
      wakefulness to sleep, contributes to increased airway resistance and the predisposition to
      airway occlusion. This effect of sleep on the patency of pharyngeal airway seems to be more
      pronounced in patients with OSA, who present with increased genioglossus muscle activity
      during wakefulness taken as evidence for a neural compensation to maintain adequate airflow
      in the presence of anatomical airway narrowing.

      It can thus be suggested that during pharmacological suppression of consciousness, like when
      recovering from anesthesia, patients with OSA will experience more severe sleep-disordered
      breathing and consequently be more vulnerable to OIVD, compared to normal subjects.

      Specific Aims

      Specific Aim 1: To assess opioid-induced ventilatory depression in morbidly obese patients
      with OSA, who recover from general anesthesia and are treated for pain with fentanyl. We will
      develop a pharmacodynamic model for OIVD to assess the effect of OSA status (i.e.,
      moderate-to-severe OSA vs. no or mild OSA) on the probability for TcPCO2 to exceed a
      pre-specified threshold during recovery from anesthesia.

      Specific Aim 2: To assess the effect of baseline TcPCO2 on the probability for TcPCO2 to
      exceed a pre-specified threshold during recovery from anesthesia, independently of the OSA
      status.

      Specific Aim 3: To assess the effect of the minimum positive airway pressure (minPAP) that
      prevents obstructive breathing during sleep (estimated during in-lab polysomnography) on the
      probability for TcPCO2 to exceed a pre-specified threshold, during recovery from anesthesia.

      Hypotheses:

        1. Patients with moderate-to-severe OSA will demonstrate a higher probability for exceeding
           a pre-specified threshold for TcPCO2, compared to those with mild or no OSA, during
           recovery from general anesthesia.

        2. Patients who present with higher TcPCO2 at baseline, will present with a higher
           probability to exceed a pre-specified threshold for TcPCO2, independently of their OSA
           status, compared to those with normal ventilatory control at baseline, during recovery
           from anesthesia.

        3. Patients with higher therapeutic PAP level (hence more collapsible airway) will be more
           sensitive to fentanyl-induced ventilatory depression and will thus demonstrate a higher
           probability for exceeding a pre-specified threshold for TcPCO2 during recovery from
           anesthesia.
    
  