
    
      Coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery is performed more frequently on individuals who
      are older and sicker than in previous years. This, combined with reduced hospital length of
      stays, leaves individuals ill prepared for their recovery after discharge. Individuals
      experience pain, functional impairment and depressive symptoms; which predispose them to
      adverse events and impaired health-related quality of life (HRQOL). A home-based peer support
      program may improve recovery outcomes for individuals following CABG surgery.

      The objectives of this pilot trial were to test the feasibility of all procedures,
      specifically to determine: 1) an estimate of patient and peer recruitment rates, 2) peer
      compliance and dose of the intervention, 3) peer satisfaction with orientation, 4) peer
      support activities offered to patients, and 5) patients' satisfaction with peer support.
      Additionally, exploratory research questions were used to determine indicators of the effects
      of peer support on HRQOL, pain, pain-related interference with activities, function,
      depressive symptoms, and enrolment in cardiac rehabilitation. An 8-week pre-post test RCT
      design enrolled men and women undergoing CABG surgery at a single site in Southeastern
      Ontario. Patients were randomized to either a usual care or an intervention group. Patients
      allocated to usual care received preoperative/postoperative education sessions, a
      preoperative video/information booklet, and preoperative/postoperative visits from
      in-hospital peer volunteers. In addition to usual care, patients in the intervention group
      received individualized education and support via telephone for 8 weeks following hospital
      discharge from trained peer volunteers.

      Peer volunteers participated in a 4-hour orientation session. Ninety-three percent of the
      peers felt adequately prepared for their peer volunteer role and 98% of them initiated calls
      within 72 hours of the patient's discharge. Peers made an average of 12 calls, less than 30
      minutes in duration, to each patient over the 8-week period. Most common support activities
      provided by the peers included listening to patient concerns, promoting activities,
      reinforcing rest periods and encouraging achievements. Patients were satisfied with their
      peer support experience. The intervention group reported improved physical function, role
      function, less pain and improved cardiac rehabilitation enrolment.

      The evidence obtained from this pilot trial suggests that a home-based peer support
      intervention is feasible following CABG surgery. The information will be used to plan a
      larger multi-centre trial.
    
  