
    
      Malaria is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in Uganda, accounting for 25-40 percent
      of all outpatient visits at health facilities, 20 percent of hospital admissions, and 9-14
      percent of inpatient deaths. Malaria is meso- to holoendemic in Rakai, southwestern Uganda
      and children under 10 years, pregnant women and HIVinfected individuals bear the greatest
      burden of disease. Substantial progress has been made in malaria vaccine development and
      vaccine trials will be conducted over the coming years. The design of these trials will be
      contingent on understanding the epidemiology of malaria and disease burden in different
      epidemic settings.

      This study will determine the epidemiology of malaria infection in children and
      adolescents/adults by conducting surveillance in approximately 320 households selected from
      two of the 10 clusters under the Rakai Community Cohort Study (RCCS). Monthly visits will be
      made to randomly selected households during a one year surveillance period. Visit procedures
      include: structured interview/questionnaire of the primary care giver or legal guardian of
      the child; clinical and laboratory assessment of each child aged 6 months up to 10 years and
      the primary care giver; and clinical and laboratory assessment of one additional randomly
      selected adolescent/adult resident of the household. The study team will track usage of
      health clinic or hospital services within the district in order to link medical records for
      study participants. This community-based surveillance study will be linked to a separate
      facility-based surveillance study in health clinics/hospitals servicing the selected
      communities. This study will enhance the investigators understanding of the epidemiology of
      pediatric and adult malaria infection in Rakai district in preparation for future malaria
      vaccine trials. Investigators will be able to estimate the incidence of uncomplicated and
      severe malaria in children and adults. This protocol will also investigate the prevalence and
      association of sickle cell trait, xlinked glucose-6-phosphatase dehydrogenase deficiency and
      hemoglobinopathies (Hemoglobin C) and their associations with severe malaria among children
      and adults.
    
  