
    
      AIM:

      To describe the clinical, radiological, endoscopic and endoscopic-ultrasound features of
      non-bleeding and bleeding rectal varices, among patients with portal hypertension.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary objectives:

      Anatomical and liver -related risk-factors for presence of rectal varices (RV) among patients
      with portal hypertension Secondary objectives

        1. Etiological spectrum of bleeding per-rectum, among patients with PHT.

        2. Frequency of coexistence of hemorrhoids with RV.

        3. Distribution and size of variceal channels in the rectum on endoscopy and endoscopic
           ultrasound (EUS).

        4. Location and numbers of inflow and outflow perforator channels for RV on endoscopic
           ultrasound (EUS).

      Patients and methodology

      Study Population:

      All patients with PHT (cirrhotic or non-cirrhotic), with active or prior anorectal bleeding
      (defined later) in the preceding 6-months will be evaluated for inclusion. We will also
      include patients with incidental detection of RV during endoscopy done for other indications.
      We will include both indoor and outdoor patients, attending the Department of Hepatology,
      ILBS, New Delhi. An informed consent will be obtained from the participants in the study.

      Study Design Cross- sectional, observational and descriptive study

      Study period September 2020 to February 2020. Baseline data

      The following clinical, biochemical and radiological features will be recorded (detailed in
      the proforma):

        1. Liver disease etiology and severity, including Fibroscan and HVPG, where done.

        2. Upper endoscopy findings.

        3. Details of prior bleeding episodes if any (upper and lower).

        4. Details of current bleeding episodes.

        5. Radiological features (cirrhosis, splanchnic venous thrombosis, flow direction in portal
           vein (PV) and its tributaries, inferior mesenteric vein (IMV) diameter, enlarged
           para-rectal collateral circulation, large porto-systemic shunts).

      Endoscopy protocol:

      All patients will undergo a sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy procedure, as per the clinical
      indication. Patients found to have RV will undergo EUS examination in addition. EUS
      evaluation of patients with hemorrhoids alone will be done at the discretion of the examiner
      after informed consent from the patient.

      Bowel preparation: Patient will be advised liquid-soft diet for 24 hours before the
      examination day. Split dose PEG preparation (2-4 L volume) will be administered- 2L in
      evening before and 2L on day of procedure till 4hours before the study scheduled time.

      Patient position: Left lateral position. Endoscopes: Colonoscope or gastroscope. EUS probes:
      Radial and linear EUS scopes, paired with Olympus compact EUS processor EU-M2.

      Operators: Procto-sigmoidoscopy: HS supervised by VB/ VB EUS: VB/ HS supervised by VB

      Study Definitions:

      Lower GI bleeding LGIB will be defined as bleeding from a source distal to the ileocecal
      valve (24).

      Acute lower gastrointestinal bleeding Acute LGIB will be defined as bleeding of recent
      duration (<3 days) that may result in hemodynamic instability, anemia, and/or the need for
      blood transfusion (25).

      Clinically significant lower gastrointestinal bleeding[VB1] Requirement for blood
      transfusion, a hemoglobin drop of > 3g/dL from baseline or need for hospital admission.

      A bleeding episode is clinically significant when there is (BAVENO III[VB2] ):

      1. Transfusion requirement of ≥ 2 units of blood within 24 hours of time zero, 2. Systolic
      blood pressure < 100 mmHg or a postural change of >20 mmHg, 3. Pulse rate >100/min at time
      zero Anorectal bleeding

        1. Anorectal bleeding will be defined as red bleed per-rectum without or with stool
           expulsion. In the latter instance it can be mixed with stools, may smear stool, may
           dribble after defecation, or may smear wipes.

        2. Anorectal bleeding may be painless or may be associated with pain.

        3. Anorectal bleeding may or may not be associated with hemodynamic changes.

      Monitoring and assessment

      Primary:

      1. Anatomical and liver -related risk-factors for presence of rectal varices (RV) among
      patients with portal hypertension

      Secondary

        1. Etiological spectrum of bleeding per-rectum, among patients with PHT.

        2. Frequency of coexistence of hemorrhoids with RV.

        3. Distribution and size of variceal channels in the rectum on endoscopy and endoscopic
           ultrasound (EUS).

        4. Location and numbers of inflow and outflow perforator channels for RV on endoscopic
           ultrasound (EUS).

      Statistical analysis The dependent variable in the study will be presence of RV, presence of
      large RV (>5mm), and RV bleeding. Independent variables will be presence/ absence of
      esophageal varices, gastric varices, ectopic varices, prior UGIE bleeding, prior endotherapy
      for esophago-gastric varices, ascites, gastro-lieno-renal shunt, other large porto-systemic
      shunt, PV and/or SV and/or SMV thrombosis or flow reversal, composite liver function scores
      (CTP and MELD), number, location, and size of rectal perforator channels, size of para-rectal
      collaterals, pulsatile/ phasic flow in perforator(s) and/or RV, and presence of hemorrhoids.
      The continuous data will be represented by Mean ± SD or by Median (IQR) as appropriate. The
      categorical data will be represented as frequency (%). Student t-test or Mann Whitney test
      will be used for quantitative data and Chi square test will be used for qualitative data.
      Besides this an appropriate statistical analysis like uni-variate and multi-variate logistic
      regression will be used at the time of data analyss. The significance will be seen at 5 %.

      Adverse Event:

        1. Pain abdomen

        2. Bloating sensation

        3. Abdominal distension

      Stopping Rule:No stopping rule

      Ethical Issues in the study and plans to address these issues:No ethical issue related to my
      study
    
  