
    
      Approximately a third (31%) of adult Americans are prehypertensive (SBP 120-139 and/or DBP
      80-89). Health care providers struggle to provide effective support for
      blood-pressure-lowering behavior changes, while patients continue to progress to full
      hypertension and the use of antihypertensive medications. Insurers and providers with access
      to electronic medical records, claims, and other medical data are in a unique position to
      identify prehypertensive adults and target them with a blood pressure self-management
      program. Preventing or delaying hypertension should reduce mid-term costs of antihypertensive
      medications and, more importantly, long-term costs of care for heart disease and stroke.

      This project will develop and evaluate an interactive blood pressure self-management program
      for adults with prehypertension. The program will target blood pressure self-monitoring and
      the five proven lifestyle modifications recommended by JNC-7: weight reduction, the Dietary
      Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet, sodium reduction, physical activity, and alcohol
      consumption.

      The multi-modal program uses a combination of brief motivational health coaching, periodic
      engagement emails, and a robust interactive website to motivate people to take charge of
      their blood pressure management before they require medication. All program components were
      designed to conform to the underlying principles of motivational interviewing. Key program
      components include the use of email and Web-based social networking, personal stories, and a
      brief motivational coaching session to engage participants and encourage intrinsically
      motivated behavior changes. Self-assessment and tracking tools are combined with educational
      content to help participants align their daily lifestyle choices with their personal goals.

      The Phase I prototype program promoted moderate physical activity and eating fruits and
      vegetables as part of the DASH diet. Results from the within-group (n = 39) evaluation showed
      moderate-to-large effect sizes for pre-to-post change in motivation, preparation behavior,
      self-efficacy, attitudes, and knowledge, and a small significant increase in physical
      activity. Participants gave the online program high ratings on satisfaction and usability,
      and reported improvements in confidence, readiness, clarity, change strategies, and interest
      in visiting the Website as a result of the coaching session.

      The fully developed Phase II product will be evaluated in a large randomized trial (N = 450)
      with a 3-month intensive intervention, a 3-month maintenance intervention, and a 3-month
      follow-up period. The Phase II trial is expected to show reductions in blood pressure and
      improvements in JNC-recommended health behaviors. These changes in the outcome measures are
      expected to be mediated by changes in knowledge, attitudes, self-efficacy, behavioral
      intention, motivation, and patient activation.
    
  