
    
      The current study is performed as a nationwide randomized phase III study that aims to
      investigate the long-term functional outcomes after primary TORS and neck dissection vs.
      IMRT±concurrent chemotherapy for early-stage oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma.

      The study is a registered Danish Head and Neck Cancer Group (DAHANCA) 34 protocol.

      The investigators hypothesise that primary TORS±adjuvant therapy will significantly improve
      the QoL at 12 months follow-up compared to IMRT±concurrent chemotherapy.

      Primary endpoint: QoL measured by a composite MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) score
      evaluated at 12 months follow-up after treatment (10-point difference)

      Study design:

      Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be recruited from three Danish head and neck
      cancer centers: Copenhagen University Hospital Rigshospitalet, Aarhus University Hospital and
      Odense University Hospital.

      Prior to treatment, all patients will be reviewed and examined at a multidisciplinary team
      conference.

      Included patients will be randomized in 2:1 ratio:

      Arm 1 (experimental), n=92 patients: TORS+neck dissection. Arm 2 (control), n=46 patients:
      IMRT±concurrent chemotherapy

      DAHANCA Secretariat is responsible for the randomization key to either experimental or
      control arm. The investigators will stratify for p16, sex, tumour location and clinical
      tumor- and nodal-stage (T- and N-stage) classification at time of inclusion to avoid an
      uneven distribution in the experimental arm compared to the control arm.

      Specifics for the experimental arm:

      Patients with clinically positive neck (cN+) will be offered a staging neck within 8 days
      prior to the planned TORS. Based on final pathology of the neck specimen, patients will
      either be referred for definitive IMRT± concurrent chemotherapy (extracapsular extension
      (ECE), or more than two lymph node metastases) or they will undergo TORS (no extracapsular
      exension and maximally two lymph node metastases).

      For patients with clinically no evidence of lymph node metastasis (cN0), neck dissection can
      be performed either before (within 8 days) or concurrently (same day procedure) with TORS.

      Indications for adjuvant radiotherapy:

      Nodal site:

        -  More than two lymph node metastases

        -  Two lymph node metastases and both above 1 cm in diameter.

        -  Any pathological positive lymph nodes (pN+) with extracapsular extension (ECE)

        -  A neck dissection nodal yield of less than 10 lymph nodes per side (after total
           embedding of the remaining fat tissue)

      Tumour site:

        -  Involved or close resection margins of < 2 mm if free margins was not obtained after
           supplementary resections per-operatively or after re-resection in a secondary procedure.

        -  In case of stage migration to tumour stages T3 or T4, in an otherwise radical operation
           (R0), adjuvant therapy will be offered based on a postoperative consultation between the
           patient, the surgeon and an oncologist.

      Indications for adjuvant chemotherapy:

      • Insufficient resection margin (<2mm) or ECE

      Specifics for the control arm:

      Radiotherapy Quality Assurance Reviews are aimed to be performed before the third treatment
      fraction by a team from another head-neck oncology center consisting of one physicist and one
      oncologist. The patient specific review will address the following points according to the
      DAHANCA guideline: Clinical Target Volume (CTV) and Organs-at-Risk (OAR) delineation, target
      dose coverage, OAR dose sparing and treatment length.

      Funding: The study protocol was initiated by the Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head &
      Neck surgery at Copenhagen University Hospital Rigshospitalet. Funding grants have been
      received by the Danish Health Authority ("Midler til eksperimentel kræftkirurgi"), by the
      Copenhagen University Hospital Rigshospitalet ("Rammebevilling") and Odense University
      Hospital ("Forskningspulje mellem OUH og RH").

      Data management and ethical considerations: Data is stored and handled in accordance with the
      Danish Data Agency regulations, The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 2016/679 in
      European Union (EU) law on data protection and privacy for all individual citizens of the EU
      and the European Economic Area (EEA), and in compliance with the national data agreement
      between the study locations in compliance with the Danish Data Protection Agency approval
      (ID: RH-2017-362).

      During the trial, the Good Clinical Practice (GCP) unit in Aarhus will monitor the study
      trial according to the given protocol and the current legislation. The monitoring period will
      consist of the first 12 months of inclusion until the primary endpoint.

      This study has been approved by the Regional Committee on Health Research Ethics (ID:
      H-17031827)
    
  