
    
      Oxygen is probably the most frequently used drug both in the prehospital and emergency
      setting. It is cheap, easily administered, and, at least for shorter time frames, widely
      believed to be without any risk of harm.

      Treatment with oxygen is indicated in the state of hypoxemia in order to prevent hypoxic
      organ damage, however, oxygen is administered in many other situations too, sometimes in a
      non-consistent manner and very often without even being prescribed.

      Notably, administration of un-titrated oxygen, introduces a risk of hyperoxia which has been
      associated with serious adverse effects.

      Retrospective studies on patients with cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction (MI) and
      traumatic brain injury have found hyperoxia to be associated with increased mortality and ICU
      length of stays.

      A randomized trial also found an increased rate of recurrent myocardial infarction in a
      high-concentration oxygen group. Furthermore, in patients undergoing surgery, high
      intraoperative FiO2 has been associated with major respiratory complications and with 30-day
      mortality. In ICU patients, an observational study as well as a randomized trial found high
      levels of oxygen to be associated with higher mortality compared to conservative oxygen
      treatment. In particular, the randomized trial found that patients with PaO2 between 70 and
      100 mmHg had a mortality of 11.6% compared to 20.2% in patients managed in accordance with
      standard ICU practice (which allows PaO2 up to 150mmHg) (p=0.01).

      For people between the ages of 5 and 44 years, trauma is one of the top three causes of
      death. Almost twice as many men as women die as a result of trauma.

      Victims of trauma are often healthy individuals prior to the incident, but acquire numerous
      complications including sepsis and pulmonary complications as well as long-term complications
      and diminished quality of life after the trauma. Understanding the reasons behind these
      complications and poor outcomes and optimizing care is therefore essential to increase
      survival rates and quality of life.

      In the trauma population, oxygen administration is often standard of care. However, the
      evidence supporting oxygen administration in this population appears to be extremely limited.

      Nevertheless, absorption atelectases have been shown to develop within minutes under an
      oxygen fraction of 1.0, and are strongly related to the development of pneumonia. Indeed, a
      recent retrospective study found hyperoxemia to be an independent risk factor for ventilator
      associated pneumonia (VAP). As the incidences of hyperoxemia in mechanically ventilated
      patients range from 16-50% and the incidence of pneumonia in general in the Intensive Care
      Unit (ICU) is close to 26%, and reported to be up to twice as high in the trauma population,
      studies are warranted to establish the impact of a restricted, but sufficient, oxygen
      strategy vs a liberal oxygen strategy in the trauma population.

      The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate whether the maintenance of pragmatic
      normoxia, avoiding both hyperoxic and hypoxic phases, is feasible within the first 24 hours
      after trauma, as it may result in a reduction of 30-day mortality and major respiratory
      complications within 30 days (respiratory failure, pulmonary edema, and pneumonia).

      The investigators will therefore conduct a pilot study, where 40 evaluable patients are
      randomized to 24 hours of:

        -  A. Restrictive, but sufficient oxygen treatment:

           o Lowest oxygen delivery that obtains a saturation of ≥ 94% (within the low limits of
           standard of care and does thus not put patients at risk of receiving worse treatment.
           Hypoxic phases will be avoided.)

        -  B. Liberal oxygen treatment:

             -  15 L/min oxygen flow initially/ FiO2 ≥0.8. (Considered as close as possible to the
                standard of care. As no precise guidelines on oxygen delivery for trauma patients
                within the first 24 hours exist, this will however inevitably vary in practice. We
                have therefore set the delivery to be in the high end of the varying standard of
                care.)

      The investigators hypothesize that hospitalized trauma patients treated with liberal oxygen
      therapy during the first 24 hours after trauma will have a greater risk of death and major
      respiratory complications compared to trauma patients treated with restrictive oxygen. The
      investigators realize that this cannot be assessed in this pilot study, but it is crucial to
      know if the study is feasible before doing a large and adequately powered trial.

      Composite Primary Outcomes:

      • 30-day mortality and major respiratory complications within 30 days (pneumonia, acute
      respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), acute lung injury (ALI)).

      Secondary Outcomes

        -  Intensive Care Unit length of stay (ICU LOS)

        -  Hospital length of Stay

        -  Days on ventilator

        -  30 days post-trauma (through telephone follow-up if discharged)

             -  Glasgow Outcome Scale Extended (GOSE)

             -  Pneumonia
    
  