
    
      COVID-19 caused by a novel severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) is an
      unprecedented global public health challenge which as at July 1, 2020 has spread to over 210
      countries with over 10.6 million cases resulting in 514,808 deaths. More than 1500 clinical
      trials are currently ongoing in an unprecedented global search for potential therapeutics and
      vaccines. With increasing number of cases reported in low- and middle-income countries and
      and the possibility of a second wave of infections in countries where the pandemic appears to
      have slowed, studies to investigate promising therapies are urgently needed, especially those
      that can significantly reduce time to viral clearance and mortality. Shortening SARS-CoV-2
      clearance time will lower treatment cost and reduce the economic impact of the pandemic.

      The purpose of this phase 2 trial is to investigate the efficacy and safety of repurposed
      antiprotozoal and antiretroviral drugs, nitazoxanide and atazanavir/ritonavir, in achievement
      of SARS-CoV-2 PCR negativity and shorten the time to clinical improvement in patients
      diagnosed with moderate to severe COVID-19. The selection of candidates for this COVID-19
      drug repurposing trial was guided by three pharmacological considerations: (1) demonstration
      of in-vitro anti-SARS-CoV-2 activity at doses shown or predicted to be tolerated by humans,
      (2) the feasibility of achieving effective concentration in relevant compartments, and (3)
      established human safety record.

      This is a pilot phase 2, open label randomized controlled trial. A total of 98 patients with
      confirmed COVID-19 diagnosis (defined as SARS-CoV-2 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) positive
      nasopharyngeal swab) will be recruited from participating treatment centres. Participants
      will be randomised to receive either the standard of care (SOC) plus nitazoxanide for 14
      days, starting from day 1 or the SOC alone for 14 days.

      Participants will be recruited within 2 days of admission into COVID-19 treatment centre.
      Before enrollment, they will be given adequate information about the trial, opportunity to
      ask questions, and sufficient time to consider participation. Before any screening
      procedures, a written consent will be obtained from each eligible subject who agrees to
      participate in the trial. Participants will then be randomly allocated 1:1 to receive either
      the SOC alone (control group) or SOC plus study drug (intervention group). Parallel
      assignment will be used to prevent sample size imbalance between groups and control for
      important covariates (e.g. age, comorbidities, gender) that may affect trial results.
      Participants in the intervention group will receive 1000 mg nitazoxanide (two tablets of 500
      mg each) with meal two times daily (8 am and 8 pm) and one tablet of 300/100 mg
      atazanavir/ritonavir with meal once daily (8 pm) in addition SOC. Participants in the control
      arm will receive the SOC alone. SOC will be as determined by the clinical team at the
      treatment centres in line with the current National Interim Guidelines for Clinical
      Management of COVID-19.

      The treatment duration for participants in the intervention group will be 14 days. However,
      follow up will continue until day 28 after study entry at the end of which all participants
      will exit the study. Evaluations at follow up visits will include daily symptoms monitoring
      using inFLUenza Patient-Reported Outcome (FLU-PRO) questionnaire, daily vitals, daily
      clinical improvement assessment, and swab and/or sputum collection for SARS-CoV-2 on days 2,
      4, 6, 7, 14, and 28.

      Sample size estimation is based on the assumption that an improvement of at least 60-80% in
      time to SARS-CoV-2 PCR negativity and symptoms resolution can be achieved in the intervention
      group compared with the control group. Hence, a total sample size of 89 will provide at least
      80% power to show or exclude 60% improvement in time to SARS-CoV-2 PCR negativity. This
      assumes a two-sided and 5% type 1 error rate. Therefore, providing for a 10% loss to follow
      up rate, a total of 98 patients will be recruited.
    
  