
    
      Mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS (MTCT) is still a major contributor to the burden of
      HIV infections among infants and children in Sub-Saharan Africa. Among the major challenges
      of each approach to achieving maximum benefits is late and incomplete antenatal care (ANC)
      attendance. While attendance to one ANC visit is almost universal, only about half of
      pregnant women attend the four WHO-recommended visits. Moreover, those that attend often book
      late in pregnancy. This nationwide challenge can lead to delays or interferences with the
      appropriate PMTCT medications for mothers -thus substantially diminishing the potential of
      PMTCT care to reduce mother-to child-transmission of HIV in Tanzania.

      The investigators will examine the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, feasibility, and
      acceptability of an enhanced community health worker intervention and outreach system for
      pregnant women to facilitate early and consistent ANC attendance, early and effective PMTCT
      uptake, with the aim to further reduce mother-to-child transmission of HIV. We will test the
      effectiveness hypothesis in a cluster-randomized controlled trial; the unit of randomization
      is the administrative unit of a ward, which is the geographical unit below a district in the
      Tanzanian government system. We randomly allocate all 60 wards in two of the three districts
      in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania -- Kinondoni and Ilala districts -- to receiving the enhanced
      community health worker intervention and outreach system vs. receiving the standard of care
      in the Tanzanian public-sector health system.

      The results of this study will inform implementers and policy makers on whether and how a
      community outreach system and PMTCT algorithm may maximize benefits of antenatal care and
      PMTCT services in Tanzania and inform decisions surrounding future maternal and newborn
      health programs moving forward.

      This study was initially designed to test both the effectiveness of the enhanced CHW
      intervention and outreach system and the effectiveness of WHO PMTCT option B (vs. A) in
      ensuring successful PMTCT in the Tanzanian public-sector health system. However, in reaction
      to a report of non-compliance by the investigator team (incomplete records of written
      informed consent among PMTCT patients in the public-sector PMTCT clinics) the IRB at the
      Harvard School of Public Health decided to stop involvement in the option A vs. B component
      of this study. The IRB approved continuation of the enhanced CHW intervention and outreach
      system in the study.
    
  