
    
      Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a rare autoimmune disorder. It is characterized by fibrosis and
      vascular obliteration in the skin and other organs. Skin damage, manifested by thickening of
      the skin tissue, is often one of the first signs of the disease. Pathogenesis is dominated by
      early microvascular changes targeting endothelial cells and with the release of several
      mediators promoting an inflammatory response and vascular remodeling. This inflammatory
      cascade results in fibrosis lesions. Early diagnosis of fibrosing skin lesions is essential
      in SSc since their severity is correlated with functional prognosis and survival. To date,
      there is no validated tool to reliably quantify skin fibrosis. The semi-quantitative Modified
      Rodnan score (mRSS), based on clinical assessment of skin thickening at 17 anatomical areas,
      is widely used. The main limitation of this method is its inter-operator variability. The
      histopathological analysis of the skin biopsy is interesting but invasive. The new
      non-invasive and reproducible tools are needed to evaluate skin fibrosis for early diagnosis
      of SSc.

      Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is an innovative imaging technique that uses a light wave
      to capture 3D images of a material that scatters light. OCT allows real-time, direct and
      high-resolution imaging of the morphology of the biological sample (such as skin) without
      ionizing radiation. In SSc, the cutaneous fibrosis is characterized by a deregulated
      production of the components of the extracellular matrix, in particular collagen. Previous
      results showed that the dermal-epidermal junction could be observed in healthy subjects using
      OCT. In patients with SSc and skin involvement, the visualization of this junction could be
      reduced. The results suggest a possible correlation between the intensity of visualization of
      the dermo-epidermal junction and the severity of cutaneous fibrosis.

      In this project, we would like to compare the skin involvement of the dorsal surface of a
      finger between patients with early SSc and control subjects using non-invasive OCT imaging.
      The study population meets the criteria for early SCS, with onset of disease less than 2
      years and without clinically detectable skin involvement. In a second time, other imaging
      techniques (HD ultrasound) or fluid silicone molding technique will be used to evaluate the
      progression of skin fibrosis or the morphological characteristics of the skin or vascular
      network of the patient with early SSc. To complete the work, these parameters will be
      evaluated in other anatomical sites (outer and inner side of the forearm) or in another group
      of patients (Established SSc patients with clinical cutaneous sclerosis) or at another
      timepoint (M24). The hypothesis of this study is that OCT can be used to identify SSc
      patients at a stage where the lesions are still early and reversible.

      This is a prospective, monocentric, comparative, open-label and longitudinal patient study
      with duration of 36 months. The duration of the inclusion period will be 12 months. The
      participation of each subject is from 1 hour (for group 2 and 3) to 24 months (for group 1).
      We planned to include 60 patients in the Department of Rheumatology of the University
      Hospital of Strasbourg (20 patients from each group).

      The different measures in the study are not invasive. No specific biological sampling of the
      study will be conducted. There will be no change for the treatment of patients either.
    
  