
    
      Primary Objective -To estimate median 3-year disease free survival (DFS) in patients with
      intermediate-risk HNSCC treated with adjuvant durvalumab with radiotherapy.

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To characterize safety by evaluating Grade 3-4 acute toxicities of adjuvant durvalumab
           with radiotherapy in intermediate-risk HNSCC patients

        -  To characterize the Grade 3-4 chronic toxicities of adjuvant durvalumab with
           radiotherapy in intermediate-risk HNSCC patients.

        -  To characterize any-grade chronic toxicities of adjuvant durvalumab with radiotherapy in
           intermediate-risk HNSCC patients.

        -  To estimate median OS in patients with intermediate-risk HNSCC treated with adjuvant
           durvalumab with radiotherapy.

        -  To correlate PD-L1 expression with disease free survival

      Exploratory Objectives

        -  To analyze disease free survival by HPV status

        -  To determine how treatment with adjuvant durvalumab and radiotherapy changes markers of
           tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL)

      Primary Endpoint

      -3-year DFS will be estimated via the Kaplan-Meier method. DFS is defined as the time from D1
      of treatment to time of disease recurrence or death

      Secondary Endpoints

        -  Grade 3-5 acute toxicity will be evaluated according to guidelines from NCI CTCAE, v5.0
           and include toxicity from the first day of treatment with immunotherapy until 30 days
           after completion of concurrent immunotherapy and radiation. Toxicity will include all
           toxicity attributed to the total study regimen (inclusive of radiation) not just to
           durvalumab alone.

        -  Grade chronic 3-5 toxicity will be evaluated according to guidelines from NCI CTCAE,
           v5.0 and include toxicity continuing or occurring 30 days after completion of concurrent
           immunotherapy and radiation, and will be followed for up to 6 months.

        -  OS will be estimated via the Kaplan-Meier method. OS is defined as the time from D1 of
           treatment to death from any cause.

        -  Measure PD-LI expression by immunohistochemistry. Pre-treatment PD-L1 expression will be
           correlated with disease free survival following treatment of adjuvant durvalumab with
           radiotherapy.

      Exploratory Endpoints

        -  Measure HPV status. HPV status will be correlated with disease free survival following
           treatment of adjuvant durvalumab with radiotherapy

        -  Measure tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) by flow cytometry at baseline
           (post-surgical, pre-treatment tissue) and at disease progression (post-treatment
           tissue). Changes in TIL levels will be compared between these two time points.

      Treatment Dosage This Phase II trial will evaluate the combination of durvalumab with
      radiation therapy as post-operative therapy in intermediate risk patients with HNSCC. All
      patients will receive durvalumab and radiation therapy during cycles 1-3. Radiation therapy
      is administered per standard radiation oncology regimens, on a daily basis and/or as
      scheduled during a Monday-Friday working week. Radiation therapy is given concurrently with
      durvalumab during Cycles 1-3. Durvalumab treatment (1500 mg Q3W) Cycles 1-3 are 3-weeks long
      cycles (total of 9 weeks). Radiation therapy will be delivered at a dose of 2 Gy over 30
      fractions totalling a final dose of 60 Gy. Radiation treatment will take 6 weeks (Mon-Fri) or
      30 days and will occur for 6 of 9 weeks that define Cycles 1-3. However, due to delays or
      missed appointments, completion of those 30 fractions may take longer than the allotted 6
      weeks and this is allowed. Radiation therapy must be scheduled and completed within Cycles
      1-3 and should not extend into Cycle 4. Please refer to Section 6.2 for additional details
      and allowances.

      During Cycle 4-6, only durvalumab 1500mg Q4W will be given.

      Duration of Follow Up All patients will be followed for up to 5 years, or until death,
      whichever occurs first after removal from study treatment for determination of study
      endpoints. Patients removed from study treatment for unacceptable adverse event (AE)s will be
      followed for resolution or stabilization of the adverse event(s). All patients (including
      those withdrawn for AEs) should be followed after removal from study treatment as stipulated
      in the protocol.
    
  