
    
      Background and aim The most common bacterial pathogens in humans include several species of
      the family of Enterobacteriaceae. Many of them have now become resistant to antibiotics,
      i.e.extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBL)-producing Enterobacteriaceae (PE). For a long
      time it was thought that transmission in hospitals was the main factor driving their rapid
      spread. More recently, though, ESBL-PE have also been found on food and in waste water. These
      sources are also likely to play an important role in entertaining transmission.

      Investigator's aim is to identify transmission chains of ESBL-PE in the Basel urban region,
      using the latest whole genome sequencing methodologies allowing to determine relatedness of
      strains with the highest possible resolution, taking into account sources both within and
      outside hospitals.

      Hypothesis The finding of few genetically-related clusters of ESBL-PE with an epidemiological
      link to hospital contacts would suggest relevant transmission in our healthcare setting. In
      contrast, the finding of many genetically-distinct clusters of ESBL-PE without
      epidemiological links to the hospital, would question the importance of hospital-wide
      transmission in sustaining the ESBL epidemic. This distinction is critical for deriving
      effective prevention and control recommendations.

      Design, setting and patients Whole genome sequencing will be performed on representative
      ESBL-strains collected from January 2003 to December 2019 at the University Hospital Basel.
      The epidemiological relationships between patients with genetically related strains of
      ESBL-PE will be assessed.

      From June 2017 to December 2019, whole genome sequencing will in addition be performed on
      ESBL-strains identified from representative samples from the wastewater system of both the
      hospital and the city of Basel as well as representative foodstuff samples collected from
      both the hospital and the city of Basel. The epidemiological relationships between patients,
      as well as environmental samples with genetically related strains of ESBL-PE and cases with
      genetically related plasmids carrying the respective ESBL genes will be assessed.

      Methods, planned analysis and sample size To identify transmission events we will employ
      whole genome sequencing with Illumina technology, which is established and International
      Standards Organization (ISO)-accredited at the Clinical Microbiology Department at the
      University Hospital. The proportion of infection/colonization with genetically related
      isolates of ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae of the overall infection/colonization rate will
      be determined. All phylogenies will be inferred using BEAST v2.046 employing our previously
      developed tool for quantifying transmission rates. Overall, 2000 isolates from patient's
      samples and 1000 isolates from food and wastewater samples will be analysed.
    
  