
    
      Rationale

      Despite mounting evidence that maternal vitamin D status is linked to pregnancy outcomes
      [1,2], the impact of pregnancy on vitamin D metabolism and requirement has yet to be clearly
      defined. In addition, although the placenta is known to express all components of the vitamin
      D metabolic pathway [3,4], very little is known about placental vitamin D metabolism.
      Moreover, although vitamin D is known to affect bone health in the nonpregnant state, the
      effect of maternal vitamin D status on maternal and fetal bone health in human pregnancy is
      unclear [5-7]. Therefore, the present study seeks to advance current understanding of vitamin
      D metabolism and requirements during pregnancy.

      Objective and Research Questions

      This study aims to examine: 1) the effect of pregnancy on a comprehensive panel of blood
      biomarkers of vitamin D status and metabolism; 2) the role of the placenta in modulating
      circulating vitamin D metabolites; and 3) the impact of maternal vitamin D status on maternal
      and fetal markers of bone metabolism.

      Study Population, Design, and Exposure

      As a secondary analysis, this study uses biological samples obtained from pregnant and
      nonpregnant control women who participated in a 12-wk randomized controlled trial in
      2009-2010 which featured two doses of choline (i.e., 480 or 930 mg choline/d) (NCT01127022)
      [8]. Throughout the controlled feeding period, 26 third-trimester pregnant women and 21
      nonpregnant women (both reproductive groups aged > 21 y) in a good health status consumed
      equivalent intakes of vitamin D (511 IU/d), calcium (1.6 g/d) and phosphorus (1.9 g/d) from
      the study diet and prenatal multivitamin supplement (Pregnancy Plus; Fairhaven Health LLC)
      for ≥ 10 weeks.

      Dependent variables:

        1. Blood biomarkers of vitamin D metabolism at week 0 (study-baseline) and week 10
           (representing study-end)

        2. Placental biomarkers of vitamin D metabolism at delivery

        3. Markers of bone metabolism in maternal and fetal cord blood as well as maternal urine

      Ethical considerations

      The study protocol of the original RCT was approved by the Institutional Review Board for
      Human Study Participant Use at Cornell University and the Cayuga Medical Center where
      pregnant women delivered their babies. Informed consent was obtained from all participants
      before study entry, and the original study was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as
      NCT01127022. For this secondary analysis, deidentified data will be used.

      Dissemination Findings

      Findings from the present study will be reported in manuscripts that will be submitted for
      publication to a leading medical/nutrition journal in an appropriate field (i.e. nutrition,
      bone, placenta, and reproductive physiology). In addition, findings will be presented as
      abstracts, posters, and presentations at research conferences.
    
  