
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the time to disease progression in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple
           myeloma treated with dexamethasone with or without oblimersen.

        -  Compare the duration of response and objective response rate in patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Compare the proportion of patients without disease progression after 6 months and the
           proportion of patients who have not discontinued treatment after 6 months in these two
           patient groups.

        -  Compare the safety of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare survival of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified
      according to response to prior therapy (relapsed vs refractory), prior autologous stem cell
      transplantation (yes vs no), and number of prior therapy regimens (1-2 vs 3-6). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Arm I

        -  Induction: Patients receive oblimersen (G3139) IV continuously on days 1-7 and 15-21 and
           oral dexamethasone daily on days 4-7, 11-14, and 18-21.

        -  Maintenance: One week after completion of induction therapy, patients with stable or
           responsive disease receive G3139 IV continuously on days 1-7 and oral dexamethasone
           daily on days 4-7. Courses repeat every 3 weeks for a maximum of 1 year in the absence
           of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Arm II

        -  Induction: Patients receive oral dexamethasone daily for 4 days on weeks 1-3.

        -  Maintenance: One week after completion of induction therapy, patients with stable or
           responsive disease receive oral dexamethasone daily for 4 days. Courses repeat every 3
           weeks for a maximum of 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 200 patients (100 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  