
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Assess the feasibility of performing umbilical cord blood transplants in older patients
           or younger infirm patients with advanced hematologic malignancies using a
           reduced-intensity preparative regimen, as determined by > 80% engraftment rate at day
           180 and a < 50% transplant-related mortality rate at day 100.

      Secondary

        -  Describe the time to neutrophil and platelet recovery in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine disease-specific, event-free, and overall survival rate at days 180 and 360.

        -  Determine the incidence, severity, and timing of acute and chronic graft-versus-host
           disease in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Evaluate T-cell, B-cell, and natural killer cell recovery in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Assess lineage-specific chimerism after transplantation and describe the contribution of
           each individual cord blood unit to post-transplantation hematopoiesis.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

        -  Reduced-intensity preparative regimen: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes
           on days -8 to -4, busulfan IV over 2 hours 4 times daily on days -4 and -3, and
           anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 6 hours on days -3 to -1.

        -  Allogeneic umbilical cord blood transplantation: Patients undergo allogeneic umbilical
           cord blood transplant on day 0. Patients receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously or
           IV beginning on day 7 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive tacrolimus IV
           continuously over 24 hours or orally (as tolerated) beginning on day -2 and continuing
           for approximately 9 months. Patients also receive oral mycophenolate mofetil twice daily
           on days 1-50.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 10 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  