
    
      The study will contain two groups:

      Group 1 - stable elective patients with stenotic coronary arteries. These patients are
      referred as outpatients for a 'pressure wire' test.

      Group 2 - stable elective patients with a chronic total occlusion of an artery (CTO). The
      artery will be either the left anterior descending artery (LAD) or right coronary artery
      (RCA)

      Group 1 - 30 patients

      Patients will be recruited from referrals to the centre for a pressure wire study.
      Participants will be screened for eligibility using the protocol inclusion and exclusion
      criteria. Study information will be given and informed consent obtained.

      Patients will start the procedure prone. A physiology wire will be placed in the artery of
      interest and measurements taken. Patients will then be turned into the standard supine
      position with repeat measurements. The study is now completed. The usual pressure
      measurements will be taken and used to guide treatment as per standard protocol.

      Group 2 - 20 patients

      Patients will be recruited from referrals to the centre for a percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI) to a chronic total occlusion (CTO). Participants will be screened for
      eligibility using the protocol inclusion and exclusion criteria. Study information will be
      given and informed consent obtained.

      Patients will undergo CTO PCI as per standard procedure. Once completed, the vessel will be
      occluded using balloon inflation. Physiological measurements will be taken distal to the
      occluded balloon. The patient will then be turned prone and repeat measurements again with
      balloon occlusion will be taken.

      This group will have MRI scanning as part of standard care before the procedure. The study
      will carry out a further MRI, this time in the prone position before PCI as part of the study
      protocol
    
  