
    
      Primary Objectives:

      The primary objective of the trial is to compare the antiviral efficacy of a 10 day course of
      standard (75 mg bid) and high-dose (225 mg bid) oseltamivir (or equivalent doses in
      mild-moderate renal failure) in the treatment of severe influenza infections.

      The hypothesis is that high dose oseltamivir will increase the proportion of patients with
      negative reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR detection of influenza viral RNA (and viral culture,
      at selected sites) at Day 5 post-treatment.

      An important secondary objective of the trial, which reflects the main clinical objective, is
      to determine the difference in the numbers of ventilator days between the standard-dose and
      high-dose groups.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  Laboratory objectives:

             1. Assess viral RNA load and clearance from nasopharyngeal and tracheal aspirate
                (intubated) or oropharyngeal (non-intubated) samples by RT-PCR on days 1, 3, 5, 7,
                10, 14 and 28 days

             2. Determine viral clearance by culture from nasopharyngeal and tracheal aspirate
                (intubated) or oropharyngeal (non-intubated) samples on days 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 14 and
                28 days at select hospital sites with culture capability

             3. Assess the pharmacokinetics of oseltamivir carboxylate and phosphate on Day 3 in
                suspected H1N1 patients with respiratory distress and/or critical illness requiring
                ICU care

             4. Characterize the inflammatory cytokine response on Day 1-3, 5, 7, 10, 14, 21 and 28
                days to severe influenza stratified by standard-dose versus high-dose oseltamivir
                therapy.

             5. Assess leukocyte gene expression at day 1, 3, 5, 10 and 21 days using high
                throughput RNA assessment techniques

             6. Examine urine for biomarkers of disease and severe disease

        -  Clinical and Safety Objectives:

             1. Determine the difference in the number of ventilator days in the standard-dose and
                high-dose groups

             2. Determine tolerability of high-dose versus standard-dose oseltamivir as assessed by
                the number of serious, atypical and drug-related adverse events that are possibly
                or probably related to oseltamivir

             3. Assess other secondary efficacy variables including survival duration, hospital
                free days to day 60, ICU free days to day 60, and shock (ie vasopressor) and renal
                failure free (ie not requiring hemodialysis; ultrafiltration acceptable) days to
                day 28 in relation to high vs standard dose oseltamivir therapy

             4. Assess 60 day mechanical ventilation and ICU-free days stay in relation to high vs
                standard dose oseltamivir therapy

             5. Determine clinical criteria used by clinicians when electing to continue or
                re-initiate oseltamivir therapy beyond 10 study day treatment course

      Tertiary Objectives: Exploratory Analyses

        -  Laboratory Objectives:

             1. Assess the relationship between pharmacokinetic variables on day 3 and measures of
                viral clearance

             2. Assess the frequency and genetic basis of antiviral resistance to oseltamivir
                during and after therapy

             3. Determine possible host genetic factors including HLA type that predispose to
                severe influenza

        -  Clinical and Safety Objectives:

             1. Determine differences in development and persistence of adverse clinical signs
                (fever, heart rate, hypotension), requirement for and duration of organ support
                (supplemental oxygen, vasopressor/inotropes, continuous renal replacement therapy)
                and occurrence and resolution of organ failure by Sequential Organ Failure
                Assessment (SOFA) score at days 7, 10, 14 and 28 as a consequence of high-dose
                versus standard-dose oseltamivir

             2. Determine impact of oseltamivir dosing on frequency of progression to mechanical
                ventilation among non-ventilated patients
    
  