
    
      In many parts of the world, initial standard of care for HIV includes 3TC/ZDV and the
      non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor EFV. However, it is unclear if early (CD4
      count less than 350 cells/mm3) or delayed (CD4 count less than 200 cells/mm3) therapy
      initiation leads to improved survival. This study will determine the most appropriate time to
      initiate ART in HIV infected individuals in Haiti. The study will enroll patients from the
      Haitian Study Group on Kaposi's Sarcoma and Opportunistic Infections (GHESKIO) Centers. Some
      participants in this study will have active pulmonary tuberculosis (TB).

      This study will last at least 3 years. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two
      groups at study entry. Group A participants will receive 3TC/ZDV twice daily and EFV once
      daily at study enrollment. Participants receiving TB therapy at the time of enrollment may be
      observed for 2 weeks prior to beginning early therapy. Dosage adjustment of EFV may be
      necessary for participants receiving rifampin as part of their TB therapy. Group B
      participants will receive 3TC/ZDV twice daily and EFV once daily when they develop clinical
      AIDS or their CD4 count drops below 200 cells/mm3 (WHO Stage IV). Directly observed therapy
      will be used for the first two months of treatment for every participant.

      Group A participants will have 14 study visits after beginning treatment; the visits will
      occur at Months 1, 2, 3, and every 3 months thereafter. Medical and medication history,
      physical exams, and contraceptive counseling for women will occur at all visits. HIV
      counseling, blood collection, and HIV staging will occur at most visits. At some study
      visits, Group A participants will be asked to complete quality of life and adherence
      questionnaires. Group B participants will have 14 study visits after study entry and will
      begin treatment when they meet WHO criteria. Assessments will be the same as for Group A. Any
      participant who fails the first-line regimen during the study will switch to a second-line
      ART regimen.
    
  