
    
      Stroke is the leading cause of long-term disability in the United States. Approximately
      70-88% of persons with ischemic stroke have some degree of motor impairment. A major goal of
      research in stroke rehabilitation is to harness the ability of the brain to reorganize after
      neurologic damage has occurred and thus ultimately lead to successful recovery of function.
      Data from animal and human models have suggested that sensory input plays an important role
      in motor output, possibly by influencing cortical plasticity. However, in spite of the
      advances to date, little is known about the extent to which sensory input in the form of
      peripheral nerve stimulation (PNS) can be successfully combined to physical training,
      especially in poorly recovered subacute stroke patients. The proposed study will evaluate the
      effectiveness of sustained PNS coupled with motor training, to improve hand motor function in
      subacute stroke patients with severe motor deficit. Our preliminary data in chronic stroke
      patients with severe motor deficit demonstrate that motor function can be substantially
      enhanced when PNS is paired with motor training. In addition, a separate study in patients
      with mild motor deficit receiving motor training alone suggests that the optimal therapeutic
      time window to deliver motor training is within the first year after stroke. The improvement
      of behavioral motor function was associated with corticomotor reorganization. Therefore, this
      study proposes to evaluate the effectiveness of sustained PNS paired with motor training, to
      promote functional motor recovery in subacute stroke patients with severe motor deficit. The
      central hypothesis is that subacute stroke patients with severe motor deficit receiving PNS
      and intensive task-oriented therapy will have improved motor function compared to patients
      receiving sham-PNS and task-oriented therapy, and the degree of this behaviorally-measured
      effect will correlate with the neurophysiological effect measured by transcranial magnetic
      stimulation. The investigators plan to accept or reject the central hypothesis by
      accomplishing two Specific Aims: 1) test the effect of PNS preceding task-oriented therapy on
      hand motor function, and 2) test the effect of PNS preceding task-oriented therapy on motor
      map measured by transcranial magnetic stimulation. The long-range goals are: a) to maximize
      the restoration of hand motor function after stroke, b) to determine the impact of this
      intervention in activities of daily living, and c) collect solid data to prepare for a future
      multicenter randomized clinical trial.
    
  