
    
      The Composite Variability Index (CVI, Aspect Medical System, Norwood MA) is a new parameter
      (measurement) that provides information about the amount of painful stimulation during
      surgery. It is part of the Bispectral Index (BIS, Aspect Medical Systems, Norwood MA), a
      well-established and widely used parameter that shows how awake/asleep patients are during
      general anesthesia and may indicate a need for more medication. The CVI component provides
      specific information about whether the patient needs pain medication (called opioids) and not
      just medication that makes you sleep (called hypnotics). The CVI is made of the BIS number
      and a measure of facial muscle movement (EMG). Both these components increase with painful
      stimulation, and decrease when pain medication is given.

      Neuromuscular blocking drugs (NMD) are paralyzing medications that are often used during
      surgery to relax the body and make it easier for the surgeon to perform the surgery and the
      anesthesiologist to insert the breathing tube (called intubation). Facial muscles are
      resistant to NMD effects, but they might affect the EMG reading, making the CVI less useful
      when a patient needs NMD. The M-entropy monitor (GE Healthcare, Helsinki, Finland) is similar
      to the BIS monitor with CVI and is affected by large NMD doses. The purpose of this study is
      to examine the effect of rocuronium, a NMD, on the response of CVI and M-entropy to
      laryngoscopy under anesthesia. A laryngoscopy is the standard way of examining and opening
      the patient's airway before inserting the breathing tube. It is fairly stimulating so
      anesthesiologists sometimes, but not always, administer a NMD (in varying doses) before
      performing the laryngoscopy in standard care.

      Eighty subjects will be recruited from those scheduled for surgery requiring general
      anesthesia at St Vincent's Hospital. Subjects must have ASA status of 1 or 2 (be fairly
      healthy), a BMI between 18-35 (reasonably healthy weight), and be between the ages of 18 and
      75. They will not be eligible if they take certain medications or are expected to have a
      difficult intubation.

      Subjects will be randomized (assigned by chance) to one of four rocuronium doses of 0, 0.2,
      0.4, or 0.6 mg kg-1. All are acceptable clinical doses for performing a laryngoscopy. In the
      operating room, routine monitors will be applied, including a BIS sensor and an M-Entropy
      sensor. Subjects will receive 0.025 mg kg-1 midazolam (a standard pre-op dose) and will be
      put to sleep. Once asleep, the subject will receive a rocuronium dose, followed by
      laryngoscopy three minutes later. The anesthesiologist performing the laryngoscopy will not
      know what dose of rocuronium the subject received. CVI, entropy, amount of muscle relaxation,
      and vital signs will be monitored and recorded throughout the procedure.

      Subjects will receive propofol and remifentanil infusions during the case. These are commonly
      used medications for anesthesia. The subjects will also be randomized (assigned by chance) to
      two additional groups. One group will receive a remifentanil infusion of 2ng ml-1 and the
      other group will receive a 8ng ml-1 remifentanil infusion. Both doses are acceptable and
      often used during standard clinical care. The propofol infusion will be adjusted to keep the
      BIS number between 45-60. The anesthesiologist will not be able to see the CVI value. The
      times of certain intraoperative events, such as intubation and incision, will be recorded.
      All subjects will receive a morphine bolus (0.10-0.15 mg/kg) towards the end to reduce
      post-operative pain, as per standard clinical care. As the subject wakes up, time to eye
      opening and orientation will be recorded. The subject will rate their pain on a numerical
      pain scale and the quality of emergence will be assessed.

      Upon arrival in the PACU, subjects will be asked to rate their pain again using the same pain
      scale. The pain score will be evaluated every 10 minutes for half an hour, then every hour
      until they are discharged from PACU. The total dose of pain medications administered in PACU
      will be recorded. Upon PACU discharge, subjects will be asked to rate their overall
      experience with anesthesia. Demographic data will also be collected. All data will be kept in
      locked file cabinets and study results will be shared with research personnel at Aspect
      Medical Systems.
    
  