
    
      Background/Rationale: Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is known to be a heterogeneous
      disease, and different molecular sub-classifications are proposed based in specific
      biomarkers as immunohistochemical (IHC) expression of the androgen-receptor (AR), Epidermal
      growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), Cytokeratin 5/6 (CK5/6), Cytokeratin14 (CK14), Cytokeratin 17
      (CK17), clusters of differentiation 117 (CD 117), p53, Ki67 level, Programmed cell
      death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) and PD-L2 in tumor cell membrane and the pattern of tumor infiltrating
      mono-lymphocytes (PD-1+, FOXP3+, CD 4+ or cluster designation 8 (CD8 +), CD 3+, cluster of
      differentiation 56 (CD56+), cluster designation 68 (CD68+) or CD 14+). Predicting response
      and survival to neoadjuvant treatment of locally advanced triple-negative breast cancer
      remains a major challenge. Many doubts still prevail over the role of new biomarkers in
      predicting different outcomes for tumors with the same stage and morphological
      characteristics.

      Objectives and Hypotheses:

      Primary objective: To evaluate the association of the intratumoral lymphocytic infiltrate
      (TILs) status profile in the core biopsy with complete pathological response (CPR) outcomes
      to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and progression-free survival (PFS). Secondary objectives: To
      evaluate the association of the others biomarkers expression profile and the quality of TILs
      with PFS and CPR. To determine the prevalence of a large immunohistochemical panel (AR, EGFR,
      CK5/6, CK14, CK17, CD 117, p53, Ki67 level, PD-L1 and PD-L2 in tumor cell membrane and the
      pattern of tumor infiltrating mono-lymphocytes PD-1+, FOXP3+, CD 4+ , CD8 +, CD 3+, CD56+,
      CD68+ and/or CD 14+), before and after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. To determine if the
      negativation of biomarkers after the systemic treatment is associated with CPR and PFS.

      Methods:

      Study design: A cohort with retrospective data collection and sectional analysis of
      pathological material.

      Data Source(s): Medical records and pathological material. Study Population: Women with
      locally advanced triple negative breast cancer consecutively enrolled at Brazilian National
      Cancer Institute (INCA) submitted to neoadjuvant treatment and subsequently operated.

      Exposure(s): Status of specified biomarkers. Outcome(s): Complete Pathologic Response and
      Progression free Survival and Sample Size Estimations: With a type I error of 5% and study
      power of 80%, it is estimated that 155 patients are needed.

      Statistical Analysis: Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS (version 18.0 for
      windows, statistical package for social science (SPSS) Inc., Chicago, IL). Survival curves
      will be constructed using the Kaplan-Meier method.
    
  