
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the effect of augmenting symptomatic follow-up in primary care with two
           intensive methods of follow-up (monitoring tumor marker in primary care and intensive
           imaging in hospital) on survival of patients with stage I, II, or III colorectal cancer
           who have undergone curative resection.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the quality of life of these patients.

        -  Determine the cost of National Health Service (NHS) services utilized.

        -  Determine the NHS cost per life-year saved.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to certainty of need
      for imaging follow-up, as determined by the local clinician (uncertain vs certain). Patients
      are randomized to 1 of 4 follow-up arms.

        -  Arm I (primary care follow-up): Patients undergo symptomatic follow-up (i.e., are asked
           to contact their physician if they have symptoms suggestive of disease recurrence). Some
           patients may also undergo a single CT scan 12-18 months post-randomization.

        -  Arm II (primary care follow-up): Patients undergo tumor marker measurements (CEA) at
           baseline, every 3 months for 2 years, and every 6 months for 3 years. Some patients may
           also undergo a single CT scan 12-18 months post-randomization.

        -  Arm III (intensive hospital follow-up): Patients undergo CT scan or MRI at baseline,
           every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 3 years.

        -  Arm IV (primary care and intensive hospital follow-up): Patients undergo primary care
           and intensive hospital follow-up as in arms II (without the single CT scan) and III.

      All patients receive a handbook from their physician detailing possible symptoms suggestive
      of disease recurrence.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and then annually for 5 years.
    
  