
    
      This is a prospective, single- blinded randomized clinical trial conducted in University
      Kebangsaan Malaysia Medical Centre (UKMMC). Umbilical cord serum will be provided by Pusat
      Darah Negara (National Blood Centre), Malaysia. All patients from Ophthalmology Clinic in UKM
      Medical Centre from December 2019 till December 2021 will be involved in this study. Patients
      who fulfill the inclusion criteria will be included in this study. Informed consent will be
      taken and dry eye assessment that includes visual acuity, OSDI score, Schirmer test, NITBUT,
      corneal fluorescein staining, TMH and conjunctival injection. The patients will be randomised
      into 2 groups; AT eye drops and UCS eye drops.

      Human umbilical cord blood samples will be collected from Maternity Hospital, Hospital Kuala
      Lumpur with assistance of the nurses from Cord Blood Collection Unit. All maternal blood
      samples were collected after the written informed consent from respective parents and
      subjected for virology screening.

      National Blood Bank has a procedure for virology screening and all collected maternal
      umbilical cord bloods will be screened for Hep B Surface Antigen, Anti-HCV Ag/Ab, HIV Ag/Ab,
      Syphillis and Cytomegalovirus (CMV) IgM in Transfusion Microbiology Laborator (Accredited by
      ISO 15189 and CSL). Method that has been used in the screening as below:

        -  Hep B Surface Antigen, Anti-HCV, HIV Ag/Ab: Chemiluminescent Microparticle Immunoassay
           (CMIA).

        -  Syphilis : Carbon Antigen (Manual)

        -  CMV IgM : Electrochemiluminescence Immunoassay (ECLIA)

      Whereas, the CB samples are screened for bacteriology screening pre and post processing to
      ensure sterility of the product. The serum will be discarded if any of the laboratory results
      are positive or reactive.

      The collected cord blood (CB) will then be placed in an incubator at the collection centre
      until the cord blood samples are sent to National Blood Bank in an ice box with temperature
      logger. Once the ice box reached National Blood Bank, MLT will check the temperature logger
      and make sure all the temperature data within range (10-26oC) before starting the UCS serum
      eye drops production.

      CB will be processed in Cord Blood Processing Unit within 24 hours of collection to ensure
      retrieval of high quality of bioactive molecules. Laboratory temperature room, humidity and
      oxygen will be monitored twice a day. Upon arrival at the processing laboratory, the CB will
      then be left at room temperature for about 2 hours to allow the CB to clot completely. After
      15 minutes of centrifugation at 3,000 × g, under sterile conditions, the serum fraction will
      be carefully separated from the cellular fraction. Separated serum is then transferred to a
      tygon tube by using a sterile docking device and diluted to a 20% dilution with balanced salt
      solution (BSS) without any antibiotics, and finally sealed into 1-inch segment consisting of
      approximately 1 ml serum eye drops. The segmented UCS will then be frozen at -20oC for 3 to 6
      months or at -80°C for long term storage.

      For safety and quality interest, frozen segments will be transported to UKMMC blood bank
      using a transportation box filled with dry ice to ensure UCS are at frozen state and to
      maintain the quality of the product until they reach destination. From UKMMC blood bank,
      participants will need to bring the frozen UCS eye drops home by transporting them in a
      cooler box with ice packs. At home, the frozen UCS eye drops will need to be kept in domestic
      freezer. The frozen UCS eye drops must be thawed at room temperature prior to usage and
      thereafter stored in the refrigerator at 2-8°C for a maximum of 24 hours. A short instruction
      sheet will be provided to participants on UCS usage. There will be no porcine/bovine
      materials involved in the whole process.

      Statistical analysis will be performed using Statistical Package for Social Science, version
      20.0 (SPSS, Inc., Chicago, III., USA) for Windows. Mean value comparisons between study
      groups can be performed with the Student's T-test using 2 sided-analysis. Mean value
      comparisons for follow up can be analysed with ANOVA. Categorical characteristics can be
      analyzed using a Chi-square. Differences are considered statistically significant at P<0.05.
    
  