
    
      Since the first pregnancy using IVF was achieved nearly 40 years ago, many aspects of this
      procedure have undergone significant progress. In contrast, the technique of embryo transfer
      (ET) has remained relatively unchanged. A simple yet critical element in the final step of
      IVF, ET has received little attention. In general, the procedure starts by placing a speculum
      in the vagina to visualize the cervix, which is cleansed with saline solution or culture
      media. A transfer catheter is loaded with the embryos is inserted through the cervical canal
      and advanced into the uterine cavity where the embryos are deposited.

      The catheter is then withdrawn and handed to the embryologist, who inspects it for retained
      embryos. Ultrasound (US) guidance is used to facilitate atraumatic insertion of the catheter,
      as well as ensure correct location in the uterine cavity.

      The available evidence suggests that there is a benefit of using US guidance during ET
      (Teixeira et al, Ultrasound Obstet Gynecol. 201;45:139-48, Abou-Setta et al, Fertil Steril.
      2007;88:333-41).

      High quality US imaging is difficult to achieve if the distance from the abdominal wall to
      the uterus is big (thick abdominal wall, retro-verted uterus), or if the bladder is not full
      enough.

      High resolution US imaging dictates short distance between the US transducer and the organ of
      interest (in our case cervical canal and endometrium). Previous effort in that direction was
      done using a vaginal US probe. However, this instrumentation makes the ET technique
      cumbersome and difficult to perform. We hypothesize that a significant advantage in imaging
      quality can be achieved by placing a flat or concave high frequency US transducer in the
      posterior fornix as an extension of the posterior speculum blade.

      Our overarching goal is to develop new ET procedure; this procedure will be dependent on
      precise and high resolution imaging. For that goal we consulted with ultrasound experts that
      recommended the use of dedicated probe. After a thorough review we found a probe (Philips
      21381A / T6207) that is used for pediatric transesophageal applications with operating
      frequency of 4-7 Megahetz.

      As part of the embryo transfer, the investigators plan to insert the above probe into the
      posterior fornix. The investigators will then evaluate the visualization abilities of placing
      a probe closer to the uterus. The aim is to define the ultrasound image parameters for ET.
      The information will be used to define the technical specification for a "tailor made" ET
      probe.
    
  