
    
      100 research subjects are expected to be enrolled in this study, all recruited from the Rush
      University Medical Center surgical (non-critical) services.

      As is the usual care at Rush University Medical Center, patients who have type 2 diabetes and
      are on insulin and or at least two oral diabetes medications are given only insulin during
      their inpatient stay to control their blood sugar. It is the normal practice to use only
      insulin the hospital instead of pills for treating your diabetes. The use of insulin would be
      temporary and just during your hospital stay. When you return home, you will resume using
      pills.

      Before the study begins, a computer system will randomly assign you a number, and those
      numbers belong to one of two groups. The number you have been given will determine which
      group you will go to. Throughout the study, you will be given a standard dose of basal
      insulin (Lantus). This dose will be your home dose if you are already using insulin. If you
      are not using insulin, you will be given a dose based on your weight.

      During your stay, you will be given meal trays for breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and each of
      the food items belonging to your meal tray will be marked with at a certain number of
      carbohydrates. For example, ½ cup of cottage cheese will contain 4 grams of carbohydrates and
      one slice of whole wheat bread will contain 14 grams of carbohydrates and one 5 oz apple will
      contain 21 grams of carbohydrates. A dietician will then count the total amount of
      carbohydrates that you consume with each meal.

      If you are assigned to the investigational arm of the study, you will be given a dose of
      mealtime insulin (Aspart) based on the number of carbohydrates you have consumed. If you are
      assigned to the control arm, you will be given your standard dose of mealtime insulin, if you
      eat more than 50% of your tray as is the usual practice at Rush, regardless of how much
      carbohydrate you eat. This dose will be your home dose if you are already using insulin or
      calculated based on your weight.

      In either arm, if meals are not given (due to additional procedures or other reasons) the
      insulin dose will not be given. For both arms of the study, you will be requested not to eat
      any snacks containing carbohydrates. Instead you may be request for snacks that do not
      contain carbohydrates such string cheese which the investigators will provide.

      Response to these therapies will be monitored by fingerstick glucose readings, also called
      point-of-care glucose. Your nurses will draw capillary blood, (less than 1 ml) via
      fingerstick on 4 occasions: pre-breakfast, pre-lunch, pre-dinner, and post-dinner / bedtime.
      These values will be sent to the study investigators, who will then adjust the amount of
      insulin that you are given.

      In addition, your doctors will check a blood test called an A1c. This test measures the
      average sugar level in your blood over the last 90 days. This test is done on all patients
      with diabetes who are hospitalized.
    
  