
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the impact of interventions proposed in intervention program (IP) versus (vs.)
      education alone (EDU) on adherence to oral 6MP (mercaptopurine) in children with acute
      lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Adherence will be measured by: i) Medication Event Monitoring
      Systems (MEMS) (primary measure of adherence to oral 6MP, providing real-time data; ii) red
      cell thioguanine nucleotide (TGN) levels (providing data on chronic, systemic 6MP exposure).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Examine the modifying effect of sociodemographic and psychosocial variables, and the
      mediating effect of health beliefs/ knowledge on change in adherence with intervention.

      II. Determine impact of IP vs. EDU on risk of relapse of ALL.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive the Patients Supply Kit containing an electronic pill monitoring
      system, a MEMS® medication bottle with TrackCap™ with standard resistant cap, and written
      instructions for the patient and pharmacist. Parents and/or caregivers are also trained to
      supervise patients' intake of the medication. Beginning on day 1, patients start using the
      MEMS® medication bottle with TrackCap™. Clinical research assistants contact patients and
      parents by telephone the next day to confirm that TrackCap™ is being used, to identify any
      obstacles, and to determine solutions. Beginning on day 29, patients and caregivers view an
      interactive multimedia educational program on-line or via DVD. Patients also receive a
      customized electronic mercaptopurine schedule and automated customized text message reminders
      delivered via cellular phone or web-based interface. Patients and caregivers are instructed
      to return the MEMS® medication bottle with TrackCap™ to the clinic by day 141.

      ARM II: Patients receive the usual standard of care and the mercaptopurine from the MEMS®
      medication bottle with TrackCap™ as patients in arm I. Patients and caregivers also view an
      interactive multimedia educational program on day 29.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years and
      then annually until 10 years from diagnosis.
    
  