
    
      The International Lamotrigine Pregnancy Registry aims to assess whether there is a
      substantial increase in the risk of major congenital malformations (MCMs) following in utero
      exposure to lamotrigine. Exposure during the first trimester is of primary interest as this
      represents the period of organogenesis. The Registry is a primarily prospective enrolment and
      follow-up study. Patients exposed to lamotrigine during pregnancy are enrolled, on a
      voluntary basis, by their healthcare provider. Enrolment is encouraged early in pregnancy and
      if possible prior to any prenatal testing. The healthcare provider provides initial
      information concerning patient demographics; details of the pregnancy including the estimated
      delivery date and results of any prenatal testing; and the timing, duration and dosage of
      lamotrigine exposure in pregnancy. The registry accepts exposure reports from anywhere in the
      world. Within the United States (US) the healthcare provider can contact the registry using a
      toll free number. Outside of the US enrolments are made through the GlaxoSmithKline local
      operating company.

      Close to the estimated date of delivery the healthcare provider is contacted by the Registry
      to provide follow up information concerning the pregnancy outcome (live or still birth,
      spontaneous or induced abortion), the presence or absence of a MCM, and the history of
      exposure to lamotrigine as well other antiepileptics and antipsychotics during pregnancy. Up
      to six attempts are made to contact the healthcare provider to obtain pregnancy outcome
      information. After six attempts, the record is closed as lost to follow up. Pregnancy
      outcomes are classified as outcomes with MCMs, outcomes without MCMs and spontaneous
      abortions. The outcomes with and without MCMs are further classified as live births,
      stillbirths/fetal deaths and induced abortions. Spontaneous abortions are reported separately
      due to potential for inconsistent identification of malformations in that situation.

      It is beyond the scope of the Registry to consistently access pediatric evaluations and
      medical records. For this reason the main outcome is restricted to major congenital
      malformations that are external and recognizable in the delivery room or shortly after birth.
      To provide consistency, reported congenital malformations are classified as major or minor
      according to criteria used by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)'s
      Metropolitan Atlanta Congenital Defects Program (MACDP). All malformation reports are
      reviewed and classified by a paediatrician from the CDC and further information is requested
      as necessary.

      Analyses are restricted to prospectively enrolled pregnancies (enrolment prior to knowledge
      of the birth outcome). Retrospectively enrolled pregnancies are reviewed for patterns of
      defect types, but are not included in formal analyses as retrospective reporting can be
      biased towards more unusual and severe outcomes and are less likely to be representative of
      the general population experience. The proportion of infants with MCMs among prospectively
      reported exposures is calculated as: the total number of outcomes with major birth defects
      (number of outcomes with major birth defects + the number of live births without defects).

      Chromosomal malformations are reported descriptively, but are not included in the numerator
      as it is very unlikely that they are associated with drug exposure during pregnancy. All
      spontaneous pregnancy losses, as well as induced abortions and fetal deaths without reported
      defects, are excluded from the denominator due to the potential for inconsistent
      identification of malformations in those situations. The 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for
      risk estimates are calculated using exact methods based on the binomial distribution.

      Analyses are stratified according to trimester of exposure (with the second trimester
      starting at week 14 and the third trimester at week 28 of gestation) and by exposure group
      (lamotrigine monotherapy, lamotrigine polytherapy including valproate and lamotrigine
      polytherapy without valproate).

      The registry does not have an internal comparator group, but descriptive comparisons are made
      with MCM rates from general population studies in the literature and from other ongoing AED
      pregnancy registries. Prospective reports are also reviewed to detect any unusual patterns of
      malformation types that may warrant further investigation. The data from the International
      Lamotrigine Pregnancy Registry are reviewed, and conclusions developed, by an independent
      scientific advisory committee. A semi-annual interim report summarizing aggregate data is
      provided to disseminate information on a regular basis.
    
  