
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the ability of treatment with short-term cultured autologous
           tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) in combination with high-dose aldesleukin after a
           nonmyeloablative lymphocyte-depleting preparative regimen comprising cyclophosphamide
           and fludarabine phosphate to mediate tumor regression in patients with metastatic
           melanoma.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this treatment regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the rate of repopulation of the young TIL cells.

        -  Establish in vitro immunological correlates that predict in vivo persistence and
           clinical response.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Conditioning regimen: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -7 and -6
           and fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -5 to -1.

        -  Tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) infusion and high-dose aldesleukin: Patients receive
           short-term cultured autologous TIL IV over 20-30 minutes on day 0. Patients also receive
           high-dose aldesleukin IV over 15 minutes every 8 hours on days 0-4.

      Patients with stable disease, partial response, or recurrent disease after initial response
      may receive 1 additional course of treatment (as above) beginning 8 weeks after completion of
      aldesleukin.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline, at 1 week and 1 month after TIL infusion, and then
      periodically thereafter for research studies. Samples are analyzed for differences in
      function and phenotype prior to and after TIL infusion. The immunological correlates of
      treatment are also evaluated using FACS, cytokine release assays, ELISPOT assays, flow
      cytometry, and PCR. TIL that are cryopreserved at the time of infusion are analyzed to
      determine cell phenotype and function; correlation of in vitro characteristics of the infused
      cells with in vivo antitumor activity; and the activity, specificity, and telomere length
      using flow FISH.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4-6 weeks, every 3 months for 1
      year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually for 2 years.
    
  