
    
      Aim 1: Hold Breakthrough Collaborative for integrating supportive care into kidney care.

      To achieve an overall improvement in aligning treatment with patient values and preferences,
      satisfaction with care, quality of life, and symptom and pain management, Pathways Project
      Collaborative teams will embark on an 18-month Collaborative beginning spring 2019. Beginning
      in May 2019, there will be a 4-month observation period to obtain baseline measurements of
      current supportive care practices at the participating sites. Through the application of the
      Pathways Project change package, project teams will enhance the delivery of supportive care
      processes for patients with kidney disease, specifically through the testing and
      implementation of shared decision-making and advance care planning; systematically
      identifying seriously ill patients; and providing palliative dialysis to seriously ill
      patients with advanced Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) whose goals are not compatible with
      standard dialysis schedules.

      Aim 2: Revise Pathways change package and resources in preparation for dissemination.

      In summer 2020, the Pathways Project Advisory Committee, including patient subject matter
      experts, will revise and strengthen the change package, resources and tools based on the
      knowledge gained through the Collaborative. The revisions will incorporate the dialysis
      center/ESCO teams' experience during the collaborative along with the preliminary evaluation
      results.

      Aim 3: Develop strategy for dissemination In fall 2020, the Pathways Project Advisory
      Committee will develop a strategy to disseminate the revised change package and results of
      the Collaborative. The dissemination strategy will include outreach to three audiences based
      on the outcomes of the Pathways Project: 1) the professional and scientific community through
      presentations at national meetings and articles in peer-reviewed journals; 2) the large
      dialysis organizations and those who oversee quality of dialysis care including the Forum of
      ESKD Networks, the individual networks, and the American Health Quality Association; and 3)
      policy makers including members of Congress and CMS to advocate for changes to improve
      patient-centered care for patients with kidney disease.

      To achieve these aims we will employ three primary tactics:

        1. The Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI) Breakthrough Collaborative Model - The
           Collaborative Model is the primary intervention for this project. It has been used to
           foster successful change adoption in numerous settings with a variety of health
           problems.

        2. The ESCO Model - ESCO stands for ESKD Seamless Care Organizations. ESCO's are a pilot
           program conducted by CMS to test value-based payment models for dialysis care. The ESCO
           program brings together economic incentives and organizational innovation factors to
           create a fertile field for uptake of innovations in patient- and family-centered care in
           the kidney care continuum. At least four of the participating dialysis centers are part
           of ESCO demonstration. Three centers (at American Renal Associates) are part of a
           similar private initiative to provide an integrated care model for ESKD patients.

        3. The Pathways Change Package - Provides an evidence-based set of changes and tools
           collated from the research literature and experiences and efforts of exemplars and
           organizations that have already successfully adopted supportive care best practices and
           shown positive outcomes. Justification for the study: Dialysis patients have significant
           unmet palliative care needs and arguably are the chronic disease patient population who
           receive the worst end-of-life care because of high intensity care (intensive care unit
           admission with frequent cardiopulmonary resuscitation, mechanical ventilation and
           feeding tube use compared to patients with cancer and other chronic diseases) at the end
           of life with very low referral to hospice. They have a high symptom burden, multiple
           co-morbid illnesses, and a shortened life expectancy.

      Hypothesis: A collaborative quality improvement approach with training of independent
      dialysis centers and CKD practices in supportive care best practices will lead to
      improvements in patient and staff-reported outcomes in patient care.

      Research Question: Will a collaborative quality improvement approach to spreading supportive
      care best practices at dialysis centers and affiliated CKD clinics measurably increase the
      provision of supportive care best practices leading to more effective goal-concordant care?

      Relevant background information:

      The absence in the United States of a comprehensive medical management without dialysis
      pathway which is available and selected by about 15% of advanced chronic kidney disease (CKD)
      patients in other countries is a major deficit in U.S. kidney care. In other ways as well,
      the current care of patients with advanced CKD in the U.S. is not patient-centered, nor does
      it utilize supportive care [i] approaches to optimize patients' quality of life. The Pathways
      Project is seeking to address these deficits through the implementation of a Collaborative.

      In a 2013 survey of dialysis center staff, only 4.5% of 487 respondents believed they were
      presently providing high-quality supportive care including at the end-of-life. When asked
      what one change could most improve supportive care in their dialysis center, the top choice
      was "guidelines to help with decision making in seriously ill patients." The second most
      frequently selected choice was the availability of supportive care consultation to patients.
      With the exception of a few innovative practices, specialty supportive care consultations are
      not generally available to patients on dialysis. In those places where supportive care
      consultation is an option for seriously ill patients on dialysis, nephrologists and their
      teams typically have not been trained in eliciting shared decision-making, communication, and
      symptom management skills that would help them deliver primary supportive care.

      Shared decision-making is a necessary component to informed consent for patients with
      advanced CKD. The American Society of Nephrology (ASN) has recommended shared decision-making
      prior to the initiation of dialysis. Despite ASN's recommendation, shared decision-making-the
      process in which patients and their family collaborate with healthcare providers to develop a
      care plan and make decisions about treatments based on patient preferences and values as well
      as the clinical risks and advantages-is poorly integrated into the care of patients with
      kidney disease. Most nephrologists express lack of comfort in discussing end-of-life issues.
      Consequently, most patients with CKD and those on dialysis have little awareness of their
      prognosis.

      Patients older than 75 years are the fastest growing segment of the dialysis population, but
      these patients, especially if they are frail or have co-morbidities, may not experience a
      survival benefit from dialysis treatment.The current default is to start elderly patients
      with advanced kidney disease and multiple co-morbid conditions on dialysis irrespective of
      their prognosis or likelihood of benefit. The symptom burden for patients with advanced CKD
      is comparable to that for patients on dialysis, and symptoms are under-recognized and
      under-treated because of lack of nephrology clinician expertise in supportive care.

      The symptom burden of patients on dialysis rivals that of those with cancer, and their
      five-year survival rate is worse. This tremendous suffering leads to staggering rates of
      voluntary dialysis withdrawal as high as 35% in the oldest groups, yet hospice and supportive
      care are underutilized. As a result, patients on dialysis are subjected to more aggressive
      treatment at the end-of-life than patients with other serious illnesses. Most patients die in
      the hospital and often after intensive procedures including mechanical ventilation, feeding
      tube placement, and cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Families of deceased dialysis patients
      rate the quality of their loved ones' end-of-life care worse than families of those with
      cancer and other chronic conditions.

      There is an urgent need to improve the care of patients with advanced and end stage kidney
      disease (ESKD). The current situation offers the opportunity to intervene with multiple
      evidence-based supportive care best practices to transform the care of these seriously ill
      patients by improving the delivery of supportive care throughout the continuum of kidney
      disease and making available to seriously ill patients who wish to withdraw from dialysis,
      delay dialysis, or avoid dialysis, a pathway that offers medical management without dialysis.

      [i] In surveys of patients and physicians, they prefer the term supportive care over
      palliative care. The term palliative care will be used to refer to the specialist title of
      physicians with board certification in hospice and palliative medicine along with specialist
      palliative care teams and to the practice of "palliative dialysis" which has a particular
      definition in the literature. Primary supportive care includes basic communication and
      symptom management skills provided by other than specialty-trained clinicians.
    
  