
    
      The study proposed in this protocol will determine if bioequivalence testing performed for
      the FDA translates into similar bioequivalence in a population of people with epilepsy when
      switching among different generics of the anti-epileptic drug (AED). Based on a variety of
      pharmacokinetic (PK) data and clinical reports of concern, the example anti epilepsy drug
      (AED) used for this study will be lamotrigine (LTG).

      In this single dose study, people with epilepsy taking AEDs, but not currently taking the
      test medication, lamotrigine, will be studied. We will use an order-randomized three-sequence
      six-period replicate design with the two most disparate generics studied in two replicate
      periods each and the brand (reference) product studied in two additional periods. A standard
      single dose of the test drug (lamotrigine 25mg) will be administered under controlled
      conditions (fasting with subsequent standardized meals) with a 12-hour in-facility blood
      sample collection followed by a collection every 24 hours for a total of a 96 hour sample
      collection that will be used to establish the pharmacokinetic measures of Cmax, AUC96 and
      AUC∞. Each period will be separated by at least a 12 day washout interval.

      The replicate studies will be used to determine the intra-individual variability of the
      pharmacokinetic responses of the brand and the two generic products, as well as
      subject-by-formulation interaction variances. The data will also be used to calculate
      simultaneously all parameters that are needed to compare the 3 products in average and
      individual bioequivalence and outlier analyses. The differences between the disparate
      generics will be used to establish if the current standards translate to equivalence within
      the limits of the brand intra-subject variation.

      The factors we will use to determine the most disparate generics include the results from the
      in vivo data from the ABE studies submitted to the FDA in the ANDA and in vitro chemical
      assay (potency) and dissolution data performed on several currently available lots. The
      intent is to study the specific lot of the generic product predicted to result in the lowest
      levels and compare it to the specific lot from another generic product predicted to result in
      the highest levels. Similarly, if multiple lots of the brand products are available, we will
      perform in vitro testing to establish the most desirable lot to study.

      Factors that alter metabolism, including concomitant AEDs that may have hepatic enzyme
      induction effects will be tracked but not excluded, as long as the dose remains constant, as
      the goal is to reproduce the 'real life' situation as closely as possible within the
      practical limits of funding and study size. Subjects receiving valproate as concomitant
      medication will be excluded because the prolongation of half life would not allow LTG to
      reliably be completely cleared by 13 days. The criteria that establish an enriched population
      will also be tracked and used in a secondary analysis, but will not be used as an inclusion
      requirement. The enriched population is defined as people who experienced an otherwise
      unexplained increase in seizures or adverse effects, or a substantial change in AED level
      after a switch in AED products.

      The discovery of any subject-by-formulation interaction outliers (i.e. subjects with
      differential pharmacokinetic reactions to a pair of formulations) will raise considerable
      concerns about equivalence. Recently established methods in the statistical analysis of
      outliers in crossover studies will be used to determine if any outliers are present.

      Qualified subjects will be screened and upon fulfilling inclusion/exclusion criteria and
      signing the informed consent will be enrolled in the study and enter the randomization phase
      (2-30 days). Subjects will be randomized according to a sealed allocation list that will be
      balanced for sequence and provided to each site prior to the first subject enrollment.
      Subjects that withdraw prior to completing the third period will be replaced in a randomized
      manner. The randomization list will be generated by the study statistical group. There are
      six test periods in three sequences for a sequence-randomized study. During two test periods
      subjects will receive a single dose of the brand AED and during the other four test periods
      subjects will receive a single dose from one of the two investigated generics (each twice).
      The single doses will be administered in the fasting state during an in-facility 12-hour
      pharmacokinetic session to collect samples to determine Cmax and AUCs. Four additional
      samples will be drawn at 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours after the dose as an outpatient (making
      each pharmacokinetic test last for 4 days). Each in-facility pharmacokinetic testing will be
      separated by a 12-23 day washout period; consistent washout periods of 14 days will be
      preferred. A final follow-up phone evaluation will be conducted 12-16 days (target 14 days)
      after the last dose. During the study the subjects will continue their usual concomitant
      medications, including AEDs, without change.

      Investigators will compare the AED levels as measured by Cmax and AUC in each group using
      average bioequivalence (ABE) and individual bioequivalence (IBE) criteria. Average
      bioequivalence will be established if the 90% confidence intervals of the geometric mean of
      Cmax and AUCs for the most disparate generic products compared to each other are entirely
      within the 80%-125% range (the FDA criteria for bioequivalence) using the two one-sided
      standard analyses. Otherwise the products will be considered to not be bioequivalent.
      Similarly, the products will be considered to not be bioequivalent if the criteria for IBE
      for each generic product compared to the brand product are not met.

      Study Population: Approximately 54 subjects (45 subjects to completion).

      Number of centers: 3 sites enrolling approximately 18 subjects each.

      Duration of study: Approximately 1 year.
    
  