
    
      This comparative, randomized, prospective clinical study is designed to compare clinical
      outcomes and facial bone height and thickness of two different bone grafting techniques after
      augmentation in (Type 2) early implant placement.

      Human subjects who could potentially qualify with the said inclusion criteria will be
      evaluated and screened. 24 human subjects who qualify for the procedure will have a thorough
      evaluation performed after obtaining consent from the patient. All subjects will require
      extraction of maxillary teeth (incisors, canines, premolars), followed by early implant
      placement of the missing teeth after 4 to 8 weeks extraction.

      There will be two subject groups in this study in which the 24 human subjects in will
      randomly be placed by selecting the number "1" or "2" from a hat. 24 human subjects will be
      divided into two groups including 12 subjects using control group design and 12 subjects
      using test group design. 12 subjects will be placed randomly into Group 1 and will undergo
      the flapless extraction and early implant placement with GBR procedure using the control
      group design. 12 subjects will be placed randomly into Group 2 and will undergo the flapless
      extraction and early implant placement with GBR procedure using the test group design.

      During the implant placement visit after 4 to 8 weeks of extraction, patient will be asked to
      select a number from a hat. If the number showed "1" as a control group, autograft , BBM and
      collagen membrane will be used as GBR materials after implant placement. If the number showed
      "2" as a test group, FDBA and collagen membrane will be used as GBR materials after implant
      placement.

      Extraction sites will include maxillary teeth (11,12,13,14,15,21,22,23,24,25 according to
      FDI) having intact adjacent teeth. Implants placed for this study will have a SLActive
      surface, bone level design, Straumann NC 3.3mm or RC 4.1mm in diameter at all available
      implant lengths.

      Control group: early implant placement with autograft plus BBM (Bio-Oss, Geistlich Pharm AG,
      Wolhausen, Switzerland) plus two layers of collagen membrane (BioGide®).

      Test group: early implant placement with FDBA (Straumann Allograft GC®) plus two layers of
      collagen membrane (BioGide®).

      These procedures will follow the guidelines as described by Buser et al. (2008). Implant
      placements will follow standard protocols utilizing tapping and placement with the hand
      ratchet.

      A CBCT radiograph will be made during the screening visit to determine eligibility for the
      study and immediately following implant placement with GBR procedure to provide facial bone
      height and thickness measurements. The second CBCT procedure is not typically a standard of
      care procedure. After 12 months post loading healing time, the patient will receive another
      CBCT. This CBCT is also not a standard of care procedure but can accurately assess the amount
      of facial bone height and thickness maintained during the follow-up period.
    
  