
    
      Protocol Title: Avelumab in patients with newly diagnosed Glioblastoma Multiforme

      Indication: Patients with newly diagnosed Glioblastoma Multiforme

      Study Type: Single center, phase 2, open ended, open label addition of avelumab to standard
      therapy

      Objectives

      Primary Objectives:

      To determine the safety and tolerability of avelumab administered as 10mg/kg IV q2weeks in
      patients receiving standard therapy for newly diagnosed GBM.

      Secondary objectives:

      To determine the impact of the addition of avelumab at a dose of 10mg/kg IV Q2weeks in
      patients receiving standard therapy for newly diagnosed GBM on overall survival (OS),
      progression free survival (PFS) and other antitumor activity parameters according to the
      immunotherapy Response Assessment for Neuro-Oncology (iRANO) (1) at 52 weeks.

      Exploratory objectives:

      To explore biomarkers that could predict treatment response to avelumab such as: the tumor
      immunoscore, presence and extent of PD-L1 expression on tumor cells and microglia/macrophages
      within the tumor

      To correlate the OS and PFS in relation to the change between baseline and end of study
      neurocognitive function as measured by the evoked potential P300 (normal), the baseline
      corticosteroid dose, the average daily corticosteroid dose over the whole study duration,
      those who for tolerability reasons do not complete the temozolomide standard 6 monthly pulses
      of therapy and the presence and severity of immune related adverse events (irAE's).

      To assess and compare above mentioned biomarkers in tissue samples from patients with second
      surgical resection ie treatment failures.

      To assess in this GBM population the duration of pseudoprogression and the lagtime needed for
      immunotherapy to become effective.

      Study Design: This is a single center, phase 2, open label, add-on, single dose study in
      patients receiving standard therapy for newly diagnosed GBM. In total 30 patients who meet
      the entry criteria will be entered into the study within 3 weeks of finishing their last day
      of combined radiotherapy/temozolamide. Avelumab will be initiated concurrently with the
      initiation of the first 5 day, monthly cycle of temozolamide and continued for a total of 260
      weeks.

      A local pathology report will constitute adequate documentation of histology for study
      inclusion.

      The tumor block used for diagnosis of GBM must be collected for each patient and sent for
      MGMT assessment (if not already done), biomarker and immunoscore analysis. The availability
      of these samples is mandatory for randomization into the study, and they must be sent within
      2 months after patient's entry into the study for analysis.

      Paraffin embedded blocks containing formalin-fixed tumor tissue representative of the
      glioblastoma diagnosis is the preferred sample (if available, and of sufficient quality),
      otherwise, a partial tumor block, or pathology material should be sent. If surgery was not
      performed but biopsy was performed (or if it is not possible to send FFPE tumor tissue
      blocks) at least 10 unstained, uncovered slides must be sent.

      The study will consist of 3 different phases: a Combination Phase, a Monotherapy Phase and an
      Extended Safety Follow-up Phase

      Combination Phase: Upon completion of the standard combination therapy of radiotherapy (total
      dose 60 Gy, administered as daily 2Gy fractions, 5 days/week) and temozolomide (75 mg/m2/day
      p.o. qd) and a treatment break of no more than 21 days, the combination phase will start.
      Patients will receive temozolomide and avelumab for 6 cycles of 28 days each. During the 1st
      cycle Temozolomide will be given the first 5 days at a dose of 150mg/m2/day p.o. In the next
      cycle, the temozolomide dose should be escalated to 200/mg/m2 if permitted by the patient's
      hematological and non-hematological toxicity profile (as per NCI-CTC AE version 3). The
      temozolomide dose will be adjusted according to hematological and non-hematological toxicity
      as per temozolomide's product monograph (appendix 4). Avelumab will be administered on day 1
      and day 15 of each cycle at a dose of 10mg/kg IV. Avelumab therapy will be withheld according
      to the occurrence and severity of avelumab related adverse events as per table 3. Patients
      will continue the combination of temozolomide (150-200mg/m2 per day PO X5 days Q28days) and
      avelumab (at 10mg/kg dose, IV on days 1 and 15 per cycle) until 6 cycles are completed or
      until confirmed disease progression or unacceptable (grade 3 or higher) avelumab related
      toxicity occurs.

      Monotherapy Phase: Upon completion of the Combination Phase or upon stopping temozolomide
      because of temozolomide related toxicity the patient will continue into the avelumab
      Monotherapy Phase. Avelumab 10mg/kg IV Q2weeks will be continued as monotherapy until a total
      of 260 weeks of avelumab has been received or evidence of confirmed disease progression as
      per the iRANO definition or unacceptable (grade 3 or higher) avelumab related toxicity has
      occurred.

      Patients who experience irAE's may according to table 3 directives have their avelumab
      therapy suspended.

      The use of Bevacizumab, second surgical resection or re-irradiation will not be allowed in
      the study and will be considered as evidence of disease progression.

      Patients will be promptly informed upon confirmation of disease progression as per the new
      iRANO criteria. They will be offered to pursue with the avelumab therapy as per protocol or
      to withdraw from therapy and enter the extended safety follow up phase.

      Upon completion of the Monotherapy Phase at week 260 patients will be then be offered the
      option of being rolled over into an open label extension study or receive commercial avelumab
      via a special access program.

      Extended Safety Follow-up Phase:

      Patients who discontinue avelumab therapy for any reason at any point in the study will be
      entered into an extended safety follow-up period of 90 days. Treatment will then be at the
      investigator or local oncologist's discretion. All subjects will be observed for the possible
      occurrence of delayed irAE's. Survival data and information about subsequent therapies will
      be collected. Tissue samples in patients undergoing second surgical resections will be
      obtained for further biomarker analysis.
    
  