
    
      RA is an autoimmune disease that causes long-term inflammation of the joints and sometimes
      other body tissues, too. Recent studies have found that there is an increased prevalence of
      coronary artery atherosclerosis, metabolic syndrome, and insulin resistance among people with
      RA. Furthermore, insulin resistance, which can lead to hyperinsulinemia-too much insulin in
      the blood-has been associated with RA disease activity and the severity of coronary artery
      atherosclerosis. These correlations suggest that inflammation and hyperinsulinemia somehow
      interact and facilitate one another.

      Pioglitazone is a prescription drug that reduces insulin resistance and is currently used to
      treat people with diabetes. This study will determine whether pioglitazone can also be used
      to effectively treat people with RA. Specifically, the study will evaluate the effect of
      pioglitazone on inflammation, insulin resistance, and atherosclerosis.

      Participation in this study will last about 20 weeks. At an initial 1-hour screening,
      participants will undergo a physical examination, medical history review, blood sampling,
      and, if female, a urine pregnancy test. Eligible participants will then return for the first
      of six monthly study visits. At this first visit, participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive either pioglitazone or placebo, both of which will be taken daily for 8 weeks. This
      will be followed by a 4-week wash-out period, during which no study treatments will be taken.
      Then, at Week 12, participants will begin daily treatments of whatever they were not assigned
      to originally. This second treatment phase will also last for 8 weeks.

      All of the study visits will involve the same tests and procedures. The morning before each
      study visit, participants will collect their urine in a jug, which they will bring to the
      clinic. Participants will then undergo blood sampling, blood pressure measurements, and
      artery stiffness measurements. During the study visits at Weeks 4, 8, 16, and 20,
      participants will be asked to report on their symptoms, pain, and any adverse effects.
    
  