
    
      The ultimate objective of the proposed line of research is to determine if cryoanalgesia is
      an effective treatment for pain associated with rib fractures; and, if this analgesic
      modality improves pulmonary mechanics measured with incentive spirometry.

      Specific Aim 1: To determine if, compared with current and customary analgesia for rib
      fracture(s), intercostal nerve cryoneurolysis improves maximum inspiratory volume.

      Hypothesis 1a: The maximum inspired volume will be significantly increased on the day
      following the procedure [primary endpoint] as well as at other time points following the
      procedure [secondary end points] with intercostal cryoanalgesia as compared single-injection
      local anesthetic-based intercostal nerve blocks [measured with an incentive spirometer].

      Hypothesis 1b: The maximum inspired volume as a percentage of the baseline will be
      significantly increased on the day following the procedure [secondary endpoint of greatest
      interest], as well as at other time points following the procedure [secondary end points]
      with intercostal cryoanalgesia as compared with single-injection local anesthetic-based
      intercostal nerve blocks [measured with an incentive spirometer].

      Specific Aim 2: To determine if, compared with current and customary analgesia, intercostal
      nerve cryoneurolysis decreases the pain associated with rib fracture(s).

      Hypothesis 2a: The severity of rib fracture pain at rest will be significantly decreased
      within the 12 months following the procedure with intercostal cryoneurolysis as compared with
      subjects receiving single-injection local anesthetic-based intercostal nerve blocks [measured
      using the Numeric Rating Scale for pain].

      Hypothesis 2b: The severity of rib fracture pain when using the spirometer or coughing will
      be significantly decreased within the 12 months following the procedure with intercostal
      cryoneurolysis as compared with subjects receiving single-injection local anesthetic-based
      intercostal nerve blocks [measured using the Numeric Rating Scale for pain].

      Hypothesis 2c: The incidence of chronic pain will be significantly decreased 6 and 12 months
      following a rib fracture with intercostal cryoeurolysis as compared with subjects receiving
      single-injection local anesthetic-based intercostal nerve blocks [measured using the Numeric
      Rating Scale for pain].

      Hypothesis 2d: The severity of chronic pain will be significantly decreased 6 and 12 months
      following a rib fracture with intercostal cryoneurolysis as compared with subjects receiving
      single-injection local anesthetic-based intercostal nerve blocks [measured using the Numeric
      Rating Scale for pain].

      The cryoneurolysis procedure will be compared with our current standard practice.

      Study Overview Day 0 Baseline pain levels and spirometry Subjects randomized and
      cryoneurolysis/sham procedure administered Post-block pain levels and spirometry repeated

      Days 1, 2, 7 Pain levels, opioid consumption, sleep disturbances due to pain, and incentive
      spirometry values collected [as well as the day of discharge]

      Months 0.5, 1, 1.5 , 2, 3, 6, and 12 Pain levels, opioid consumption, sleep disturbances due
      to pain, and pain interference collected [and incentive spirometry if subject has spirometer
      available]

      Subjects will be individuals who present to one of the UCSD hospitals with rib fracture(s)
      and significant pain. Both universities will be following the same protocol and the subjects
      from both institutions will be combined for the analysis. Those who consent to participate in
      this study will have standard ultrasound-guided intercostal nerve blocks administered with
      ropivacaine 0.5% (with epinephrine), 3 mL/level of each fracture rib as well as one level
      above and one level below.

      Treatment group assignment (randomization). Subjects will be allocated to one of two possible
      treatments stratified by treatment center and unilateral vs. bilateral fractures:

        1. active cryoneurolysis (sham local anesthetic intercostal blocks)

        2. sham cryoneurolysis (active local anesthetic intercostal blocks)

      Computer-generated randomization lists created by the UC San Diego Investigational Drug
      Service will be used to create sealed, opaque randomization envelopes with the treatment
      group assignment enclosed in each envelope labeled with the randomization number. The lists
      will be kept by the Investigational Drug Service and not provided to the investigators until
      completion of data collection (1 year following enrollment of the final subject).

      The specific intercostal nerves targeted will depend on the injury site. The treatment sites
      will be cleansed with chlorhexidine gluconate and isopropyl alcohol. Using the optimal
      ultrasound transducer for the specific anatomic location and subject anatomy (linear vs
      curvilinear array), the target nerves will be identified in a transverse cross-sectional
      (short axis) view. The intercostal nerve of each fractured rib as well as the level above and
      below will be treated with the protocol below:

      Intercostal nerve block procedure: The target nerve will be visualized with ultrasound. Local
      anesthetic (1% lidocaine) will be used to infiltrate the skin and underlying muscle at each
      entry point. A 20 g Tuohy needle will be introduced through the skin wheel and along the
      anesthetized muscle tract. For subjects randomized to active cryo, 3 mL of normal saline will
      be injected into the muscle superficial to the nerve; and for subjects randomized to sham
      cryo, 3 mL of ropivacaine 0.5% (with epinephrine) will be injected perineurally to provide
      the intercostal nerve block.

      Cryoneurolysis procedure: Cryoneurolysis probes are available for a console neurolysis device
      (PainBlocker, Epimed, Farmers Branch, Texas) that either (1) pass nitrous oxide to the tip
      inducing freezing temperatures; or, (2) vent the nitrous oxide at the base of the probe so
      that no gas reaches the probe tip, resulting in no temperature change. The latter is a sham
      procedure since without the temperature change, no ice ball forms and therefore the target
      nerve is not affected. An angiocatheter/introducer will be inserted beneath the ultrasound
      transducer and directed until the probe tip is immediately adjacent to the target nerve. The
      angiocatheter needle will be removed, leaving the angiocatheter through which the appropriate
      Epimed probe will be inserted until it is adjacent to the target nerve. The cryoneurolysis
      device will be triggered using 2 cycles of 2-minute gas activation (active or sham) separated
      by 1-minute defrost periods. For active probes, the nitrous oxide will be deployed to the tip
      where a drop in temperature to -70°C will result in cryoneurolysis. For the sham probes, the
      nitrous oxide will be vented prior to reaching the probe shaft, resulting in a lack of
      perineural temperature change.

      The process will be repeated with the same treatment probe for any additional nerves (e.g.,
      all nerves will receive either active cryoneurolysis or sham/placebo, and not a mix of the
      two possible treatments).

      Statistical Analysis: The primary endpoint is the maximum inspired volume measured by
      incentive spirometry the day following treatment. There is no accepted minimal
      clinically-relevant change in incentive spirometry volume. However, the median (IQR) of
      inspired volume for patients with rib fracture(s) is 1250 (750-1750) mL; and, ISV<1000 mL is
      associated with an increased risk of acute respiratory failure. The investigators will
      therefore use the difference between 1250 and 1000 (250 mL) as the minimal
      clinically-relevant difference. However, there is high variability in the reported increase
      in inspired volume with various regional analgesic interventions such as continuous
      intercostal nerve blocks and serratus plane blocks, and the investigators will therefore
      increase our enrollment to account for an unpredicted increase in variability or non-normal
      data distribution.

      But, assuming a normal distribution, the interquartile range is approximately 1.35 standard
      deviations (SDs). Therefore an interquartile range of 250-50 = 200 mL (Hernandez et al. 2019)
      corresponds to, approximately, an SD of 200/1.35 = 148 mL. Assuming this SD of 148 mL, a
      sample size of n=7 per group provides 80% power to detect a group difference of d=250 mL per
      group with two sided Type 1 Error 5%. To allow for a larger-than-anticipated SD, we will
      enroll 10 subjects per group with an evaluable primary outcome measure (n=20 for both groups
      combined). Accounting for drop-outs, we request a maximum enrollment of 30 subjects.

      Continuous data will be summarized with mean, SDs, medians, quartiles, and ranges; and
      displayed with box-and-whisker plots by group and in aggregate. Key baseline characteristics
      will be tested between groups using two-sample t-tests, and summarized with Cohen's D, for
      continuous measures; and Fisher's Exact test for categorical variables. The primary outcome
      is maximum incentive spirometry volume (ISV) measured in mL on POD 1. The group difference
      will be tested using Welch's two-sample test. Secondary outcomes will also be tested with the
      two-sample t-test. No multiplicity adjustments will be applied for these secondary outcomes.
      The Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be used as a sensitivity analysis. Secondary analyses will
      include a Mixed Model of Repeated Measures with fixed-effects for time, time-by-group,
      unilateral vs bilateral, and the number of fractures. The model will treat time as a
      categorical variable and will assume a compound symmetric correlation and heterogeneous
      variance with respect to time. The estimated mean difference between groups at the final
      scheduled timepoint will be the parameter of interest and will be tested using Kenward-Roger
      degrees of freedom. Outcomes only measured at baseline and a single follow-up timepoint will
      be analyses with Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA). The dependent variable will be change from
      baseline, and covariates will include group, baseline outcome, unilateral vs bilateral, and
      the number of fractures. Missing data is not expected due to the short follow-up in this
      study. However, if missing data issues arise, the investigators will use multiple imputation
      which is robust to covariate-dependent Missing at Random, and tipping point analyses under
      various Missing Not at Random assumptions.

      The Investigational Drug Pharmacists and investigators doing the study procedures will be the
      only individuals aware of the treatment group assignments. The Investigational Drug Service
      will not provide the treatment group assignments to the investigators until the completion of
      data collection for all subjects; and will only provide "Treatment A" vs "Treatment B"
      assignments for the initial statistical analysis. Only at the completion of statistical
      analysis will each treatment be revealed to the investigators.
    
  