
    
      This is a randomized, intention-to-treat, open label, non-inferiority study performed in an
      international multicenter setting comparing allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) with
      haplo-identical family donors (haplo SCT) to matched unrelated donor (URD) SCT in adult
      patients with de novo or treatment related acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The primary study
      objective is to compare GVHD and relapse free survival (GRFS) at 2 years post-randomization
      in patients randomized to Haplo-SCT with patients randomized to URD-SCT.

      The choice of hematopoietic stem cell donor, the humal leukocyte antigen (HLA) match, and the
      type of graft used are factors of major importance for survival and the risk of complications
      after SCT. The use of haplo-identical donors has shown very promising results and may result
      in a paradigm shift in SCT. However, no prospective randomized studies comparing unrelated
      donors, the standard choice today when no HLA-identical sibling is available, with
      haplo-identical donors have been published. The purpose of this study is to evaluate in a
      prospective and randomised fashion whether haplo-identical donor SCT could yield similar
      results to SCT with unrelated donors in patients with AML.

      HYPOTHESIS:

      The graft-vs.-host disease- and relapse-free survival two years after randomization (2-year
      GRFS) after haplo SCT is not inferior to 2-year GRFS after URD SCT with donors matched at 7/8
      or 8/8 of the major HLA loci.

      STUDY POPULATION

      Adult patients with de novo or treatment-related acute myeloid leukemia with indication for
      allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT). MDS-AML and significant extramedullary AML
      disease is excluded to make the study population more homogeneous.

      Main inclusion criteria: Adult patients (age ≥ 18 years) with de novo or treatment-related
      AML, eligible and fit for SCT, with at least one potential haplo-identical related donor and
      at least five potential HLA-A, -B, and -DRB1 antigen matched unrelated donors (URD)
      identified prior to inclusion.

      Main exclusion criteria: Patients with a suitable HLA-identical sibling donor, and patients
      with less than five potential URDs, and/or without a potential haplo-identical related donor.

      Sample size: The total target enrollment is 200 patients, 100 patients in each treatment arm.

      STUDY PLAN

      Randomization is performed when it has been determined that all inclusion criteria are
      fulfilled and no exclusion criteria are met. Patients will be randomized at a ratio 1:1
      between the treatment arms using the permuted block technique, stratified by center to reduce
      geographic and recruitment location related bias.

      CHOICE OF DONOR AND STEM CELL SOURCE Donors for Haplo-SCT are required to be healthy and
      18-60 years of age. Siblings, children and parents are acceptable. The choice of donor is
      based on the clinical experience and current standard procedure at each center, taking
      factors such as ABO-match, presence of relevant HLA-antibodies in the recipient,
      cytomegalovirus (CMV)-serology compatibility, female donor to male recipient, and donor age
      into consideration. The presence of significant levels of HLA-antibodies against mismatched
      HLA molecules of the donor renders that donor unsuitable for transplantation. The primary
      stem cell source for Haplo-SCT in the study is bone marrow. The target dose is > 4 ×10(8)
      total nucleated cells (TNC)/kg patient weight. Peripheral blood stem cell grafts can be used
      without breaking study protocol, but is strongly discouraged in patients where bone marrow
      harvest of the donor is possible. If PBSC is used for Haplo-SCT in this trial, the maximum
      cell dose recommended is 5 ×10(6) CD34+ cells/kg patient weight.

      The choice of URD is to be based on the standard donor selection algorithm and guidelines at
      each participating center. The chosen URD need to be allele-matched for HLA-A, -B, and -DRB1.
      For HLA-C, one allele or antigen mismatch is allowed. If the HLA-match between the recipient
      and several URDs are acceptable, other donor SCT-factors (e.g. CMV-status, ABO-compatibility,
      sex-match, previous pregnancies, age, weight, etc.) should be taken into consideration before
      the final donor choice. The choice of stem cell source (BM or PBSC) and CD34+ cell dose and
      total nucleated cell dose should be according to current institutional practice.

      For patients randomized to either treatment arm where no suitable donor can be identified,
      cross over to the other arm is permitted.

      TREATMENT PLAN

      CONDITIONING:

      Patients randomized to haplo SCT will be treated according to the Genoa protocol. This
      protocol is based on the administration of thiotepa 5 mg/kg/day for two days (day -6, -5),
      busulfan at 3,2 mg/kg/day (i.v.) and fludarabine at 50 mg/m2 (i.v.) for three consecutive
      days (day -4, -3, -2). Intravenous busulfan can be replaced by orally administered busulfan
      at a dose of 4 mg/kg/day on 3 consecutive days (day -4, -3, -2). For elderly patients (> 60
      years), or patients in poor clinical condition, the dose of busulfan may be reduced (e.g. by
      reducing the number of treatment days, usually to 2 days for patients > 60 years old). GVHD
      prophylaxis for Haplo-SCT is cyclophosphamide 50 mg/kg day +3 and +5, cyclosporin A (CyA) and
      mycophenolate mofetil (MMF).

      Patients randomized to URD SCT are treated according to the conditioning protocols used in
      standard practice, with a recommendation to use the conditioning regimens "Flu+Bu"
      (fludarabine + busulfan, with a total dose of Bu of 8-16 mg/kg body weight orally, or
      6,4-12,8 mg/kg i.v.) or "Bu+Cy" (busulfan + cyclophosphamide, with a dose of Cy not exceeding
      50 mg/kg x 2). If possible, all participating centers are recommended to use one
      myeloablative conditioning (MAC) protocol and one reduced intensity (RIC) protocol for
      included URD-SCT study patients throughout the study. In the majority of the participating
      centers, protocols including anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) is administered. The choice of
      GVHD prophylaxis for the URD-SCT arm is to be performed according to the same principle as
      the conditioning regimen, i. e. the standard practice at the center should be applied.

      IMMUNOSUPPRESSION:

      The dose of CyA should be targeted and adjusted to a set serum concentration as per center
      preference. As a general guide, patients that have undergone Haplo-SCT could be kept at a
      slightly lower concentration compared to patients that have undergone URD-SCT. The guiding
      dosage principle is that CyA is given i.v. or p.o. at full dose from day 0 in the Haplo-SCT
      arm (from day -1 in the URD-SCT patients receiving CyA) to day +90 approximately, then to be
      tapered in the absence of GvHD and discontinued at 5-6 months after SCT or earlier if
      clinically indicated. Tacrolimus may replace CyA if the patient does not tolerate CyA.

      In haplo SCT patients, MMF is given at 15 mg/kg x 2 orally, starting at day +1 post SCT. It
      is recommended to use MMF orally, but i.v. MMF is accepted. Dose adjustment is necessary in
      patients suffering from severely impaired kidney or liver function. MMF is discontinued day
      +28. In case MMF is used in URD-SCT patients, this is to be done according to the standard
      protocols of the transplant center concerned.

      Other relevant GVHD prophylaxis strategies for URD-SCT are also permitted.

      SUPPORTIVE CARE

      Supportive care is to be performed according to standard procedure at each participating
      center.

      FOLLOW UP

      Patients will be followed for GRFS, survival, relapse, and other listed end-points at
      designated time points. The primary endpoint will be reached when the last included patient
      has a follow-up time of 2 years. The study will be terminated when the last included patient
      has a follow-up time of five years. Data collection is continued even if the assigned therapy
      was not carried out, since the main study analyses are intention-to-treat analyses.
      Per-protocol analyses will be performed as well.

      STUDY-SPECIFIC SAMPLES

      Study samples from peripheral blood:

      Study samples from peripheral blood are requested at the visit for randomization, at the day
      of SCT-graft infusion (day 0), and at follow-up visits after 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months
      post-SCT. At all of these time-points,

      Study samples from bone marrow:

      Study samples from bone marrow aspiration material are requested at the follow-up visits
      after 2-3, 6, 12 and 24 months post-SCT (see Appendix IV for reference). At all of these
      time-points,

      STUDY MANAGEMENT

      Source data and data management Data will be collected continuously and entered into the
      study specific electronic case report form (eCRF). Study-related documents will be retained
      for at least 25 years.

      Quality control and monitoring The study will be monitored regularly according to good
      clinical practice (GCP) and local regulations to ensure accurate, complete and reliable data.
      All information reported in the eCRF will also be documented in the patient's file unless
      otherwise specified.

      Patient information and consent Before inclusion patients will receive verbal and written
      information including a description of the trial, its purpose, the risks and the procedures
      involved. Written informed consent must be obtained from all patients before enrollment in
      the study.

      Adverse Event (AE) Reporting Reported in the eCRF according to CTCAE version 4.03.

      Serious Adverse Event (SAE) reporting For the purpose of this study, SAEs that are regarded
      as expected events considering the given treatment (i.e. allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation) and underlying disease, need not be reported as SAEs. However, all deaths
      and unexpected significant SAEs are to be reported.

      Study Safety Board A Study Safety Board (SSB) will perform safety analyses during the study.
      This is a study independent data-monitoring committee that is established by the Sponsor to
      assess at intervals the progress of the clinical trial, the safety data, and the critical
      endpoints of the trial. The SSB will consist of three members, with at least one independent
      statistician and two internationally renowned clinical hematologists.

      The SSB will receive at least the following reports from the trial statistician for review:

        -  Interim analysis reports when 50% of the patients have been included, and when 100% of
           the patients have been included in the trial.

        -  Annual safety data listing the incidence of (serious) adverse events.

        -  Annual progress data listing the number of enrolled patients and the status of data
           collection.

      Study termination and stopping rules

      Regular study termination The study will be terminated when the last included surviving
      patient has a follow-up of five years in the trial.

      Stopping rules Termination of the study will be considered if, at the first interim analysis,
      the rate of non-relapse mortality (NRM) ≥ 40% at 200 days after SCT, and/or the rate of acute
      GVHD grades III-IV ≥ 20% in evaluable patients (with sufficient follow-up time or evaluation)
      in the Haplo-SCT arm.
    
  