
    
      Rationale: Sedentary behavior (SB) contributes to increased risk for obesity and metabolic
      disease, cognitive deficits, and affect disorders over the lifespan. These are critical
      outcomes because children with these risk factors are more likely to develop type 2 diabetes
      mellitus (T2DM). SB increases T2DM risk by promoting hyperglycemia and greater postprandial
      glycemic variability as well as via cognitive detriments and depressive symptoms that lead to
      poor energy balance behaviors, obesity, and worsening insulin resistance. Physical activity
      can reduce these risk factors, however less than half of US youth meet guideline
      recommendations, and physical activity continues to decline throughout adolescence. Thus,
      there is a critical need to test alternative intervention approaches to sustained bouts of
      exercise for the prevention of T2DM in children. The investigators were the first to show
      that interrupting SB with short, 3-minute, bouts of moderate exercise improved glucose
      tolerance and negative mood in a single 3-hour session. However, it is unknown whether these
      short-term improvements translate to sustained multi-day benefits to metabolic, cognitive,
      and mood outcomes.

      Intervention: This phase II randomized controlled trial (RCT) will compare the effects of SB
      interruptions vs. sustained bouts of exercise to prolonged sitting in 7-11-year-old children
      with overweight/obesity. Participants (N=150 (50 per group); ages 7-11) will be recruited
      from the community and the Children's Hospital Los Angeles (CHLA) pediatric obesity clinic.
      The participants will wear continuous glucose monitors for one week and complete pre- and
      post- experiment 3-hour oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTT). Children will be randomized to 7
      consecutive days of one of the following 3-hour experimental conditions: a) continuous
      sitting (SIT); b) sitting interrupted by 3-minute bouts of moderate-intensity walking every
      30 minutes (SIT+WALK); or c) a single 18-minute bout of moderate-intensity walking followed
      by continuous sitting (EX).

      Objectives/Purpose: The overall goal of this study is to test the efficacy of multi-day
      effects of interrupting SB as a T2DM prevention strategy in youth with overweight/obesity.
      This proposal will address the following aims: (1) determine the multi-day efficacy of
      interrupting sitting on glucose homeostasis measured by continuous glucose monitor and oral
      glucose tolerance tests; (2) determine the multi-day efficacy of interrupting sitting on
      cognitive function improvements; and (3) determine the multi-day efficacy of interrupting
      sitting on affect and anxiety improvements.

      Study Population: The study population will consist of children with overweight/obesity
      recruited from the greater Los Angeles area and the CHLA pediatric obesity clinic. Children
      will be screened for eligibility (no evidence of type 2 diabetes, have overweight/obesity, be
      in good health, and be in early pubertal stages).

      Study Methodology: This study is a phase II RCT with 3 study arms. Participants (N=150) will
      complete one screening visit to determine eligibility, complete a fitness test, and body
      composition analysis via dual x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). All participants will complete two
      3-hour in-lab oral glucose tolerance tests (spaced 6 days apart). Participants will wear an
      activity monitor for 7 days on the right thigh to determine baseline activity levels. Then,
      participants will complete 7 consecutive in-lab sessions (SIT, SIT+WALK, or EX), with a
      3-hour OGTT on Days 1 and 7. Participants will wear activity monitors and continuous glucose
      monitors during these 7 days of experimental sessions. Questionnaires will assess dietary
      intake, affect, anxiety, and mood, and the NIH Toolbox will assess executive cognitive
      function.

      Study Arms: Participants will be randomized to 7 consecutive days of one of the following
      3-hour experimental conditions in the lab: a) continuous sitting (SIT); b) sitting
      interrupted by 3-minute bouts of moderate-intensity walking every 30 minutes (SIT+WALK); or
      c) a single 18-minute bout of moderate-intensity walking followed by continuous sitting (EX).

      Endpoints/Outcomes: The primary endpoints are: insulin, C-peptide, and glucose area under the
      curve (AUC) in the in-lab experiments, and glucose AUC from the continuous glucose monitor.
      Secondary endpoints are positive and negative affect, anxiety, and executive cognitive
      function.

      Follow-up: Study duration is estimated as 14 days minimum and 30 days maximum, to allow for a
      7-21 day period between the screening and experimental visits.

      Statistical Analyses: The populations for analyses include the full analytical dataset which
      consists of all randomized study participants; the investigators will employ per protocol and
      intent to treat analyses.
    
  