
    
      The incidence of AML increases with age, and current treatment options for the older patient
      population with newly diagnosed AML (AML >= 60) is limited, all with poor outcomes. AML >= 60
      patients are more likely to have poor-risk cytogenetics abnormalities, and many have a
      preceding myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Traditional induction chemotherapy approaches in
      AML with cytarabine and anthracyclines yield remissions in 45-60% of AML >= 60, however the
      vast majority of these patients relapse with a median survival of about 9 months. These
      patients are rarely candidates for potentially curative allogeneic stem cell transplantation.
      Many untreated AML >= 60 patients are not candidates for aggressive therapy, and those who do
      receive therapy have a significant induction mortality of 10-20%, and significant hematologic
      toxicity occurs in over 30%, with no change in overall survival compared with supportive
      care. AML >= 60 patients with favorable risk cytogenetics have a modest improvement in
      prognosis, for example with a 5 year overall survival of ~20%, compared with 0% in other
      cytogenetic categories. Thus, all eligible patients with AML >= 60 should be recommended a
      clinical trial, regardless of whether they would be offered generally ineffective traditional
      induction chemotherapy. More effective and less toxic therapies are needed for the treatment
      of AML in this older patient population, indeed the preferred first line therapy in the
      national cancer center network (NCCN) guidelines for AML is a clinical trial.

      In trials of lenalidomide in patients with MDS the dose of lenalidomide has been reduced for
      myelotoxicity and/or thrombocytopenia. However, current paradigms for the therapy of acute
      myeloid leukemia are based on using high doses of myelosuppressive chemotherapy and
      supporting the patient through a 4-5 weeks period of neutropenia/thrombocytopenia in an
      attempt to eliminate the malignant clone. Based on its efficacy in the related myeloid
      disorder MDS, and the close relationship between MDS and AML in patients > 60, this trial
      employs the same paradigm of myelosuppressive therapy using high dose lenalidomide instead of
      chemotherapy. Importantly, within the MDS trials using low doses of lenalidomide, responses
      were observed in 3/9 (33%) of patients with excess blasts (RAEB/RAEB-t), which are now
      classified as evolving into AML or AML. This suggests that the therapeutic effect of
      lenalidomide occurs in the setting of a large percentage of blasts, such as AML, although the
      dose and schedule of lenalidomide administration is different. The response of AML >= 60
      patients to the proposed high dose lenalidomide regimen is unknown. Following high dose
      lenalidomide, in those patients that have a response, we propose using a lower dose
      maintenance strategy similar to the FDA approved dosing for MDS. The maintenance phase will
      include standard dose reductions for unacceptable toxicities.
    
  