
    
      Thiamin is a water-soluble B-complex vitamin which is supplied primarily from cereals and
      enriched grains in the ordinary diet. The majority of absorbed thiamin combines with ATP in
      the body to form thiamin pyrophosphate (TPP). TPP is a coenzyme which is involved in a number
      of energy production reactions in the body (metabolism of carbohydrates and some amino acids)
      . Therefore, theoretically, TD reduces the release of metabolic energy in the tissues . The
      adverse effects of TD include biventricular myocardial failure, tachycardia, peripheral
      edema, and retention of sodium which occurs as a result of heart failure . Therefore, our
      assumption is that TD in CHF patients may result in depletion of cellular energy and
      subsequently impair cardiac function. Previous studies done on CHF patients with TD found
      that thiamin supplementation was associated with improvement in heart contractility.

      Patients with heart failure are at an increased risk for TD, for many reasons such as
      malnutrition, anorexia and the use of diuretic drugs, such as furosemide. Several studies
      have demonstrated a high prevalence of TD in hospitalized patients with heart failure,
      ranging from 13 % to 91% depending on the population studied. This wide variation is due to
      differences in the underlying nutrition status of subjects, the concurrent use of medications
      including loop diuretics, the severity of disease, and the measurement technique used for the
      assessment of thiamin status. These studies however, while clinically important, are limited
      by their small sample size and indirect measurement of thiamin status. Also, these studies
      have focused exclusively on the hospitalized patients, whereas ambulatory HF patients have
      received little attention.

      Therefore, our primary objective to conduct a prospective, cross-sectional study to
      investigate the prevalence of thiamin deficiency in a large group of ambulatory patients with
      heart failure using High-Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC). This method has many
      advantages including its high level of recovery (102% on average), high intra- and inter-day
      precisions within 5-9%, as well as having a considerably low elution time of 15 min.

      Our secondary objective is to conduct a trial using oral thiamin supplements alone in three
      practical doses in order to estimate the minimum dose of oral thiamin required to effectively
      replete tissue stores. We also hypothesize that oral thiamin supplementation will reduce
      neurohormonal stimulation (NE, BNP,as well as oxidative stress(F2-Isoprostanes).

      Therefore,this study will provide critical data on the prevalence of TD in ambulatory
      patients with HF as well as defining what factors are predictive of TD in this population.
      Furthermore, this study will determine an effective dose of oral thiamin supplementation that
      will restore red blood cell thiamin levels. Determining an effective dose will not only
      justify our choice of thiamin supplementation in future studies but will guide clinicians in
      recommending thiamin supplementation to their patients with heart failure in the community.
    
  