
    
      Since the launch of a paper-based pneumonia care process model in 1994, decision support for
      pneumonia care has been under continuous development at Intermountain. Studies published in
      2001 and 2006 demonstrated decreased mortality using paper-based methods. An electronic
      pneumonia Clinical Decision Support System was later developed in the original Intermountain
      computing environment and implemented in 4 regional emergency departments (ED) in 2011. This
      tool featured a novel mortality predictor and real-time synthesis of clinical data to guide
      diagnosis, risk stratification, admission triage and guideline-concordant treatment. An
      outcome study published in 2015 demonstrated reduction in mortality with tool use compared to
      usual care. Most recently, Intermountain researchers led by study co-Investigator, Dr.
      Brandon Webb, developed an innovative tool to predict risk of drug-resistant bacteria and
      demonstrated its potential to improve antibiotic use and outcomes.

      The investigators have entered a robust phase of additional development and adaptation of
      ePneumonia into the Cerner Electronic Health Record (EHR) system. The objective of this study
      is to advance development of an evidence-based, electronic CDSS for pneumonia care with
      interoperability across EHRs in order to improve clinical outcomes and reduce healthcare
      resource utilization. The specific aim of this study is to evaluate the usability of
      ePneumonia and its associated impact on clinical, patient-centered and healthcare resource
      utilization outcomes in a stepped-wedge implementation study in 16 hospital EDs in the
      Intermountain Healthcare integrated health system.

        -  Hypothesis #1: Healthcare providers will affirm ePneumonia usability, lack of
           interference with clinical workflow and only minor unintended consequences of use.

        -  Hypothesis #2: In patients with community-onset pneumonia, ePneumonia use will improve
           clinical and patient-centered outcomes and decrease healthcare resource utilization.

      One year of baseline clinical outcome data will be gathered for all 16 emergency departments.
      The first of 6 clusters of ED's will begin prospective data collection in January 2018, with
      the remaining coming on at 2 month intervals until ePneumonia has been deployed at all sites.
      An additional 1 year of data collection will be continued through 2019.
    
  