
    
      The single-subject multiple-probe design comprises four phases: (a) eligibility
      determination, (b) a baseline condition, wherein participants receive business-as-usual
      practice, (c) a 15-week intervention condition, and (d) a maintenance condition (see Figure
      1).

      Eligibility determination. The investigators employ a two-stage screening procedure
      (psycho-educational assessments) to identify children in Grade 1 to 5 who demonstrate
      language-based learning difficulties. Following the completion of the two-stage screening,
      the investigators conduct a mock tutoring session to familiarize the potential participants
      with the technology platform. The interventionist fills out a behavior checklist that
      consists of steps needed to be accomplished in the mock session to determine if the child
      meets the minimum criteria for telepractice candidacy.

      Baseline condition. In the baseline condition, the interventionist meets with each
      participant three times a week to collect baseline data. Participants receive
      business-as-usual instruction-that is, the interventionist stops the child immediately at
      point of miscues, supplies the word, and tells the child to continue reading.

      Intervention condition. The proposed intervention program consists of three components: (a)
      Word reading and phonics instruction, (b) applying a comprehension monitoring strategy to
      improve text reading accuracy, and (c) complex sentences use in written text. With each
      participant, instruction is delivered in three 50-minute weekly sessions across 15 weeks.
      Intervention activities delivered in the first, second, and third session of the week is
      outlined in Figure 1. The interventionist collects the CUBED Narrative Language Measure (NLM)
      probe on the fourth day of the week when no instruction is given. The 3-minute reading probes
      will be administered on a weekly basis.

      Maintenance condition. Across three weeks of no intervention, each of the progress-monitoring
      assessments is administered once per week.
    
  