
    
      Vitamin D plays an integral role in bone metabolism and is one of the principal hormonal
      regulators of calcium and phosphorus absorption in the body. In 2011, the Endocrine Society
      defined Vitamin D deficiency as a 25 hydroxy vitamin D below 20 ng/ml and vitamin D
      insufficiency as a 25 hydroxy vitamin D of 21 ng/ml to 29 ng/ml.Without vitamin D, only 10 to
      15% of dietary calcium and about 60% of phosphorus is absorbed.

      Intestinal Rehabilitation clinic at University of Nebraska Medical Center includes patients
      with short bowel syndrome, multiple abdominal fistulae, and altered GI motility.

      Hypovitaminosis D is associated with increased parathyroid hormone secretion,increased bone
      turnover, osteoporosis, histological osteomalacia and increased risk of hip and other
      fractures, and, in its most severe expression,clinical osteomalacia. These patients have been
      given high doses of both oral vitamin D2 and vitamin D3 supplementation without an
      improvement in vitamin D status due to poor intestinal absorption . Standardized treatment of
      vitamin D deficiency in most healthy individuals is achieved by giving vitamin D2 50,000 IU
      once a week for few weeks and then daily supplementation with lower doses. In the
      investigators Intestinal rehabilitation clinic, these patients are vitamin D insufficient or
      deficient while on large replacement doses of vitamin D2/D3 with some taking 200,000 IU
      daily.

      It has been reported that irradiation with Ultraviolet B can be used safely and effectively
      to treat vitamin D deficiency among vitamin D deficient patients. Exposure of the body in a
      bathing suit to 1 Minimum Erythemal Dose (MED) of sunlight is equivalent to ingesting about
      10,000 IU to 25,000 IU of vitamin D. Thus, exposure of 6% to 10% of the body surface to 1 MED
      is equivalent to ingesting about 600 to 2500 IU of vitamin D. Although ultraviolet
      irradiation can be achieved from exposure to sunlight, it is generally available only
      seasonally and difficult for persons who are too ill to spend much time outdoors.
      Ultraviolet-Fluorescent lamp (KBD, Inc, Crescent Springs, Kentucky,USA) was designed to use
      ultraviolet B emitting fluorescent bulbs that have lower heat emission and allows a larger
      area of skin exposure. The Lamp is equipped with a timer for improved safety. This device is
      FDA (Food and Drug Administration) approved.

      Baseline labs include 25 hydroxy D, intact parathyroid hormone and complete metabolic
      profile. Patients will receive a 3 minute skin exposure to Ultraviolet B light and if they do
      not develop a sun burn, they will be randomized to Control or Ultraviolet B light group.
      Patients will continue their current dose of Vitamin D2/D3 for 12 weeks in both
      groups.Ultraviolet B light will be administered in 3 different areas on the same day for 5
      minutes each, once a week at a distance of 14 inches wearing an UV eye shield. Areas of skin
      exposure will be based on rule of nine for body surface area which includes back, abdomen,
      thighs, and arms.

      Patients will get blood draws every 4 weeks to monitor response to Ultraviolet B light. If
      Ultraviolet B light is able to increase total 25 hydroxy vitamin D level, it can potentially
      be used at home by these patients after receiving basic training and instructions.
    
  