
    
      1. Introduction 1.1 Background It is essential for peri-operative patients to ensure airway
      patency and effective ventilation, and respiratory is the most important task in
      anesthesiologist's daily work. Endotracheal intubation(ETI) is the gold standard for
      maintenance patients' ventilation in general anesthesia. It can effectively send narcotic gas
      into the trachea and allow oxygen ventilation well controlled. However, ETI-related
      complications such as dental and oral soft tissue injury, intubation and extubation related
      cardiovascular reactions, hinder its application in some special populations such as elderly
      patients. Clinical application of laryngeal mask airway (LMA) has brought new options and new
      ideas for anesthesia management. LMA has the advantage of light damage, small trauma, simple
      operation and minor cardiovascular response, and it is especially suitable for airway control
      of patient in short and minimally invasive operation. In recent years, the application of LMA
      has a greater proportion compared with ETI in some areas. But with LMA application
      increasing, more and more problems have been reported.

      LMA has a greater risk of gastrointestinal reflux and aspiration, because of its inadequate
      airway tightness. For the same reason, LMA is of intolerance to high airway pressure, and
      this may lead to hypoventilation in elderly patients with lung compliance or increased airway
      resistance. At the same time the LMA can't completely prevent incidence of postoperative sore
      throat and hoarseness. Therefore, it is necessary to carry out a multi-center clinical trial
      to clarify the peri-operative advantages and disadvantages of LMA to elderly patients, to
      preliminary explore the LMA complications occurred in elderly patients using predictive
      models, and to clarify the safety of the LMA in airway support of elderly patients.

      1.2 Research Aims The aim of the present research is to study the effects of LMA compared
      with conventional ETI on elderly patients considering postoperative pulmonary complications,
      anesthesia and recovery quality, oxygenation and airway support related complications.

      1.3 Primary endpoint events Postoperative pulmonary complications before discharge. 1.4
      Secondary endpoint events and other pre-specified outcomes 1.4.1 Mortality 1.4.2 PACU stay
      1.4.3 Hospiitalization cost and duration 1.4.4 ICU admission and stay time (patients who meet
      the ICU inclusion criteria are admitted into ICU, those who are admitted into ICU because of
      bed conversion are excluded, and those who should have been out of ICU are also excluded)
      1.4.5 Treatment for PPCs 1.4.6 Blood and sputum culture
    
  