
    
      Hypertension is by far the dominant reversible risk factor dwarfing most others in the
      pathogenesis of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and diastolic left ventricular dysfunction
      (DVD), two archetypes of chronic age-related diseases, which are rampant in ageing societies
      in epidemiological transition. Home blood pressure telemonitoring (HTM) is a recommended
      approach in the diagnosis and management of hypertension. Urinary peptidomic profiling (UPP)
      holds great promise in individualising prevention and treatment of CKD and DVD and associated
      complications, such as coronary heart disease. Making use of these modern technologies,
      UPRIGHT-HTM is an investigator-initiated randomised clinical trial with a patient-centred
      design, for the first time, comparing HTM combined UPP (experimental group) to HTM alone
      (control group) in risk profiling and as guide to starting or intensifying management of risk
      factors to prevent established disease. The trial will run in Europe, sub-Saharan Africa and
      South America. Eligible patients, aged 55-75 years old, are asymptomatic, but have three or
      more CKD- or DVD-related risk factors, preferably including hypertension, type 2 diabetes
      mellitus, or both, and do have internet skills. The primary endpoint consists of a composite
      of new-onset intermediate endpoints (microalbuminuria, progression of CKD, diabetic or
      hypertensive retinopathy, electrocardiographic or echocardiographic left ventricular
      hypertrophy or DVD and hard outcomes (cardiovascular mortality and non-fatal complications,
      including myocardial infarction, heart failure and stroke). Secondary objectives are
      demonstrating that combining HTM with UPP is feasible and cost-effective in a multicultural
      context, defining the molecular signatures of early CKD and DVD, and with help of
      stakeholders educating and empowering patients. Assuming an accrual time of 1 year, a median
      follow-up of 4 years, a 10% dropout rate, a 20% risk of the primary endpoint in the control
      group and 30% risk reduction in the experimental group, requires 1000 patients to be
      randomised in a 1:1 proportion with the two-sided alpha level and power set 0.05 and 0.80,
      respectively. The expected outcome is proving the superiority in terms of efficiency and
      cost-effectiveness of HTM combined with UPP vs HTM alone, which should lead to redesigning
      the clinical workflow, putting greater emphasis on preventing rather than curing established
      disease.
    
  