
    
      Prostate cancer is the most commonly diagnosed non-cutaneous malignancy of men in the United
      States and remains the second leading cause of cancer-related mortality among men. Novel
      approaches are necessary to personalize and improve treatment. The androgen receptor (AR)
      plays a critical role in the normal development and function of the prostate and promotes
      growth in most prostate cancers. Most patients with advanced prostate cancer have cancer that
      will initially respond to androgen-targeting therapy (focusing on decreasing the circulating
      levels of testosterone which is the primary source of ligand for the AR receptor). However,
      castrate resistance usually develops within 18 to 24 months and the median survival of men
      with castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) ranges between 12 to 18 months. Current
      options are limited including: secondary hormonal manipulations, radiopharmaceuticals, and
      chemotherapy and only docetaxel, a taxane that targets microtubules, has been proven to
      prolong survival.

      Importantly, it has become clear that for some patients with CRPC, the prostate tumors remain
      dependent on AR activity. This has been supported by studies demonstrating different genetic
      and metabolic mechanisms by which prostate cancer cells maintain AR activity despite low
      levels of circulating androgen. An assay detecting AR activity that more comprehensively
      reflects the variety of mechanisms by which AR activity is preserved has the potential to
      accurately differentiate between men who have tumors still dependent on AR activity from
      those that are truly independent of AR activity. The identification of patients with
      continued AR activity has the potential to improve response to secondary hormonal
      manipulations; men with tumors having low levels of AR activity are likely to require
      alternative approaches.

      We have developed a transcriptional "signature" for AR activity with the goal of identifying
      the true status of AR in tumors of men with CRPC. After validating the AR signature on in
      vitro and human prostate samples to ensure that it accurately and reproducibly detects AR
      activity, we applied the AR signature to several independent datasets to determine the
      distribution of CRPC tumors with preserved AR activity. Interestingly, there is consistent
      heterogeneity with respect to predicted AR activity. While overall AR activity decreases in
      CRPC, there is a subgroup of patients with persistently elevated AR activity. In tumors with
      low AR activity, we observed that the probability of AR activity was negatively correlated
      with predicted SRC activity in localized prostate cancer and CRPC.

      Patients with persistently high AR activity will be treated with nilutamide, an approved oral
      agent used in metastatic CRPC to target the AR. Patients with tumors having low AR activity
      will be treated with dasatinib (an oral drug known to target the SRC family kinases). As
      there is compelling pre-clinical evidence of interactions between the SRC pathway and AR
      signaling, patients failing either single agent treatment will be treated with the
      combination of nilutamide and dasatinib and followed again for progression.
    
  