
    
      High blood glucose levels in hospitalized patients with diabetes are associated with
      increased risk of medical complications and death. Improved glucose control with insulin
      injections may improve clinical outcome and prevent some of the hospital complications.
      Glargine (Lantus®) insulin injection is the most common treatment of diabetes in the
      hospital. Sitagliptin (Januvia®)is effective in lowering blood glucose, but has not been
      tested in the hospital. It is not known if sitagliptin is as effective in controlling blood
      sugars in the hospital. This study will compare sitagliptin by mouth, insulin (glargine)
      injection, and the combination of sitagliptin and lantus insulin in controlling blood sugar
      in hospitalized patients with diabetes.

      In this pilot study, patients with known history of diabetes treated with diet and/or oral
      anti-diabetics or with low total daily dose insulin therapy (<0.4 unit/kg/day) will be
      randomized to receive sitagliptin once daily (group 1), sitagliptin plus basal (glargine)
      insulin once daily (group 2), or basal bolus regimen with glargine once daily and lispro
      insulin before meals (group 3). If needed, patients in the 3 treatment groups will receive
      correction doses of rapid-acting lispro (Humalog®) insulin in the presence of hyperglycemia
      (BG > 140 mg/dl) per sliding scale. The overall hypothesis is that treatment with sitagliptin
      once daily alone or in combination with basal insulin in patients with type 2 diabetes will
      result in a similar improvement in glycemic control and in a lower frequency of hypoglycemic
      events than treatment with basal bolus insulin regimen with glargine once daily and lispro
      insulin before meals.

      A total of 90 subjects with type 2 diabetes will be recruited in this study. Patients will be
      recruited at Grady Memorial Hospital and Emory University Hospital.
    
  