
    
      Feeding Fun and Families (FFF) taught mothers authoritative parenting skills for reducing
      children's exposure to and intake of daily energy from SoFAS. FFF was developed and
      rigorously testing a contextually sensitive, state-of-the art nutrition education program for
      low-income mothers emphasizing parenting skills. This project represents the first systematic
      research to translate, from bench-to-bedside, the basic behavioral science on child portion
      size to clinic-based and then community level nutrition education programming. FFF is a
      nutrition education intervention emphasizing the "hows" of parenting around feeding young
      children. Authoritative parenting strategies will target the family food environment,
      mothers' own eating behaviors, and their child feeding practices. Based on previous research,
      strategies will attempt to reduce SoFAS portions offered to children by reducing the size of
      dishware (e.g. cups, bowls, plates) used to serve children and used by children to eat,
      reducing portion sizes of amorphous (e.g. pasta) and unit foods (e.g. juice box) served to
      children, and encourage feeding practices that provide structure and autonomy support. The
      primary outcome, measured at baseline and at the end of the 12 week intervention, children's
      energy intake of discretionary calories from SoFAS.

      Formative qualitative research was used to guide the development of FFF in a manner
      consistent with low-income mothers' parenting goals and responsive to their socioeconomic
      constraints. The FFF intervention was tested the "proof of concept" (i.e. efficacy) by
      evaluating an intensive version of the intervention in a randomized clinical trial (RCT). The
      findings were used to translate FFF for delivery by Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
      Education (SNAP-Ed) educators in urban communities of VA (VA), with the potential of being
      disseminated nationwide through the SNAP-Ed program.

      Specific objectives were:

        1. Phase I: Qualitatively understand the contextual factors (i.e. psychosocial, economic,
           structural) that will support mothers' acceptance and implementation of environmental
           and behavioral portion size strategies to decrease SFAS portions among low-income,
           at-risk preschoolers.

        2. Phase II: To develop and evaluate the efficacy of the FFF obesity prevention nutrition
           education program for low-income mothers of preschoolers emphasizing behavioral and
           environmental parenting strategies around portion size in a clinic-based setting.

           • FFF will result in lower child SoFAS intakes compared to a no-treatment control group
           at the end of the 12 week intervention (primary outcome), adjusted for baseline values

        3. Phase III: To translate the FFF program for delivery in SNAP-ED to mothers of preschool
           aged children.
    
  