
    
      The AGIS device consists of two acoustic sensors placed on the abdomen to "hear" all segments
      of the abdominal cavity. Other sensor configurations are possible as needed. Initial testing
      of this device was conducted at UCLA and VA-Wadsworth under separate IRB approval; however,
      at this time, all remaining human subjects will be enrolled at CSMC only. We will collect
      AGIS data in patients undergoing GI abdominal surgery on the day of surgery and throughout
      their inpatient hospital course.

      We will recruit patients who are already scheduled to undergo GI abdominal surgery. The
      AbStats/AGIS system will be utilized to measure and analyze bowel sounds and correlate with
      clinical findings. We will exclude subjects who cannot consent, have cognitive inability to
      follow directions, or have any abdominal wall condition that disallows topical coverage as
      deemed by the treating physician (e.g. abdominal wound, advanced cellulitis, etc.). We will
      obtain consent from the patient for incorporating the AGIS device during the inpatient stay.
      The technical staff will be oriented to the device. However, a physician member of our staff
      will be available at all times to help position the device if needed. A research coordinator
      will collect clinical data and enter the data into a secure spreadsheet. Study team members
      willcollect the following data from patient medical records once patients have consented for
      the study: Age, Sex, Race/Ethnicity, Body Mass Index (BMI), Abdominal symptoms per chart
      review, abdominal examination findings per chart review, days in the ICU, days in step down
      monitoring unit, days in ward, daily vital signs in proximity to the time device is worn,
      including temperature recordings, respiratory rate recordings, heart rate recordings, blood
      pressure recordings, and medication usage. Patient data pertaining to their return to bowel
      function will be abstracted, including: date/time bowel sounds first recorded in chart,
      date/time first flatus recorded in chart, date/time first bowel movement recorded in chart,
      date/time of any vomiting episodes, date/time oral diet initiated, amount of diet tolerating,
      need for placement of nasogastric decompression tubes. Patients will be asked to fill out
      diaries of their symptoms when possible.
    
  