
    
      This is a multicenter, multinational, blinded prospective trial, involving a consecutive
      series of patients recruited by 12 European centers based on the indication of OGIB:

        -  after negative upper and lower endoscopy

        -  France: after negative pregnancy test

        -  Hb cut-off male: <13, female: <12 Capsule endoscopy will be performed in each site
           according to local rules and requirements, and the study protocol will concern only the
           post-procedure analysis on reading modalities for each patient, as specified below.1.
           Regimen of preparation AI depends on the possibility of the software to "see" images. An
           inadequate cleansing level precludes a proper visualization and the impact of
           technology. In order to have homogenous results, a standard regimen of preparation is
           advisable. The regimen includes a split dose of PEG-based solution (PlenVu, Moviprep) as
           recommended by ESGE guideline - technical report. Dose 1 will be administered at 7 pm of
           the day before and dose 2 in the morning of the procedure in order to be completed at
           least 1 hour before capsule ingestion. On the day before patients can have breakfast and
           a light meal. After lunch they should be fasting. Two and 4 hours after capsule
           ingestion patient are allowed to drink clear liquids and a light meal, respectively.

           2. Standard reading Each center will review the images collected according to the
           "normal reading" as recommended by ESGE guidelines. To compare reading time correctly,
           readers must read the video without including annotation of images. All lesions should
           be considered independently of their relevance. Findings are not marked on every image
           if they appear repeatedly on every consecutive image, but if they appear repeatedly with
           normal images in between. Annotations should be done after the reading, each lesion
           shall be labelled if it belongs to P1/2 category according to the Saurin Classification.
           Definition of P1, P2: red spots on the intestinal mucosa or small or isolated erosions
           or angioectasia, ulcers, tumors or varices or any other bleeding abnormality.

           3. AI-assisted reading Each center will receive from another center anonymized patient
           videos that have been uploaded on an encrypted USB key. Indeed, expert
           gastroenterologists from each center will proceed with AI-assisted video reading without
           knowing which center the video comes from nor the results of the normal reading. Reading
           conditions are the same as for standard reading.

           4. Consensus reading Results from both normal and AI-assisted reading will be compared.
           In the case of significant disagreement between the results from conventional capsule
           endoscopy reading and AI-assisted reading (e.g. missed lesions), a consensus review for
           each center will be done. Any lesion shall be considered.
    
  