
    
      Preterm birth (PTB) remains one of the leading causes of neonatal morbidity and mortality,
      with a variety of modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors. In an attempt to prevent PTB,
      activity restriction is one of the most commonly prescribed interventions in obstetrics, with
      the idea that decreasing activity will mitigate the risk of a preterm delivery (PTD).
      However, there has been a lack of evidence in the literature to support this theory. In fact,
      multiple studies have demonstrated that decreased activity levels have decreased time to
      delivery in both women with a short cervix, as well as nulliparous patients at increased risk
      for PTB.

      Approximately 40% of deliveries in the United States are nulliparous. For this overwhelming
      large portion of women, a knowledge gap exists in assessing their risk for PTB. The most
      powerful risk factor for PTB, a previous PTB, is not applicable to this cohort of women. The
      precise etiology of PTB in nulliparous women remains unknown but factors found to be
      associated have included health behaviors , as well as being part of disadvantaged
      populations. Studies have demonstrated a significant racial disparity in PTB, contributing to
      the disproportionally worse fetal outcomes in minority populations. Institutional racism,
      reported stress levels and discrimination have all been identified as risk factors for PTB.

      Interventions to prevent PTB have thus far found to be ineffective, and therein likes an
      opportunity to identify risk factors in this largely unstudied population and create
      measures, focusing on behavior modification and acknowledging related risks of health
      disparities to impact maternal and neonatal outcomes.

      Currently there are no published prospective studies using quantitative measures to evaluate
      physical activity in relation to gestational age at delivery. Based on a cohort design, our
      objective is to use a Fitbit activity tracking device, and assess nulliparous patients. Our
      hypothesis is that higher physical activity measured in steps per day will be associated with
      a later gestational age at delivery.

      Each participant will be given a Fitbit, complementary of participating in the study. Women
      will be instructed to wear the Fitbit to measure physical activity throughout the duration of
      the entire pregnancy, 24 hours a day. The Fitbit has been shown to be valid measure of steps
      under laboratory conditions. Also, the Fitbit provides estimates of "sedentary", "light",
      "fairly active" and "very active" minutes as daily accumulated totals. All data from the
      Fitbit device will be acquired using the Fitabase software system. Fitabase is a research
      software platform that collects data from devices remotely in near real time as devices sync
      and update to the Fitabase dashboard. It creates spreadsheet exports of reported data, which
      can be retrieved remotely by investigators. Fitabase stores the data collected in high
      security data centers, and only permitted research personnel can access the data.

      Upon enrollment in the study, researchers will administer the Fitbit device to each study
      participant. Researchers will register participants with the Fitabase software system, giving
      them a unique anonymous patient identifier, which will link each patient and their Fitbit to
      the Fitabase software system. User accounts will be created by the enrolling researcher for
      each participant account authorizing access to the Fitbit data for study personnel only. The
      data collected from the Fitbit is continuously uploaded remotely from the wearable device to
      the Fitabase software; new information is uploaded every 20 minutes. The device only holds a
      total of 7 days of patient activity information, so the participant will be required to sync
      their device to the software system every 7 days. This is done by an app, which is downloaded
      on the participants' phone at the enrollment of the study. Of note, Fitbit data (ie: steps,
      activity monitoring) will be blinded to the participants; the Fitbit device has no visible
      monitoring screen. Research assistants will monitor compliance of participants to syncing
      their Fitbit and will be sent an email reminder if they do not sync the Fitbit within the
      last five days. Days with '0' minutes of registered activity will be considered non-valid and
      set to missing.
    
  