
    
      Heart failure (HF) with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) occurs in about 50% of all HF
      patients. Remodeling and fibrosis stimulated by inflammation appear to be main factors for
      the progression of HFpEF. The lack of prognostic treatment options in HFpEF urgently calls
      for new therapeutic approaches. While beneficial effects of exercise training have been
      demonstrated in HF with reduced ejection fraction, they have not yet been evaluated in HFpEF.
      Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate the effects of high-intensity interval
      training (HIT) in HFpEF patients.

      The proposed study will be a prospective, single-blind, randomized controlled trial in a
      primary care setting including 86 patients with stable HFpEF. Patients will undergo 3 study
      visits (a screening visit, a baseline visit and a post-intervention visit) including
      measurements of disease-specific biomarkers (using blood samples), cardiac and arterial
      vessel structure and function (using electrocardiogram, echocardiography and pulse wave
      velocity), exercise tolerance (using spiroergometry), habitual physical activity (using
      accelerometry) and QoL. After the baseline visit, patients will be randomized to either the
      intervention or control group. The intervention group (n=43) will attend a supervised 12-week
      HIT on a bicycle ergometer, while the control group (n=43) will attend a supervised 12-week
      moderate-intensity continuous training (MCT). After 12 weeks, the study measurements will be
      repeated in all patients (intervention and control group) in order to monitor the effects of
      the intervention (post-intervention visit). At 6 months, 1, 2 and 3 years after the last
      study visit, telephone interviews will be performed to assess medical outcomes and QoL.

      Outlook: This study is expected to add important knowledge about the potential utility of a
      novel treatment strategy in HFpEF patients, which may help to improve both, QoL and
      functional status. Moreover, the analysed biomarkers might be able to provide further insight
      into prognosis and pathogenesis of HFpEF.
    
  