
    
      Cardiac diseases still are the leading cause of death in the western world. Besides the high
      mortality of the cardiac disease itself, recent studies have shown an increasing evidence of
      the prognostic value of cardiac diseases, particularly coronary artery disease (CAD), in a
      broad variety of other diseases. Especially in patients with oncological pathologies
      undergoing radiotherapy or lung resection surgery [Ambrogi et al. 2003; Kanzaki et al. 2017;
      Khakoo et al. 2008; Basacaraju et al. 2002; Fajardo et al. 1972]. Cardiac computed tomography
      angiography (CCTA) is one of the standard non-invasive imaging techniques allowing imaging of
      the heart and coronary arteries with a high temporal and spatial resolution. The high
      sensitivity and negative predictive value (NPV) of CCTA make it a valuable tool in the
      assessment of CAD. Especially to rule out CAD in patients with low to intermediate risk for
      CAD [Hendel et al. 2006; Goldstein et al. 2011; Budoff et al. 2008; Meijboom et al. 2008;
      Roffi et al. 2016].

      The aim of CCTA is to achieve a high diagnostic accuracy, which depends on both optimal
      intravascular enhancement (in Hounsfield Units (HU); minimal 325 HU) and contrast-to-noise
      ratio (CNR). Optimal intravascular enhancement and CNR depend on multiple factors, such as
      scan technique (e.g. tube voltage (kV) and tube potential), parameters of the administered
      contrast material (CM) (e.g. concentration, flow rate) and patient related factors (e.g. body
      weight (BW), heart rate or cardiac output [CO]) [Bae et al. 2004; Awai et al. 2004].
      Dedicated CT protocols are necessary to image the heart and the coronary arteries. These
      protocols require a correlation to the patient's electrocardiogram (ECG) in order to minimize
      cardiac motion and deliver a sharp image of the heart and coronary arteries. Depending on the
      heart rate of the patient, the scan can either be a prospectively ECG-triggered high-pitch or
      adaptive sequence, or retrospectively ECG-gated helical scan.

      Patients with cardiac diseases often have multiple risk factors for developing contrast
      induced nephropathy (CIN), e.g. diabetes mellitus (DM), advanced age, hypertension,
      cardiovascular disease and chronic kidney disease. Although the relationship between CTA and
      CIN has recently come to discussion (AMACING trial; Nijssen et al. 2017), it is still
      desirable to minimise the CM volume used in these patients. Multiple strategies have been
      studied to reduce CM volume in CTA imaging [Kok et al 2016; Kok et al. 2015; Kok et al. 2016;
      Kok et al. 2016, Mihl et al. 2016; Seehofnerova et al. 2015; Hendriks et al. 2016]. For
      instance, lowering tube voltage to achieve a higher attenuation, the latter explained by the
      fact that mean photon energy of lower tube voltage settings in the x-ray beam moves closer to
      the K-edge of iodine (33.2 keV).

      The personalisation of injection protocols to the individual patient is gaining more
      attention in CT imaging, and the goal is to individualise the injection protocols to a level,
      where the patient only receives the minimal amount of CM needed to make a diagnostic scan
      with a diagnostic image quality. Besides the techniques mentioned above, other techniques are
      possible, e.g. adjustment according to patients CO, lean body weight (LBW), and BW.

      Both blood volume and CO increase with an increasing BW. When CO increases, the distribution
      of CM is also increased. On one hand this results in a fastened test bolus arrival, on the
      other hand in a decreased and shortened intravascular attenuation profile (in comparison to a
      decreased CO) [Bae KT 2010]. Therefore, both timing and CM volume can be adjusted to CO in
      order to achieve a similar intravascular attenuation profile.

      LBW is a measurement for body fat percentage. It is known that fatty tissue is not as well
      vascularised in comparison to muscle tissue. Thus with increasing BW due to fatty tissue, the
      blood volume does not increase linear to BW. For instance, patients with a high BW due to
      increased muscle tissue, need more CM volume compared to patients with a high BW due to fatty
      tissue. The concept of LBW accounts for this fact [Bae KT 2010].

      When adjusting CM volume to BW, less CM volume is needed with a lower BW in comparison to a
      higher BW, due to the decreased blood volume and CO [Bae KT 2010].

      The tube voltage, set by automated tube voltage selection (ATVS, CAREkV, Siemens, Berlin,
      Germany), needs to be taken into account as well. CAREkV is a software program which chooses
      the optimal tube voltage (kV) and tube current (mAs) settings for the individual patient,
      based on their topograms, while maintaining a diagnostic image quality. Lower kV settings
      result in a higher intravascular enhancement if the same amount of CM is used, thus giving
      the potential to decrease CM volume in lower kV settings.

      Since no data exist on the optimal method of choice, the aim of this study is to assess the
      performance of three personalized injection protocols (CO, LBW and BW) in CCTA, in comparison
      to previously used protocols, with regard to image quality. Secondly we want to assess the
      presence and severity of CAD in patients undergoing CCTA with help of the coronary artery
      disease reporting and data system (CAD-RADS).

      A total of 330 patients will be included in this prospectively observer blinded randomized
      controlled non-inferiority trial. All patients will be randomised in one of three groups (CO,
      LBW and BW) with help of a randomisation software program (ALEA). The control group will
      consist of 110 consecutive patients who will be included retrospectively.
    
  