
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the safety profile of chemoradiotherapy with carboplatin vs cisplatin in
           patients with newly diagnosed, unresectable stage III or IV squamous cell carcinoma of
           the head and neck.

        -  To select one of these chemoradiotherapy regimens to be used as an experimental arm in a
           future phase III trial.

        -  To look for EGFR expression and downstream signaling in reacting skin samples from
           patients experiencing skin toxicity and in normal skin samples from the same patients
           for comparison with skin samples from patients who have not shown skin toxicity.

        -  To explore which factors related to EGFR predict the biological activity of cetuximab in
           patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive induction chemotherapy comprising docetaxel IV over 1 hour and cisplatin IV
      over 1 hour on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-5. Treatment
      repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 3 weeks after completion of induction chemotherapy or within 5 weeks from the start of
      the last chemotherapy course (day 21), patients are stratified by institution and treatment
      response (stable disease [SD], partial response [PR], or complete response [CR] vs
      non-response [progressive disease]). Patients with progressive disease are removed from study
      and patients with SD, PR, or CR are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo radiotherapy (RT) (3-dimensional conformal RT or
           intensity-modulated RT) on days 1-5 weekly for up to 7 weeks. Beginning on day 1 of RT,
           patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour once weekly for up to 7 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo RT as in arm I. Beginning on day 1 of RT, patients receive
           carboplatin IV over 1 hour once weekly for up to 7 weeks.

      Patients in both arms receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours once weekly beginning on day 1 of
      induction chemotherapy and continuing until the end of concurrent chemoradiotherapy.

      Primary tumor tissue and skin biopsies, including fixed paraffin-embedded tissue specimens or
      frozen tissue, are collected at baseline (prior to treatment) and after completion of study
      treatment for correlative laboratory studies of EGFR expression and downstream signaling.
      Specimens are assessed by immunohistochemistry, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and
      reverse transcriptase-PCR sequencing of genes and proteins for ErbB-related activation. In
      the event of skin toxicity during treatment, patients undergo at least two additional
      biopsies, one in reacting skin and one in normal skin. Samples are assessed for markers of
      treatment efficacy related to cetuximab.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 3 months and periodically
      thereafter.
    
  