
    
      Emerging data suggests that the distinct phenotype of HAEC in children with HD may be the
      result of the complex interplay between host genetics, immune response and environmental
      triggers. Data suggest that approximately 20-30 percent of patients with HD develop HAEC.
      Thus, well-designed, multi-disciplinary investigations of genetic, immune and microbial
      etiologies of HAEC, with sufficient power to detect differences in disease phenotype are
      critically needed.

      The Hirschsprung Disease clinical phenotype of HAEC:

      Hirschsprung disease (HD; also known as congenital aganglionic megacolon) affects 1 in 5000
      live births [2]. Surgical repair (excision of the aganglionic colon and pull through of the
      normally ganglionated intestine to the anal canal) is typically performed in infants with HD
      during the first few months of life [3, 4]. A subgroup of these children with HD will also
      develop Hirschsprung associated enterocolitis (HAEC), a potentially severe infection of the
      small bowel and colon[5]. Children who develop HAEC can present with fever, abdominal
      distention, explosive diarrhea, vomiting, lethargy, and if not diagnosed and treated
      promptly, can lead to life threatening sepsis and death. HAEC may occur pre- or post-surgery
      in HD patients. There have been widely varying reports of HAEC incidence ranging from 15-50%
      pre-surgery to 2-30% post-surgery. A lack of clear definition of HAEC criteria is at least
      partially responsible for this significant variation in reported incidence[6, 7]. A
      standardized definition of HAEC was recently developed and published in 2009[1]. The HAEC
      score consists of the most important clinical diagnostic criteria for HAEC identified from a
      group of international experts using the Delphi method. Preliminary validation with case
      scenarios was achieved and the HAEC score can now be used as a standardized and reproducible
      outcome measure for future studies on children with Hirschsprung disease. Now it is possible
      to perform rigorous studies of the genetic, immune, and microbial differences in HD patients
      who develop HAEC compared with those children with HD that have not developed HAEC.

      Genetic variation: Currently there are 10 different genes identified (RET, GDNF, NTN, EDNRB,
      ET3, ECE-1, SOX10, ZFHX1B, PHOX2B, NGR1) in individuals affected with either isolated or
      syndromic Hirschsprung disease. The RET gene plays a critical role in ENS development and
      mutations in the RET gene have been found in 7-35% of sporadic cases and approximately 50% of
      familial cases. EDNRB and ET3 each account for approximately 5% of patients with HD and also
      are responsible for Shah-Waardenberg Syndrome. Mutations in each of the remaining 7 genes
      have been found in a small number of isolated and syndromic HD patients[8].

      The RET tyrosine kinase signaling pathway plays a major role in ENS migration, along with its
      ligands GDNF and NTN. The EDNRB G-protein coupled receptor together with its ligand ET3 and
      endothelin cleavage enzyme ECE-1 forms a separate signaling pathway important in ENS
      development. The RET and EDNRB signaling pathways appear interact with an additive effect
      through an as yet to be described mechanism. PHOX2B is a transcriptional regulator of the RET
      gene and SOX10 appears to be a transcriptional regulator of both RET and EDNRB genes. The
      complex regulation of the genes in each pathway, combined with the cross-signaling between
      pathways and the effects on ENS migration is the subject of ongoing investigations[8, 9].

      Current thought is that while some HD patients have a single mutation that is sufficient to
      cause HD, many patients likely have weaker mutations in multiple HD susceptibility genes that
      together are sufficient to cause HD[8, 9]. While there has been intense study of the genetics
      of HD over many years, there has been no attention given to possible genetic etiologies of
      HAEC. To date, the influence of genotype on the HAEC phenotype has received little attention,
      thereby providing additional merit for this proposal.

      Immune markers and HAEC phenotypes:

      One hypothesis is that HAEC may result from differing immune responses to microbial antigens
      in HD patients as has been found in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Antibodies to
      the E. coli outer-membrane porin C (OmpC), the Pseudomonas fluorescens CD related protein
      (I2), anti CBiR1 (anti-flagellin), as well as Saccaromyces cerevisiae (ASCA) and
      autoantigens, perinuclear anti-neutrophil antibody (pANCA) are known to be elevated in the
      patients diagnosed with Crohn Disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC). Established patterns
      of elevation of these antibodies serve as very important tools in establishing a diagnosis of
      IBD, as well as distinguishing patients with UC from those with CD.

      By contrast, HAEC is a relatively poorly studied intestinal inflammatory disorder in children
      with clinical features similar to pediatric IBD. At present little attention has been given
      to the exploring the similarities in immune responses in HAEC patients to IBD patients. Our
      aim is to measure a panel of antibodies routinely used for IBD patients, and compare HD
      patients with and without HAEC. One or more antibody levels may serve as a biomarker for HD
      patients at risk of developing HAEC.

      Microbial factors:

      Data suggest that altered gut microbial populations may be partially responsible for the
      development of HAEC in susceptible HD patients. Most studies have focused on Clostridium
      difficile, because two groups reported increased frequency of C. diff. toxin positive stools
      in HD patients with HAEC compared with those without HAEC .[10, 11] Other groups subsequently
      reported very low frequencies of C. diff. toxin positivity in their patients with HAEC,
      thereby calling into question the role C. diff. plays in the pathogenesis of HAEC.[12] Other
      investigators have found E. coli, C. diff. and Cryptosporidium adherent to enterocytes on
      histological examinations of colon biopsies of patients with HAEC.[5] These findings indicate
      a breech in the protective mucus gel layer covering the luminal surface of the colon, leading
      to invasion of the epithelial barrier. Taken together, these studies suggest that the
      intestine-microbial interaction may be important in the pathogenesis of HAEC.

      Moreover, the study of intestine-microbial interactions which lead to development of HAEC
      might best be undertaken in the pediatric patient whereby influences of host fecal microbial
      constituents are more easily elucidated. Therefore, research must not fail to identify other
      critically important pathogens by too narrow a focus on only known pathogens residing in
      colonic fecal streams in the genetically susceptible host. In addition, the characterization
      of gut microflora (i.e., fecal streams) and risk assessment of children with HD can optimally
      be done with a careful evaluation of both components - host and microbe in the index case.
      Successfully confirming or disproving infectious hypotheses requires that valid diagnostic
      tools be employed. Systematic investigations into potential infectious etiologies or normal
      enteric flora triggers of HAEC, therefore appear biologically plausible, and highly
      justified.

      University of Michigan will be conducting metabolomics anaylsis of stool in children with
      Hirschsprung Disease. The analysis is focused on fatty acids metabolized by bacteria and
      yeast in the colon. The technique will use a GC-MASS SPEC approach to evaluate for
      pro-inflammatory vs. anti-inflammatory fatty acids in the stool of children with and or
      without Hirschsprung Associated Enterocolitis.
    
  