
    
      Atopy is a common condition that often emerges in infancy with atopic dermatitis (AD),
      wheezing, or food allergies. Atopy results from a heightened immune response to environmental
      allergens that appears to be imprinted from infancy. The developmental origins that trigger
      atopic conditions are not completely understood. Exclusive breastfeeding beyond three months
      has been shown to reduce infant atopy risk, but it is unclear how maternal breast milk (MBM)
      confers this benefit. One explanation may be microRNAs (miRNAs), non-coding molecules that
      regulate protein production and are highly concentrated in MBM. In humans with atopic
      conditions miRNA expression is "altered". Thus, MBM miRNAs packaged within protective
      vesicles, may be transferred to the infant gut may and functionally incorporated to prime
      development of the infant immune system.

      This study will follow 200 breastfeeding mother-infant dyads for 12 months after birth and
      examine the relationship between infant MBM miRNA exposure and infant atopy risk.

      The goal of this study is to investigate whether levels of immune-related miRNAs in MBM
      influence infant atopy risk, defined as AD, wheezing, or food allergy in the first 12 months.

      The objectives are to: 1) characterize longitudinal changes in immune-related breast milk
      miRNAs during the first 4 months after birth (when protective benefits are conferred); 2)
      compare breast milk miRNA profiles between atopic and non-atopic infant-mother dyads; 3)
      determine whether concentrations of infant saliva miRNAs correlate with MBM levels; 4)
      explore medical, demographic, and environmental factors that may influence MBM miRNA levels;
      and 5) examine relationships between saliva miRNAs and cytokines implicated in atopy.

      Based on our preliminary studies which identified immune-related miRNAs that are concentrated
      in MBM and "altered" in the saliva of atopic children, the investigators hypothesize that: 1)
      MBM concentrations of miR-146b, miR-21, and miR-375 will be disrupted in mothers of atopic
      infants; and 2) disruptions in these milk miRNAs will correlate with saliva miRNA levels in
      the infant. Furthermore, the investigators posit that levels of these three miRNAs will be
      influenced by modifiable maternal/infant factors and correlate with infant cytokine profiles.

      Aim 1: will employ a prospective observational cohort design. MBM miRNA will be quantified
      with RNA sequencing (RNAseq) at 0, 4, and 16 weeks post-delivery and compared with infant
      atopy status from 4-48 weeks. Sub-analyses will assess MBM miRNA differences across atopy
      subgroups (AD, wheezing, and food allergy) and examine the relationship between maternal
      factors (diet, allergen exposure, medical/demographic variables) and MBM miRNA
      concentrations.

      Aim 2: Infant saliva miRNA will be quantified with RNAseq at 24 weeks and compared with: 1)
      infant atopy status; 2) total MBM miRNA exposure in the first 4-months after birth (ppm/day);
      3) infant Th1/Th2 cytokines; and 4) infant immunoglobulin E (IgE) profiles. Sub-analyses will
      assess the relationship of infant saliva miRNA concentrations to medical/demographic factors,
      allergen exposures, and infant diet.

      Primary outcome measure:

      The primary outcome will be infant atopy, defined by standardized measures of AD (Scoring
      Atopic Dermatitis; SCORAD), wheezing (International Study of Wheezing in Infants Survey;
      EISL-WQ), and food allergy (Infant Feeding Practices II Survey; IFP) at 4, 16, 24, or 48
      weeks. These three atopic conditions were selected because they typify onset of the atopic
      march (while allergic rhinitis and asthma are typically diagnosed later).

      Secondary outcome measures:

        1. Cytokines (e.g. Th1 (IFN-γ, IL-2) and Th2 (IL-6, IL-10, IL-13)) in infant saliva and
           maternal breastmilk at 0, 4, 16, 24, and 48 weeks respectively.

        2. Maternal-infant environmental allergen exposures: National Survey of Lead Hazards and
           Allergens in Housing (NSLAH) at 4 weeks.

        3. Infant diet: IFP survey at 4, 16, 24, and 48 weeks.

        4. MBM miRNA concentrations: RNAseq at 0, 4, and 16 weeks; normalized reads counts
           expressed as parts per million (ppm). MBM miRNA concentrations may be determined at 24
           and 48 weeks for mothers who continue breastfeeding.

        5. Maternal diet: Diet History Questionnaire-II at 0, 4, and 16 weeks.

        6. Infant MBM miRNA exposure: determined from MBM miRNA concentrations and IFP survey of
           breastfeeding patterns. Total infant exposure to MBM miRNAs of interest will be
           quantified as ppm/day between 0 and 48 weeks.

        7. Infant saliva miRNA concentrations: RNAseq at 24 weeks.

        8. Infant allergen-specific IgE at 48 weeks (atopic infants only).

        9. Infant weight trajectory (retrospective review of growth charts) through 5 years of age

       10. Infant developmental trajectory (Survey of Wellbeing in Young Children) at 9 months,
           18-months, and 30 months.

       11. Presence or absence of infant atopic conditions through 5 years of age

       12. Infant Colic (Modified Infant Colic Scale) at 4 weeks

       13. Infant Sleep (Brief Infant Sleep Questionnaire) at 4, 16, 24, and 48 weeks.

      Though several studies have described the miRNA composition of MBM, this will be among the
      first to examine how breast milk miRNA levels relate to infant health outcomes. This study
      will improve our understanding of how nutritional miRNA impacts developmental origins. Using
      the paradigm of infant atopy, the investigators will identify individual MBM miRNAs
      associated with AD, wheezing, and food allergy. This knowledge may be used to provide
      anticipatory guidance for breastfeeding mothers regarding the factors that impact their
      child's atopy risk, or to improve infant formula composition to curb atopy risk.
    
  