
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the efficacy of single-agent olaparib and the combination of olaparib and
      cediranib (and potentially other combination arms that may be added by subsequent amendment)
      versus single agent cediranib as measured by progression free survival (PFS), in patients
      with recurrent, persistent or metastatic endometrial cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the efficacy of single-agent olaparib and the combination of olaparib and
      cediranib (and potentially other combination arms that may be added by subsequent amendment)
      versus single-agent cediranib as measured by overall survival (OS) in patients with
      recurrent, persistent or metastatic endometrial cancer.

      II. To compare the efficacy of single-agent olaparib and the combination of olaparib and
      cediranib (and potentially other combination arms may be added by subsequent amendment versus
      single-agent cediranib as measured by response rate in patients with recurrent, persistent or
      metastatic endometrial cancer.

      III. To assess the safety and tolerability of single-agent cediranib, single-agent olaparib,
      and the combination of olaparib and cediranib (and potentially other combination arms may be
      added by subsequent amendment).

      IV. To assess if mutations in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) homologous repair genes (assayed
      prior to all treatment and prior to the study treatment) are predictive of response to
      olaparib alone or in combination with cediranib. (Integrated Biomarker) V. To assess if
      markers of angiogenesis in serial plasma samples are associated with response to cediranib
      alone or in combination with olaparib. (Integrated Biomarker)

      EXPLORTORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the efficacy of the combination of olaparib and cediranib (and potentially
      other combination arms may be added by subsequent amendment) versus single agent olaparib as
      measured by PFS, response rate and OS, if and only if the combination is superior to the
      single-agent cediranib arm.

      II. To assess if phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) loss as assessed by
      immunohistochemistry (IHC) is predictive of response to olaparib alone or in combination with
      cediranib. (Exploratory Biomarker) III. To assess if loss of function of ARID1A assessed by
      immunohistochemistry (IHC) and mutational profile is predictive of response to olaparib alone
      or in combination with cediranib. (Exploratory Biomarker) IV. To assess if TP53 mutation
      status and p53 expression as assessed by IHC is associated with response to olaparib or in
      combination with cediranib. (Exploratory Biomarker) V. To assess if markers of angiogenesis
      in tissue are associated with response to cediranib alone or in combination with olaparib.
      (Exploratory Biomarker) VI. To assess if microsatellite instability (MSI) as assessed by loss
      of DNA mismatch repair (MMR) proteins is associated with response to olaparib alone or in
      combination with cediranib. (Exploratory Biomarker) VII. To assess if surrogate markers for
      the TCGA molecular subgroups p53 IHC, MSI, and mutational status of the exonuclease domain of
      polymerase-epsilon (POLE) are associated with response to treatment in all arms. (Exploratory
      Biomarker) VIII. To examine the association of the change in mutant allele frequency with
      response to treatment and to identify resistance mutations at the time of recurrence using
      circulating tumor (ct)DNA. (Exploratory Biomarker)

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive cediranib maleate orally (PO) once daily (QD). Cycles repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive olaparib PO twice daily (BID). Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive olaparib PO BID and cediranib maleate PO QD. Cycles repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  