
    
      Neuroendocrine tumors (NET) are rare malignancies (1-2% of digestive cancers); and there is,
      in recent years, a slow but steady increase in their incidence. Despite the joint efforts of
      several research groups, which led to the new WHO classification (2002), the natural history
      of the disease remains heterogene and the resistance to conventional cytotoxic treatment
      remains the common denominator of these tumors.

      Indeed, the prognosis of patients with metastatic disease remains poor despite numerous
      treatments (including: IFN, DTIC, 5-FU, doxorubicin, somatostatin analogues, etc.).

      None of which showed a benefit in terms of survival. The main therapeutic objective is still
      to get a palliative effect on the symptoms and / or limit a few months tumor progression.

      There are many publications showing that angiogenesis is one of the major mechanisms of tumor
      progression in TNE. But the multiple signaling pathways involved, the existence of
      alternative routes and their relationship to apoptosis inducing molecules remain unknown.
      Sunitinib is a new molecule in the family of tyrosine kinase inhibitors targeting multiple
      receptors which VEGFR, KIT, PDGF-R, FLT3 and RET. Since 2006 year, Sunitinib has been
      approved to treat advanced kidney cancer also called advanced renal cell carcinoma (a
      typically chemoresistant disease for which there was no active treatment available).

      Many retrospective studies in patients showing that the TNE overexpress one or more targets
      of sunitinib. In Phase I trial, an antitumor activity has been identified in neuroendocrine
      tumors. In a phase II trial including 100 patients with well-differentiated TNE and
      carcinoids, sunitinib is associated with a response rate of 10%, and 82% of clinical benefit
      in the form of tumor stability.

      Currently, an international randomised phase III trial initiated in well differentiated
      forms, but no studies are underway for poorly-differentiated TNE.

      All of this suggests that sunitinib could represent an important therapeutic option for
      moderate, or poorly differentiated inoperable TNE and needs to be explored in this pathology
      by identifying predictive biomarkers of response.
    
  