
    
      Patients with a minimum age of three years from a prospective, consecutive database of
      patients with clubfoot treated with the Ponseti method beginning in 2002 are considered for
      this study. Thereby patients will typically have a follow up of nearly three to eight years
      after initial clubfoot correction. Patients with unilateral or bilateral idiopathic clubfoot
      are included. Patients with clubfoot associated with syndromes or neurological diseases, with
      mild clubfoot that required fewer than three casts for initial correction, who first
      presented at an age older than three months, who were living outside of the country, and who
      were initially treated elsewhere with more than three casts are excluded. An invitation
      letter to participate in the study was sent out at the end of 2011, with a second letter
      being sent out three months after the first. After the second letter patients had a time
      frame of three more months to participate before the study was closed.

      To comprise a control group for the purpose of collecting gait analysis data of healthy
      children, employees of our hospital are asked to allow their children to participate in this
      study.

      Each patient will be physically examined, active and passive range of motion (ROM) of the
      ankle joint will be measured with a hand-held goniometer. Ability to walk on the heels and on
      tiptoes will be recorded. The disease-specific instrument questionnaire, which will be
      blinded for the treating physician will be handed out to fill in.

      Patients will undergo gait analysis, including video recordings with a Vicon motion capture
      system (Vicon, Oxford, UK) with kinetic data collected from three AMTI force plates (Advanced
      Mechanical Technology, Inc., Watertown, MA). Placement of markers will be a combination of
      Cleveland (lower extremity), PlugInGait (upper body), and Oxford Foot (movement within the
      foot) models.
    
  