
    
      Study Objective The objective of this study is to assess the long-term efficacy of "AGE among
      on periodontitis for a period of 2 years.

      Overall Study Design and Plan This is a randomized, controlled, examiner-blind, 2-treatment
      parallel group study. The study will be conducted at the Hebrew University, Hadassah, Israel.
      A sufficient number of subjects will be screened to obtain approximately 200 generally
      healthy adult volunteers with mild to moderate periodontitis.

      Subjects will be stratified and randomly assigned equally to either the regimen group (AGE)
      or a control group (Placebo).

      Subjects will be requested to use the products at home for the duration of the study
      according to the written and verbal usage instructions given to them during product
      distribution. At Baseline, Month 6, 12, and 18 subjects will receive oral soft tissue exams,
      and will have gingival inflammation, bleeding, and periodontal measurements made as described
      in below.

      Both groups will receive supragingival dental prophylaxes every 6 month consistent with local
      norms and standards. Products will be re-supplied approximately every six months following
      Baseline. During study conduct, subjects with evidence of progressive periodontal disease
      will be exited from the study and treated following local norms.

      Screening/Baseline, Visit 1 Subjects will be asked to read and sign an informed consent and
      receive a signed copy. Personal medical history information will be reviewed and retained as
      site source documentation. A comprehensive oral examination (OST) will then be conducted to
      evaluate the oral and perioral region, including hard and soft tissues. Demographic
      information and study inclusion/exclusion criteria will be obtained and documented on the
      appropriate electronic case report form (CRF).

      Then, subjects will receive MGI, GBI, CAL, and PPD assessments in that order by the
      experienced examiner. Subjects will be eligible to enroll in the study after meeting study
      entrance criteria.

      Subjects will be instructed to continue using their regular home oral hygiene products until
      the Baseline visit. They will also be instructed not to add or change any of their regular
      home oral hygiene products during that time. Data will be reviewed and qualified subjects
      will be contacted and scheduled for their Baseline appointment. Those subjects will be asked
      to refrain from performing any oral hygiene procedures the morning prior to their scheduled
      Baseline visit and to refrain from using medicated lozenges, breath mints, eating, drinking
      (except for water), smoking and chewing gum for four (4) hours prior to their visit. The rest
      of the subjects will be released from the study, and a subject accountability form will be
      completed.

      General Comments, if applicable, will be documented on the appropriate CRF. Product
      Distribution, Visit 2 Approximately maximum 1-2 weeks after the Screening/Baseline visit,
      subjects will return to the site and continuance criteria will be verified. Subjects will be
      randomized to a treatment group based on their Screening mean PPD, GBI, age, gender and
      tobacco use. Subjects will receive their assigned treatment products to use until their next
      appointment in the clinic (approximately 6 month later). AEs and General Comments, if
      applicable, will be documented. All data will be recorded electronically on the appropriate
      CRFs.

      Approximately one week later, site staff not blinded to the products will re-connect to
      subjects via phone to ensure proper product usage and compliance.

      Within one month from Baseline, subjects will receive a dental prophylaxis. Month-6, 12 Visit
      3-4 Approximately 2 weeks before their scheduled visit, subjects will be contacted and
      reminded about their appointment. Subjects will also be reminded to bring their study
      products and to refrain from performing any oral hygiene procedures the morning prior to
      their next scheduled visit. In addition, they will be reminded to refrain from using
      medicated lozenges, breath mints, eating, drinking (except for water), smoking and chewing
      gum for four (4) hours prior to their next visit.

      Subjects will return to the site (6 month from Baseline) and continuance criteria will be
      verified. Personal medical history information will be updated and retained as site source
      documentation.

      A comprehensive oral examination will then be conducted to evaluate the oral and perioral
      region, including hard and soft tissues. Subjects will receive a MGI, GBI, CAL, and PPD
      assessment by the experienced examiner.

      Following that, subjects will proceed to an area separated from the examination area to
      ensure blinding of the examiner to the identity of the test products and receive their
      supplemental kit box containing re-supply of their assigned treatment products. They will be
      asked to continue to use them for their daily oral hygiene twice per day until their next
      appointment in the clinic (approximately 6 month later). Instructions for home use and a
      reminder to comply with the study protocol will be given verbally by the site staff.

      AEs and General Comments, if applicable, will be documented. All data will be recorded
      electronically on the appropriate CRFs.

      Within one month from Month-6 visit, subjects will receive a dental prophylaxis.

      Month-18, Visit 5 Approximately 2 weeks before their scheduled visit, subjects will be
      contacted and reminded about their appointment. Subjects will also be reminded to bring their
      study products and to refrain from performing any oral hygiene procedures the morning prior
      to their next scheduled visit. In addition, they will be reminded to refrain from using
      medicated lozenges, breath mints, eating, drinking (except for water), smoking and chewing
      gum for four (4) hours prior to their next visit.

      Subjects will return to the site (18 month from Baseline) and continuance criteria will be
      verified. Personal medical history information will be updated and retained as site source
      documentation.

      A comprehensive oral examination will then be conducted to evaluate the oral and perioral
      region, including hard and soft tissues. Subjects will receive a MGI, GBI, CAL, and PPD
      assessment by the experienced examiner.

      AEs and General Comments, if applicable, will be documented. Subject accountability will be
      completed and subjects will be dismissed from the study. Subject accountability will also be
      completed for subjects who drop out of the study prior to its completion.

      All data will be recorded electronically on the appropriate CRFs.
    
  