
    
      The prehospital component of health care begins with a call to 911 and ends on arrival to the
      Emergency Department (ED). In Ontario, prehospital care is provided by a system which
      includes 22 dispatch centres, 218 Fire and 72 Emergency Medical Services (EMS) who respond to
      over 1 million 911 calls a year. The prehospital setting is a chaotic, unpredictable
      environment in which to deliver care and currently there is no data on whether or not this
      system of care makes a difference in patient outcomes. The question: are the right patients,
      receiving the right care and making it to the right institutions cannot readily be answered.
      Outcome-based information to guide future EMS care has been hampered by the lack of
      comprehensive prehospital data resources that include meaningful patient outcomes.

      Why target cardiac arrest, trauma, acute stroke, and sepsis? Ischaemic heart disease is the
      leading cause of death worldwide, and second leading cause of death in Canada; over 240,000
      deaths from heart disease annually. The mean age of cardiac arrest patients is around 65
      years of age and this demographic is increasing over time with the population older than 65
      expected to double within the next 25 years such that by 2041 about 1 in 4 Canadians will be
      65 or older.

      Trauma is the number one cause of death and disability in people younger than 40 and
      confirmed for Canada as well for those under the age of 45. Trauma statistics are biased by
      the fact that the only data we have comes from the trauma centres and this means a trauma
      victim must survive long enough to make it to a trauma centre to be counted.

      Stroke is the second leading cause of death worldwide, and the leading cause of chronic
      disability. Stroke is most frequently caused by an interruption of blood supply to portions
      of the brain due to occlusion of a major brain artery. Stroke statistics have the same bias
      as trauma statistics. The current registries for trauma and stroke (national and provincial)
      are administrative data sets containing only patients that are treated at a stroke or trauma
      centre and miss all those that are treated and released from community centres that are
      located close enough to a stroke or trauma centre to be subject to a community bypass
      strategy or referral. Nor do these data sets capture the important prehospital data on the
      event and time sensitive interventions provided in the prehospital setting.

      Sepsis is a clinical syndrome that results from dysregulation of the inflammatory response to
      severe infection. As sepsis progresses to septic shock it is marked by severe organ
      dysfunction, coagulopathy, and eventually circulatory collapse and death. The mortality
      associated with sepsis syndrome ranges from 20 to 50% with increased mortality in patients
      diagnosed with severe sepsis and septic shock. The average prehospital care interval exceeded
      45 minutes, highlighting that there is great potential for early treatment to be delivered by
      paramedics.

      There are no existing registries in Ontario that routinely track prehospital processes of
      care and outcomes for patients with sepsis who are transported by EMS. Collecting these data
      is essential to planning any interventions to improve prehospital identification and
      management of patients with sepsis.

      Why the focus on time sensitive interventions? Cardiac arrest, stroke, trauma and sepsis all
      involve resuscitation and time sensitive intervention. For every one minute delay in
      defibrillation in a cardiac arrest the survival rate falls 7-10%. For every minute delay in
      treating a stroke, the average patient loses 2 million brain cells, 13.8 billion synapses,
      and 12 km of axonal fibres. The mean times for those to reach a trauma centre after
      stabilization at a local hospital are long at 6.7 hours in Ontario well beyond the 'golden
      hour' in trauma where the survival is greatest. Similarly, despite widespread acknowledgement
      of the importance of early recognition and treatment of sepsis, many patients fail to receive
      appropriate therapy during the first 6 hours after presentation to hospital.

      As a result, our society is burdened with staggering socioeconomic costs due to the lack of
      focus on improving how we care for patients with these time sensitive, life-threatening
      illnesses. The practical realities of our Canadian geography suggest that a substantial
      proportion of potential patients do not live close enough to specialized centres of care and
      receive prehospital care and transport to the closest hospital instead. Rescu Epistry is
      designed to report on outcomes from these life-threatening illnesses which may benefit from
      prehospital time sensitive interventions and system optimization initiatives ensuring the
      right patient gets to the right institute in the right time interval where appropriate care
      has the greatest chance to be the most effective.

      How is Rescu Epistry innovative?

      Rescu Epistry has the proven functional and technological ability to expand to other
      communities in Ontario and to include other provinces in Canada and to collaborate with
      international investigators who have similar infrastructure and comparable variables. The
      expansion to other communities has four advantages:

        1. It tracks and reports inequalities in access to care that currently exists in Canada for
           cardiac arrest, trauma and participating regions through targeted interventions and

        2. timely reporting of operation and clinical outcomes

        3. it provides a real-world comparison to evaluate using observational data the transfer of
           science into practice (effectiveness or generalizability)

        4. it allows our participating services to collaborate easily in trials and studies which
           may be regional, national or international in scope.

      Rescu Epistry is unique from any other administrative research quality dataset as it
      represents a sentinel event in a patient's life that triggers the creation of a new record
      and a cascade of data collection that follows from multiple community partners like the 911
      operator to a multidisciplinary team in the hospital and in the community. This provides a
      window of opportunity to not only improve care but also optimize the system of care and
      measure performance benchmark to ensure science informs and changes practice.
    
  