
    
      RATIONALE Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a common neurodevelopmental
      disorder with a high persistence into adulthood. Patients with ADHD are primarily offered
      stimulant medication. However, not all patients are willing to take medication, some suffer
      from unacceptable side-effects and for many medication does not reduce their symptoms to the
      degree they would wish for. Therefore, there is a strong need for effective psychosocial
      interventions that are both accessible to a large group of patients and have been shown to be
      cost-effective, such as mindfulness training.

      OBJECTIVE To examine the (cost)effectiveness of mindfulness versus treatment as usual (TAU)
      in adults with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD).

      HYPOTHESIS Mindfulness training will result in less ADHD symptoms, a better executive
      functioning, a better quality of life, and lower health care and societal costs.

      STUDY DESIGN Randomised trial comparing mindfulness in addition to TAU with TAU alone.
      Baseline, end of treatment, follow-up 1 (6 months after baseline) and follow-up 2 (9 months
      after baseline) assessments will be done by blinded assessors and self-report questionnaires.
      After 9 months, patients allocated to the TAU condition will be offered mindfulness as well.

      STUDY POPULATION N=120 adults with ADHD according to the DSM-5 using a structured psychiatric
      interview, referred to Radboudumc in Nijmegen, Reinier van Arkel in 's Hertogenbosch and
      Dimence in Deventer.

      INTERVENTION The investigators have developed a treatment protocol of mindfulness for ADHD
      based on both the Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT) (Segal, Williams & Teasdale,
      2013) and the mindfulness training for ADHD developed by Zylowska (2012).

      STANDARD INTERVENTION TO BE COMPARED TO Treatment as usual, usually consisting of
      psychostimulants and psycho-education.

      COST-EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS/ BUDGET IMPACT ANALYSIS Annual health care and societal cost
      savings are expected to be €1,2 million and €15,4 million, respectively.
    
  