
    
      Background:

      Laparoscopic (keyhole) bowel surgery often requires positioning patients on the operating
      table in very steeply angled positions for up to four or more hours. There have been case
      reports of patients suffering cognitive impairment after surgery with long periods of
      Trendelenburg (person is lying flat at an incline where their head lies lower than their
      feet) positioning.

      Evidence from other fields of surgery suggests that "head-down" positions can produce a
      significant rise in the intraocular pressure. Transient vision problems and loss of sight has
      been reported following surgery is rare instances, including one case after laparoscopic
      colorectal resection. The cause of this is not fully understood, but rises in intraocular
      pressure (IOP) has been suggested as a possible factor. This may be particularly relevant in
      patients who have pre-existing high baseline IOP as a result of glaucoma. Studies looking at
      the effect of Trendelenburg positioning have shown that there is an increase in IOP. This
      study is to assess the effect of acetazolamide on the IOP rise after being placed in the
      Trendelenburg position. Acetazolamide is a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor which is used to
      treat glaucoma. The drug works by decreasing aqueous humour formation. It can be given as eye
      drops (but the absorption of this is variable and therefore so is the effect), orally and
      intravenously. The oral dose can be given as a one off dose or a divided dose. Maximum onset
      of IOP reduction occurs 2 to 5 hours after taking an oral dose and duration is 6-8 hours.

      Aims:

      This study aims to investigate the effect of acetazolamide on the IOP rise whilst in the
      Trendelenburg position.

      Experimental protocol and methods:

      This will be a pilot randomised crossover study with 9 healthy volunteers recruited and
      randomised to either Group 1 or Group 2. Group 1 will start with the Control Day; Group 2
      will start with the Intervention Day. On the Control Day, a baseline IOP using a Tonopen XL
      will be taken. They will then be placed in 17 degrees head-down position 2.5hours after a
      placebo is administered for a minimum of 1 hour and a maximum of 4 hours. Repeat IOP measure
      will be taken whilst in the Trendelenburg position after 5 minutes, and then every 30 minutes
      from the start of Trendelenburg position. On the Intervention Day, baseline IOP will be
      taken, they will then be 500mgs of acetazolamide. After 2.5 hours, the volunteers will then
      be placed in the Trendelenburg position at 17 degrees for position for a minimum of 1hour and
      a maximum of 4 hours. Repeat IOP measure will be taken whilst in the Trendelenburg position
      after 5 minutes, and then every 30 minutes from the start of Trendelenburg position.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Healthy volunteers, aged 18 and over

      Exclusions criteria

      Pregnancy Breast Feeding Hepatic impairment Patients with pre-existing conditions affecting
      IOP regulation eg Glaucoma, previous eye surgery Regular medication affecting IOP Under the
      age of 18 Refusal to give written informed consent

      Measurable endpoints/ statistical power

      Primary endpoint: Comparison of IOP pressure before and after being placed in the
      Trendelenburg position between the two days - Day 1 volunteers will be administered with a
      placebo before being placed in the Trendelenburg position and Day 2 after acetazolamide has
      been administered.

      Power: Bucci et al compared the effect of oral acetazolamide on IOP on 22 patients. They
      detected a 3.7mmHg decrease in IOP after 2 hours. Using this study, we powered our study to
      require 18 patients.
    
  