
    
      The prevalence of inflammatory bowel disease continues to rise in the United States, with an
      estimated 3 million adults carrying this diagnosis in 2015. With inflammatory bowel disease
      (IBD) comes significant psychosocial implications [Carson, 2013].These patients often feel
      alone and isolated due to their underlying disease burden. Literature has supported that
      subjectively; these patients often feel like they are isolated and also have a poor quality
      of life [Jones, 2019]. One of the biggest factors that has been evaluated in determining
      quality of life has been sleep. With the aid of the Pittsburgh Quality Sleep Index (PSQI),
      there has been proof that patients with active disease have poor sleep quality compared to
      their counterparts with IBD patients in general having worse sleep cycles as compared to
      healthy individuals [Sobolewska-Wlodarczyk, 2018; Ananthakrishnan, 2013]. It is hypothesized
      that disruption of the circadian system increases the release of inflammatory cytokines and
      immune activation, playing a role in chronic inflammatory diseases [Swanson, 2011]. Despite
      these correlations with sleep via subjective measures, no great objective data has been
      collected on this patient population.

      Another physiologic measurement that has been used for prediction and management of chronic
      diseases is heart rate variability (HRV). One highly investigated disease was heart failure
      [Jimenez-Morgan, 2017; Goessl, 2017, Shaffer, 2017; Bullinga; 2005; Tsuji, 1996]. The metric
      of HRV was used to predict mortality in heart failure with reduced ejection fraction and new
      cardiac events for which depressed HRV was predictive of more disease burden [Liu, 2014].
      Other chronic diseases have yet been explored in regard to quantifiable physiologic measures.

      There has been a push amongst all providers to search for a better way to connect with their
      patients. Multiple mobile applications have been explored, especially in the IBD community
      [Riaz, 2016]. These individuals are wanting to be more involved in their care and be kept in
      the loop. The investigators propose utilizing the Whoop Strap 3.0 to evaluate a number of
      physiologic metrics as well as sleep measures. Telemonitoring is currently being explored in
      this population, but there is a desire for something more that can quantify data: remote
      physiologic monitoring. This device can also help with shared decision making and have the
      patient directly involved in his or her care [Baars, 2010]. A recent study validated the
      Whoop device for sleep tracking and compared it to polysomnography, nearly identical in their
      results [Berryhill, 2020]. The device can also promote good healthy lifestyles with exercise,
      which is known to beneficial in this population [Engels, 2017].

      For this project, the investigators propose to investigate disease activity in accordance to
      physiologic and lifestyle measures utilizing the Whoop strap 3.0. This device and mobile
      application allow the patient to input everyday symptoms and overall activity which can allow
      us to correlate some subjective symptoms of potential disease flare with physiologic
      measurements. There is no published literature looking at the IBD population and has only
      been investigated in the cardiology realm, which has shown some positive correlation with
      chronic disease.
    
  