
    
      MATERIAL and METHODS Study design, Setting and Selection of Participants

      This prospective randomized control trial was conducted at an urban children's hospital
      Emergency Department with 56,000 visits annually. The Institutional Review Board (IRB)
      approved the study prior to subject enrollment. The study period was from September 2000 to
      July 2004. All patients under 18 years of age presenting to the Emergency Department with a
      fingertip injury distal to the distal interphalangeal joint were eligible to participate.
      Patients were excluded from the study if the time from injury to repair was greater than
      eight hours, if the patients had diabetes, an oncologic disorder, an immune deficiency, a
      bleeding disorder, used steroids regularly, presented with a grossly contaminated wound, were
      currently taking antibiotics, or had a previous allergic reaction to cephalosporins.

      The study was formulated as an equivalence trial to demonstrate non-inferiority of repair
      without versus with prophylactic antibiotics. The rate of infection 7 days after repair was
      the primary outcome variable. Determination of the target sample size was based on a
      combination of practicality and maximum difference between infection rates consistent with
      equivalence. It was judged feasible to enroll 160 subjects over the course of the study.
      Sample sizes of 80 per group would have 80% power to conclude with 95% certainty that the
      infection rates in the two groups were equivalent. This calculation is based on an upper
      1-sided 95% confidence limit for the difference in infection rates, with percent infected of
      6.25% in both groups, and the maximum allowable difference resulting in equivalence to be
      10.6%.

      Intervention

      All wounds were treated following a standardized protocol.9, 10 First, the degree of injury
      was recorded. Fingertips were classified into one of five categories: no laceration (damage
      to nailbed), simple laceration, loss of skin or pulp, partial amputation or complete
      amputation. Subungal hematomas were drained by cautery. Hand x-rays were obtained to detect
      fractures, dislocations, or foreign bodies. Lacerations were irrigated with 500cc normal
      saline after a digital block with 1% lidocaine (no epinephrine). Devitalized tissue was
      removed. Skin lacerations and nail bed injuries were repaired with chromic gut. Xeroform
      gauze was then applied to the repaired finger and a bulky dressing secured. A tetanus booster
      was given if patient's immunizations were not up-to-date. At discharge study participants
      were given a standard wound care instruction sheet and a scheduled follow-up appointment at
      48 hours. Subjects were told to return immediately to the same Emergency Department if they
      noticed signs or symptoms of infection, including the presence of redness, warmth,
      tenderness, swelling, discharge or fever.

      All wounds were repaired by residents, fellows, and/or attending physicians in the Emergency
      Department. In-service training was provided in the Emergency Department prior to starting
      the study and periodically during the study period to assure consistency in the repair
      process. If the wound was repaired by a resident or fellow, the attending in the Emergency
      Department provided direct supervision.

      After standard wound repair, eligible patients (and caregivers) were approached for
      enrollment. Interpreters were provided if the caregiver's or patient's primary language was
      not English. If caregivers and appropriate study subjects agreed, informed consent was
      obtained. Participants were then randomized to one of two groups using a randomization list
      prepared in advance with PROC PLAN within the Statistical Analysis System (SAS).11 Subjects
      assigned to Group 1 received no antibiotics after fingertip repair. Group 2 received
      prophylactic antibiotics (Cephalexin 50 mg/kg three times daily), upon discharge for 7 days.
      Cephalexin was chosen as the antibiotic of choice because the majority of wound infections
      are caused by gram positive organism (Staphylococcus and Streptococcus species). The full
      7-day course of antibiotics was dispensed to study subjects prior to discharge. The cost of
      the antibiotics was covered by the General Clinical Research Center (GCRC).

      A 48-hour follow-up visit was scheduled and the subject was told that one of the primary
      investigators would contact them by phone in 7 days. Subjects received instructions to keep
      their hand elevated, to keep the dressing clean and dry, to leave the dressings in place and
      to return to the Emergency Department immediately if signs or symptoms of wound infection
      developed.

      At the follow-up visit and with the phone call, one of the three study investigators
      evaluated for the presence of infection, compliance with antibiotics, and wound healing.
      Infection was determined by the presence of erythema, tenderness, warmth, purulent discharge,
      regional lymphadenopathy, and fever. Subject compliance with the antibiotic regime was
      recorded at 48 hours and at 7 days after repair. Compliance was determined by phone follow-up
      asking the caregiver to measure the amount of antibiotic left in the bottle and asking for
      the number of doses administered.

      Data Collection and Processing

      Study data were collected at the initial visit by the physician repairing the wound. Data
      from the 48 hour and 7 day phone follow-up were collected by one of the three primary
      investigators. All data was recorded on a standardized data collection form and then entered
      into a computerized Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. All hospital charts were reviewed by the
      primary investigator at the close of the study for quality assurance purposes.

      Statistical Methods

      The two groups were compared for age, gender, time of injury, place of injury, mechanism of
      injury, finger involved, presence of fracture, complexity of injury, level of training of the
      treating physician, laceration experience of the treating physician, and number of sutures
      placed, using the 2-sample t-test or the Wilcoxon rank sum test for continuous variables and
      Fisher's exact test or a Chi squared test for categorical variables. The rate of infection 7
      days after repair was calculated for each treatment group, along with exact binomial 95%
      confidence intervals. To assess the equivalence of the two treatments, the difference D =
      infection rate in the No Antibiotic Group minus infection rate in the Antibiotic Group was
      calculated. The upper limit of a 1-sided 95% confidence interval for D was used to estimate
      the maximum amount by which the infection rate without antibiotics may exceed that with
      prophylactic antibiotics. Additional analyses included comparison between dropouts and those
      who completed the study on demographic variables and wound and repair characteristics, and
      comparisons between those with and without infection to identify potential predictors of
      infection other than group assignment. NCSS 2004 software was used for equivalence testing.12
      Statistical tests comparing group characteristics were 2-sided and considered significant for
      p<0.05, using the SAS software, version 8.11

      DATA ANALYSIS

      Characteristics of Study Subjects

      A total of 146 subjects were initially enrolled in the study. The study was terminated
      earlier than expected because of staffing issues. Eleven participants were withdrawn prior to
      study completion. Those not completing the study included four subjects who could not be
      reached for phone follow-up, three subjects who received antibiotics during the study period
      for a reason other than infection of the fingertip, two subjects for whom insufficient data
      was available for analysis, one subject who received antibiotics prior to repair and one
      subject who requested to be withdrawn from the study prior to completion. These eleven
      subjects were significantly older than those who completed the study (6.0 +/- 3.8 vs. 3.1 +/-
      2.7 years, p=0.001), but were similar on all other baseline characteristics. In addition,
      subjects were equally distributed between the 2 groups: 6/75 (8%) from Group 1(No Antibiotic)
      and 5/71 (7%) from Group 2(Antibiotic) (p=1.0).

      A total of 135 subjects completed the study, 69 assigned to Group 1(No Antibiotic) and 66
      assigned to Group 2(Antibiotic). Baseline characteristics of the two groups are shown in
      Table 1. Values tabulated are mean + s.d. for continuous variables and number and percent for
      categorical variables. No statistically significant differences on any baseline values were
      found between the two treatment groups. At the 7 day interview, the percent who reported
      consuming at least 75% of the prescribed doses was 86.2% (95% CI: 75.3%, 93.5%).

      Results

      At 7 days after repair, one subject in each treatment group had an infection. The subject in
      the No Antibiotic Group was treated with oral antibiotics and the subject in the Antibiotic
      Group was treated with intravenous antibiotics. Both made a full recovery. The infection rate
      (95% confidence interval) was 1.45% (0.04%, 7.81%) for the No Antibiotic Group and was 1.52%
      (0.04%, 8.16%) for the Antibiotic Group, not statistically significant (p=1.00). The upper
      limit of a 1-sided 95% confidence interval for the difference in rates was 4.9% indicating
      that there is a 5% chance that the infection rate in subjects not treated with antibiotics
      would exceed that of subjects treated with antibiotics by more than 4.9%.

      Although the number of infections was too small for meaningful statistical comparisons,
      examination of the two infected cases revealed that the number of sutures was considerably
      larger than that among the uninfected subjects. The number of sutures for the two infected
      subjects was 8 and 9 (mean=8.5; standard deviation=0.7) and the mean (S.D.) for the
      uninfected subjects was 4.9 (2.0). After the completion of the study, chart review revealed
      four infections presenting beyond the seven-day window (Days 7-14), three in the Antibiotic
      Group and one in the No Antibiotic group. Interestingly, 41% of all wounds involved a
      fracture and none of these became infected.
    
  