
    
      As a participant in the study the following will take place:

      Questionnaires will be filled out which will include medical history, including asthma
      symptoms and control, and questions related to quality of life. In addition, an interview
      will be completed which assesses the participants asthma management.

      During this visit a brief training on how to complete lung function testing with a portable
      device will be demonstrated. The participant will breathe into twice per day for 14 days and
      then the device will be collected at the end of the 14 day period.

      Randomization A computer will randomly chose one of the two programs; Program A or Program B.
      Random assignment is like rolling a dice to decide which group a person is assigned to. Both
      Program A and B are 4 months in length.

      Program A the participant will answer questions about asthma management for a one-week period
      on a smartphone program. A smartphone can be provided for the duration of the study. After
      the one-week period, a report will be received on the smartphone about areas of asthma
      management that are going well and areas that may be in need of improvement. Next, brief
      meetings with study personnel to help determine things that will help improve asthma
      management. This information will be entered into a smartphone program. The participant will
      continue to use the smartphone program for a four month period.

      Program B the participant answer questions about asthma for a one-week period on a paper and
      pencil diary. The participant will receive a paper copy of feedback from study personnel
      related to areas of asthma management that are going well and areas that may be in need of
      improvement. The participant will then be given information on techniques they can use to
      target identified areas for improvement. The participant will be encouraged to use these
      strategies to for a 4 month period.
    
  