
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival and disease-free survival of patients with high-risk
           melanoma treated with interferon alfa vs cisplatin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine plus
           interferon alfa and interleukin-2.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these treatment regimens in these patients.

        -  Determine the relationship between minimal residual disease (MRD) status at 12 weeks and
           52 weeks and overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the effects of these treatment regimens on the MRD status of these patients.

        -  Determine the relationship between clinical characteristics (number of involved lymph
           nodes, ulcerated primary, and extracapsular extension) and MRD in patients treated with
           these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to nodal
      status (N1 or N2 vs N3), degree of lymph node involvement (micrometastases only vs any
      macrometastases, including satellite/in-transit metastases), and ulceration of the primary
      tumor (yes vs no vs unknown primary). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive interferon alfa IV on days 1-5 of weeks 1-4 followed by
           interferon alfa subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 3, and 5 of weeks 5-52 in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 30 minutes followed by vinblastine IV on days
           1-4. Patients also receive dacarbazine IV over 1 hour on day 1, interleukin-2 IV over 96
           hours on days 1-4, and interferon alfa SC on days 1-5, 8, 10, and 12. In addition,
           patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) SC on days 6-15. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for
           3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 410 patients (205 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 3 years.
    
  