
    
      MHTraining-Net uses a web-based platform and several long distance tools (e.g., e-learning
      modules, telephone or web consultation, telephone calls, toolkits, and discussion boards) to
      deliver four types of implementation activities: infrastructure development, training and
      education, quality improvement, and social networking. MHTraining-Net was developed to ensure
      that the Depression CAREPATH (CARE for PATients at Home), specifically, and evidence-based
      practices, generally, can be implemented widely and successfully across independent
      organizations within a sector of care.

      PROCEDURES: The effectiveness of MHTraining-Net on the implementation of the Depression
      CAREPATH will be tested in an agency-randomized trial of 160 HHAs. All HHAs are clients of
      Brightree (formerly CareAnyware, Inc), a software company that offers web-based point-of-care
      clinical management and administrative support for HHA nationwide. HHA clinicians record
      relevant data that is transmitted directly to Brightree for clinical and administrative
      purposes, including quality improvement initiatives. As part of each HHA's contract with
      Brightree is permission for using these data for performance enhancement research.

      Brightree has already programmed Cornell's Depression CAREPATH, a depression care management
      protocol, into its clinical management system so that all nurses use the protocol. To promote
      the use of the protocol, Brightree has posted two relevant videos (archived Patient Health
      Questionnaire-9 training web seminar training); demonstration of how to navigate the protocol
      within the software) on its user education website.

      Brightree will randomize HHAs to either MHTraining-Net, (N=100) or to Enhanced Support
      (N=60). Enhanced Support will have access to only the two training videos until the end of
      the study when they will be invited to MHTraining-Net. These procedures represent Brightree's
      typical "roll-out" approach on introducing new training and products to their client HHAs.

      The study will test its hypotheses using three sets of data:

        1. Summary statistics describing the size and type of the 160 HHAs as well as their average
           nurse productivity over the 12 months preceding and following the study;

        2. Routinely collected administrative data on patients age >65 who screen positive for
           depression over one year, including Medicare-mandated assessments, medication lists,
           transaction files, indicators of whether the depression care management protocol was
           used, and Medicare case-mix adjustment and reimbursement indicators. We are using to
           term 'patients' to refer to a full episode of patient care, defined from the
           Start-of-Care date to Discharge, recognizing that a small proportion of unique
           individuals may have more than one full episode of care. We will not be able to identify
           such individuals. These data will be aggregated at the patient level in preparation for
           performance enhancement analyses using Brightree's routine procedures. Brightree will
           code the data, remove identifiers, and transmit them to Weill Cornell on a regular basis
           using the Weill Cornell ITS Department secure servers and protocols.

        3. Agency-level data on the use of the MHTraining-Net website (e.g., summary reports on
           'hits' of each webpage) and agency-initiated contacts (telephone, email) through records
           maintained by Cornell project staff.
    
  