
    
      A variety of traditionally open surgical procedures have recently become minimally invasive
      through the use of laparoscopic technology. Gynecologic surgeries are no exception. However,
      some gynecologic laparoscopic procedures are associated with significant post-operative pain,
      necessitating prolonged hospitalization, use of post-operative opioids, and in some cases,
      the development of chronic post-operative pain. Prolonged hospitalization and use of opioids
      pose important patient safety concerns, such as increased risk of hospital borne illnesses
      and medication errors; in addition, opioids may cause respiratory depression and addiction.
      Given the rising cost of health care there is also an economic incentive to eliminate the
      need for hospital admission due to post-operative pain.

      Preemptive analgesia involves nerve blockade or administration of pain medication
      systemically prior to incision to reduce post-procedure pain. Paracervical blockade is a form
      of preemptive analgesia. Paracervical blocks have been demonstrated to be safe and effective
      for obstetrical procedures in reducing post-operative pain since the 1970s. Recently they
      have also been shown to be efficacious for reducing post-operative pain in vaginal
      hysterectomy (Long et al, Int Urogynecol J (2009) 20:5-10).

      For the present investigation, we intend to study the effectiveness of paracervical blockade
      for laparoscopic and robotic-assisted laparoscopic gynecological surgery. We hypothesize that
      paracervical blockade prior to surgical incision will lessen levels of post-operative pain,
      reduce use of opioids, and decrease the number of patients requiring hospitalization for pain
      control. We also hypothesize that the effects may be longer lasting than the immediate
      post-operative period and may decrease the amount of time to return to normal activity after
      surgery.

      Using anecdotal evidence from the primary investigator, Dr. Ascher-Walsh the rate of
      hospitalization for laparoscopic hysterectomy (laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy,
      total laparoscopic hysterectomy, laparoscopic assisted supracervical hysterectomy) is
      approximately 67%. In this study, we wish to decrease hospitalization with the paracervical
      block by 50%, thus obtaining an overall post-operative hospitalization rate of 33%. For
      robotic-assisted laparoscopic myomectomy, the rate of hospitalization is 50%. We wish to
      decrease this by 50% as well. Overall we are aiming to achieve a rate of 30% for
      post-operative hospitalization for pain control for laparoscopic hysterectomies and robotic
      myomectomies combined.
    
  