
    
      Multiple Myeloma (MM) is a common hematologic malignancy characterized by clonal expansion of
      transformed plasma cells (PCs) in the bone marrow1. Over the past decade, the introduction of
      immunomodulatory agents (such as thalidomide and lenalidomide) and proteasome inhibitors
      (such as bortezomib) as effective therapies has altered the therapeutic landscape for
      multiple myeloma (MM). Following the approval and establishment of thalidomide-containing
      regimens, such as melphalan, prednisone and thalidomide (MPT) and Thal/Dex, as the standard
      first-line therapy for newly diagnosed MM (NDMM), lenalidomide in combination with
      dexamethasone (RD) was approved for the treatment of patients with previously treated
      multiple myeloma 1 (MM1). However, even with these newly approved agents, MM remains an
      incurable disease and most patients will eventually relapse and progress after multiple lines
      of different therapeutic regimens including both lenalidomide as well as bortezomib. Thus
      there remains a continued need to identify newer agents to maintain long term disease control
      in these patients.

      Thalidomide and its immune-modulatory analogue lenalidomide have clinical activity in
      myeloma. Pomalidomide, a thalidomide analogue, is an immunomodulatory agent that displays
      similar anti-angiogenic activity, but far greater anti-proliferative and immunomodulatory
      activity, compared to the parent drug. Pomalidomide and lenalidomide have been shown to
      possess very similar pharmacological properties in vitro, including anti-angiogenic,
      immunomodulatory and anti-proliferative properties. However a unifying molecular mechanism
      for these diverse effects has been elusive. Pomalidomide and lenalidomide have significantly
      greater capacity for enhanced costimulation, leading to enhanced activation of innate and
      adaptive immune cells compared to Thalidomide. Recent studies have yielded the surprising
      finding that these agents can mediate rapid biologic effects on human monocytes and T cells
      in culture leading to activation of ras homolog gene family, member A (RhoA) GTPases, and
      enhanced actin polymerization. Changes in actin cytoskeleton may also contribute to the
      capacity to these drugs to enhance the formation of immune synapses, Pomalidomide has also
      been shown to stimulate antibody-dependent cytotoxic T-cell activity (ADCC) in preclinical
      models.

      At tolerated doses (MTD = 2 mg per day (QD) and 5 mg every other day (QOD), pomalidomide has
      been shown to be active in subjects with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (study
      CC-4047-00-001). In 45 subjects who received doses of pomalidomide ranging, by cohort, up to
      10 mg daily, the most commonly occurring dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was reversible
      neutropenia. As with other immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) administered to subjects receiving
      concomitant systemic steroids, deep vein thrombosis (DVT) was seen (in 1 subject each in this
      study and in its subsequent named patient supply rollover program).

      Recently, preliminary efficacy and safety data from an ongoing phase II study, led by Martha
      Lacy at Mayo Clinic, were published. Sixty patients with relapsed or refractory multiple
      myeloma were enrolled. Pomalidomide (CC-4047) was given orally at a dose of 2 mg daily on
      days 1-28 of a 28-day cycle and dexamethasone was given orally at a dose of 40 mg daily on
      days 1, 8, 15, 22 of each cycle. Patient also received aspirin 325 mg once daily for
      thromboprophylaxis. The study endpoints were the response rate in patients taking
      pomalidomide plus dexamethasone including patients with lenalidomide resistant refractory
      multiple myeloma, and safety of pomalidomide plus dexamethasone. Responses were recorded
      using the criteria of the International Myeloma Working Group. Thirty eight patients achieved
      objective response (63%) including complete response (CR) in 3 patients (5%), very good
      partial response (VGPR) in 17 patients (28%), and partial response (PR) in 18 patients (30%).
      The CR + VGPR rate was 33%. Grade 3 or 4 hematologic toxicity occurred in 23 patients (38%)
      and consisted of anemia in three patients (5%), thrombocytopenia in two patients (3%) and
      neutropenia in 21 (35%). Among those that developed grade 3/4 neutropenia, all first
      experienced the neutropenia in cycle 1-3; no new patients experienced grade 3/4 neutropenia
      in cycle 4 or later. The most common non-hematological grade 3/4 toxicities were fatigue
      (17%) and pneumonia (8%). Other grade 3/4 non-hematological toxicities that occurred in less
      than 5% included diarrhea, constipation, hyperglycemia, and neuropathy. One patient (1.6%)
      had a thromboembolic event of deep vein thrombosis.

      Another dosing regimen for Pomalidomide involved 21/28 day dosing, as in the current dosing
      regimen for Lenalidomide. In this trial the recommended dose for phase II testing was
      determined to be 4 mg, 21/28 d. Clinical response (greater than or equal to a partial
      response (PR)) was observed in 7/25 (28%) patients. While both regimens seem to be clinically
      active, it is unclear at present as to which regimen leads to greater immune activation or
      clinical activity.

      In addition to MM, pre-clinical data and the prior experience with thalidomide and
      lenalidomide in the treatment of patients with myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia (MMM)
      provided the rationale for the use of pomalidomide in patients with MMM. This is further
      supported by the results of a Celgene sponsored trial (MMM-001) which indicated that
      pomalidomide therapy at 0.5 mg or 2 mg/day +/- an abbreviated course of prednisone is well
      tolerated in patients with myelofibrosis and active in the treatment of anemia.

      However, these studies did not monitor proximate pharmacodynamic events (such as might occur
      within hours of drug exposure), and link these to downstream effects, including clinical
      activity and toxicity. Our hypothesis is that the proximate effects of these drugs (including
      drug induced changes in F-actin) and early phosphorylation events will be sensitive and
      quantitative surrogates of subsequent effects including activation of tumor antigen specific
      T cells as well as innate immune cells. Understanding the correlation between
      pharmacodynamics of these effects with downstream activation using quantitative assays will
      facilitate rational development of these agents as immunomodulatory drugs in diverse settings
      and may also allow optimization of drug delivery to both reduce potential toxicity, and
      enhance efficacy.
    
  