
    
      Study design and participants A randomized controlled clinical trial of parallel groups (1:1)
      with 17 recessions in each group was performed. Control group (CAF + CTG) and test group (CAF
      + L-PRF). This study was approved by the ethical committee of Universidad de Los Andes,
      Santiago Chile (CEC201627) and in full accordance with the ethical principles of the
      Declaration of Helsinki, as revisited in 2000. The patients were instructed about the
      benefits and risks of the study and each participant signed an informed consent form.

      Thirteen patients (9 females and 4 males; aged 26 to 53 years; mean year: 41,74; SD: 9,11
      years) with a total of 34 gingival recession (27 in females and 7 in males) participated in
      the present study. (Figure 1)

      The sample size was based on the detection of 1 mm difference in gingival recession reduction
      between the treatment groups (standard deviation 0.93), with a two-sided 5% significance
      level, a power of 85%.(36) The sample size calculation was obtained using the software STATA
      v14.0.

      Initial therapy and clinical measurements The patient enrolled received a prophylaxis session
      (scaling and professional tooth cleaning), all patients had less of 20% of plaque or 80% oral
      hygiene according to the O´Leary oral hygiene index.(37) All clinical parameters measurements
      were performed by a single trained and calibrated examiner (C.A.) and masked for the
      treatment assigned. An Individual acrylic stents were prepared for all patients to take
      measurements of the constant points.

      The following parameters were evaluated at baseline and 1, 3, and 6 months after treatment:
      1) gingival recession depth (RD), distance between CEJ and gingival margin (GM); 2) gingival
      recession wide (RW), measured at CEJ level; 3) probing depth (PD), measured from margin of
      the gingiva to the gingival sulcus base; 4) clinical attachment level (CAL), measured from
      the CEJ to the gingival sulcus base; 5) keratinized tissue height (KTH), measured from the
      mucogingival junction to the gingival margin; 6) gingival thickness (GT) at 3 mm from the
      gingival margin, measured un local anesthesia with an endodontic spacer Nº 25 with its
      stopper silicone disc and an endodontic rule; 7) root coverage (RC) was calculated in
      millimeters and percentages according to the following formula: [(pre-operative RD -
      post-operative RD)/pre-operative RD] × 100.

      PD, CAL, and KTH measurements were performed at the mid-buccal aspect of the teeth, by a
      manual probe and were rounded up to the nearest millimeter.(7)

      Patient Evaluation of Postoperative Morbidity and Esthetics Pain score using a 100-mm visual
      analogue scale (VAS) (0 indicating no pain, 50 indicating average, and 100 indicating an
      unbearable pain) and the incidence of complications post-surgery (such as hematoma, swelling,
      bleeding, infection, wound dehiscence, etc.) responding dichotomous questions, were
      registered at 24, 48 and 72 hours after the surgery.

      The root coverage esthetic score (RES) was evaluated at 6 months according to the protocol of
      Cairo et al.(38).

      Surgical treatment Prior to starting the surgery, the surgeon opened the envelope labeled
      with the assigned treatment. All surgeries were performed by a single expert periodontist
      (A.S.). Under local anesthesia, the root area corresponding to buccal attachment loss
      (gingival recession + buccal PD) was instrumented with Gracey curettes until obtain a
      polished surface. Then, the surface was washed with a saline solution for 30 seconds.
      Additionally, a chemical treatment of the root surface for 3 minutes was done using
      Tetracycline HCl (250 mg/ml), mixing 250 mg in 1 ml of sterile water. After that, the root
      surface was rinsed for 60 seconds with saline solution.

      The CAF was made following the protocol described by Zucchelli et al. in 2007. (39). Two
      horizontal beveled incision were done at mesial and distal of the gingival recession (each
      one 3 mm in length) at a distance from the tip of the anatomical papillae equal to the depth
      of the recession plus 1 mm. Both incisions were connected with an intrasulcular incision.
      From the horizontal incisions, two beveled obliques, slightly divergent, incisions were
      extended until the alveolar mucosa. Then, the trapezoidal-shaped flap, split-full-split from
      coronal to apical was elevated and the papillae (mesial and distal) were deepithelialized.
      When the margin of the flap was able to passively extend until more coronal of the CEJ the
      coronal mobilization of the flap was considered satisfactory.

      According to the treatment assignment (control or test group), a connective tissue graft or a
      double L-PRF membrane was positioned at the level of CEJ, getting the stabilization with 5-0
      resorbable suture. After that, the flap was coronally advanced and stabilized with
      interrupted sutures (5-0 resorbable) anchored to incisal contact points (mesial and distal)
      created with a flowable, light-curing resin material in the treated tooth. Finally, a gentle
      pression over the area with a moistened gauze with saline solution was performed.

      L-PRF preparation 2 vacutainer tubes of 10 ml without anticoagulant of blood were obtained
      and centrifuged at 408 g for 12 minutes using a table centrifuge (IntraSpinTM, Intralock,
      Florida, USA) according to the protocol described by Temmerman et al. in 2016.(40) The L-PRF
      clots obtained were removed from the tube, separated of the red cells and located inside of
      Xpression box (IntraSpinTM, Intralock, Florida, USA) to convert them into membranes.

      The two L-PRF membranes obtained were attached using a resorbable suture until obtain only
      one thicker and stable membrane. (Figure 2)

      Postsurgical indications and control pain Ketoprofen 100 mg was administrated immediately
      before the surgery. Then, they took the same prescription every 12 hours for the next 2 days.
      In some specific cases, the prescription was extended to control pain and the extra doses was
      registered.

      The patients received written and oral instructions about not touch the involved area, only
      liquid diet and do not make any hard effort or sports activity during two weeks until the
      sutures were removed. Related to oral hygiene after surgery, the patients were also
      instructed to not brush their treated teeth, just rinse with Chlorhexidine solution (0.12%)
      three times a day for 1 min. After suture removal, the chlorhexidine rinsing was maintained
      for additional 2 weeks. After that, the patients were again instructed with a -traumatic
      tooth brushing technique.

      Randomization, Allocation Concealment, and Calibration Computer-Generated randomization was
      used to assign the patients with an allocation ratio of 1:1 into two study groups: CAF +
      L-PRF (17 gingival recession; control) and CAF + CTG (17 gingival recession; test). To
      conceal the treatment assignment, opaque envelopes containing the name of the intervention
      were used. During the intra-examiner calibration period, a 90% level of calibration (K
      coefficient = 0.90) was detected after triplicate measurement of gingival recession depth
      (GRD), distance from the CEJ to the margin of the gingiva, in 50 recession defects.

      Statistical analysis Descriptive analysis was expressed as mean and standard deviation (SD)
      or median and interquartile range (IQR) according to distribution of data (normality)
      determinate by Shapiro-Wilk test. Student's t-test was used to evaluate differences between
      baseline measures and different evaluations times of variables expresses as mean, in the
      variables expresses as median was used the Wilcoxon test was applied. Categorical measurement
      was analyzed by Chi-square test. A p-value < 0.05 considered as significant in all tests. The
      analysis was performed with Stata software v.12, Stata Corp, College Station, TX.
    
  