
    
      A total of 25 healthy volunteers between the ages of 18 and 80 with no previous history of
      COVID-19 will be entered into the study and will receive IPV by injection on Day 1. Blood
      specimens collected pre-inoculation will be tested for cross-reactivity to poliovirus and
      SARS-CoV-2 by Western blot. An additional specimen will be collected on Day 28
      post-inoculation and, likewise tested for cross-reactivity to poliovirus and SARS-CoV-2.

      If the results from this study demonstrate that polio vaccine induces an immune response
      against both the immunogen (poliovirus) and SARS-CoV-2, the study may be amended after
      consultation with the Center for Biologics evaluation and research (CBER), to enroll an
      additional 275 subjects. Expansion of the original cohort will be stratified by age and
      race/ethnicity.

      The number of subjects with an immune response to SARS-CoV-2 antigens following inoculation
      with IPV will be summarized.

      Vaccination for poliomyelitis is part of routine childhood vaccination. Only IPV has been
      administered in the United States since the year 2000 as a series of 4 inoculations in
      childhood inducing an immunity which, although protective for years, wans over time and is,
      for the most part, undetectable in adults unless a booster is administered. United States
      residents are advised to receive a booster prior to travelling to countries where polio
      disease remains endemic.

      Inactivated vaccines against RNA viruses (including Poliovirus and coronavirus) induce an
      immune response that recognizes the non-structural antigens of the inactivated viral
      particle. There is extensive homology between Poliovirus and SARS-CoV-2
      RNA-dependent-RNA-polymerase (RdRp) both within the coding regions and illustrated in the
      3-dimensional modeling. The homology between the viral epitopes may be sufficient such that
      adults who receive a polio booster develop an immune response that cross-reacts with
      SARS-CoV-2. Consequently, the neutralizing activity of antibodies raised to SARS-CoV-2 RdRp
      will be evaluated.To evaluate and characterize the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 elicited in
      adults by IPV.

      Primary Objective: To evaluate whether an immune response to SARS-CoV-2 RdRp is induced in
      adults receiving a booster inoculation of IPV.

      Secondary Objectives:: To evaluate the neutralizing activity of antibodies raised to
      SARS-CoV-2 RdRp

      This is a single-site study in a clinic in San Diego California that routinely diagnoses and
      manages patients with COVID-19.
    
  