
    
      Olanzapine is approved for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. However,
      patients who have received this drug for these reasons have also experienced weight gain.
      Further studies in patients with cancer showed an improvement in appetite, a decrease in
      nausea, and a control of flushing (feeling of warmth) and sweating.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study and before you receive your first
      dose of Olanzapine, you will have routine blood tests (about 2 teaspoons). You will be asked
      a series of questions about your nutrition and how well you are able to perform daily
      activities. These questions should take about 20 minutes to answer. Your answers will help
      the study doctor decide if the study drug is helping you gain weight and if your weight gain
      is helping you feel better. You will also have an electrocardiogram (ECG - a test to measure
      the electrical activity of the heart). Women who are able to have children must have a
      negative blood pregnancy test (about 1 teaspoon).

      After the tests above are completed, you will begin receiving Olanzapine. The study drug will
      be taken by mouth once daily at bedtime for 28 days in a row. Seven different doses of the
      drug are planned with 6 patients enrolled on each level. The level you are assigned to will
      depend on when you are enrolled on this study. All participants will begin taking the same
      strength of the study drug. This will gradually increase about every 3 - 14 days until you
      reach the highest strength of the study drug for the dose level to which you are assigned.

      About every 2 weeks during this study for the first month and then about once a month
      thereafter, you will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs (blood
      pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate), and your medical history will be
      discussed. You will also have routine blood tests (about 2 teaspoons) to check your general
      health.

      You will continue to receive the highest strength of the study drug for the dose level to
      which you are assigned for about 4 months unless you have intolerable side effects or if your
      weight continues to decrease. The study doctor will decide if you should continue receiving
      Olanzapine after 4 months.

      This is an investigational study. The FDA has approved Olanzapine for mental health diseases
      (schizophrenia, acute mania, and bipolar disorder). Its use in preventing weight loss is
      experimental. Up to 57 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD
      Anderson.
    
  