
    
      Participants will be identified as they attend assessment areas or testing facilities hosted
      by the recruiting NHS centres. They will be screened by clinical staff and identified to the
      research team.

      Consent will be taken by a clinical staff member or research staff member with the aim of
      reducing the number of contacts with the patients and minimising the usage of personal
      protective equipment.

      The consent form gives the patient the opportunity to ask further questions. Only those that
      are able to consent for themselves will be recruited for this trial.

      We want to allow patients as long as possible to make a decision to participate but we feel
      it is important if possible that the swab samples are taken during the same patient contact
      (reducing PPE usage and minimising additional staff exposures). However there should not be
      undue delay to clinical testing therefore we propose if due to clinical urgency potential
      participants do not have sufficient time to consider the patient information sheet and
      discuss the trial prior to the PCR swab being taken they can have up to 24 hours to consider
      this information and participate if they wish to.

      Consent will be taken by a clinical staff member or research staff member reducing the number
      of contacts with the patients. They will then be assigned a trial number used to identify
      them during the trial. The consent form that will be photocopied and reprinted on clean
      paper, with the original staying with the patient. The clean copy will be stored in the
      patient's notes and the case record file.

      The current standard COVID PCR swab will be taken and a second swab taken immediately after
      for use in the rapid antigen test. As the swab process can be uncomfortable after the first
      swab is taken for the standard clinical test (PCR) the participant's consent will be
      confirmed again prior to taking the second swab required for the antigen test. After consent
      the research team will complete an anonymised data case record form from the notes and
      clinical management database. Participant's year of birth and date of onset of symptoms if
      symptomatic will be documented.

      From routine blood samples taken by phlebotomy or clinical staff consent will be sort to
      store a leftover sample. This will be processed and stored by research laboratory staff. This
      will be stored in an anonymised secure research freezer.

      In the laboratory their swab for the PCL COVID19 Ag rapid FIA will be run on the test
      platform. Following the test the swab will be destroyed as per local guidelines for
      contaminated items. This will performed by dedicated research laboratory scientists.
      Participant's results from this antigen test will not be used to make clinical decisions. We
      will not be able to feedback participants' individual results.

      Participants are expected to be in the study for total of 20 minutes total although this will
      be spread over their patient journey so they have sufficient time to read the information
      leaflet and ask questions.
    
  