
    
      KEY RESEARCH AIMS:

      Aim 1: To examine feasibility of Tele-exergame. The investigators will evaluate feasibility
      by documenting missing exercise sessions, exercise dropout, and acceptability questionnaire.

      Aim 2: To examine proof of concept effectiveness to reduce deconditioning. The investigators
      will assess deconditioning (using wearables) and patient reported mental health assessed at
      baseline at discharge.

      Aim 3: Examine proof of concept effectiveness to accelerate recovery post hospital discharge.

      Approximately 4 weeks after discharge, patients will be contacted by telemedicine or
      telephone and requested to self-report on the Veterans mental health and the Veterans
      mobility.

      METHODS:

      COVID-19 patients or PUI (persons under investigation) admitted to the MEDVAMC (n=60), with
      an anticipated length of stay of at least 3 days will be recruited. Participants will be
      randomized (n=1:1) to either intervention (IG) or control (CG) groups. Both groups will
      receive standard of care. IG will additionally receive Tele-Exergame MP therapy.
      Tele-Exergame sessions will range from 3-10 minutes based on patient ability and completed
      twice daily. They will complete assessments at baseline and at one-month post-hospital
      discharge.

      SCIENTIFIC MERIT:

      The proposed contact-less mobility program could address the limitations of conventional
      in-hospital mobility program and advance the field of in-hospital exercise program.

      The investigators will use innovative wearables to exploring potential digital biomarkers of
      hospital-acquired illness including cognitive-frailty. illness.

      This study will advance the field of remote patient monitoring

      BENEFIT TO VETERANS:

      Its implementation not only for mobility program for hospitalized COVID-19 Veteran patients
      but also to deliver personalized exercise for non-COVID-19 Veteran patients with limited
      mobility including in bedbound and hospitalized Veteran patients Mobilizing hospitalized
      Veteran patients could mitigate hospital acquired complications like deconditioning, VTE and
      nosocomial infections and accelerate recovery post hospitalization
    
  