
    
      In the United States, drug overdose deaths and opioid-involved deaths continue to increase,
      quadrupling since 1999; six out of ten drug overdose deaths involve an opioid. Overdoses from
      prescription opioids are a driving factor in the 15-year increase in opioid overdose deaths.
      The amount of prescription opioids sold to pharmacies, hospitals, and doctors' offices has
      drastically risen, yet there had not been an overall change in the amount of pain that
      Americans reported. Deaths from prescription opioids-drugs like oxycodone, hydrocodone, and
      methadone-have more than quadrupled since 1999.

      Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been shown to control both postoperative
      pain and pain associated with some orthopaedic injuries in children and adults with certain
      orthopaedic injuries. Further, the use of NSAIDs for pain control has been shown to lessen
      the use of narcotic pain medications, the adverse effects of which are well known. With the
      current opioid epidemic, more research is needed to determine strategies to reduce opioid use
      in patients with orthopaedic injuries. Chapman et al. showed that NSAIDs can be used
      effectively to reduce postoperative pain and narcotic use in patients who had undergone
      carpal tunnel release. Although distal radius fractures are one of the most common fractures,
      no studies have examined the effect of NSAIDs on distal radius fracture pain. The purpose of
      this study is to compare pain and narcotic pain medication use in patients who have had
      distal radius fractures in patients who use NSAIDs to those who do not.

      To the authors' knowledge, there have been no clinical prospective, randomized studies to
      evaluate the effect that NSAIDs have on patients with distal radius fractures. The
      investigators hypothesize that NSAID administration in the acute phase of distal radius
      fracture healing will be non-inferior for pain control and decrease the use of opioid
      analgesics compared to patients who take acetaminophen for pain control during this same time
      period. Furthermore, the investigators hypothesize that patients will have similar or better
      patient reported outcomes, range of motion, and strength with the administration of NSAIDs.
    
  