
    
      The investigators are conducting a 4-phase phase mixed methods study involving nominal group
      technique (NGT), with patients driving the identification and categorization of preferences
      regarding treatment options for symptomatic AS. Participants include adults with a history of
      symptomatic AS and HCPs who guide decisions about managing AS, including interventional
      cardiologists, cardiac surgeons and advanced practice providers (APPs), including nurse
      practitioners and physician assistants.

      The initial phases of the study (generating patient goals and preferences through NGTs)
      targets diverse patients with a history of severe Aortic Stenosis (AS) who have previously
      made the decision regarding treatment choices. This will include patients who have undergone
      Surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR), Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), or
      who elected palliative care with or without balloon valvuloplasty. The subsequent phases will
      include patients with AS who are currently facing a decision with regard to treatment.

      Phase 1: Identify and prioritize patient a) goals and b) preferences for treatment. The
      nominal group technique (NGT) will be used to identify and prioritize patient-centered
      outcomes related to treatment goals and treatment features. Both in-person and online NGT
      groups, with 5-9 patients each, will be conducted to maximize the representativeness of the
      sample (6-8 NGTs). Planning for 4 NGT's per question (8 total), including a minimum of 2
      in-person NGTs (and the remaining conducted either in-person or online, depending on which
      approach better enables recruitment needs. Each NGT has between 5 and 9 patients. A separate
      parallel process will be done for each NGT question including a) goals and b) preferences for
      treatment attributes to limit patient burden for each portion of the study.

      Phase 2: Categorize patient a) goals and b) preferences for treatment through cognitive
      mapping. Following identification and prioritization of patient-generated goals and
      preferences, 25-50 patients across the three sites will participate online in "card sorting"
      activities that will be used to organize these prioritized lists into clusters (domains),
      using Multidimensional Scaling (MDS) and Hierarchical Cluster Analysis (HCA) to analyze the
      data. A parallel process will be done for each cognitive map including a) goals and b)
      preferences for treatment.

      Phase 3: Based on patient-defined goals and preferences for the treatment of AS, develop the
      preference assessment tool. The patient-identified goals and preferences will serve as the
      core of the preference tool. The investigators will draw from a validated SDM template to
      summarize and communicate patient preferences to their HCPs. An early prototype will be
      developed, and subsequent usability testing with patients with a history of severe AS will
      refine the tool. The prototype that will be used is available at:
      https://tinyurl.com/WhatMattersMS

      Phase 4: Pilot test the preference assessment tool using 20-25 patient-HCP pairs to compare
      HCPs' prediction of patient preferences to actual patient preferences, among those patients
      who have not yet received treatment for their AS. Before each clinical encounter, each HCP
      will be asked to infer their patient's top 1-3 treatment goals and preferences. Patients will
      have interacted with the preference assessment tool independently before the clinical
      appointment, which will have assessed and summarized their goals and preferences. After the
      HCP has entered his/her inferred patient treatment goals, he/she will be shown the patient's
      actual treatment goals and preferences. Analyses will compare the correspondence between the
      patient and HCP preferences (using Kappa statistic). Additionally, the outcomes below will be
      assessed in preparation for the subsequent national validation study.
    
  