
    
      Investigators will conduct a feasibility study for a future fast track randomized trial,
      which will be carried out in the Américo Brasiliense State Hospital and conducted by the
      Spirometry and Respiratory Physiotherapy Laboratory from the Federal University of São
      Carlos, Brazil.

      The concept of feasibility is defined as "capable of being done or carried out" and studies
      which aim is to verify the feasibility intends to verify if a larger clinical trial would
      have a acceptable probability of success in proving the efficacy of an intervention 24. The
      importance of feasibility studies has been discussed since health research resources are
      frequently wasted in large clinical trials with interventions with small impact, studies with
      insufficient power, or even using measures and outcomes that do not reflect the expected
      changes caused by the interventions. Furthermore, these studies are essential when dealing
      with populations that usually lead to an increased chance of losing the follow-up or a high
      number of missing data, such as palliative care.

      Both groups will receive the therapy with the mechanical insufflators-exsufflator, however,
      the Mechanical insufflation-exsufflation group will receive it as in a fast track way, while
      the usual care, will receive the usual care for more 24 hours, and then they will receive one
      session of Mechanical Insufflation-Exsufflation. After this 24 hours period, the patients
      will be asked what therapy they would like to receive each time they need help to deal with
      hypersecretion until the end of the hospitalization, or until the physician responsible for
      the patient consider the hypersecretion was controlled.

      The allocation through fast track has been used due to ethical reasons, in order to maintain
      the randomized and controlled aspects of the research, and yet provide the opportunity to all
      patients to be benefited of the new intervention before the end of the study. Furthermore, an
      increase in the acceptability and retention of the participants is expected, since they are
      going to receive the new therapy in some moment of the study, which may be during or after
      the follow-up 28. The cross-over design was not chosen, since the wash-out period necessary
      to this model of study might lead to a period without treatment for vulnerable patients, with
      expected short life time.

      Usual Care The patients will receive the treatment according to the hospital protocol to deal
      with hypersecretive patients (suctioning that can be preceded by respiratory physiotherapy
      and nebulisation). A trained member of the nurse staff or a physiotherapist will be
      responsible for providing the therapy. A member of the research team will collect in the
      patients' records all the therapies provided by the staff to control hypersecretions.

      Mechanical Insufflation-Exsufflation The settings used in the Mechanical
      Insufflator-Exsufflator will be the same of a previous study, where were used: six assisted
      cough cycles with pressures of 40 to -40cmH2O; the inspiratory time of 3s; the expiratory
      time 4s and a pause between cycles of 4s. The patients will be instructed to cough alongside
      the exsufflation phase, with exception of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease patients
      which will be instructed to exhale slowly. An oral-nasal mask will be used as interface, but
      in patients with tracheotomy, the device will be connected to it.
    
  