
    
      Goal: The goal of this project is to gather data on feasibility and effect size necessary for
      a full scale trial of a supported education service for Operation Iraq and Enduring Freedom
      (OIF/OEF) veterans with PTSD that will contribute to its evidence-base. Supported education
      is a rehabilitation and recovery based intervention that is new to VHA services and that
      responds to an expressed but unmet need among these warriors with war-related trauma. We
      propose to conduct a pilot of a supported education service and employ a process and outcome
      evaluation.

      Anticipated Impacts on Veterans Healthcare: Veterans with post traumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD) possess educational aspirations. Due to limited education and disability adjustment,
      many such veterans unsuccessfully locate employment or obtain entry level jobs with limited
      advancement opportunities. Even with current GI Bill funding increases, veterans experience
      non-financial barriers to their pursuit of educational goals. Supported education is a
      strategy developed within the civilian population that facilitates skill, career, and
      educational goals within post-secondary educational settings. It has been shown to increase
      educational engagement, participation, and completion, as well as improve empowerment and
      school efficacy. We hypothesize that supported education tailored to returning Veterans will
      result in similar outcomes.

      Aims and Objectives: The goal of this project is to gather data necessary for a full scale
      trial of a supported education service for OIF/OEF veterans with PTSD. The following are the
      aims and objectives:

      Aim 1: Using a randomized controlled design, assess the magnitude of the effect of a
      supported education service on hours of participation in community educational settings and
      on acquiring an educational goal. Objective: Assess the number of hours of participation in
      community education settings and on acquiring an educational goal for 40 Veterans with PTSD
      who are randomly assigned to an intervention group (N=20) that receives a weekly supported
      education intervention and a control group that receives services as usual plus an hour of
      attentive intervention not focused on education.

      Aim 2. To examine whether the supported education intervention has secondary effects for
      improving PTSD symptoms and attitudes on recovery. Objective: Conduct pre- and post
      assessments of recovery attitudes and of PTSD symptoms, and then compare the control and
      intervention group for changes in these scores.

      Aim 3. To acquire additional process information on the design and implementation of a
      supported education service necessary for a successful larger trial. Objective: Conduct a
      process evaluation of the implementation strategies for: participant recruitment, participant
      drop-out, technician training procedures, technician recovery promoting competence, and
      curriculum content and pacing using a standardized assessment, exit interviews, peer notes
      and study records.
    
  