
    
      The primary aim of the current study is to conduct a randomized controlled trial of a 4-week
      course of megestrol, the only remaining medication that is part of the iKanEat protocol, to
      ensure that the addition of megestrol results in improved child outcomes. The second aim is
      to assess the safety of megestrol as part of the iKanEat protocol. Our previous work (as well
      as work by others) suggests that a 6 week course of megestrol can lead to adrenal
      insufficiency in some children, so as part of the current protocol, the investigators will
      assess the safety of a 4 week course of this drug.

      Finally, parents of tube fed children encounter multiple psychosocial stressors regarding
      tube feeding. These include concerns about their child's survival due to their underlying
      medical issues, feelings of "failure" due to their inability to feed their child orally,
      increased feelings of stress around the tube feeding and decreased support from others due to
      the tube feeding. Our research indicates that quality of life can be poor in tube fed
      children, even more so than children with cancer or burns. Given the significance of these
      issues, the third aim of the study is to examine the effect of the transition from tube to
      oral feeding on parent stress and parent and child quality of life.

      Aim 1: To assess the efficacy of megestrol as part of the 24 week iKanEat protocol.

      Hypothesis 1: Children randomized to the megestrol group will be significantly more
      successful in making the transition to oral feeding (defined as obtaining at least 90% of
      calories orally) than children randomized to the placebo group.

      Aim 2: To assess the safety of 4 weeks of megestrol as part of the 24 week iKanEat protocol.

      Hypothesis 2A: Children randomized to the megestrol group will not differ from control
      children in morning cortisol classification level (low, average, high) and will remain within
      the normal range at all time points. Analyses 2B: Exploratory analysis will determine which,
      if any, covariates (gender, age, and diagnoses at week 0, diagnoses at birth) are related to
      abnormal morning cortisol levels.

      Aim 3: To examine the effect of the transition from tube to oral feeding on parent stress and
      parent and child quality of life. Hypothesis 3A: The transition to oral feeding will
      temporarily increase parent stress at week 14 at the cessation of tube feeding, with a return
      to baseline by week 24. Hypothesis 3B: The transition to oral feeding will increase
      parent/child quality of life at 24 weeks compared to week 0. Children with feeding tubes have
      few options for treatment other than extensive inpatient stays and expensive day treatment
      programs. iKanEat offers an outpatient, less intensive, empirically supported effective
      treatment option that can improve the lives of children and families. It is imperative that
      the investigators determine the efficacy and safety of the protocol including 4 weeks of
      megestrol before the investigators move toward broad dissemination of the iKanEat protocol.
    
  