
    
      -  Cold snare polypectomy (CSP): resection of colorectal polyp by mechanical force of
           snare, without electric cautery.

        -  Antiplatelet agent: single use of aspirin or clopidogrel

        -  Uninterrupted (continuous) use of antiplatelet agent: cessation of antiplatelet agent
           less than 4 days. Cessation of antiplatelet agent is sum of before and after the CSP

      ex.)

        1. patient who stopped aspirin only on the day of colonoscopy and resumed the day after
           colonoscopy -> cessation of aspirin was 1 day.

        2. patient who stopped aspirin only on the day of colonoscopy and resumed the 2 days after
           colonoscopy -> cessation of aspirin was 2 days (before colonoscopy 1day + after
           colonoscopy 1day).

        3. patient who stopped aspirin from 3 days before colonoscopy and resumed the day after
           colonoscopy -> cessation of aspirin was 4 days (-3, -2, -1, 0=on the day of
           colonoscopy). -> interruption of aspirin -> excluded from study.

        4. patient who stopped aspirin from 2 days before colonoscopy and resumed 2 days after
           colonoscopy -> cessation of aspirin was 4 days (-2, -1, 0=on the day of colonoscopy,
           1=the day after colonoscopy). -> interruption of aspirin -> excluded from study.

             -  BLEEDING # Immediate (intraprocedural) bleeding After CSP, bleeding will be
                observed for 2 minutes. Bleeding grade: (1) no bleeding, (2) minor (negligible)
                bleeding, (3) major bleeding, and (4) active bleeding (spurting).

      In case of Grade 3 or 4, hemoclipping will be applied

        -  Delayed bleeding Delayed bleeding will be defined when all of the following criteria
           were met: (1) anal bleeding after discharge of endoscopy unit and (2) identification of
           polypectomy bleeding site by colonoscopy.

        -  Significant delayed bleeding Any of the following criteria: (1) hemoglobin drop >2, (2)
           hemodynamic instability, (3) admission, (4) transfusion, and (5) surgery or angiography
           for hemostasis.
    
  