
    
      Study Title: The effect of selenium supplementation among pediatric patients with burns

      Primary Investigator: Maggie L. Dylewski, PhD, RD

      Co-investigators: RL. Sheridan, MD; C Ryan, MD; K Prelack, PhD,RD; M Lydon, RN; J Weber, RN,
      BSN, CIC

      Approved by: FDA (IND # 78963), Partners IRB (#2007-P-001176).

      Funding: private grant from the Boston Burn Foundation

      Background Information: Selenium, an essential dietary nutrient, is a component of
      glutathione peroxidase (an antioxidant) and thioredoxin reductase, an enzyme that regulates
      cytokine expression and thus plays a role in the immune system. Previous studies among adult
      burn patients showed that IV selenium supplementation was related to decreased infection and
      mortality. Please refer to the study protocol for further details.

      Previous Research: We previously showed that children with burns (n = 20) > 20% TBSA had low
      plasma selenium values compared to reference data of healthy American children. Results from
      this study also found a significant relationship between plasma selenium and incidence of
      infections.

      Study Design: Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial

      Specific Aims:

        1. to determine the impact of supplemental selenium on plasma selenium, glutathione
           peroxidase activity, and urine selenium among pediatric patients with burns >20% TBSA.

        2. to determine the association between selenium supplementation, biomarkers of Se status
           and indicators of stress and infection.

      Subjects: N = 75 pediatric patients with burns.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Between 1 and 18 years of age admitted to Shriners Burns Hospital

        -  TBSA burn of > 20%

        -  Existing IV catheter

        -  Enrolled into study within 3 weeks of burn injury

      Treatment:

      All subjects will be randomized into 1 of 3 groups and receive the treatment for 8 weeks,
      until 95% wound closure, or until central venous catheter access is discontinued.

        1. Placebo (IV 0.9% sodium chloride)

        2. 2 mcg/kg/day IV Selenium

        3. 4 mcg/kg/day IV Selenium

      Biological sample collection:

        -  4 mL or 8 mL (8 every other week) of plasma once a week

        -  24-hour urine collection once a week

      Sample analyses:

        -  Samples will be frozen until analyses

        -  Samples will be sent to the outside lab for analyses.

        -  Plasma will also be sent to Massachusetts General Hospital every other week for plasma
           selenium analysis (to assess for toxicity)

      Primary outcome measures:

        -  Plasma selenium

        -  Plasma glutathione peroxidase

        -  Urine selenium

      Secondary outcome measures:

      • occurrence of pneumonia or infection (bacterial or fungal) in the wound, blood, or urine

      Risks:

        -  Supplement doses were determined using data from previous studies, current RDAs and
           upper tolerable limits, ASPEN guidelines for parenteral selenium, and dietary data
           recorded from our previous study. According to reference weights (NHANES III) supplement
           doses do not exceed the upper tolerable limits for children.

        -  Selenium toxicity is rare. However plasma will be assessed every other week for selenium
           levels.

      Monitoring and Quality Assurance:

        -  All subjects will be monitored for any treatment-related adverse events for 2 weeks
           following discontinuation of the study therapy

        -  Any adverse events will be reported to the Partners Human Research Committee and the FDA
           per the guidelines.

      An independent Data Safety Monitoring Board, consisting of 4 knowledgeable staff members,
      will meet 2 times per year to monitor the data for safety.
    
  