
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of circumferential negative pressure therapy
      (CNPT) on distal O2 saturation in healthy volunteers.

      Design and Methodology:

      Design: This is a randomized controlled non-inferiority study.

      Recruitment: Volunteers will be recruited through advertisement in King Faisal Specialist
      Hospital & Research Centre and other hospitals in Riyadh.

      Pre-study procedures: After obtaining a well documented medical history each volunteer will
      undergo a full physical examination as well as an in-depth upper limb examination and
      comprehensive evaluation (including a pre-study index finger O2 saturation and upper limbs
      circumference measurements), the following data will be also collected: age, sex,
      height&weight, body mass index, and vital signs.

      Procedures: CNPWT foam and dressing (in accordance to manufacturer's instructions) will be
      applied in a sandwich-like manner on the middle third of each arm, and a negative
      intermittent pressure of 125 mmHg will be applied to one arm chosen randomly, using the
      contralateral arm as control. The pressure will be applied 5 minutes on and 2 minutes off for
      9 hours. Individual's participation will be terminated if O2 saturation by pulse oximetry
      drops below 92% at any study time.

      Statistical analysis: The area under the curve (AUC) of O2 saturation will be compared
      between the 2 arms using ANCOVA.

      Randomization schedule: a randomization schedule will be generated by an online program
      (www.randomization.com). Block randomization will be used.

      Sample size: Fourteen adult volunteers will be invited to participate in the study.

      The sample size for the study was calculated to have 90% power, assuming a type one error of
      5%, non-inferiority margin of 24 (mean AUC difference), SD of 20, and drop out of 2
      participants.
    
  