
    
      Patient-reported outcomes (PROs) are vital to understanding the impact of a medical condition
      and treatment from the participant's perspective. However, the collection of data can be
      inconsistent in both administration and completion due to the method of delivery. Thus,
      careful consideration of the data collection mode is needed to ensure the quality of the
      data. The method of delivery has been shown to have a direct effect on the survey response
      rates thereby ensuring the validity of the data analyses and results. Previous studies have
      demonstrated an increase in Web-based survey response rates as compared to paper-based survey
      response rates. Novel methods of collecting PROs may help to streamline both the process and
      collection of PROs during clinical trials.

      A potential differentiating factor between delivering surveys via smart phone and other
      electronic modes of delivery is the perceived advantage of being able to conveniently
      complete survey questionnaires at any time and any location. This could help address certain
      limitations of the quantitative survey method such as recall bias. Furthermore, the
      portability, connectivity and ubiquity of smartphones may reduce the amount of training or
      instructions required for users to complete a survey questionnaire on a smartphone. For
      researchers, this type of survey delivery method may offer the benefits of a wider target
      audience and reduce research implementation costs. The e-PRO app is designed to further
      facilitate the delivery of PRO instruments in a convenient manner to participants. Through
      its computing capability, and user-friendly interface, the e-PRO app can collect data and
      implement complex scoring requirements, thus supporting the delivery of self-administered
      survey questionnaires. The goal of this two-arm randomized controlled pilot is to explore the
      usability and satisfaction with a novel e-PRO app.
    
  