
    
      'Open Window' is a unique and novel intervention for patients being treated for
      haematological malignancies in the 'National Stem Cell Transplant Unit', St. James' Hospital,
      Dublin, Ireland. Treatment programmes include allogeneic and autologous stem cell
      transplantation for leukaemia and related disorders. This unit comprises 21 single
      air-conditioned rooms in which patients are treated and cared for. The unit is located on the
      ground floor of a large hospital and the view out of most of the windows is limited to the
      light railway system at best and the air conditioning unit at worst. Windows in the rooms are
      quite large although light and sunlight is limited in some by an adjacent building. The rooms
      vary in size and shape and all are en suite and contain a bed, locker, easy chair and
      TV/video mounted high on the wall, usually to the left, in front of the patient. All rooms
      are painted in magnolia with a blue door to the en suite and exit. In order to reduce the
      risk of infection, flowers and pictures hanging on the walls are prohibited and personal
      items such as photos are limited. Blinds are used on the windows and bed covers are blue,
      pink or green. The overall effect is minimalist and clinical due to the presence of medical
      equipment. Visiting is limited and children under 14 years of age are not allowed to visit.

      Although a new unit, The National Transplant Unit was not purpose built and the focus of the
      design was in providing a protective environment for as many patients as possible within a
      limited space and with very specific requirements. While it is arguable that the introduction
      of colour to the walls and the inclusion of patterned curtains or bedspreads might enhance
      the environment from a design perspective, in the absence of such an initiative, this
      atmosphere provides an ideal opportunity to assess the effect of art on the experience of a
      very specific group of patients in a controlled atmosphere. Redshaw (2004) suggests that
      design alone does not provide spaces that are attractive, imaginative and engaging but that
      it is the inclusion of art that does this. Her study on the impact of the provision of art in
      a children's hospital is reported as providing a distraction for children and parents,
      providing enjoyment and comfort, facilitating self-expression and building self-esteem and
      confidence. This function of art in healthcare fulfills its role in providing a healing
      environment and is the primary reason why it was considered an appropriate intervention for
      the specific population of patients included in the 'Open Window' project.

      People have a basic need for contact with each other. Isolation from people, or separation
      from familiar places, can cause feelings of despair, anger and hopelessness (Denton 1986;
      Jenner 1990; Gammon 1998). Views of nature or people through a window reduce the negative
      effects of isolation and can impact positively on psychological well-being (Kennedy &
      Hamilton 1997, Ulrich 1983). Due to the location, design and décor of the rooms, the patients
      in 'The National Stem Cell Transplant Unit' at St. James's have very little stimulation other
      than TV, radio and reading. It is arguable that a patient-centred hospital environmental
      design may be sufficient to make their experience more comfortable and aesthetically
      pleasing; however, it is the inclusion of art in the environment that may provide a more
      positive and enduring distraction for patients and have a positive influence on a patient's
      sense of 'self' and well-being and overall psychological adjustment to having a life
      threatening illness. This is important in providing holistic care for patients and may
      influence their immediate and long-term recovery.

      'Open Window' is an entirely art based intervention comprising a multimedia system that uses
      a combination of video projectors, audio speakers and bespoke software to make images appear
      as a 'virtual window' on the wall of the patients' room. Artists use mobile phone cameras and
      camcorders to record the images that are sent to the unit over the internet and via mobile
      phone networks. Original music composed for the project may also accompany the images as they
      appear. The curator and artist in residence on the project can discuss with the patient and
      family, the possibility of obtaining familiar and/or family images if they wish. Patients can
      turn the system on, off and change the images by pressing the appropriate button on the
      remote control. They can also choose to include or exclude certain images if they wish. The
      volume of the music that accompanies some of the video channels can be controlled using the
      remote control.

      Artists are commissioned to create work for the 'Open Window' project and are aware of the
      nature of the viewer and the context in which the art will be shown. The art in 'Open Window'
      encourages the viewer to think about and engage in what they see from their own personal
      frame of reference. The artist and theorist, Duchamp (1957, 3) described this process as the
      viewer "bringing the work in contact with the external world by deciphering and interpreting
      its inner qualification". These principles give patients who wish to use 'Open Window' the
      opportunity to become part of the creative process regardless of their past experience or
      knowledge of art. Patients may benefit because 'Open Window' becomes whatever they want it to
      be and helps them deal with their physical, psychological and social needs in a unique and
      individualized way.

      The 'Open Window' Intervention has three aims. The first is to help patients deal with being
      in a restricted protective environment for 4-6 weeks. The second is to give patients a sense
      of connection with the outside world and the third is to provide a medium through which
      patients may reflect on having a life threatening illness, which may have immediate, and
      long-term effects on their psychological adjustment to recovering from and possibly surviving
      stem cell transplantation.

      Results:

      One hundred and ninty nine patients took part in the study, 96 were randomized to the
      intervention group and 103 to the control group. The intervention group had significantly
      reduced levels of anxiety on the day before transplant (P = 0.001), at day 7 (P = 0.041), and
      day 60 (P = 0.035). Participants in the intervention group reported better experiences (P <
      0.005). Qualitative data showed that those in the intervention group reported that 'Open
      Window' was a great distraction from their illness and isolation and provided a connection
      with outside 'normal' life.
    
  