
    
      The study will consist of two phases; a 26 day randomized trial phase in which the subject
      will assess the effectiveness of DRG-Burst3D and DRG-LF, and a 12 month post permanent
      implant follow up phase.

      The randomized trial phase which consists of two phases Trial Assessment 1 and Trial
      Assessment 2 will last for a maximum of 26 days. Subjects will be randomized 1:1 to receiver
      10 ±3 days of DRG-LF stimulation and 10 ±3 days of Burst3D stimulation (DRG-Burst3D) to
      assess the efficacy of each the different forms of stimulation throughout the trial phase.

      Subject will complete in clinic questionnaires (SF-36, ODI, DN4, PGIC, Paraesthesia Map)
      during the trial phase along with multi-day diary to record VAS pain scores. The
      subject-reported data from multi day diary and in-clinic assessments will be the basis of
      verification for success of trial (> 50% overall pain relief). Following device trial
      subjects will take a questionnaire on program preferences of DRG-LF or Burst3D.

      If VAS score during either of the two trial assessments is reduced by at least 50% compared
      to the baseline score, the subject will be considered for permanent DRG-SCS implant. Subjects
      who do not experience a >50% overall pain relief on either of the two stimulation settings
      will exit the study.

      Subject who underwent a successful trial (> 50% overall pain relief) will then be implanted
      with Boston scientific Precision NoviTM neurostimulator trial System. Post permanent implant
      subjects will receive both DRG-LF and Burst3D programs and use their preferred stimulation
      program.

      The subjects will then be followed for 12 months to assess the long-term treatment outcome.
      Follow up visits will occur at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after permanent implant. During each of
      these visits subjects will rate their pain using the VAS, their quality of life using the
      EQ-5D, their disability using the ODI, Neuropathic pain using DN4 , Mental health using SF-36
      and sensation using paraesthesia Map.
    
  