
    
      The aim of the World Health Organization (WHO) "End TB Strategy" is to end the global
      pandemic by 2035. To be able to succeed, better point-of-care (POC) tests are urgently needed
      to improve screening of high-risk populations. Prisons are recognized worldwide as high risk
      environments for the concentration, amplification and transmission of TB among prisoners and
      their communities outside. Paraguayan penal institutions are known to have very high
      incidence rates of active TB (3000-5000/100.000, according to Paraguayan Ministry of
      Justice). Two diagnostic tools for TB screening in high risk groups will be evaluated: the
      AeoNose™, an 'electronic nose device' for breath sampling, and digital chest X-ray (CXR) with
      computer aided detection with CAD4TB® software. This study will systematically screen
      prisoners and its' employees for TB, test the diagnostic performance of AeoNose™ and CAD4TB®
      and assess prison Mycobacterium tuberculosis epidemiology through several objectives:
      Objective: 1. Assessment of the sensitivity and specificity of the AeoNose™ and its utility
      for mass TB screening in high incidence settings. 2. Evaluation of the feasibility and
      utility of CAD4TB® digital CXR as a mass screening tool for TB. 3. Identification of factors
      that affect diagnostic accuracy of AeoNose™ and CAD4TB®. 4. Assessment of TB epidemiology in
      Paraguayan prisons and identification of mycobacterial strains.

      Study design: Diagnostic cohort study. Study population: Detainees (PPL) of Paraguayan penal
      institutions as well as their employees. Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated
      with participation, benefit and group relatedness.

      Individual burden: all participants will perform one visit with a medical doctor for medical
      history, physical exam, digital X-ray (with CAD4TB®) and AeoNose sampling. Participants will
      be offered voluntary HIV testing and counseling. In case of presumptive TB (estimated 20-30%
      of participants) two sputum samples will be taken, either spontaneous or saline-induced. One
      sample is tested with GeneXpert and the other with liquid mycobacterial culture. Cases of
      presumptive TB with both negative GeneXpert® and culture results will be followed-up after
      three and six months for repeat testing.
    
  