
    
      This is a prospective randomized study of 450 consecutive patients presenting for upper
      extremity surgery scheduled to receive NB without general anesthesia for their surgical
      procedure. Patients will be randomized to receive one of two nerve localization techniques in
      a 1:1 randomization ratio. Primary intraoperative providers of supplemental sedative,
      additional local anesthetic infiltration or analgesia, general anesthesia and assessors of
      VAS or PCI will be blinded to the technique.

      Patients over 18 years of age presenting for elective upper extremity surgery planned in the
      supine position under isolated interscalene or axillary nerve block will be screened. Up to
      450 patients undergoing unilateral upper extremity procedures at Lehigh Valley Hospital will
      be enrolled.

      STUDY PROCEDURES Screening:

      All patients meeting inclusion criteria and not meeting exclusion criteria will be eligible
      to be enrolled. All subjects who have preadmission testing will be recruited prior to their
      surgical procedure with initial contact made before the day of their scheduled surgery. For
      patients who do not have preadmission testing scheduled and are found to be eligible for the
      study on the day of surgery, those patients will be consented for the study the morning of
      their procedure by the study anesthesiologist. Only patients who are able to understand
      English and who are able to legally give written informed consent will be recruited to the
      study. Following signed informed consent (IRB approved) and permission of their surgeon and
      anesthesiologist and prior to the start of anesthesia, vital signs, standard lab tests,
      patient history and physical examination will be reviewed.

      Day of Procedure:

      For the NS group, interscalene/axillary block will be performed in the standard method using
      a nerve stimulator attached to a four centimeter Stimuplex (B Braun) needle. Following
      application of routine monitors, supplemental oxygen via facemask, and intravenous sedation,
      the skin overlying the brachial plexus will be anesthetized. The Stimuplex needle will then
      be inserted and guided into a position in close proximity to the brachial plexus using an
      endpoint of muscle twitches involving the hand at a stimulus intensity of less than 0.5
      milliamps to the satisfaction of the operator. Forty (40) milliliters of 0.5 percent
      Bupivicaine with 1.5% Mepivicaine with 1:200,00 of epinephrine will be injected incrementally
      with intermittent aspiration. This block is chosen for the study because of its widespread
      use for a variety of shoulder procedures and for its low incidence of complications. The
      quoted success rate in the literature for interscalene block ranges from 70 to 95 percent.

      For the US group interscalene block will be performed in a method using ultrasound guided
      needle insertion. Following application of routine monitors, supplemental oxygen via
      facemask, and intravenous sedation, the skin overlying the brachial plexus will be
      anesthetized. A sterile cover will be used for the ultrasound probe. Using this probe, the
      anesthesiologist can visualize the nerve and will maneuver the tip of the needle into the
      nerve guided by the of ultrasound probe. Forty (40) milliliters of 0.5% Bupivicaine with 1.5%
      Mepivicaine with 1:200,00 of Epinephrine will be injected incrementally with intermittent
      aspiration. This block is chosen for the study because of its widespread use for a variety of
      shoulder procedures and for its low incidence of complications. The quoted success rate in
      the literature for interscalene block ranges for 70 to 95 percent.

      The brachial plexus will be visualized at the level of the roots of the plexus at this level.
      Presence or absence of local anesthetic around the nerves will be recorded using a Sonosite
      Titan T-shaped ultrasound probe placed on the patient's skin. Still images of the brachial
      plexus and the local anesthetic will be captured for each patient. Patient identifiers will
      be on the images, however the images are placed on the patient's medical record.

      Assessment of block success:

      The success of the block will be assessed by examining motor strength in the anesthetized
      extremity and degree of anesthesia at 30 minutes after injection. Strength in the
      distribution of the musculocutaneous, median, radial, and ulnar nerves will be assessed.
      Pinprick and cold sensation will be assessed in the same distributions. A successful block
      will be one with a lack of sensation to cold and pinprick in the above distributions as well
      as strength less than three out of five on the standard scale of strength testing in all of
      the above distributions. Ultimately, block success (yes/no) will be determined by pain free
      surgery not requiring general anesthesia. The patient comfort index and post op assessments
      will be carried out as above.

      Completion of the Study:

      The study will be complete at PACU discharge after the patient returns his/her assessment of
      PCI and pain and nausea data.
    
  