
    
      In the fields of medicine and public health management, navigation and peer visitation
      programs consider patients as are their own important resources, who should be actively
      involved in the health care organization and throughout the process of care delivery and
      rehabilitation. The importance of promoting a more active role of patients in the management
      of their own health care is recognized by health care experts, managers, and policy makers.
      Programs that engage patients in their own health care are reported as an important strategy
      to improve adherence, outcomes, satisfaction toward the health care provider, and reduction
      of health care costs. The emotional adjustment to an amputation is sometimes the most
      challenging part. Peer visitation allows the patient to speak directly with another amputee
      who has shared a similar experience, allowing them to relate feelings and concerns about the
      loss of a limb to someone who has already endured the process and lives with the condition
      daily.

      There is increasing national and international interest in patient education programs. The
      ultimate anticipated outcome for individuals attending these programs is improvement in
      quality of life. Patient empowerment, self-efficacy, and self-management have also been found
      to be key intermediate outcomes of acute amputation rehabilitation, but have been somewhat
      difficult to operationalize, measure, and subsequently report in terms of patient impact.
      There is no known interventional clinical trial evidence for existing support and the
      reintegration strategy of a peer visitation program following amputation.

      The Amputee Coalition Peer Visitation Program is the only national and VA recognized program
      for amputees, however, it has not been rigorously tested for effectiveness. Therefore, the
      objective of this study is to demonstrate the Amputee Coalition Peer Visitation Program (AC
      PVP) will improve functional outcomes for Service Members, Veterans, and civilians during
      amputation rehabilitation.
    
  