
    
      This study is a phase I dose finding trial to determine if chimeric antigen receptor T
      (CAR-T) cells targeting the CD19 antigen and containing the inducible caspase 9 safety switch
      can be safely administered to adult subjects with relapsed or refractory B-cell Lymphoma. The
      safety of iC9-CAR19 cells will be investigated using the 3+3 design. The starting dose of 1 x
      106 transduced cells/kg (dose level 1) will enroll at least 3 subjects in the initial cohort.
      If there are no dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) within 4 weeks of the cell infusion in these
      3 subjects, then the next cohort will evaluate 2 x 106 transduced cells/kg. If there is
      toxicity in 1/3 subjects in the initial cohort, the cohort will be expanded to enroll up to 6
      subjects. During iC9-CAR19 T cell dose exploration, AP1903 (0.4 mg/kg), a dimerizing agent
      that is designed to engage and activate the caspase 9 safety switch to trigger iC9-CAR19 T
      cell death by apoptosis will be given to subjects who develop grade 4 cytokine release
      syndrome (CRS) or grade ≥3 CRS that is unresponsive to standard of care interventions, and to
      subjects who develop grade ≥3 CAR-T-cell-related encephalopathy syndrome (CRES) or grade 2
      CRES that does not improve to grade ≤1 within 72 hours with standard of care interventions,
      and subjects with grade 4 ICANS of any duration that have evidence of cerebral edema and/or
      generalized convulsive status epilepticus. After the tolerable cell dose (TCD) of iC9-CAR19 T
      cells has been determined, up to 18 additional adult subjects may be enrolled in an expansion
      cohort at the TCD. Rimiducid will be given to subjects in the expansion cohort who develop
      grade ≥3 immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) that does not improve
      to grade ≤1 within 72 hours with standard of care interventions, and subjects with grade 4
      ICANS of any duration that have evidence of cerebral edema and/or generalized convulsive
      status epilepticus. Subjects in the expansion cohort who experience ≥grade 2 CRS that remains
      ≥grade 2 twenty four hours after an initial dose of tocilizumab may be part of the sub-study
      of rimiducid. These subjects will receive one of two assigned dose levels of rimiducid with
      their second tocilizumab infusion. The percent reduction in CAR T cells will be measured in
      these subjects. If the subjects' CRS is unresponsive to tocilizumab and the assigned dose
      level of rimiducid, subjects with ≥grade 3 CRS will then be given a full dose (0.4 mg/kg) of
      rimiducid.

      Cell Procurement

      Peripheral blood, up to 300 mL (in up to 3 collections) will be obtained from subjects for
      cell procurement. In subjects with low T-cell count (CD3 count as assayed by flow cytometry
      less than 200/μL) in the peripheral blood, a leukopheresis may be performed to isolate
      sufficient T cells. The parameters for pheresis will be up to 2 blood volumes

      Lymphodepleting Regimen

      Subjects will receive a "pre-conditioning" cytoreductive regimen of bendamustine 70 mg/m2/day
      administered IV followed by an IV dose of fludarabine 30 mg/m2/day administered over 3
      consecutive days. These agents will be administered per institutional guidelines. Prophylaxis
      (e.g., hydration, antiemetics, etc.) needed prior to fludarabine and bendamustine
      chemotherapy will be provided per institutional guidelines. At the discretion of the clinical
      investigator, subjects with a known history of intolerance to bendamustine may be considered
      for lymphodepletion with cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2/day administered by IV followed by an IV
      dose of fludarabine 30 mg/m2/day administered over 3 consecutive days. These agents will be
      administered per institutional guidelines.

      Administration of iC9-CAR19 T cells

      Post lymphodepletion, subjects who meet eligibility criteria for cellular therapy will
      receive iC9-CAR19 T cells within 2 - 14 days after completing the lymphodepleting
      chemotherapy regimen. We will administer iC9-CAR19 post lymphodepletion at dose levels
      specified in the table in section 4.1. A recently published trial in refractory DLBCL
      established that a dose of 2 x 106 CAR19+ T cells/kg was safe and associated with significant
      in vivo expansion and we anticipate similar results with iC9-CAR19+ T cells.

      Duration of Therapy

      Therapy in this study involves 1 infusion of iC9-CAR19 cells.

      Duration of Follow-up

      Subjects who receive a cell infusion will be followed for up to 15 years for
      replication-competent retrovirus evaluation or until death, whichever occurs first. Subjects
      who are removed from study and do not receive the cellular therapy product due to
      unacceptable adverse events will be followed until resolution or stabilization of the adverse
      event.
    
  