
    
      The principle of the nerve stimulation technique consists of using a battery powered
      peripheral nerve stimulator to generate electrical stimuli through an insulated needle at
      appropriate anatomical locations. The electrical impulses then trigger depolarization as
      insulated needle approaches the target nerve bundles. Braun Stimuplex, a common nerve
      stimulator used for peripheral nerve localization, is currently being used in the United
      States and other countries. Previous studies have suggested it to be a reliable stimulator
      for the purpose of peripheral nerve blocks. The operational manual however indicated that
      this device should not be used in patients with cardiac pacemaker because malfunction of the
      pacemaker may occur. Literature search on the topic of pacemaker interference from peripheral
      nerve stimulator showed that there was one case of pacemaker interference caused by
      activation of a nerve stimulator, resulting in cardiac arrest in a patient with a fixed-rate
      ventricular pacemaker. Studies and case reports suggest that unipolar electrode seems to be
      most susceptible to interferences from electrosurgical equipment, TENS unit, spinal cord
      stimulators. Perhaps this is the reason why the manufacturer of the peripheral nerve
      stimulator recommends against the use of peripheral nerve stimulator in patients with
      pacemakers. With the advancements of modern pacemakers technology, it is our experience;
      interscalene nerve blocks and other peripheral nerve blocks using the nerve stimulator can be
      performed in patients with pacemakers without notable interferences with pacemaker functions
      and perhaps the initial recommendation by the peripheral nerve stimulator manufacturer can be
      modified. In this prospective pilot study, we proposed to evaluate the effects of left
      interscalene stimulation (most likely scenario to interfere with pacemaker function) by
      varying the configurations of the pacemaker leads (unipolar vs. bipolar pacer lead
      configuration) and by varying the positions of the positive electrode of the stimulator.
    
  