
    
      The study was designed as a randomized, two-way crossover trial involving up to 24 randomized
      participants with an anticipated drop-out rate no higher than 25% to give a total of 18
      evaluable healthy adult participants. The study was fully explained to each participant,
      informed consent was obtained, and an IRB-approved informed consent form was signed before
      any study procedures were initiated. All participants underwent screening assessments within
      30 days prior to the initial dosing to determine their eligibility for enrollment into the
      study. All participants met the inclusion and exclusion criteria and underwent screening
      procedures that included a complete medical history, physical examination, assessment of
      clinical laboratory parameters (chemistry and hematology), ECG, and pregnancy test (females
      of child bearing potential only).

      Randomization was stratified by gender, using permuted blocks. Within each gender, eligible
      participants were randomized with equal probability to one of the 2 treatment sequences shown
      in Table 3. According to the sequence to which the participant was randomized, the
      participant initially received one of two oral dosage regimens of fosfomycin: 3 g every other
      day x 3 doses or 3 g once-daily x 7 doses. After completion of the initial dosing regimen
      each participant was crossed over to receive the other dosing regimen. There was a minimum
      5-day, and a recommended maximum 14-day, washout period prior to starting the next dosing
      regimen. Blood and urine samples were collected throughout the study as well as detailed drug
      administration and adverse event data for each participant.

      Fosfomycin tromethamine sachet (Monurol™) was used in this study. Each participant was
      instructed how to stir and dissolve the single-dose sachet into 3 to 4 ounces of water, and
      take each dose immediately after dissolving in water. Compliance was assessed by participant
      interviews (every 2 days) and counting of empty of sachets.

      Participants reported to the outpatient study center on Day -30 to -1 for study criteria
      review, clinical assessment, and blood collection for screening laboratory tests prior to
      fosfomycin administration. Each participant participated in the study up to 120 days (i.e.,
      screening visit; day -1 for clinical assessment and blood collection; days 1-7 for fosfomycin
      administration and sample collection period; and day 8-10 for follow-up assessment; crossed
      over to receive the other dosing regimen and schedule of events.
    
  