
    
      The metabolic syndrome (MetS) includes a cluster of dysfunctions that identifies subjects at
      risk of developing type-2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease (CVD). A key feature appears to
      be chronic increased inflammation and activation of the innate system. Consequently,
      increased low-grade inflammation has been connected to adverse effects on insulin
      sensitivity, glucose- and lipid metabolism, and blood pressure, and circulating markers of
      inflammation such as IL-6. A growing body of evidence also link low-grade inflammation to
      poorer cognitive functioning. Type 2 diabetes, MetS, and glucose intolerance are increasingly
      being associated with impaired cognition.

      Dietary patterns which promote sub-clinical inflammation are increasingly being considered
      predictive of future risk of CVD and type-2 diabetes. There is a growing insight regarding
      the role of the colonic micro flora in metabolic regulation and development of low-grade
      inflammation and obesity. The metabolic cross talk between the colon and peripheral tissues,
      especially adipose tissue, has been suggested to be regulated through colonic fermentation of
      indigestible carbohydrates e.g. dietary fibres (DF) and resistant starch. In addition,
      epidemiological data shows that a high consumption of vegetables and fruits is associated
      with a lowered risk of cancer and cardiovascular disease, which may be due to the high
      concentrations of polyphenols or other anti-oxidants that are found in such foods. In
      addition vegetables and berries are rich in dietary fibres with the potential to beneficially
      modulate the gut micro flora which may have implication on metabolic risk factors.

      In the presently described project it is hypothesized that 5 w daily consumption of a food
      product containing berries and vegetables can improve metabolic risk variables and cognitive
      functions. The purpose is therefore to study the potential anti-inflammatory- and metabolic
      effects, and prebiotic properties, of a food product based on a mixture of several Swedish
      berries and vegetables that is known to be rich in dietary fibres, polyphenols and other
      anti-oxidants. In addition the purpose is to investigate the effects on cognitive functions
      of the food product.
    
  