
    
      The practice of performing tracheostomy and gastrostomy simultaneously has been reported
      since the 1980s. The safety and feasibility of simultaneous tracheostomy with gastrostomy
      (TSG), compared to non-simultaneous or delayed approach (TDG), among neurocritically-ill
      patients have been reported by various case series and retrospective cohort studies.The
      timing of tracheostomy generally among neurocritically-ill patients varies from early <5 days
      or late >7 -10 days. There are currently no guidelines specifically on neurocritically-ill
      patients and the timing of gastrostomy placement however, it is generally recommended to wait
      2-3 weeks as a time limited trial however, there are patients that are able to leave the
      hospital with the main limitation as being the feeding access. Although it has been suggested
      to consider tracheostomy to become an indication for gastrostomy this has not been widely
      accepted although there is an increase in awareness of the TSG approach especially in
      patients with neurologic conditions.

      Tracheostomy have been traditionally indicated include airway obstruction associated with
      infection, malignancy, injury, sleep apnea and vocal cord dysfunction, prolonged intubation,
      facilitate weaning from mechanical ventilation, pulmonary hygiene and aspiration.

      Gastrostomy tubes have been considered as standard of care for patients requiring alternate
      forms of long-term enteral feeding. Other indications include long-term nutrition support
      associated with neurologic or spinal cord deficits, primary swallowing dysfunction, facial or
      pharyngeal injuries, malignancy of the head and neck and the esophagus, gastric
      decompression. Approaches available to perform tracheostomy include open, percutaneous
      tracheostomy, percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy (PDT); Percutaneous Radiologic
      Tracheostomy and percutaneous ultrasound tracheostomy. Gastrostomy is a temporary or
      permanent controlled fistula from the lumen of the stomach to the skin. For gastrostomy,
      approaches include open surgical gastrostomy (SG) or Stamm gastrostomy, Percutaneous
      endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG), Percutaneous Radiologic gastrostomy (PRG) and Percutaneous
      Ultrasound gastrostomy (PUG).

      In a retrospective cohort study on the outcomes of neurocritically-ill patients who have
      undergone TSG versus delayed gastrostomy TDG (non-simultaneous tracheostomy and gastrostomy),
      the patients undergoing TSG had shorter Neurocritical Care Unit (NCCU) length of stay (LOS),
      hospital LOS, overall hospital cost and higher pre-discharge prealbumin levels. In another
      study examining the effect of early gastrostomy tube placement on stroke patients, it was
      found that early gastrostomy tube placement was associated with shorter LOS and higher odds
      of home or acute rehabilitation discharge disposition. In a retrospective study on
      intracerebral hemorrhage and subarachnoid hemorrhage patients, it was found that tracheostomy
      was associated with ICU LOS with almost a 10-day difference if tracheostomy is placed before
      7 days or after 14 days. They also found a 6- day difference in overall length of stay
      between those who had the gastrostomy tubes placed before 7 days or after 14 days.
      Importantly they saw that the timing of tracheostomy and gastrostomy placement was not
      associated with mortality. In practice, usual care favors delayed gastrostomy due to
      availability of imaging resources, proceduralist coordination, and provider preference.
      Bedside PEG requires the availability of specialized mobile endoscopic equipment and
      physicians trained in upper endoscopy. In a retrospective study of TSG, among the most common
      reason for procedural delays were coordination with GI service for performance of PEG.
      Further, mobile endoscopes are expensive and uncommon across the healthcare system, thus
      preventing PEG from practical generalizability as an early gastrostomy technique. TSG has
      been performed using standard PDT and PUG. Because PUG utilizes point-of-care ultrasound
      (POCUS) technology readily available at the bedside it is a generalizable method for early
      gastrostomy. Finally, direct comparative evidence to support guidelines for TSG over TDG do
      not exist. In the absence of clear guidelines, provider preference permits delayed
      gastrostomy decisions.There is currently no prospective study analyzing the effect of
      tracheostomy with bedside simultaneous gastrostomy versus tracheostomy with delayed
      gastrostomy placement (TSG versus TDG) on the outcomes of neurocritically-ill patients. To
      analyze the effect on patient outcomes of early intervention (TSG versus TDG), a pragmatic
      randomized clinical trial is needed. The investigators will study TSG via concomitant PDT and
      PUG procedures, while TDG will occur per usual care. This study is a prospective randomized
      open-label blinded endpoint study to assess the effect of tracheostomy with bedside
      simultaneous gastrostomy (TSG) versus the usual care of tracheostomy with delayed gastrostomy
      (TDG) placement on outcomes of neurocritically-ill patients.
    
  