
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the effect of neoadjuvant erlotinib hydrochloride on histopathological,
           molecular, and genetic correlates in patients undergoing radical cystectomy for
           muscle-invasive bladder cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the pathological complete response rate in surgical specimens from patients
           treated with this drug.

        -  Determine recurrence and progression rates after cystectomy (up to 2 years after
           surgery) in patients treated with neoadjuvant and adjuvant erlotinib hydrochloride.

        -  Determine 2- and 5-year disease-free, disease-specific, and overall survival rates in
           patients treated with this drug.

        -  Determine the safety of this drug in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

      Patients receive oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily for 4 weeks. Patients then undergo
      radical cystectomy with curative intent. Within 12 weeks after surgery, patients resume oral
      erlotinib hydrochloride* once daily for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      Note: *Patients who are candidates for adjuvant chemotherapy (e.g., found to have pathologic
      stage T3 (pT3), Node positive (N+) disease) do not receive erlotinib hydrochloride after
      surgery.

      Tumor tissue is obtained at baseline (at the original or confirmatory transurethral resection
      of the bladder tumor) and at the time of cystectomy for analysis of drug-specific and
      tissue-based biomarkers by western blot, immunohistochemistry, and gene array techniques.
      Histopathological, molecular, and genetic correlates are analyzed to better understand the
      potential effects of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibition in transitional
      cell carcinoma and to determine the effect of neoadjuvant erlotinib on gene expression. Tumor
      tissue is also evaluated by real-time polymerase chain reaction to confirm drug effects on
      expected targets and on EGFR expression, activity, and affected signaling pathways in the
      disease state and by microarray analysis to define expression phenotypes correlating with
      outcome, distinguish responders from nonresponders, and determine effects of drug treatment
      on gene expression in disease.

      Patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years after surgery.
    
  