
    
      Statistical Analysis. The investigator will use the biopsychomarkers identified as the
      highest prediction value to determine the relative accuracy to predict response to the
      Mindful Intervention (i.e., disease outcome). For response to the mindful intervention, the
      investigator will use the use the combination of markers to study whether they correctly
      predict the response to the intervention. The investigator will study the accuracy of the
      markers using area under the curve (AUC) summary index for ROC curves.181 If the
      classification accuracy of the markers is high then the area under the curve will be close to
      1. If the predictive accuracy of the combined set of markers were poor then the (AUC) will be
      close to 0.5.

      Power Estimates UC disease flare-up was quite common in this sample, occurring in well over
      half of subjects in the samples collected in the discovery phase. The power analyses,
      assuming α = 0.05 for all tests indicated that for models involving analyses of correlational
      data, there will be sufficient power at even small effect sizes for the smallest possible
      sample with full data across all data points and virtually all variables. For the most
      conservative estimate, the investigator base their calculations on having 50 participants
      with data with full integrity. With an effect size of r = 0.15 and n = 50, power is 80 or
      greater to detect effect sizes of r = 0.20. Effect sizes below this threshold would likely
      not be clinically significant or substantively interpretable, as they would explain less than
      2% in the variance of the dependent variable. Thus, most effect sizes that would be
      reasonably and substantially interpretable will have good power. Each factor that is
      suspected of varying between groups can be examined with the chi-square test based on 1
      degrees of freedom, by setting it invariant in one model and then allowing it to be freely
      estimated in the other. Such a chi-square test provides a power of 0.80 with effect size
      difference of 0.15.

      For binary categorical measures, such as responsiveness to MSRB, the investigator conducted
      separate power analyses.

      The power for adjusted analyses of primary predictors of interest will be evaluated as a
      function of the risk of outcome when all ancillary variables are set to their mean value, the
      predictor is set to the mean value, and proportion of variance in predictor explained by the
      ancillary variables, and the odds ratio of outcome variable from increasing the predictor by
      an amount equal to one of its standard deviation. The range in probabilities of outcome
      variables can be anywhere from 20% for less likely events and 50% for more likely events, the
      investigator will provide power calculations over a wide range of probabilities. The
      investigator believe that the amount of variation of our typical model ranges from about 20%
      to 50%. The table (below) represents the minimum odds ratio than can be detected with 80%
      power, which indicate good power for expected outcome.

      Proportions R2 =.20 R2=.50 0.10 1.64 1.87 0.20 1.46 1.63 0.30 1.39 1.53 0.40 1.35 1.48 0.50
      1.32 1.43
    
  