
    
      Hand dermatitis, also called fu kuei shou, is a skin condition in which the hands develop a
      rash and become red, dry, cracked, and inflamed. This is a very common occuring in about 10%
      of women and 4% of men. The condition can eventually cause pain on contact with even simple
      solutions such as water. Hand dermatitis is particularly common in industries involving
      cleaning, catering, metalwork, hairdressing, healthcare and mechanical work, and is often
      difficult to be treated effectively. Some patients develop varying levels of disability due
      to lack of acceptable effective treatments and may be forced to change occupations in order
      to achieve relief.

      Primary treatment for hand dermatitis is typically topical corticosteroids, especially when
      the offending agent(s) cannot be identified or avoided. However, patients may eventually
      develop tachyphylaxis to the anti-inflammatory activity of mid-potency or high-potency
      topical corticosteroids and patients with severe, chronic involvement may often be less
      likely to respond. Potential topical alternatives to corticosteroids include psoralen plus
      ultraviolet (PUVA), but the phototherapies are inconvenient because multiple clinical visits
      are required and hand phototherapy units may not be available.

      Moisturizers have been found to help restore the skin barrier providing a protective layer on
      surface of the skin to trap water and prevent the penetration of irritants and allergens. An
      emollient cream is superior in trapping the moisture within the skin. Emollients may form a
      covering film, which acts as a barrier for chemicals from the exterior and which restricts
      the loss of water and other essential substances from the interior. E-DO gel is a potential
      agent for revitalizing our skin cells so that regain their moisture retention capacity.

      E-DO has known significant improvements in wound healing and the inhibition of Staphylococcus
      aureus and Propionibacterium acnes. This pilot research trial will investigate the effect of
      topical E-DO for patients with hand dermatitis.
    
  