
    
      Research Question:

      Our goal is to answer the following three research questions in this study:

        1. What is the dose response curve (degree of radiation complications/radiological changes
           vs. radiation dose) for brain regions involved in the processing of visual, language and
           working memory functions?

        2. What is the limiting dose for these functionally critical brain regions that can be
           applied to radiotherapy treatment planning to minimize (e.g., less than 5%) the
           possibility of radiation-induced injury?

        3. Can brain fMRI be used to guide the radiotherapy treatment planning to minimize the dose
           to functionally critical brain regions and evaluate treatment responses of these
           regions?

      Research Method:

      Imaging before radiotherapy: For each patient, active stimulation and resting fMRI
      examinations will be performed in addition to standard anatomic MRI for brain radiotherapy.
      Activation maps of regions involved in visual, language and working memory functions will be
      generated from the fMRI scans and the patient's responses on of the working memory task
      (i.e., the N-Back task) will be recorded during the fMRI studies. The MRI and fMRI will,
      combined, take approximately 90 minutes - 60 minutes for the standard MRI and 30 minutes for
      the fMRI. The activation maps will be overlaid onto the FLAIR MRI images, imported into the
      radiotherapy treatment planning system and co-registered with the simulation CT scan.

      Radiotherapy and routine follow-up: Functionally critical areas in the fMRI activation maps
      will be separately contoured as critical organs but will not be considered for plan
      optimization. Dose volume histograms (DVHs) of functionally critically brain regions will be
      calculated and documented. Each patient will receive fractionated brain radiotherapy
      according to the treatment plan and will be followed up with every three months after
      radiotherapy.

      Follow-up evaluations: The 3MS examination will be administered prior to initiation of
      treatment onset and every three months after treatment during routine follow-up to screen
      neuropsychological functions. Anatomic MRI (standard) and brain fMRI (research) will be
      acquired at 6 months after radiotherapy to determine the radiological and functional changes
      in regions involved in the processing of visual, language and working memory functions.

      Minimizing the interference of tumor recurrence or progression: Two actions will be taken to
      minimize the interference of tumor recurrence or progression with the evaluation of
      performance alterations caused by radiation. First, patient inclusion will be restricted to
      patients with slow growing tumors, e.g., meningioma, low grade glioma and anaplastic
      astrocytoma so that the chance for tumor recurrence or progression is small. Secondly,
      patients who develop disease progression at any of the post-radiotherapy follow-ups will be
      excluded from the study, as it would not be possible to distinguish the effects of disease
      progression from radiotherapy side effects on the fMRI or the 3MS examination, and the
      findings would not be interpretable.

      Dose Response Analysis: Logistic regression analysis will be used to assess the likelihood of
      complications to functionally critical brain regions as a function of radiation dose. The
      dependent variable will be the binary indicator that identifies patients' manifesting
      complications (decline of 3MS examination score and N-Back test, radiological/functional
      changes identified on MRI and fMRI) attributed to radiation exposure. The logistic regression
      model will include relevant subject level factors (e.g., age, gender, baseline Karnofsky
      performance status, tumor location, recent seizures, anti-epleptic medications) as
      covariates. The fitted logistic normal tissue complication probability (NTCP) model will
      permit estimation of the probability of significant complications associated with any
      radiation dose to the area, allowing the limiting dose to be calculated as the dose expected
      to induce complication with an acceptable probability (e.g., 5%).

      Incorporation of limiting dose for radiotherapy treatment planning: The limiting dose from
      the above "Dose Response Analysis" will be used for IMRT re-planning considering the
      functionally critical brain regions. The optimization goal is to minimize the dose to
      functionally critical brain regions while maintaining similar PTV (planning target volume)
      coverage and keeping dose to the critical structures within accepted tolerance. DVHs of the
      functionally critical brain regions, PTV and all other critical structures will be compared
      for both treatment plans with and without considering the functionally critical brain
      regions. A Wilcoxon matched pair signed rank test will be performed to compare the plans in
      terms of calculated NTCP of critical organs. The McNemar test will be used to compare plans
      with and without dose constraints of functional areas in terms of yield rate (i.e., the
      proportion of patients for whom the IMRT plan was successfully devised).

      The primary study endpoint of this study is normal tissue complication. The primary objective
      of this study is to determine the dose response curve and limiting dose for functionally
      critically brain regions for brain radiotherapy. The second objective of this study is to
      investigate the accuracy of active stimulation or resting state fMRI for avoidance of the
      functionally critical brain regions for radiotherapy treatment planning of brain tumors and
      for evaluating the treatment responses of these critical regions.
    
  