
    
      Numerous authors have described optic disc edema, globe flattening, choroidal folds which
      were thought to be part of the well-defined but still idiopathic syndrome of idiopathic
      intracranial hypertension.

      The pathogenesis of idiopathic intracranial hypertension is not well understood. Recent
      reports, however suggest that elevated cerebral venous pressure underlines the process. The
      close relationship that exist between spinal fluid pressure and cerebral venous pressure has
      been definitely established. It was found that patients with increased venous pressure due to
      heart failure had an increase in spinal fluid pressure as well.

      Furthermore, numerous authors have described venous stasis retinopathy, bilateral choroidal
      detachments, intraretinal hemorrhages, vessel tortuosity, microaneurysms, capillary leakage,
      central retinal vein occlusion, open angle glaucoma, choroidal effusion, etc. in patients
      with pulmonary arterial hypertension. Elevated venous pressure found in pulmonary arterial
      hypertension is responsible for the delayed choroidal perfusion and the reduced venous blood
      outflow. This explains the clinical findings of venous stasis retinopathy, choroidal
      detachments, etc. which are related to elevated episcleral, retinal and choroidal venous
      pressure secondary to elevated systemic venous pressure (increased pulmonary vascular
      resistance in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension leads to right heart failure and
      subsequent elevation in systemic venous pressure).

      Systemic venous pressures in Fontan patients are comparable with those in patients with
      significant right heart failure in a 2- ventricular circulation. With Fontan anatomy the
      elevated central venous pressure is transmitted to the dural venous sinuses of the brain
      through jugular veins and the paraspinal venous plexus and after the Fontan procedure brain
      venous pressure are chronically elevated.

      The investigators believe that the long-term effects of the Fontan operation can result in a
      spectrum of ocular changes similar to those occurring in patients with idiopathic
      intracranial and pulmonary arterial hypertensions due to chronically elevated cerebral venous
      pressure.

      It has been reported that intraocular pressure is directly related to the episcleral and
      jugular venous pressure in patients without underlying ophthalmic diseases. Several previous
      studies have shown a linear correlation between central venous pressure and intraocular
      pressure. Therefore, the investigators believe that the monitoring of intraocular pressure
      may be simple and effective method for estimating central venous pressure in patients with
      Fontan circulation.
    
  