
    
      This study will be a prospective, open-label, multi-center study assessing the efficacy and
      safety of 99mTc-EC-DG compared to 99mTc-SPECT MPI imaging for detecting the presence,
      location, and severity of CAD as established by coronary angiography. Approximately 60
      patients will be enrolled in the study.

      Group 1 will be patients who have been evaluated for CAD within 3 to 30 days by any
      cardiovascular diagnostic imaging method (nuclear, ultrasound, CTA, MRI, etc.) and their
      physician has planned for coronary angiography but angiography has not yet been performed. In
      addition, the patient has not had coronary artery bypass graft (CABG). These patients can be
      enrolled.

      Group 2 will be patients who have been evaluated for CAD within 3 to 30 days by any
      cardiovascular diagnostic imaging method (nuclear, ultrasound, CTA, MRI, etc.) and the
      patient has already had coronary angiography performed but has not received any coronary
      intervention subsequent to the procedure.

      The following sequence of imaging procedures will be performed for both Group 1 and 2
      patients: The first procedure will be a 99mTc-EC-DG rest study. This will be followed within
      24 hours to 3 days with a 1-day protocol 99mTc-SPECT MPI rest/stress study. This will be
      followed within 24 hours to 3 days with a 99mTc-EC-DG stress study.

      For both Group 1 and 2, if 1 of the diagnostic imaging procedures performed to evaluate the
      presence of CAD was a traditional 99mTc-SPECT MPI rest/stress study, this procedure must be
      repeated as 1 of the 3 SPECT imaging procedures required by the trial protocol.

      The modality for provocative stress testing (exercise, pharmacologic, or
      exercise/pharmacologic) will be matched between the 99mTc-SPECT study and the 99mTc-EC-DG
      study. All prospectively performed 99mTc-EC-DG and 99mTc-SPECT studies will be conducted
      using regadenoson as the pharmacologic stress agent. All imaging studies (99mTc-EC-DG,
      99mTc-SPECT, coronary angiography) will be over-read by blinded, trained reviewers. The
      consensus blinded read will determine and record the location of the CAD by relating the wall
      of the myocardium affected to include: anterior, Inferior, lateral, septal and apex. The
      angiography study will identify the arteries associated with the CAD; namely, left anterior
      descending, circumflex or right coronary arteries. The study will also determine the severity
      of the CAD by visually comparing the size and intensity of the ischemic signal on rest and
      stress images obtained approximately 15 and 60 minutes post injection.

      The results from the consensus blinded read of coronary angiography will be considered truth
      for the presence, location, and severity of obstructive CAD and degree of stenosis.
    
  