
    
      Background Surgical site infections According to a Clean Care is safer programme by World
      Health Organization(WHO), the second most frequent and surveyed health care-associated
      infections in high-income countries is surgical site infections (SSI). The highest SSI is the
      colorectal surgery with 9.5% interlude per operations. SSI develop negative influence on
      patient outcome, such as burden the morbidity, mortality and extra expenses to health care
      system. The length of stay increased 9.7 days due to SSI in 2005 in USA, and more expenses
      spend on the antibiotics and the advanced dressing materials. Patient suffered from SSI will
      double the mortality rate in USA with increased cost and readmission for the treatment.

      Modern dressing There are many different treatment and dressing options for health care
      providers for wound care. The dressings with advanced technology become more popular in
      recent days. Many studies show the importance of moist wound dressing to enhance the wound
      healing process. It can provide a moist wound environment, absorb the excess exudate, move
      away the microorganism and prevent their replication, and provide a barrier from the external
      environment than the conventional gauze dressing. Besides, a recommendation from the UK's
      National Institution for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) suggest that all surgical
      incision wound should be dressed with low-adhesive dressing for at least 3-5 days after
      operation. And a journal published in CINAHL Information System stated that the use of
      dressing with moist wound healing effects can help to reduce the SSI rate by 50% that the
      conventional gauze. On the other hand, there are studies commended that there are no
      significant different in prevention of SSI with the use of moist wound dressing. Therefore,
      it is a controversial issue on the effectiveness of preventing SSI by using moist wound
      dressing versus conventional gauze dressing.

      Ionic silver-containing dressing Ionic silver (Ag+), is an active state silver oxidized
      biologically, is proved as a broad spectrum antimicrobial agent that is effective against
      aerobic, anaerobic, Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria, as well as fungi, viruses, and
      yeast with minimal development of bacterial resistance. Silver is used commonly in many
      dressings for the antimicrobial effect. Silver containing dressing can reduce the
      inflammation of wounds and promotes healing, since silver cations in the dressing can destroy
      microorganism by inactivating bacterial enzymes, disrupting the functions of cell membrane
      and binding the bacterial DNA/RNA to cause cell death and inhibiting cell replication.

      Abdominal Colorectal surgery and ionic silver-containing dressing in Hong Kong In Hong Kong,
      colorectal cancer is the commonest cancer, there were around 5000 new cases in 2014. And it
      is the second leading cause of cancer deaths, in 2015, around colorectal cancer caused 2000
      deaths. An unpublished internal audit carried out in surgical department in Princess Margaret
      Hospital (PMH) in 2015 found that the day 30 post-operation SSI incidence among patients with
      colorectal surgery using occlusive ionic silver-containing dressing (20%; 19/95) was
      statistically lower than those using conventional gauze dressing (52.9%; 9/17) with p=0.012
      (Table 1). Although the effect of using silver dressing to reduce SSI rate is controversial,
      there are no formal study has been published locally. Therefore, it is meaningful to carry
      out a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to prove the significance of silver dressing in
      reduce SSI rate.

      Objective To compare the SSI incidence among patients with abdominal colorectal surgery
      patients using prophylactic occlusive ionic silver-containing dressing and conventional gauze
      dressing.
    
  