
    
      The purpose of this research is to study how testosterone affects blood pressure control in
      trans men. High testosterone levels are detrimental to the female cardiovascular system in
      that higher levels are associated with increased blood pressure. Humans control blood
      pressure in the autonomic nervous system via the baroreflex mechanism. The arterial
      baroreflex is a key autonomic homeostatic mechanism involved in maintaining arterial blood
      pressure, and gain of the baroreflex is used as a measure of the sensitivity of sympathetic
      responses that act to restore acute blood pressure fluctuations. This autonomic regulation of
      blood pressure is also characterized by rhythmic activity (changes in cardiac frequency),
      which can be observed by recording sympathetic nerve traffic. When the female cardiovascular
      system is exposed to elevated androgens, baroreflex gain is impaired, and blood control is
      less efficient during an orthostatic challenge. However, to best understand the effect of a
      given stimulus on autonomic function, changes in frequency of the SNSA response must also be
      quantified in addition to the gain. Sympathetic control of arterial blood pressure is most
      effective in a narrow frequency range, and if this frequency range for responsiveness should
      narrow further, control of arterial blood pressure becomes less efficient and presents as
      dysfunction. The central hypothesis for this research is that dysregulation of blood pressure
      in trans men taking testosterone for gender affirming HT is a function of both reduced
      baroreflex gain and narrowed frequency-dependent relationship between arterial pressure and
      peripheral sympathetic vascular responsiveness. Specifically, these studies test the
      hypothesis that androgen supplementation with HT is associated with 1) lower baroreflex gain
      during a lower body negative pressure (LBNP) challenge, and 2) a narrowed response frequency
      range that precedes impaired sympathetic vascular response dynamics in trans men compared to
      control cisgender women.

      Study procedures include an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), microneurography of the
      median nerve in the forearm to assess SNSA, and 2 LBNP challenges designed to examine
      baroreflex gain during static LBNP and then the frequency of SNSA during oscillating LBNP
      (OLBNP). Participants complete 3 visits for this study. Visit 1 is for informed consent
      procedures; Visit 2 is a pre-screening visit to complete the OGTT; Visit 3 is for
      experimental testing to assess gain and the frequency range. Blood pressure, heart rate and
      muscle SNSA (MSNA) are measured during LBNP and OLBNP. MSNA is recorded using 2
      microelectrodes inserted through the skin of the forearm to record activity (firing) of the
      median nerve. Blood samples are taken via IV placement to measure insulin and glucose during
      the OGTT for Visit 2, and then sex hormones and catecholamines during Visit 3. Results from
      the group of young trans men will be compared to a control group of cisgender women matched
      for age and body mass index.
    
  