
    
      In Vivo Laser Capture Microdissection (IVLCM). The IVLCM tethered capsule is identical to
      those used in current approved OCT TCE studies.The capsule is swallowed by the patient and
      then, in real time, a region for tissue capture, is identified on the images. When a targeted
      site is identified, a capture laser (1450 nm, 0.8 W, 1 second exposure; within the range of
      the previously approved OCT-TCE tissue marking study) irradiates this area in the patient,
      heating the water in the tissue and transforming it to steam. The accumulated water steam
      overcomes the tissue matrix's adhesion force, ejecting a small amount of tissue and
      integrating it with the capsule's external shell. This process may then be repeated to
      collect multiple samples. After the device is pulled out from the patient, the captured
      tissues can be extracted for genomic analysis. Ex vivo animal tissue studies have shown that
      capture laser does not damage DNA/RNA; high quality whole genome information can be obtained.

      In this IVLCM study, the investigators are using a 1450 nm laser to capture tissue that was
      previously approved to make cautery "marks" in the esophagus. The IVLCM capture laser's
      specifications are the same as those of the marking laser and the power will be within the
      IRB approved power range (0.82 W 1s). Prior to testing laser marking in humans, the
      investigators first demonstrated the safety of laser marking in animals in vivo. Histological
      assessment showed that the cautery marks did not penetrate through the submucosa and the vast
      majority of the effects were limited to the epithelium, lamina propria, and muscularis mucosa
      layers. The extent of thermal damage was comparable to conventional biopsies in standard of
      care endoscopic biopsy procedures. After this animal study, the investigators conducted a
      pilot study in humans in which over 30 marks were made in 22 enrolled subjects without any
      adverse events or safety concerns. In addition to these balloon studies, the investigators
      are currently conducting a TCE marking study. So far, the investigators have imaged and
      marked 13 subjects through a capsule without any adverse effects or safety concerns.

      Thirty (N=30) subjects will be enrolled in this study.
    
  