
    
      Despite advances in pain medicine, postoperative pain control remains problematic with over
      5% of patients experiencing severe pain despite standard of care pain management, and is a
      frequently cited reason for delayed discharge in outpatient procedures [1]. In anorectal
      surgeries, almost all patients experience mild-to-moderate postoperative subjective pain [2],
      and as an example 12% of patients report severe postoperative pain during their recovery from
      hemorrhoidectomy surgery [3]. Control of postoperative pain is an important goal. Preemptive
      analgesia is a technique that involves premedicating the patient with a regimen of
      medications designed to target different points in the pain cascade to prevent central and
      peripheral sensitization to pain, also known as "wind-up" [4]. The activation of
      N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors is an identified process that occurs in central
      sensitization after a noxious stimulus. By pharmacologically blocking these receptors, it may
      be possible to prevent or suppress the degree of central sensitization, which can prevent the
      hyperalgesic, or exaggerated pain response, that some patients experience [5]. Peripheral
      sensitization is a similar concept and occurs due to noxious stimuli in the periphery, such
      as a surgical incision. This type of sensitization has typically been prevented with regional
      anesthesia and by increasing the nociceptive threshold of the neurons with different
      medications.

      Preemptive analgesia focusing on the effect of single medications on pain control has shown
      promising results, however some studies appear to lend themselves to practice [6-19] better
      than others [20-26]. On the other hand, multimodal pain control regimens might be more
      promising. A search of the literature reveals that preemptive pharmacological blockade of
      wind up has been effectively used in both surgical and nonsurgical patients (burn patients
      [27]). In patients undergoing hip arthroplasty, or hip replacement surgery, under general
      anesthesia, blocking both central and peripheral sensitization results in significantly
      decreased subjective pain, and a trend toward less postoperative use of analgesics [28].
      Similarly, patients undergoing multilevel spinal surgeries [29] and those undergoing
      prostatic surgery [30] under general anesthesia consume less postoperative analgesics when
      undergoing multimodal preemptive pain control by blocking both sensitization pathways.
      Finally, preemptive central sensitization blockade alone has been used with trends in
      improved pain control for gynecological surgeries under both general [31] and regional
      anesthesia [32]. The preemptive use of such medications has not been studied for anorectal
      surgeries and it is what we are suggesting in this study. Most pain control studies in the
      literature focus on postoperative rather than preemptive medication regimens for pain
      management [33-35], and there is no current standard of care as to an effective regimen. The
      studies effective in decreasing postoperative pain in other surgical contexts, such as for
      patients undergoing hip arthroplasty, have used the same combination of medications proposed
      for the Treatment Group. Finally, the added benefit of the anorectal patient population in
      terms of the putative decreased use of opioids for postoperative pain control revolves around
      the opioid-related adverse effects on bowel function. In fact, return of bowel movements and
      regularity is one criterion for healing after surgery.

      Based on this existing literature, we propose in our current study to preemptively block both
      central sensitization through the use of intravenous ketamine perioperatively and peripheral
      sensitization through the use of intravenous dexamethasone administered perioperatively and
      oral gabapentin and acetaminophen administered preoperatively. Ketamine is a noncompetitive
      NMDA receptor antagonist acting centrally in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord to decrease
      the release of glutamate, reducing the transmission of pain messages centrally [36].
      Intravenous ketamine has been shown to decrease 24-hour opioid requirements, and preemptive
      use of ketamine was part of the medications used in most of the studies mentioned in the
      literature review above. As it currently stands, use of ketamine in anorectal surgeries as an
      added analgesic has been proven safe. Among Nigerian surgery patients having received
      regional anesthesia and preemptive ketamine, postoperative pain levels have been shown to
      decrease, however it is unclear if this patient cohort included anorectal surgery patients
      [37]. No other studies have been conducted regarding postoperative pain in these patients
      [38]. By utilizing ketamine as one of the medications in our study, we hope to show similar
      effects resulting in patients experiencing decreased postoperative pain after common
      anorectal surgeries.

      Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid with potent anti-inflammatory effects that is also used as
      an anti-emetic. The proposed mechanism of action of dexamethasone is not completely known,
      but it is thought to involve inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis and an increased release
      of endorphins. Endorphins are endogenous peptides that bind to pain receptors in the body to
      decrease pain. In addition, endorphins can facilitate mood elevation and a sense of
      well-being. Intravenous dexamethasone was part of the medications used in studies mentioned
      in the literature review above. One study investigating the prophylactic use of dexamethasone
      for its anti-emetic properties, in combination with sevoflurane, a general anesthetic, during
      anorectal surgery found a significant decrease in maximal postoperative VAS pain scores in
      patients administered dexamethasone compared to those given placebos [2]. The use of
      dexamethasone as a preemptive analgesic has not been fully studied in anorectal surgery
      patients.

      Gabapentin acts by binding to receptors on voltage-gated calcium channels on presynaptic
      nerves, reducing the entry of calcium into presynaptic nerve terminals. The subsequent
      decreased release of excitatory neurotransmitters such as glutamate, aspartate, substance P,
      and norepinephrine into the synaptic cleft is linked to a diminished postsynaptic
      transmission of neural pain messages [36]. It is usually used for neuropathic pain control,
      and has been used in some of the studies mentioned in the literature review above. A systemic
      review of the perioperative effects of gabapentin found that it is an effective means of
      reducing post-operative pain, opioid consumption, and opioid-related adverse effects in
      surgical patients. In fact, administration of a single dose of gabapentin was found to be
      equivalent to a reduction of 30 mg of morphine in the first 24 hours after surgery [39]. No
      studies have been conducted, to the best of our knowledge, regarding preemptive use of
      gabapentin in anorectal surgeries.

      Local, peripheral sensitization has also been minimized through the use of non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) due to the decreased production of certain molecules such as
      prostaglandins and kinins. The enzyme required to make these molecules is blocked by
      acetaminophen and NSAIDs, which is why acetaminophen is included in this study in hopes of
      demonstrating better pain control among anorectal surgery patients. Acetaminophen is a weak
      analgesic that forms the most basic component of a multimodal analgesia regimen [36]. Oral
      preemptive use of acetaminophen has been proven to decrease postoperative narcotic use in
      surgical patients [40], and has been used in some of the studies mentioned in the literature
      review above. A related intramuscular NSAID, namely Toradol, has been used preemptively among
      anorectal surgical patients with good pain control [41]. No other studies are reported in
      this patient population.

      Of importance, the combinations of the medications used in this study have been used in other
      studies before with similar or higher doses and no significant differences in terms of
      hemodynamic variables (such as vital signs) or adverse side effects have been noted compared
      to control groups [31]. In fact, these medications are safely used at UVM Medical Center by
      the collaborating surgeons as part of their care for other surgeries such as abdominal
      surgeries.

      *References 1-41 available upon request
    
  