
    
      Cardiac arrest is a public health problem and is the leading cause of death in many parts of
      the world.

      Cardiac arrest can occur inside the hospital and outside it. In the United States and Canada
      occur in approximately 350,000 cases of cardiac arrest a year , who receive CPR , Half of
      them outside the hospital.

      Treatment of cardiac arrest is performing Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) and early
      defibrillation.

      Performing compressions is the essential part of performing CPR until the arrival of
      defibrillation.

      Efforts are being made to simplify the implementation of basic CPR and make it accessible to
      everyone. Method "hands only CPR" offers CPR with compressions only without ventilations,
      Studies have shown a similar survival rate between" hands only CPR" method and CPR with
      ventilations.

      Patient's chances of survival are higher if a bystander begins performing CPR until trained
      medical staff arrives.

      Chances of survival decreases by 7-10% every passing minute past moment of collapse if not
      performed CPR.

      MDA survey carried out in 1984-5 reported at the start of CPR by a bystander at 8% Another
      survey in 2000 reported 14%, In a recent study in Jerusalem found a rate of only 15% of
      performing compressions by bystanders- A very low rate compared to 33% reported in the United
      States 41.3% in Japan and 44.9% in Denmark.

      The average time of arrival of the medical team in Israel is 10.3 minutes, so it is very
      important to begin performing CPR by those present before the arrival of medical staff.

      Most cases of cardiac arrest were the result of a previous cardiac disease, Therefore
      patients with cardiac disease are at higher risk of cardiac arrest and cardiac death.

      Place cardiac arrest is 72% percent of the time at home, and the likely presence of family
      members.

      The general population should know basic resuscitation to save a life, knowledge is needed
      especially among families of heart patients who are way more likely that such an event will
      occur in their presence.

      Therefore, one can relate to families of heart patients dedicated to increasing population as
      a basic knowledge of CPR.

      There is no other organized plan to study family members of patients with heart disease basic
      knowledge of CPR Despite the importance of it Attempts have been published in previous
      studies from around the world to create a focus group study of CPR among close relatives of
      heart patients. An attempt was made to incorporate as part of the proposed cardiac
      rehabilitation patients after MI Through self-study kit given at discharge from the hospital
      and more Difficult to evaluate the success of these efforts over the long term, but
      short-term study of short workshops yielded sufficient knowledge about basic CPR This study
      should serve as a catalyst as a first step towards building a suitable program nationwide and
      hopefully save many lives
    
  