
    
      Title: The Australian Parental Supply of Alcohol Longitudinal Study (APSALS): Can parents
      teach their children to drink alcohol responsibly? Or, is one drop a drop too many?

      Background: The Australian Parental Supply of Alcohol Longitudinal Study (APSALS) was
      established to investigate the short- and long-term associations between exposure to parental
      alcohol provision, early adolescent alcohol initiation, subsequent alcohol use, and
      alcohol-related harms, controlling for a wide range of parental, child, familial, peer, and
      contextual covariates. The cohort commenced with 1927 parent-child dyads comprised of
      Australian Grade 7 school students, and a parent/guardian. Baseline, one- and two-year
      follow-up data have been collected, and a three-year follow-up is underway. The data
      collected include child, familial, parental, and peer factors addressing demographics,
      alcohol use and supply, parenting practices, other substance use, adolescent behaviours, and
      peer influences. Baseline data show that only 5.8% of the Grade 7 adolescents had initiated
      alcohol consumption (of a whole serve of alcohol). Thus, the cohort is ideal for
      prospectively examining predictors of initiation and progression of alcohol use, which
      increases markedly through adolescence. Results to date have highlighted the importance of
      distinguishing between sipping and drinking of full serves of alcohol in the measurement of
      adolescent alcohol use as these represent distinct behaviours which occur in different
      environments.

      Aims: The aims of this study are to determine if:

        1. Parental supply is associated with the progression (acceleration/deceleration) in
           adolescent drinking over time;

        2. The immediate and broader contextual factors mediate or moderate the relationship
           between parental supply and progression in adolescent drinking over time.

      Design: A longitudinal study across three states in Australia (New South Wales, Tasmania, and
      Western Australia).

      Recruitment: Catholic, Independent and Government school in NSW, Tasmania and Western
      Australia.

      Data analysis: Logistic and binomial regression, and multi-level modelling will be used, and
      latent growth curve modelling (LGCM) within the framework of structural equations modelling
      (SEM). Moderating and mediating variables, both time variant (e.g., association with alcohol
      using peers) and time-invariant (e.g. gender) will be modelled. Outcome variables will be
      modelled using appropriate parametric distributions - Poisson distributions for count data
      outcomes and binomial distributions for categorical data outcomes. All analyses will be
      conducted in MPlus v5.2 or Stata. As recommended by Graham imputation of missing data will be
      done.

      Sample size calculations: Due to the flexibility of the modelling approach taken (i.e., the
      number of parameters allowed to vary), there are a number of different scenarios that can be
      tested to determine an adequate sample size. The primary interest is in differences in
      drinking over time between groups who were supplied or not supplied alcohol. Thus, regression
      analysis will address drinking on a dummy-coded "parental supply" variable. It is
      hypothesised that parental supply of alcohol would alter the trajectory of harmful drinking
      by a regression coefficient of ±0.2. This regression coefficient is equivalent to a medium
      effect size difference between groups, a result which is not unexpected given past research.
      It was assumed that attrition would result in around 20% missing data on each subsequent
      measurement occasion. Based on simulation studies, and factoring in potential mediators and
      moderators, 600 children are required at a minimum. However, as small cell sizes for some
      associations may affect power, a final sample of ~1800 children and parents has been
      recruited.
    
  