
    
      Diabetic retinopathy imaged by ultra wide field angiography (200°): the California (Optos,
      Scotland) allows ultrawide field pictures of 200° of the retina. This new imaging allows
      seeing beyond what was seen by the classic 7 ETDRS fields angiography:

        -  In pivotal studies assessing the effect of antiVEGFs on diabetic retinopathy (DR) in
           patients treated for diabetic macular edema (DME), ETDRS DR classification was used
           based on the 7 classical ETDRS field fundus photographs. However, it has been identify
           that antiVEGF may modified the semiology (hemorrhages, micro-aneurisms) and
           consecutively modify the stage of DR. There is no assessment of the regression of
           peripheral ischemia of the retina (non perfused retina) by angiography during an
           antiVEGF treatment.

        -  DR severity score (1) based on ETDRS classification assess the number of retinal lesions
           within the 7 classic retinal fields corresponding to around 30% of the total retina. It
           has been recently shown that peripheral lesions non visible on the classic 7 fields
           angiography could be predictive of progression of DR (2,3) at 4 years of follow-up
           independently of the initial stage of DR, HbA1C level, and could be new arguments for
           Laser treatment. This UWF imaging could help to understand some cases of patients with
           worst progression than expected, and to identify new therapeutic indications (4). These
           UWF pictures need to be explored in order to better characterize the severity of DR
           forms and probably find new therapeutics.

      Impact of anti VEGF treatments on DR: pivotal studies assessing the efficacy of ranibizumab
      on DME explored also the effect of antiVEGFs on DR. One of the secondary endpoints of RISE
      and RIDE (5) studies, comparing the effect of ranibizumab 0.3mg versus 0.5mg versus sham
      injections, was the rate of new proliferative DR (PDR). This rate was of 33.8% in the sham
      group versus 11% in the treated group at 2 years of follow-up.

      In Protocole I (6), the DRCRnet, found a 2 times lower risk to evolve toward PDR in case of
      ranibizumab treatment versus sham (7).

      VIVID and VISTA showed at least 2 ETDRS steps improvement of DR for 30% of patients treated
      by aflibercept versus 8.2% to 15.6% at 2 years in the sham group.

      It would be very interesting to have complementary data on improvement and worsening of DR
      under antiVEGF treatment with an angiographic analysis of the retinal periphery perfusion on
      larger field of the fundus than we usually have, and instead of color fundus photographs
      usually available in pivotal study to assess DR severity.

      The purpose of this study is to characterize at one year the effect of aflibercept used for
      DME treatment on retinal periphery assessed by UWF angiography instead of the classic 7 ETDRS
      fields in order to quantify ischemia.
    
  