
    
      Since the appearance of high-efficiency anti-retrovirals (HAARTs) in the treatment of Human
      Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), several studies have shown an increase in the prevalence of
      hypothyroidism (frank, rough or low hypothyroidism T4) in cohorts of HIV-infected adults and
      children. More specifically, rough hypothyroidism (increased TSH and normal thyroid
      peripheral hormones) have a prevalence of about 3-12% in HIV-treated patients, which is
      higher than the general population of about 4.3%. The etiology of frustrated hypothyroidism
      remains debated in the literature; Effects of antiretroviral therapy (ARV) such as
      Stavudine®, the effect of dyslipidemia, the effect of HIV infection itself, in proportion to
      severity (expressed as low CD4 cell count) and AIDS stage. Thyroid dysfunction does not
      appear to be of autoimmune origin, as anti-peroxidase antibodies are rarely present in
      HIV-infected patients, unlike the general population.

      With the increased life expectancy of HIV-infected patients and the indications of different
      experts to be treated earlier, the duration of exposure to ARVs is also increasing.
      Therefore, their chronic toxicity deserves particular attention, in particular on thyroid
      function and / or thyroid hormone metabolism, since iatrogenicity has not been completely
      ruled out. In addition, clinical evidence suggests that dysthyroids may be corrected or
      worsened over time in HIV patients (unpublished personal data).

      Today, the natural history of frustrated hypothyroidism and its consequences are not reported
      in patients infected with HIV. However, it is recognized in the elderly, fructified
      hypothyroidism evolves over time towards frank hypothyroidism; The latter is associated with
      an increased prevalence of dyslipidemia, atherosclerosis, diastolic hypertension and
      therefore an increased risk of myocardial infarction.

      It therefore seems interesting to review the evolution of thyroid function in HIV-infected
      patients, with sufficient follow-up.
    
  