
    
      Gastric varices (GV) are present in around 20% of patients with cirrhosis. Bleeding from GV
      accounts for 10-20% of all variceal bleeding. GV are classified according to their location
      in the stomach and their relationship with esophageal varices (EV). Accordingly, GV are
      divided into gastroesophageal varices (GOV) and isolated gastric varices (IGV) . The
      management of type 1 GOV, which extend from the esophagus along the lesser curvature of the
      stomach, is similar to the management of EV. Historically, bleeding from type 2 GOV (i.e. GOV
      extending into the fundus), type 1 IGV (i.e. located in the fundus) and type 2 IGV (i.e.
      located anywhere in the stomach), is considered to be more severe and difficult to treat than
      EV bleeding. Few studies, mostly retrospective and uncontrolled, have focused on the
      management of non-GOV1 GV, and the optimal treatment remains controversial.

      For the prevention of gastric variceal bleeding, treatment principles can be classified into
      two categories: decreasing portal pressure and obstructing GEV. Methods for decreasing portal
      pressure include medications (NSBB), radiological intervention (TIPS) and surgery. In
      contrast, methods for treating the obstruction of GEV include endoscopic approaches (EVL,
      EIS) or radiological intervention (such as BRTO). Recent portal hypertensive bleeding
      suggested TIPS or BRTO as firstline treatments in the prevention of rebleeding.

      BRTO is a procedure for treatment of fundal varices associated with a large
      gastro-/splenorenal collateral. The technique involves retrograde cannulation of the left
      renal vein by the jugular or femoral vein, followed by balloon occlusion and slow infusion of
      sclerosant to obliterate the gastro-/splenorenal collateral and fundal varices. Several
      variations of the technique exist, such as balloon-occluded antegrade transvenous
      obliteration or occlusion of the collateral by the placement of a vascular plug or coils.
      BRTO has the theoretical advantage over TIPS that it does not divert portal blood inflow from
      the liver. On the other hand, BRTO and its variations might increase portal pressure and
      might worsen complications, such as ascites or bleeding from EV. In this regard, if NSBB is
      combined with BRTO and its variations (we called interventional devascularization) for those
      HVPG responders, the drawbacks of interventional devascularization might be overcome.

      Therefore, the investigators conducted this RCT to compare the effectiveness and safety of
      TIPS with those of interventional devascularization in the prevention of rebleeding from
      gastric varices.
    
  