
    
      Single-blinded, randomized preliminary study evaluating the effects of electroacupuncture for
      postoperative pain relief in patients with distal radius fracture.

      Distal radius fracture is extremely common, and it is about 10% of all fractures in the human
      body. Therefore, the distal radius is the most frequently fractured part of the upper limbs
      of the human body. Once the fracture occurs, internal fixation is the main surgical
      procedure. The postoperative analgesic method is generally oral or injection analgesic. In
      recent years, electroacupuncture(EA) has been widely used to relieve pain after surgery, and
      many studies have confirmed that it is effective. However, there is no evaluation of
      analgesic efficacy after the surgery of distal radius fracture. Therefore, it is hoped that
      the efficacy of EA for analgesia after the surgery of distal radius fracture is demonstrated
      by this study. And, the investigators also hope the investigators can reduce the use of
      painkillers through EA.

      Methods: It is expected that 30 patients will be randomly assigned to the following groups:
      EA group,EA at points; non-point group, EA at non-points, control group without EA

        1. EA group:EA at points after surgery

        2. non-point group: EA at non-points after surgery

        3. Control group: no EA Mode of operation: After the patient has returned to the recovery
           room, perfom EA, and take the needle after 30 minutes. Perform another 30 minutes after
           24 hours, and then statistics.

      Acupoint selection:

        1. true acupoints: needles were inserted to Taichong (LR3 ) and Taixi (KI3) contralateral
           to the operated leg and deqi sensation elicited at acupoints

        2. false point: the needles were inserted to Kunlun(BL60) and Shugu(BL65) contralateral to
           the operated leg and deqi sensation elicited at acupoints

      Data collection:

        1. Record the time required for the first injection of analgesics

        2. The number of doses of oral painkiller used in 36 hours after surgery (count)

        3. The number of doses of injection painkiller used in 36 hours after surgery (count)

        4. Use the visual analog scale (VAS) to assess the patient's pain level
    
  