
    
      After obtaining a thorough medical and dental history and performing necessary laboratory
      investigations, the following steps will be undertaken:

      Preoperative prosthetic preparation:

        -  For eligible patients who are already wearing upper and lower complete dentures: The
           dentures will be checked for adaptation, fit, stability and occlusion.

        -  For eligible patients who are not wearing upper and lower complete dentures:

      Preliminary alginate impressions will be made using a perforated stock tray for both the
      maxillary and mandibular arches. Impressions are then poured into dental stone to obtain the
      diagnostic models. Occlusion blocks will be constructed over the diagnostic models, followed
      by bite registration, try-in and delivery of upper and lower complete dentures.

      Afterwards, approved complete dentures will be duplicated using laboratory condensation
      silicone to construct a radiographic stent. The radiographic stent is prepared by using a
      ratio of 3:1 acrylic resin to barium sulphate mixture, and then the patient is sent for a
      Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) scan.

      CBCT scanning and virtual design of the patient-specific implant (PSI):

      The CBCT scan of the patients - in the form of DICOM files - will be imported into surgical
      planning software (Mimics 19, Materialise, Leuven, Belgium). A segmentation process will be
      accomplished by using the two dimensional CT cuts to define the image thresholds based on
      Hounsfield's units, excluding soft tissue and only highlighting hard tissue (bone). The
      maxilla/mandible region will be further isolated by cropping and/or region-growing functions
      to remove artifacts and select only the area of interest, followed by the 3D calculation of
      the selected regions. The 3D models will be exported in standard triangulation language (STL)
      format.

      The STL files will then be imported into computer-aided design (CAD) software (3-matic) in
      order to create the design of the PSI. The subperiosteal part of the PSI will be drawn on the
      surface of the region planned to receive the PSI and then extruded to a thickness of 2.5mm.
      The PSIs will be meshed out with 2.5 mm holes to be compatible with 2.0 mm fixation screws.
      For the single-piece PSI, the abutments will be placed, guided by the opposing teeth and the
      radio-opaque dentures. As for the two-piece PSI, the same design will be repeated without the
      addition of the abutment posts.

      Fabrication of the patient-specific implant (PSI):

      The STL file of the final design will be sent for 3D printing via additive manufacturing
      using selective laser sintering (SLS) machine from medical titanium grade (Ti-6Al-4V) Extra
      Low Interstitials (ELI).

      PSI surface treatment:

      The PSI will be subjected to acid etching following a protocol proposed by Juodzbalys et al
      to attain micro roughness on the fitting surface of the implant. The PSIs will be etched with
      sulfuric acid (H2SO4) for 72 hours followed by Hydrochloric acid (HCl) for 30 hours. After
      removal from the acids PSIs will be washed in distilled water.

      Cleaning and sterilization:

      Implants will be cleaned in an ultrasonic bath of absolute ethyl alcohol solution at ambient
      temperature for 30 minutes to ensure the removal of any residues on the fitting surface of
      the implant. After being thoroughly cleaned, the PSIs will be wrapped and sterilized using a
      class B autoclave.

      Surgical phase:

      For both groups, under general anesthesia; a mucosal incision 3-5 mm crestal to the vestibule
      will be made in the anterior region similar to the genioplasty incision, followed by
      dissection over the orbicularis oris and mentalis muscle and incising down to bone using a
      scalpel blade #15c mounted on a Bard-Parker® surgical blade handle size 3, to expose the
      proposed implant site. The incision will be completed posteriorly after localization of the
      mental nerves. After bone exposure the implant will be installed in place and fixed with
      2.0mm grade 5 titanium screws.

      For two-piece PSIs, the framework will be designed with 3-4 mm endosseous projections at the
      anticipated area where the final abutments will be fastened, guided by the position of the
      teeth in the proposed prosthetic set-up. The endosseous projections will be designed in order
      to accommodate the height of the internal connection that will receive the final abutment in
      a second-stage surgery. Unlike single piece PSIs, bone-supported surgical guides will be
      designed to aid in the placement and seating of the two-piece PSIs corresponding to the
      preplanned osteotomy sites. The flap will be sutured in two layers; the muscle layer will be
      closed with 3/0 poliglecaprone resorbable suture material and the mucosa with 4/0
      Polypropylene non-resorbable suture material.

      Postoperative care and instructions:

      The intra oral wounds will be evaluated for any signs of bleeding, hematoma, infection, wound
      dehiscence or PSI exposure after 48 hours, then weekly till the end of the first month. The
      following medications will be administered:

      Long acting corticosteroids: Methylprednisolone Acetate 40 mg/ml intramuscular injection
      single dose immediate postoperative.

      Anti-inflammatory analgesic: Ketorolac tromethamine 30 mg/amp/2mL intramuscular injection
      every 12 hours for the first 24 hours followed by diclofenac potassium 50 mg tablets (every 8
      hours for 4 days) Oral antibiotic: Ampicillin/sulbactam 375 mg tablets (every 8 hours for 10
      days) Strict oral hygiene measures in the form of regular use of chlorohexidine Gluconate 125
      mg/100 mL antiseptic mouth wash (every 8 hours for two weeks).

      Prosthetic phase:

      The steps of fabrication of the final prosthesis will be initiated 3 months after implant
      placement for both groups. For the single-piece PSI group, a closed impression will be made.
      For the two-piece PSI group, final abutments will be fastened to the corresponding connection
      in the framework in a second stage surgery, followed by a final closed impression a week
      later. The final restoration will be constructed from a high impact polymer composite (HIPC)
      material via computer numerically controlled (CNC) milling. Occlusal adjustments will be
      performed followed by temporary cementation for two weeks until a final approval is obtained
      from the patient. Later, the prosthesis will be cemented using glass ionomer self-cured
      luting cement.
    
  