
    
      Pancreatic cancer is the twelfth most common cancer worldwide. Neoadjuvant chemoradiation
      therapy in patients with borderline resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma has become standard
      of care and is associated with higher rates of complete resection ultimately with improvement
      of overall survival in this patient population. Radiation therapy to a soft tissue organ such
      as the pancreas can be difficult, as it is not readily visualized radiographically. Image
      guided radiation therapy (IGRT) is a commonly implemented modality for delivering high doses
      of radiation directed at cancer tissue, while reducing collateral damage to adjacent healthy
      tissue. Fiducials, which are inert radiographic markers typically made from gold or carbon,
      can be placed in and around the tumor to delineate tumor margins to allow for IGRT Endoscopic
      ultrasound (EUS) has been pivotal in accomplishing IGRT by allowing precise contouring and
      identification of target lesions in the pancreas via placement of fiducials. This has
      traditionally been accomplished with the use of 19-gauge or 22-gauge fine needle aspiration
      (FNA) needles. To prepare the needle for fiducial placement, one to two fiducials are
      manually back-loaded into the tip of the needle after the stylet has been removed. In order
      to hold the fiducials within the needle, sterile lubrication or bone wax can be applied. Once
      the pancreatic mass has been targeted, fiducial injection can be accomplished via stylet
      reinsertion or sterile water injection. Currently, back-loading the fiducials is the only
      option for preparing delivery of fiducials via the EUS approach. Difficulties associated with
      fiducial loading and deployment can increase procedure duration due to cumbersome fiducial
      back-loading, fiducial misplacement & migration, as well as inability to pass the fiducial
      marker through the needle due to endoscope angulation. Observational studies have sited a
      technical success rate of 86-100% using 19 and/or 22 gauge needles with average procedure
      time between 7-12 minutes using the fiducial back-loading technique.

      A new mode of fiducial delivery has recently been developed that hopes to circumvent some of
      the technical issues inherent to traditional fiducial marker loading and deployment. A
      prototype 22-Gauge EUS needle preloaded with four fiducials has been used in a porcine models
      with successful deployment 95.6% of the time all accurate on predetermined targets. They were
      deemed easy to pass, relatively easy to deploy, and easily visualized on EUS, with excellent
      fluoroscopic and CT visualization. In addition, time for deployment was on average less than
      60 seconds.

      To date, there is no randomized controlled trials comparing total duration of time needed for
      placement of fiducials using technical success of the traditional back- loading technique of
      fiducial markers to the new preloaded needles in regards to EUS based fiducial marker
      placement for IGRT in pancreatic cancer.

      This will be a multicenter randomized controlled trial. Randomization be performed and
      patients will undergo Linear EUS and have fiducial marker placement via a traditional 22G
      back-loaded needle (Visicoil) or the new 22G preloaded needle (PreLoad4). Multiple endpoints
      will be recorded, including total length of procedure, how many markers are successfully
      deployed, and technical success (Ease of passage of delivery system, ease of deployment of
      fiducials, EUS visualization of delivery system needle, EUS visual appearance of fiducials,
      and time for fiducial placement defined as starting at time of removing the needle from its
      packaging and ending time as removal of needle after final marker deployment). Fiducial
      marker location will be confirmed via fluoroscopy at time of placement and on 4D treatment
      planning CT ordered by the radiation oncologist for simulation. Patients will be discharged
      home after post procedure recovery. Patients will be contacted at home by a research
      coordinator or endoscopy staff 24-48 hours and 7-10 days after the procedure to document any
      immediate and delayed complications. Patients will return for their IGRT visit, and any
      evidence of fiducial marker migration will be recorded by the radiation oncologist.

      Hypotheses

      Use of a 22 G preloaded needle for EUS guided fiducial marker placement in patients with
      pancreatic cancer will:

        1. Be delivered in at least require 60% less of the procedure time that it takes for
           traditional back-loaded 22G needles

        2. Improve overall procedure efficiency

        3. Maintain comparable technical success and adverse event rates.

      Primary Aims

      1) To compare the procedure time of 22G needle placement of three Visicoil fiducial markers
      and 22G needle preloaded fiducial markers.

      Secondary Aims

        1. To compare adverse event rates in 22G needle placement of Visicoil fiducial markers and
           22G needle preloaded fiducial markers

        2. To compare endpoints of technical success defined as proper placement of two to three
           fiducial markers in a pancreatic neoplasm in 22G needle placement of Visicoil fiducial
           markers and 22G needle preloaded fiducial markers.
    
  