
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind (neither the researchers nor the participants know what
      treatment the participant is receiving), active-controlled, multicenter study (more than 1
      study site) in elderly participants with TRD to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability
      of flexible doses of intranasal esketamine plus a newly initiated oral antidepressant
      compared with a newly initiated oral antidepressant (active comparator) plus intranasal
      placebo. The study will consist of 3 phases: Screening/Prospective Observational Phase (4 to
      7 weeks), Double-blind induction Phase (4 weeks), Follow up Phase (2 weeks). Participants who
      rollover into a long-term open-label safety study will not participate in the Follow-up
      Phase. At the start of the Screening/Prospective observational Phase, participant must have
      had documented nonresponse to at least one antidepressant treatment (based on Massachusetts
      General Hospital - Antidepressant Treatment Response Questionnaire [MGH-ATRQ] criteria) in
      the current episode of depression, and the participant is taking a different oral
      antidepressant treatment on the MGH-ATRQ for at least the previous 2 weeks at or above the
      minimum therapeutic dose. This antidepressant treatment will be discontinued prior to the
      double-blind induction Phase. Participants taking benzodiazepines (at dosages equal to or
      less than the equivalent of 6 mg/day of lorazepam) and/or permitted non-benzodiazepine sleep
      medications (example, zolpidem, zaleplon) during the screening/prospective observational
      phase can continue these medications. All participants will start with first dose (Day 1 as
      28 milligram [mg]); second dose (Day 4) is either 28 or 56 mg. All subsequent doses may be
      28, 56 or 84 mg. After the first dose, all dosing decisions are determined by the
      investigator based on efficacy and tolerability. In addition, each participant will be
      assigned to receive 1 of 4 oral antidepressant medications from 2 different classes of
      antidepressant treatments, a Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor (SSRI) (escitalopram or
      sertraline) or a Serotonin and Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitor (SNRI) [duloxetine or
      venlafaxine extended release (XR)], initiated on Day 1 and continued through the double-blind
      induction Phase. Participants will be primarily evaluated for improvement in depressive
      symptoms as assessed by change in Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) total
      score at Week 4. Participants' safety will be monitored throughout the study.
    
  