
    
      Introduction The Cardiac Contractility Modulation (CCM) system is a cardiac implantable
      device indicated for the treatment of patients with symptomatic heart failure with left
      ventricular systolic dysfunction despite optimal medical and electrical therapy.

      This system consists of a generator to which two stimulation leads are connected, which are
      fixed on the interventricular septum and deliver non-excitatory electrical signals during the
      absolute ventricular refractory period, with the aim of influencing the contractility
      properties of the myocardium in patients with chronic heart failure. The generator of the
      device is rechargeable, and the patient is equipped with a special charger, while the device
      can be interrogated through a special programmer.

      Currently available studies indicate that CCM therapy is safe and effective for the treatment
      of patients with symptomatic heart failure with reduced left ventricular systolic function
      despite appropriate and optimized medical therapy. Based on data available from clinical
      studies, the application of CCM signals to the heart during the absolute refractory period
      can increase the contraction force of the myocardium. In particular, a significant
      improvement in quality of life and exercise tolerance has been reported (highlighted by the
      improvements in the 6-minute walking test and in the peak of VO2 in the cardiopulmonary
      exercise test), together with a potential impact on hospitalizations for heart failure and
      survival. In addition, CCM therapy reverses the characteristics of left ventricular
      remodeling typical of decompensation and improves left ventricular contractile reserve. These
      effects are the result of a chain of intracellular molecular processes, some of which become
      evident within a few seconds after starting the CCM. For example, CCM signals have been shown
      to normalize the phosphorylation of regulatory proteins such as phospholamban in vitro within
      a few seconds of treatment. This rapid effect triggers a series of molecular events which
      result in the restoration of cellular function and in the acute improvement of contractile
      force. On the long term, there is a progressive normalization of the abnormal expression of
      the fetal gene program characteristic of heart failure and a progressive reduction of the
      end-diastolic volume with an increase in the ejection fraction of the left ventricle. These
      effects on intracellular signaling mechanisms also extend to regions of the ventricle far
      from the impulse delivery area.

      The prospective register This prospective registry includes patients undergoing CCM
      implantation for the presence of heart failure with reduced left ventricular systolic
      function (EF < 45%) who are symptomatic despite optimal pharmacological and electrical
      therapy. The clinical trial study (prospective registry) will be conducted in accordance with
      this protocol, with the Helsinki Declaration and with the favorable opinion of the local
      Ethics Committee of the participating Centers Full detailed inclusion and exclusion criteria
      are reported in the specific section.

      Aim of the study This prospective observational register is intended to collect data
      uniformly on patients treated with CCM. The data will be used to evaluate the medium and
      long-term clinical and instrumental effects on patients treated with CCM therapy and will
      have a purely scientific value.

      In particular, the objective of the registry is to investigate the impact of the CCM on the
      clinical and functional characteristics of the patients enrolled at the end of the follow-up
      with respect to the baseline value: NYHA class, 6-minute walking test distance, left
      ventricular ejection fraction and volumes , quality of life expressed through a specific
      questionnaire (Minnesota Living With Heart Failure Questionnaire, MLWHF), hospitalizations
      for heart failure or progression of the underlying heart disease. These parameters will be
      assessed and analyzed in an observational manner 24 months after the start of the study and
      subsequently annually.

      In addition, the survival of patients undergoing CCM device implantation will be assessed in
      an observational manner. Finally, device-related complications will be assessed a safety
      outcome, and other cardiovascular adverse event will be assessed as well.

      These parameters will be assessed globally in the entire enrolled population, and also
      separately in three pre-specified groups: patients with EF between 36% and 45% (in NYHA class
      III, IV or II with previous hospitalizations for heart failure); patients with EF between 25%
      and 36% carriers of CRT-D / P ("non-responders"); patients with EF between 25% and 35% not
      carriers of CRT-D / P; patients with EF <25%.

      Clinical and instrumental parameters

      The following data will be collected in basal conditions upon enrollment:

        1. Age, gender, weight, BMI

        2. Comorbidity: diabetes mellitus, hypertension, renal failure, COPD, atrial fibrillation,
           previous stroke, peripheral vascular disease

        3. NYHA class

        4. Left ventricular ejection fraction, end-systolic and end-diastolic volumes and
           diameters, diastolic function, degree of mitral insufficiency, right ventricle size and
           contractility, sPAP (echocardiogram)

        5. Systolic blood pressure

        6. Etiology of cardiomyopathy (ischemic, idiopathic, valvular, hypertensive, other)

        7. Baseline QRS duration

        8. Laboratory data (according to the normal clinical practice of the Center for heart
           failure patients):

           to. Hemoglobin [g / dL] b. Lymphocytes [%] c. Uric acid [mg / dL] d. Creatinine [mg /
           dL] e. Total cholesterol [mg / dl] f. Sodium [mmol / L] g. BNP or NT-proBNP [pg / mL] h.
           Soluble ST2 [ng / ml]

        9. Current therapy, including the following:

           to. ACE inhibitors [Y / N] b. Beta blockers [Y / N] c. Angiotensin-receptor blockers [Y
           / N] d. Angiotensin-receptor neprylysin inhibitors [Y/N] e. Statins [Y / N] f.
           Allopurinol [Y / N] g. Aldosterone antagonists [Y / N] h. Diuretics [Y / N and dosage]

       10. Previous Levosimendan cycles (number)

       11. Devices already implanted before enrollment [none / CRT-P / ICD / CRT-D)

       12. Number of heart failure hospitalizations in the past year

       13. Quality of life, as assessed by the "Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Questionnaire"
           (MLWHFQ)

       14. Exercise tolerance, measured with (according to the Centre's clinical practice):

             1. peak of oxygen consumption (VO 2) determined during cardiopulmonary exercise tests;

             2. 6-minute walking test distance.

      Safety measures:

      Adverse events related to the device, implant procedure or CCM therapy are collected in the
      registry as safety parameter. Each type of complication is entered in the register,
      classified as major if it leads to death, endangers life or requires invasive treatment,
      hospitalization or prolonged hospitalization due to the need to resolve the complication. The
      other complications are classified as minor.

      In case of patients undergoing heart transplantation or LVAD implantation, or in the event of
      interruption of therapy or explantation of a device, the information will be recorded with
      the motivation for discontinuing treatment.

      Device parameters

      The following parameters of the CCM device will be recorded at each follow-up visit, carried
      out according to normal clinical practice for patients with this device:

        -  Stimulation activity: RV [Active / Inactive], LS [Active / Inactive]

        -  Amplitude of CCM stimulation [Volt] Device sensing [RV and LS]

        -  Percentage of CCM Therapy (i.e. percentage of heart beats that actually receive CCM
           therapy within the scheduled hours)

        -  Number of CCM therapy hours scheduled per day

        -  Number of actual CCM therapy hours per day

      Study design This registry is a multicenter, prospective, observational, open-label study,
      with the aim of evaluating the clinical effect of CCM therapy during a follow-up in an open
      number of subjects with heart failure and moderate-to-severe left ventricular systolic
      dysfunction despite appropriate medical therapy, during the long term and within a minimum
      duration of 24 months.

      The sample size is open, being an observational registry; however, a sample size of 200
      pazients in anticipated to complete the enrollment and analyze the whole data; a preliminary
      analysis will be performed following the first 100 enrolled patients.

      The implant procedure involves the introduction of two active fixation stimulation leads,
      fixed on the interventricular septum, and connected to the CCM generator (Optimizer Smart IV,
      Impulse Dynamic, and any subsequent versions of the same device) inserted in the subcutaneous
      or submuscular pocket. The implantation uses a vascular access via right or left cephalic or
      subclavian vein. The CCM signal delivered consists of 2-3 biphasic pulses lasting 10 msec
      (total duration of about 20 ms) with an amplitude between 4.0 and 7.5 V, delivered during the
      absolute refractory period of the ventricle, at a distance of 40 msec from ventricular
      sensing (Kuschyk J, Rev Cardiovasc Med 2017). The CCM device is compatible with other pacing
      and defibrillation devices already implanted in the patient; at the time of the implantation,
      the devices are checked in order to confirm the absence of interference between the devices.
      The patient is instructed to charge the device battery weekly.

      Follow-up Clinical follow-up includes check-ups at 3 months, 6 months, 12 months and every 6
      months thereafter.

      Each clinical follow-up visit includes the execution of objective examination, ECG, control
      of the functioning of the device, administration of MLWHF questionnaire on quality of life,
      6-minute walking test (or cardiopulmonary exercise test when required) and evaluation and
      titration of the pharmacological therapy.

      In addition, during the 3-month, 12-month and every 12-month follow-up visits, a
      transthoracic echocardiogram and blood chemistry tests are scheduled.

      The following data will be recorded and entered in the study database at the time of
      enrollment and during the follow-up visits, as per study design:

        -  Clinical history, including demographics and ongoing therapy

        -  ECG (rhythm, QRS duration)

        -  NYHA class

        -  MLWHF questionnaire score

        -  Six-minute walking test distance

           - Cardiopulmonary stress test results (when performed)

        -  Echocardiographic data (diameters and volumes of the left ventricle, left ventricular
           ejection fraction, diastolic function, degree of mitral insufficiency, size and
           contractility of the right ventricle, sPAP)

        -  Parameters required for calculating the SHFM score

        -  Device operating and programming parameters

        -  Pharmacological therapy during the follow-up

        -  Any hospitalizations for heart failure or progression of the underlying heart disease

        -  Administration of levosimendan

        -  NT-proBNP and sST2 dosage

        -  Possible interruption of treatment and reason for interruption

        -  Complications related to CCM therapy

      The study does not include the execution of additional clinical investigations, instrumental
      examinations, administration of drugs or additional services that are not included in the
      normal clinical practice of the follow-up management of patients undergoing CCM therapy. The
      enrollment or not in the registry does not affect the indication to the device implantation,
      nor the management of the follow-up from a clinical-instrumental point of view or the
      follow-up visits. No additional expenses are foreseen by the participating centers, nor
      funding is expected by external companies, or compensation to the investigators or to
      enrolled patients. The consent or refusal to be enrolled in the registry does not alter the
      normal clinical management of patients undergoing CCM implantation or the treatment of heart
      failure.

      Conclusion This multicenter observational prospective registry aims to assess the clinical
      impact of cardiac contractility modulation therapy (CCM) in patients with symptomatic heart
      failure with moderately or severely impaired left ventricular systolic function. This study
      will allow to evaluate the long-term clinical impact of CCM therapy on patients' functional
      capacity, symptoms and quality of life, hospitalizations for decompensation and progression
      of the underlying disease, as well as the survival and complications observed, with the
      objective to define the role of CCM therapy in the management of patient with heart failure
      with reduced left ventricular systolic function.
    
  