
    
      Postmenopausal women with differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) taking suppressive doses of
      levothyroxine (L-T4) are thought to have accelerated bone loss and increased risk of
      osteoporosis. Therefore, the investigators try to investigate the effects of Technetium
      [99Tc] Methylenediphosphonate (99Tc-MDP), calcium containing vitamin D alone and fosamax
      (alendronate sodium) in postmenopausal women with DTC and decreased bone mineral density
      (BMD). The investigators therefore randomize 58 patients with slightly decreased BMD (T or
      Z-score in lumbar spine or neck region of femur > -2.0 SD by dual energy X-ray) taking
      suppressive doses of L-T4 to treatment with 99Tc-MDP (low dose) 10mg Intravenous drip every
      1week for ten weeks, every 2 weeks for 22 weeks, every 1 month for 4 months, or calcium
      containing vitamin D alone. The control group, namely, 600mg calcium group containing vitamin
      D everyday. The investigators also randomize 148 patients with obviously decreased BMD (T or
      Z-score in lumbar spine or neck region of femur≤-2.0 SD) taking suppressive doses of L-T4 to
      treatment with 99Tc-MDP (high dose)15mg ivdripIntravenous drip every 1week for ten weeks,
      every 2 weeks for 22 weeks, every 1 month for 4 months (99Tc-MDP), or fosamax 70mg po for 12
      months. BMD of the spine and hip will be measured by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry bone
      densitometer. The spine was measured in the posterior projection, and results are reported
      for the total spine lumbar 1-4. The hip was measured in the standard projection, and results
      are reported for femoral neck, trochanter, and total hip; the femoral neck was chosen to
      represent a site rich in cortical bone, and the trochanter to represent a site relatively
      rich in trabecular bone. Patients have measurements of serum alkaline phosphatase, bone
      turnover markers, osteocalcin, C-telopeptides of type I collagen (CTX), Type I N-procollagen
      terminal propeptide,etc every 3, months for 1 yr. We also evaluate the bone pain by numerical
      rating scale (NRS), the quality of life by Short Form-36 (SF-36) scores.

      All assays were performed by a technician who was blinded regarding the subjects' treatment
      assignment.
    
  