
    
      Restoration of function is very rare in individuals with MS who have experienced gradual
      worsening in the absence of acute MS symptoms (relapses) and partial or complete recovery of
      those acute symptoms (remissions).

      A recent case report of a patient with secondary progressive MS documented a transition from
      scooter dependence to mild gait disability following the initiation of electrotherapy in the
      form of neuromuscular electrical stimulation and nutritional interventions aimed increasing
      the nutrient density and decreasing the risk of food sensitivity and food allergies. Multiple
      studies of neuromuscular electrical stimulation in athletes, cerebral palsy and stroke
      patients have demonstrated gains in strength and coordination. Multiple authors have reported
      that antioxidants, essential amino acids and micronutrient rich diets are neuroprotective. It
      is likely that the combination of the intensive nutrition and the electrotherapy contributed
      to the marked gains in improvement. However in the absence of an additional case report the
      strength of the association remains unknown.

      The intent of this study is to replicate the interventions from the case report as closely as
      possible.

      Our primary objective is to measure how many and how completely subjects implement 1) the
      nutritional interventions, 2) the home exercise program intervention, and 3) the
      electrotherapy intervention and if the improve improved nutrition and exercise are associated
      with improved function. To assess improvements in function will measure 1) the change in
      nutritional status as reported in food frequency surveys, 24 hr dietary recalls, 2) change in
      neurocognitive testing and behaviors, 3) change in self-reported function and disability
      scales, 4) change in gait and 5) change in medications doses or classes for MS related
      symptoms.

      Subjects will be followed for three years. After the first year, subjects will not receive
      intensive support from the study team. The subjects return at months 18, 24 and 36 to assess
      adherence with study interventions, function and quality of life. Nutrition intake is
      assessed again at 24 and 36 months.

      To assess for safety we will assess safety labs (kidney and liver function tests) and changes
      in weight, and self reported side effects questionnaire.
    
  