
    
      Epilepsy is characterized by seizures, which are abnormal electrical discharges in the brain
      that temporarily disrupt normal brain function. Seizures are classified as "generalized,"
      originating in both sides of the brain simultaneously, or "partial-onset," starting in one
      area of the brain. Antiepilepsy medications, such as topiramate, are selected based on
      seizure type. This is a double-blind, placebo-controlled study that includes a baseline phase
      and a treatment phase. During the baseline phase (12 weeks duration), patients receive one or
      two of the following standard antiepileptic drugs (AEDs): phenytoin, carbamazepine,
      phenobarbital, or primidone. Patients who continue to have seizures during treatment with
      standard AEDs proceed into the double-blind treatment phase. Patients then receive placebo or
      topiramate at a dosage of 100-milligrams (mg) once daily, increasing to twice daily dosing at
      a maximum dose of 200 mg/day, 400 mg/day, or 600 mg/day or maximum tolerated dose (depending
      on treatment group), through Week 16 (total duration of double-blind phase), while continuing
      on their standard AED regimen. Assessments of effectiveness include the percent reduction in
      the average monthly seizure rate, percent of patients responding to treatment (having equal
      to or greater than 50% reduction in seizure rate), and, the patient's and investigator's
      global assessments of medication at end of study. Safety assessments include the incidence of
      adverse events throughout the study, clinical laboratory tests (hematology, serum chemistry,
      urinalysis), neurologic examinations, and vital sign measurements (blood pressure, pulse,
      temperature) weekly during the treatment phase. The study hypothesis is that topiramate,
      taken as add-on therapy to treatment with AEDs, will significantly reduce seizure frequency,
      compared with placebo, in patients with refractory partial epilepsy and is well-tolerated.
      Topiramate, 100 milligrams[mg] oral tablets. Dosage begins at 100-mg once daily and increases
      gradually to twice daily dosing at a maximum dose of 200, 400, or 600 mg/day, and continues
      through Week 16 (total duration).
    
  