
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess the influence of a dual-task (combined motor-cognitive
      task) on dual-task performance of a complex dynamic stability task in healthy young adults
      and to assess the effects of dual-task training on cognitive-motor learning and cortical
      activation in healthy young adults. A dual-task is defined as concurrent performance of two
      tasks, usually a cognitive and motor task, that can be performed independently and have
      distinct and separate goals. Individuals engage in dual tasks every day and must allocate
      attentional resources to each task. While recognition of susceptibility to performance
      decrements in dual-task settings may be difficult, increased dual-task complexity is
      associated with decreased performance in one or both tasks. The well documented effects of
      dual-task practice represent a promising approach to improve dual-task performance for
      clinical populations such as individuals with neurological conditions or older individuals,
      in which complex multitask situations can increase fall risk due to hindered balance and
      walking performance. Similarly, young adults have demonstrated performance decrements while
      executing a dual-task that involved a combined balance and cognitive task. Research of
      dual-task training in healthy young cohort has indicated significant improvements in both
      motor and cognitive task performance in dual-task situations, suggesting the efficiency of
      this intervention strategy. However, most of these studies have investigated effects of a
      simple postural task combined with cognitive task training on dual-task performance. Effects
      of dual-task training using a complex dynamic postural stability task on dual-task
      performance of such complex task is lacking. Moreover, existing studies demonstrate
      conflicting evidence of dual-task training effects among healthy young adults since
      improvements in the motor task only have been largely reported. It is crucial to understand
      dual-task training effects on performance of a complex cognitive-motor task since postural
      control involves complex integration of somatosensory, vestibular, and visual systems. Our
      experimental paradigm will challenge these systems; thus, findings of this study would inform
      our intervention strategies in a variety of populations ranging from athletes to individuals
      with neurological conditions.

      Dynamic postural stability is an integral aspect of postural control and it involves complex
      interaction of prefrontal, somatosensory, vestibular, and visual systems. However, a motor
      task involving complex interaction of these systems combined with cognitive task challenges
      has not been investigated thoroughly. Moreover, neural activation within these cortical areas
      during dual-task performance and effects of dual-task training are largely unknown.

      Since, coordinated control of the body requires integration of all these systems (i.e.
      prefrontal, somatosensory, vestibular, and visual), it is important to systemically study the
      interference of an additional attention-demanding task, such as an auditory stimulus reaction
      time task on interaction of these systems that may contribute to decreased postural
      stability. Moreover, it is important to investigate if training on such a complex dual-task
      can reduce motor-cognitive interference, improve postural stability, and optimize cortical
      activation in complex dual-task conditions.
    
  