
    
      Investigator(s):

      Approximately 10 study centers (allergy services) in Spain

      Planned study period:

      MAY 2012 (first subject in) - MAR 2013 (last subject out)

      Objectives:

      Primary objective: to evaluate the safety of a 4-month treatment with an extract of Depigoid®
      Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus or a mixture of 50% Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus and 50%
      Dermatophagoides farinae at a concentration of 500 DPP/ml administered following a rush
      build-up regimen.

      Secondary objective: to assess the subjects' immunologic responses to the above treatment.

      Study design:

      This is a prospective, non-randomized, uncontrolled, open-label safety study. When the first
      29 subjects have completed the study, an interim analysis will be conducted to check whether
      the number of systemic reactions in these subjects is below a predefined limit.

      Planned number of subjects:

      103 subjects in total.

      Medical condition or disease under investigation:

      Allergic rhinitis or rhinoconjunctivitis, with or without mild persistent or intermittent
      asthma.

      Test product, dose and mode of administration:

      Depigoid® D. pteronyssinus or Depigoid® 50% D. pteronyssinus / 50% D. farinae (500 DPP/ml).

      Dose: Week 0: 0.2 ml followed by 0.3 ml after 30 min Week 4, 8, 12, and 16: 0.5 ml Mode of
      administration: subcutaneous injection

      Duration of treatment:

      16 weeks.

      Criteria for evaluation:

      Safety:

      Local and systemic adverse reactions (EAACI classification); adverse events.

      Efficacy:

      Immunologic response to the treatment.

      Statistical methods:

      Primary variable: number of subjects [%] who experienced at least one immediate or delayed
      systemic reaction of EAACI grade 2 or higher during the 4-month treatment period.

      Analysis of primary variable: exact binomial test
    
  