
    
      DSPS patients delayed sleep and wake times are accompanied by insomnia and excessive
      sleepiness that results in functional impairments. The sleeping-problems and the impairment
      in important areas of functioning and quality of life sometimes lead to psychiatric problems
      such as, depressive symptoms, irritability, problems with their memory and concentration. It
      has not yet been fully established how long the treatment should go on, how long each light
      treatment should be, and the exact intensity of light. Although long-term studies on DSPS
      patients are sparse, it is known from clinical experience that these patients often fall back
      into their old circadian schedule after the treatment.

      This study is a prospective randomised study. In the short-term study patients will be
      randomised to two groups. Group I light therapy (LT) for two weeks Group II LT for two weeks
      + CBT for four weeks. Group I and II will be followed up with questionnaires concerning
      depression/anxiety, sleepiness during the day, sleep-diary and insomnia-problems.

      The aim is to evaluate if CBT enhance LT-treatment at home. The two groups will be followed
      with sleep-diary monthly and questionnaires.

      Method. Questionnaires. All patients will fill in some questionnaires before the treatment
      starts, during treatment and at follow-up.

      I) Horne-Ostberg Morning-Eveningness Questionnaire (MEQ) to measure their diurnality.

      II) Insomnia Severity Scale (ISI), a scale that measures the severity of insomnia III)
      Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), a scale that measures habitual daytime sleepiness.

      IV) Hospital anxiety- depression scale (HADS) V) Penn state Worry Questionnaire (PSWQ)
      VI)Symptom-focused Rumination Scale (SRS) VII) Brief COPE(BC) The same questionaires will be
      given to a matched reference group, but without sleeping problems.

      Light therapy: It is today considered that the most effective light intensity is 10 000 lux
      at approximately one foot from the person and during 30-45 minutes. This treatment will be
      applied at home. The exact time schedule for the light treatment will be decided individually
      depending on the patient's sleep diary. Each day the time for light therapy will be brought
      back one hour earlier and thereby getting out of bed.

      CBT will be given for 90-120 minutes by a psychologist once per week for four weeks at our
      Sleep Department. The therapy will be given in groups of 4-6 persons.

      DLMO. DLMO will only be taken before the study starts to evaluate the shift in circadian
      rhythm. DLMO is the time when endogenous melatonin reaches a threshold of 3 ng/L or 4 ng/L in
      saliva. To measure melatonin in saliva is the most commonly used way to determine DLMO since
      it is both easy and safe for the patient and it gives a value that follows the melatonin
      blood-value, only it is three times lower. The saliva test will be taken hourly for about
      five hours, during a window when we suspect DLMO to appear. It is important that the saliva
      collection must be done under dim light conditions (less then 10 lux).
    
  