
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy of hyperfractionated total body irradiation, thiotepa, and
           cyclophosphamide followed by T-cell-depleted allogeneic bone marrow transplantation in
           children with acute myeloid leukemia, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic myelogenous
           leukemia, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, or myelodysplastic syndromes.

        -  Correlate the progenitor cell dose and dose of clonable T cells with the incidence and
           quality of engraftment, extent of chimerism, incidence and severity of acute and chronic
           graft-versus-host disease, characteristics of hematopoietic and immunologic
           reconstitution, and overall and disease-free survival at 2 years in patients treated
           with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo total body irradiation three times daily on days -9 to -7 and twice
      on day -6. Patients receive thiotepa IV over 4 hours on days -5 and -4 and cyclophosphamide
      IV over 30 minutes on days -3 and -2. Patients who cannot receive cyclophosphamide, due to
      prior hemorrhagic cystitis or exposure to high-dose cyclophosphamide or ifosfamide, receive
      fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -5 to -1. Patients planning to receive family member
      HLA-mismatched or unrelated bone marrow transplantation receive horse anti-thymocyte globulin
      IV once daily on days -5 and -4. Patients undergo allogeneic T-cell-depleted bone marrow
      transplantation on day 0. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV every 12 hours beginning on
      day 7 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      Patients are followed every 2-4 weeks for the first 100 days post-transplantation, every 6
      weeks for 6 months, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 3-6 months until 2 years
      post-transplantation.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients (25 with HLA 6/6 antigen-matched related donors and
      25 with HLA 5/6 antigen-matched related donors or HLA 5/6 or 6/6 antigen-matched unrelated
      donors) will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  