
    
      BACKGROUND:

      A novel coronavirus referred to as severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
      (SARS-CoV2) was identified as the causative agent for the pandemic coronavirus disease 2019
      (COVID-19). While in most cases, COVID-19 is a mild disease, in almost 15% of cases it may
      cause a severe disease leading to respiratory failure, septic shock, multi-organ failure and
      death. The relatively high ratios of severe morbidity and mortality that occurs during a
      short period led to an extremely high burden on health systems as expected in pandemics.
      Health care personnel work long hours in a highly intensive work environment, increasing the
      risk of exposure to SARS CoV-2 infection. In China, almost 4% of COVID-19 cases were of
      health care staff, having severe disease in 15% of them. In Italy, more than two thousands
      health care workers (HCWs) were diagnosed with COVID-19 consisting 9% of total confirmed
      cases up to 15 of March, 2020.

      Accumulating data suggest that the most likely mode of transmission of SARS CoV-2 is by
      droplets, either by inhalation or by contact. Person to person transmission was identified
      from asymptomatic infected cases that were redefined recently as pre-symptomatic cases. Most
      health agencies suggest a careful approach regarding the protection of HCWs. Still,
      accidental exposure of HCWs to COVID-19 cases occurs. Such exposure may occur in many
      scenarios, either in the context of unprotected contact with unsuspected cases or
      inappropriate protection in contact with suspected or confirmed cases of COVID-19. Exposure
      of HCW to a COVID-19 case necessitates risk stratification of disease transmission. The CDC
      defines the risk as high if a prolonged contact ("few minutes in a distance of 6 feet)
      happened while the patient and the HCW did not wear a facemask. A medium risk is defined if
      either the patient did not wear a facemask but HCW was with facemask but without eye
      protection or a patient was wearing a facemask but the HCW was not. In both situations of
      high and medium risk exposures, exclusion from work for 14 days after last exposure is
      recommended.

      Both HCWs safety and the critical demand for human resources in COVID-19 pandemic makes the
      possibility of effective post exposure prophylaxis highly important.

      Chroloquine/hydroxychloroquine for prophylaxis of SARS-CoV2:

      Although the focus of chloroquine/HCQ in use for COVID-19 is mainly for treatment, a
      potential additional use may be for prophylaxis. Chloroquine is in use for many years as
      prophylaxis for malaria. In addition, in Zika virus infection it was evaluated and found
      effective in transmission reduction in animal model. In SARS-CoV2, chloroquine/HCQ has
      in-vitro activity that interferes with virus entry to host cells by the inhibition of
      pre-entry step of the virus to host cells, interfering with viral particles binding to cell
      surface receptor as well as reduces virus replication[8]. Such activity in the early stage of
      infection may play a role in prevention of disease progression, making these drugs
      hypothetically an optional effective post exposure prophylaxis (PEP). The theoretical effects
      in such context include reduction of virus transmission, reduction of progression to lower
      respiratory infection following infection and therefore preventing clinical disease and
      finally reduction of intensity and duration of virus shedding. Given the safe profile of
      these drugs and the low collateral damage, makes them a favorable PEP drugs.

      The investigators plan in the present study to assess the effect of chloroquine/HCQ PEP given
      for a restricted duration following a recognized event of a significant risk exposure among
      HCWs in hospitals to prevent symptomatic infection and documented COVID-19.

      OBJECTIVES The objective of this trial is to evaluate the efficacy of HCQ as PEP in reduction
      of virus transmission among HCWs following unprotected close contact to patients with
      COVID-19. The investigatots aim to demonstrate a decrease in clinical disease as well as
      ameliorating disease severity and shortening virological shedding among HCW participants
      developing COVID-19.

      METHODS Study design: randomized controlled, superiority open label trial. Setting: The study
      will be conducted in Rambam health Care Campus (RHCC)

      Randomization:

      Participants who meet eligibility criteria will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio. Randomization
      will be done using a computer-generated list of random numbers allocated centrally through a
      web site, stratified by hospital.

      Intervention:

      The intervention group will receive oral hydroxychloroquine. In the first day 400 mg twice
      daily, followed by 200mg twice daily on days 2-10.

      The control group will not receive treatment.

      Criteria for discontinuing study drug include development of any of the following:

        -  Serious adverse event related to the drug

        -  Participant request

      Sample size:

      The trial will test for HDQ's superiority (1-sided alpha) assuming a primary outcome
      incidence of 20% in the control group and a reduction of 50% in the intervention group. With
      a 1-sided 5% alpha a fixed sample of 291 patients per group will provide 80% power to reject
      the null hypothesis of no difference between study groups.

      Follow-up and data collection:

      Participants will be actively followed-up by phone call at days 7 and 14 and 30 days after
      randomization. In addition, they will be asked to fulfill a diary on daily basis of
      temperature and development of respiratory symptoms. Participants will be guided to contact
      the research team if any signs or symptoms of disease or adverse effects appear.

      If COVID-19 is suspected according to clinical signs and symptoms, participants will be
      evaluated by physician by a phone call in order to decide if he/she needs hospital transfer
      or additional outpatient tests. For all clinically suspected COVID-19 cases a nasal and
      throat PCR tests will be taken within 48 hours from symptoms start. If positive, the test
      will be repeated on day 14 and thereafter weekly up to 2 consecutive negative tests taken 24
      hours apart. If first set of PCR tests was negative and symptoms continue for more than 72
      hours a second set of PCR tests will be performed.

      For participants admitted to hospital with a confirmed COVID-19, daily clinical and
      laboratory follow up will be performed. Blood count, electrolytes and creatinine levels will
      be taken on admission and repeated on days 5+/-2. Other tests will be performed as clinically
      indicated. Chest x-ray or other chest imaging will be performed at recruitment if not
      performed previously and repeated as necessary according to clinical judgment. PCR from
      respiratory or body samples will be obtained on day 5 (or discharge if prior to day 5) and
      otherwise as clinically indicated. Blood samples for serology will be taken at recruitment
      and at day 14 (or at discharge if before day 14). Samples will be frozen and batch analyzed
      at the end of the study.

      All participants will be followed up to 30 days after inclusion. The data will be entered
      anonymously into a central case report form (CRF). The investigatots will document the
      follow-up, participants' virological tests and medical course data, including complications
      and adverse events.

      Study monitoring:

      Trial follow-up and monitoring will be performed by The Rambam-Technion ID research team
      using a risk-based monitoring approach with adaptive on-site monitoring.

      Trial flow and recruitment follow-up: Recruitment reports will be collected monthly,
      detailing the number of eligible participants, excluded participants, reason for exclusion
      and number of included participants, in a structured table. The recruitment status vs.
      expected recruitment rate will be reported monthly, overall and per site.

      Remote monitoring: Remote monitoring will be performed continuously throughout the trial to
      check for data completion and quality. Critical variables will be defined, based on data
      needed for baseline description of the study cohort, information regarding the intervention
      and outcome data. Feedback will be provided to local study coordinators via email or
      telephone. Data will be completed or corrected in real time with the support of the
      monitoring center. Risk thresholds will be defined for onsite monitoring.

      Onsite monitoring: will be performed periodically and as required following the remote
      monitoring thresholds. The regular onsite monitoring visits will include:

        -  Inspection of the informed consent forms with dates corresponding to recruitment

        -  Inclusion criteria confirmed vs. patients' charts

        -  Confirmation of primary outcome data in source documents Safety monitoring: The trial
           will be followed by an independent data and safety monitoring board and a steering
           committee. No interim analyses are planned. All serious adverse events will be reported
           to the independent monitoring board. Interim analyses and serious adverse events will be
           reported to the local ethics committees, as per local good practice guidelines.

      Statistical analysis:

      The primary analysis will include all randomized participants by intention to treat. A
      per-protocol analysis will include participants who received the allocated intervention for
      at least 5 calendar days.

      Participants' baseline characteristics will be reported as mean with standard deviation, or
      median with interquartile based on variable distributions. The relative risk for the primary
      outcome will be computed with 95% confidence intervals. Time dependent variables will be
      analyzed using Kaplan Meyer curves. The trial will not be powered for subgroup analyses.
    
  