
    
      Background:

        -  Papillary RCC is the second most common histologic subtype of kidney cancer, accounting
           for approximately 10-15% of cases

        -  Type 1 papillary RCC occurs in both sporadic and hereditary forms, which are
           histologically identical. Non familial type 1 papillary RCC can present as both solitary
           renal tumors and as bilateral, multifocal disease

        -  There are no standard agents of proven efficacy for patients with advanced papillary

      RCC.

        -  Patients with disease localized to the kidney are managed surgically while patients with
           advanced/unresectable disease are usually managed in the community with VEGF pathway
           antagonists or mTOR inhibitors.

        -  Activating mutations of MET were identified in the germline of affected HPRC patients,
           who have a predilection for the development of bilateral, multifocal type 1 papillary
           RCC. Somatic MET mutations have been found in a subset of patients with non-inherited,
           sporadic papillary renal carcinoma

        -  The investigational agent INC280 is a selective MET inhibitor lacking activity against
           the VEGF pathway

        -  This is a proof-of-concept study using INC280 in patients with papillary RCC to test the
           idea that effectively blocking the HGF/MET pathway will lead to clinical activity in
           patients with papillary renal cell cancer

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      -To determine the overall response rate (RECIST 1.1) in patients with papillary renal cell
      carcinoma treated with single agent INC280

      Eligibility:

        -  Diagnosis of hereditary papillary renal carcinoma (HPRC) or sporadic papillary renal
           cell carcinoma (RCC)

             -  Patients with bilateral multifocal disease can have tumors localized to the kidney
                or have metastatic disease

             -  Patients with sporadic papillary RCC (but without multifocal disease) should have
                advanced disease that is considered unresectable

        -  ECOG 0-2

        -  Measurable disease

        -  Adequate organ function

        -  No active brain metastases

        -  Prior therapy

             -  No more than 3 prior lines of systemic therapy

             -  Prior therapy with a MET inhibitor is allowed as long as the patient has not had
                progressive disease while receiving the agent

      Design:

        -  This is a phase 2 single center non-randomized trial.

        -  The study will be conducted using a Simon 2 stage minimax design. Initially 13 evaluable
           subjects will be recruited. If there are no responses to therapy, the study will be
           terminated. If there is at least 1 response an additional 7 evaluable subjects will be
           accrued.

        -  The two-stage minimax design is based on assuming an ineffective response rate of 5% and
           a targeted effective response rate of 25%. We also assume that the probability of
           accepting an ineffective treatment and the probability of rejecting an effective
           treatment are each 10%.

        -  Subjects will be dosed orally at a starting dose of 400 mg twice daily.

        -  The overall response rate (complete response + partial response) will be determined.
    
  