
    
      The purpose of this study is to understand the disposition of sufentanil, midazolam and
      morphine when the drugs are introduced into the arterial circulation of the brain. Patients
      undergoing surgery on the ascending aorta or aortic arch often require cessation of blood
      flow to the organs of the body, while maintaining some degree of blood flow to the brain. In
      order to achieve organ protection during the circulatory arrest phase of surgery, the body is
      cooled to a core temperature of 28°C. Various techniques including deep hypothermic
      circulatory arrest, retrograde cerebral perfusion through the superior vena cava, and partial
      or bilateral antegrade selective cerebral perfusion have been proposed as means to protect
      the brain from ischemic injury during surgery on the aortic arch. At our institution
      selective cerebral perfusion has found success for major aortic surgery. This technique was
      devised and first employed by DeBakey and associates, to protect the brain during aortic arch
      surgery with bilateral carotid perfusion [1]. Selective cerebral perfusion requires the
      surgical construction and placement of a Dacron graft onto the right axillary artery that
      when connected to a cardiopulmonary bypass machine it will provide 10 ml/kg/min antegrade
      flow for brain perfusion [2]. Cerebral cooling will also decrease the oxygen demand of the
      brain. In such a way brain ischemia may be minimized. The nature of major aortic arch surgery
      requires independent cerebral circulation or selective cerebral perfusion for a finite period
      of time. The cardiopulmonary bypass machine is allowed to perfuse the brain indirectly by
      serial flow through the right axillary artery to the innominate artery and finally to the
      right carotid artery. Any anesthetic drug that is introduced into the cardiopulmonary bypass
      circuit will be delivered the same way. We will take advantage of this independent circuit to
      safely deliver anesthetic drugs to the brain via the right carotid artery during surgery.

      A prior study that enrolled 6 patients has shown that the anesthetic administration is safe
      and feasible. Patients had no problems related to anesthesia or surgery. All patients left
      the hospital in stable condition.
    
  