
    
      Rationale: Chronic pain is a phenomenon with a large impact on the individual's wellbeing and
      is a problem with a large global burden of disease, with a prevalence of 19 to 20% in
      European adults and an annual cost of €200 billion in Europe. Apart from causing physical
      suffering, chronic pain can lead to depression, suicidal thoughts and disrupted social
      relationships and can cause impairments in everyday life tasks and activities. Despite the
      seriousness of chronic pain, not all chronic pain patients receive adequate treatment. One
      cognitive behavioral therapy treatment which is used in the Netherlands for chronic pain
      patients is the Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT). However, the way in which this
      therapy is delivered in the Netherlands tends to take many sessions. It therefore seems
      attractive to investigate a short version of this protocol, which was developed in Sweden.
      This short version, ACT-EPT, is already being used in the Netherlands on a small scale but
      its effects have not yet been studied. The current paper proposes a pilot study with an
      innovative N-of-1 design to investigate this therapy's effectiveness.

      Objective: Investigating the effectiveness of an experimental protocol of Acceptance and
      Commitment Therapy-Exposure & Perspective Taking (ACT-EPT) compared to usual care in
      individual chronic pain patients on the increase of their participation in daily life and
      health related quality of life, as measured with the SF-12 in a study with a single case
      experimental methodology.

      Study design: The randomized n=1 study combines a quantitative and a consecutive qualitative
      part (mixed methods). Each participant receives the intervention and serves as his or her own
      control in an AB design. In phase A, all participants continue the care they already received
      which will be recorded as their care as usual. At a random moment, phase A will end and
      participants will start their intervention, thus entering phase B. This study randomizes
      participants on the duration of phase A, which means that the lengths of phases A and B
      differs among participants. The total study period (A+B) over which participants will receive
      weekly measurements is the same for all participants (16 weeks). Results will be presented on
      an individual basis according to the single case experimental methodology. In the last week
      of the total period, participants will be invited for an interview with a researcher
      focussing on their experience living with chronic pain and to evaluate the intervention. This
      interview will take place in the participants' own environment. Methodological details of all
      aspects of the design will be explained further in the protocol.

      Study population: Chronic pain patients of 18 years or older referred the Rehabilitation
      Centre Winnock Zorg in Heerlen or Arnhem for treatment (n=5).

      Intervention: The ACT-EPT treatment protocol is a type of acceptance-based cognitive
      behavioral therapy, aimed to increase patients' participation by improving their level of
      coping with chronic pain. The therapy takes between one and three sessions of about an hour
      and a half each.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary outcome measure of this study is the SF-12.
      Secondary outcome measures are the AAQ-II-P, PIPS, PSK, PDI, NPRS , IPA, FFMQ-SF and the ELS.
      The PSK will only be used for clinical purposes.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: No risks are associated with this study. The load for the participants consists
      of the weekly filling out of a limited amount of questionnaires and the participation in a
      one hour interview. The number of questionnaires that patients are asked to fill out differs
      per week, with a lowest load per week of 8 minutes and the highest load at baseline of 55
      minutes. The total time taken to fill out all questionnaires over the 16 week period is 6
      hours and 55 minutes, with an average of 26 minutes per week. Detailed information can be
      found in the questionnaires table in the protocol. The intervention takes between one and
      three sessions of about an hour and a half each, and is given in the rehabilitation centre.
    
  