
    
      Background: Survivors of critical illness have a long road of physical, cognitive, and
      psychological recovery. Although medical advances have reduced the mortality of critical
      illness, survival often comes with substantial long-term morbidity and societal cost. At
      1-year follow-up, ~35% of intensive care unit (ICU) survivors had sub-normal 6-minute walk
      distance, and ~50% had not returned to work. Rehabilitation interventions started in the ICU
      may reduce this morbidity. In-bed cycling is a novel technology that may help critically ill,
      mechanically ventilated (MV) patients receive exercise very early to prevent or attenuate
      muscle weakness. Patients on MV typically receive prolonged bedrest and are often perceived
      as 'too sick' for physiotherapy (PT) interventions. However expert consensus and our previous
      multicentre pilot work suggest these interventions are safe. The CYCLE RCT will evaluate
      whether early in-bed cycling compared to usual PT interventions improves patient-reported
      outcomes.

      Objectives:

        1. CYCLE RCT: To determine if early in-bed cycling and routine PT compared to routine PT
           alone in critically ill, mechanically ventilated adults improves the primary outcome of
           physical function at 3 days after ICU discharge and secondary outcomes of strength,
           physical function, frailty, psychological distress, quality of life, mortality, and
           healthcare utilization.

        2. Economic Evaluation: To determine the cost-effectiveness of cycling and routine PT
           compared to routine PT alone among critically ill, mechanically ventilated adults.

      Design: 360-patient concealed open-label RCT with blinded outcome assessment

      Population: Critically ill adults receiving MV in a medical-surgical ICU

      Methods: After informed consent, patients will be randomized to receive 30 minutes/day of
      cycling, 5 days per week and routine PT interventions or routine PT interventions alone.
      Assessors, blinded to treatment allocation, will measure the primary outcome of patients'
      physical function at 3 days post-ICU. Secondary outcomes will be measured at ICU awakening,
      ICU discharge, 3 days post-ICU, hospital discharge, and 90-days post-enrollment.

      Relevance: By 2026, demand for ICU services is estimated to increase by 40% and more
      survivors will be at risk for post-ICU disability. If early cycling during critical illness
      improves short-term physical and functional outcomes, it could accelerate recovery and reduce
      long-term disability in ICU survivors.
    
  