
    
      Translation efforts based upon the successful Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) have shown
      that this behavioral lifestyle intervention model is effective in a variety of diverse
      community settings. Despite the fact that physical activity is a key part of the DPP
      lifestyle intervention as one of the two intervention goals, activity change in the DPP,
      and/or the resulting translation studies modeled after it, has not been adequately verified
      with an accurate objective measure. In addition, previous research has shown that, in many
      subgroups of the general population, moderate and vigorous physical activity is non-existent.
      Individuals with activity only at the low end of the intensity spectrum may have a difficult
      time increasing their levels of moderate+ intensity physical activity for various reasons
      such as limited function or lack of motivation. For these individuals, interventions with a
      movement goal of increasing planned bouts of moderate intensity activity may not be as
      effective and therefore not as beneficial as interventions with a movement goal of decreasing
      time spent sitting.

      The purpose of this proposal is to understand the impact of movement, specifically physical
      activity and sitting time, in a DPP-adapted community lifestyle intervention, Group Lifestyle
      Balance (GLB).

      Aim 1: To determine if the GLB lifestyle intervention, shown to be effective in translation
      efforts in decreasing weight and increasing self-reported activity, has significant changes
      in physical activity levels determined by a validated objective measure, the accelerometer.
      It is hypothesized that participants randomized to the conventional lifestyle intervention
      arm (GLB-MOD) will have significant improvements in our primary endpoints of weight and
      physical activity (measured objectively) compared to a delayed-intervention control at 6
      months and will have reductions in several secondary outcome measures (fasting glucose,
      insulin, blood pressure, waist, lipids, physical function, and quality of life).

      Aim 2: To determine if a lifestyle intervention program similar to the one described above,
      with the only change being that the activity focus is now replaced with an inactivity focus
      (GLB-SED), is also effective. It is hypothesized that participants randomized to GLB-SED will
      have a significant improvement in the primary endpoints of weight and decreased inactivity
      (measured objectively) compared to a delayed-intervention control at 6 months and will have
      significant reductions in several of the secondary endpoints (fasting glucose, insulin, blood
      pressure, waist circumference, lipids, physical function, quality of life).

      Secondary Aims: To examine the pre-post change in participants for weight, physical activity
      (objective and subjective), and sedentary time from baseline to 6 and 12 months of
      intervention for each randomized arm and to understand the inter-relationships of these
      behavioral factors over time. It is hypothesized that those GLB-MOD participants who achieve
      significant weight loss will also have significant increases in their moderate+ intensity
      activity levels. Similarly, we hypothesize those GLB-SED participants who achieve significant
      weight loss will also have significant decreases in the amount of time they spent
      sedentary/sitting. An estimate of the difference in participant cost between the two versions
      of the lifestyle intervention programs will also be determined.

      Aim #1 addresses an important remaining gap in the prevention literature; does objectively
      measured activity improve as a result of the existing intervention that is being used in
      DPP-based translation efforts and does this change in activity have an impact on weight
      change? Aim #2 examines the impact of replacing the conventional physical activity goal of
      increasing planned and relatively brief bouts of moderate physical activity with one focusing
      on decreasing sedentary time within the framework of a successful translation lifestyle
      intervention adapted from the DPP, the Group Lifestyle Balance (GLB) program.

      The study design is a prospective, six month delayed-control intervention in which 321
      subjects (age 50 and older with a BMI of ≥24 kg/m2 and with prediabetes and/or metabolic
      syndrome) will be recruited from community centers and randomly assigned to one of three
      groups: the standard GLB program which includes the conventional moderate activity goal
      (GLB-MOD), the GLB program with a focus on decreasing sedentary behavior (GLB-SED), or
      delayed intervention. Subjects assigned to GLB-MOD and GLB-SED will each, separately be
      compared at 6 months to the delayed-control group after which time, the delayed group will be
      randomly assigned to either GLB-MOD or GLB-SED. Participants will complete baseline, 6, and
      12 month assessment visits. Change in weight, objectively measured activity, and time spent
      sedentary are the primary outcomes with secondary outcomes including change in self-reported
      physical activity, HbA1c, fasting glucose, lipids, blood pressure, waist circumference,
      quality of life and physical function.

      It is hypothesized that physical activity assessed by accelerometry in GLB-MOD will
      significantly increase (mostly moderate intense activity) and that there will be a
      significant decrease in weight, which will partly be related to change in activity levels.
      The 2nd hypothesis is that the GLB-SED intervention will significantly decrease time spent
      sitting as measured by accelerometry and that this change will also be related to a
      significant decrease in weight. The information that will be gained from this entire effort
      is important, innovative, and will allow us to obtain a complete and accurate understanding
      of both ends of the physical activity/inactivity spectrum and their impact in community
      prevention intervention programs. If shown to be effective, the innovative, modified
      sedentary-focused translation intervention program would provide a valuable future
      translation option.
    
  