
    
      The study has a total of 4 visits, and the medications are given as a one-time dose at only
      one visit (the second visit).

        1. During the first visit, a trained clinical interviewer will provide informed consent and
           conduct a structured clinical interview. Participants will be included if they are adult
           males diagnosed with social anxiety disorder and express a fear of public speaking, as
           well as approximately 10 healthy control participants. Eligible participants will be
           asked to complete self-report ratings of social anxiety and psychological symptoms and a
           standard interview about anxiety symptoms. The experimenter will conduct
           neuropsychological tests used to measure the participant's cognitive functioning.

        2. At the second visit the participant will be administered a one-time only dosage of both
           medications. The participant will be asked to prepare a speech within a short period of
           time, this is an example of exposure therapy. In exposure therapy, people are exposed to
           a situation they fear, such as public speaking, in a safe and controlled environment.
           Often when people do exposure therapy, they find that the situations they have been
           afraid of are not actually as scary as they seem. The exposure exercise in this study
           will consist of giving a speech while being video-recorded. Before the exposure
           exercise, participants will be provided with 250mg DCS and up to 1200mg of mifepristone.
           Participants will rate their anxiety level and negative and positive affect before and
           after the speech, as well as during the speech. The experimenter will again conduct
           neuropsychological tests used to measure the participant's cognitive functioning.

        3. (3) & (4) During the next two visits, participants will complete a second and third
           public speaking exposure exercise identical to the first, with the exception that they
           will NOT receive medication. Participants will complete a similar battery of symptom
           measures and anxiety ratings. The investigators will look at a change in anxiety ratings
           and symptomatology between exposure session 1, exposure session 2, and exposure session
           3.
    
  