
    
      Immune checkpoint blockade has led to great strides in the management of various cancers,
      however, durable response could be seen in approximately 20% of treated patients with most
      solid malignancies. Immunosuppressive entities such as transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β)
      in the tumor microenvironment (TME) remain a major impediment. Enhancer of zeste homolog 2
      (EZH2) is the core component of the polycomb group complex, which play a major role in
      cellular proliferation and differentiation. EZH2 aberration has been seen in a wide range of
      solid tumors and hematological malignancies, affecting tumor progression and immune cells in
      the tumor microenvironment, and it is associated with poor clinical prognosis and outcomes.
      EZH2 is not only an activator of gene expression through different pathways, but also a
      critical epigenetic repressor through histone methylation. Therefore, EZH2 has attracted
      significant interest as a potential epigenetic target for cancer treatment. It is
      hypothesized that the combination of EZH2 inhibitors and programmed death-1 ligands/
      transforming growth factor-β (PD-L1/TGFβ) blockade could enhance the efficiency of
      immunotherapy.

      The primary objective of this study in phase Ⅰstage is to assess the safety, feasibility of
      EZH2 inhibitor SHR2554 in combination with anti-PD-L1/TGFβ antibody SHR1701 in advanced
      pretreated solid tumors and b-cell lymphomas. The second objectives include characterizing
      the pharmacokinetics of SHR2554 in combination with SHR1701, evaluating the preliminary
      efficacy of SHR2554 plus SHR1701 and the epigenetic modulating effect of SHR2554 in its
      combination with anti-PD-L1/TGFβ antibody. The exploratory objectives are to evaluate the
      pathological, immunological or clinical predictive factors for efficacy and toxicity. Based
      on the data of safety, efficacy and recommended dose level obtained from phase Ⅰtrial, this
      study moves into phase Ⅱ stage, in which enrolled subjects are randomized to SHR2554 plus SHR
      1701 or SHR1701 monotherapy, to primarily evaluate the efficacy of SHR2554 plus SHR1701 and
      the epigenetic modulating effect of SHR2554. The second objectives include evaluating safety
      and other efficacy parameters, such as overall response rate (ORR), disease control rate
      (DCR), duration of response (DOR) and overall survival (OS). The exploratory objectives are
      to evaluate laboratory predicting biomarkers.
    
  