
    
      1. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

           Many people with mCNCP experience stress, fear and depression. These emotions, mental
           states and their associated behaviours often act as aggravating factors, amplifying the
           perception of pain (1-3). As a result, the same stimulus produces more suffering and
           begins a vicious circle. In this context, the acceptance and engagement therapy (ACT)
           and mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) can be very helpful in managing chronic
           pain. These practices allow the patients to focus on participating in valuable
           activities and finding personally relevant objectives, improving their coping in this
           situation.

           Based on systematic reviews the investigators can confirm that body-mind therapies,
           especially MBSR and pain neuroscience education show benefits in a different kind of
           noncancer chronic pain in the adult such as reducing the severity of pain and functional
           limitation, maintaining the positive effects in the long term. On the other hand,
           related to a growing interest in reducing the use of opioid medications, it is also
           important to determine if one of the results of psychological approaches is the decrease
           in drug use, and as a consequence, a decrease in health cost per patient. Although this
           is one of the benefits assumed, studies about the association between pain management or
           self-control interventions and dependence on painkillers are lacking. There are not
           enough data about the behavioral intervention effects on the use of pain medication but
           initially points to a reduction. Therefore, it is necessary to focus on the management
           of the mCNCP integrally, incorporating non-pharmacological therapies that provide the
           patients with skills to face the illness and, above all, empower themselves through
           information and training the self-care.

           Researchers propose this clinical trial to demonstrate the effectiveness of a
           psychoeducational intervention focused on emotional coping in the control of symptoms,
           QoL and consumption of analgesics and health resources in patients with mCNCP.

        2. RESEARCH QUESTION

           The early and integratively detection and approach of mCNCP are the main tools to
           decrease its prevalence and negative effects on both the patient life and the Health
           System. Scientific evidence supports body-mind therapies and patient education in pain
           neuroscience that enable a positive adaptive response that appears to improve
           functionality and QoL in people affected by mCNCP. That is why the research question
           directed by this investigation is: "Can a psychoeducational intervention focused on
           emotional coping reduce the pain perception and improve the QoL of adult patients with
           mCNCP treated in Public Primary Health Centre of the Aljarafe-North Seville Area?"

        3. OBJECTIVES:

           3.1. Main objective: Know the effectiveness in pain perception through VNRS and QoL
           through the EQ-5D scale of psychoeducational intervention focused on emotional coping
           strategies, in participants with mCNCP in the Public Health Centers of the
           Aljarafe-North Seville Area.

           3.2. Specific objectives:

             -  Identify the sociodemographic, clinical, psychological, and functional
                characteristics of mCNCP patients based on disease type and sex.

             -  Compare scores on pain perception and QoL between the workshop group and the
                control group before the intervention and throughout follow-up.

             -  Evaluate changes in analgesic pharmacological consumption in conventionally treated
                participants versus those who also receive psychoeducational intervention focused
                on emotional coping and self-control techniques.

             -  Analyse the frequentation of health services and the number of days of work
                disability caused by the intensification of pain in conventionally treated patients
                compared to those receiving the psychoeducational intervention.

             -  Assess the influence of global family functioning and emotional coping on the
                experience of pain through the Family Apgar Scale and the Reduced Chronic Pain
                Coping Questionnaire, respectively.

             -  Assess the impact of the intervention on sleep quality and co-existing sleep
                disorders.

             -  Detect predictors of the effectiveness of psychoeducational intervention focused on
                emotional coping and identify profiles of patients more sensitive to modify the
                pain perception or quality of life through psychoeducational intervention.

        4. SAMPLE SIZE

           Based on a previous pilot study and accepting an alpha risk of 0.05 and a beta risk of
           0.2 in a bilateral contrast, 72 subjects are required in the first group and 72 in the
           second to detect a difference equal to or greater than 0.07 on 1 on the EQ-5D scale
           between the two groups. The common standard desviation is assumed to be 0.16 and a
           correlation coefficient between the initial and final measurement of 0.61. A loss to
           follow-up rate of 10% has been estimated. (Total = 144).

        5. RECRUITMENT

           Participants will be recruited for clinical trials at Primary Care Centres of Public
           Health System of Spain through the identification in the Chronic Non-Cancer Pain patient
           registry (database).

        6. ASSIGNMENT OF INTERVENTION. SEQUENCE GENERATION Participants will be randomly assigned
           to a control or experimental group by permutations of two elements (the number of
           groups) taken four by four (the size of the block): AABB, ABAB, ABBA, BAAB, BABA and
           BBAA. Finally, the blocks are randomly ordered from one to six and the participants are
           successively assigned to the corresponding option, completing the blocks in the order
           established at random. In this way, with every four participants assigned the size of
           the two groups will be equalized.

        7. DATA MANAGEMENT

           In this clinical trial, all data will be entered electronically except for comments made
           by participants at the end of each workshop in the intervention group. Participant data
           will be stored in numerical order in a secure location accessible only to professionals
           who enter and analyze the data. Participant files will be kept for a period of 3 years
           after completion of the study.

        8. STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

           First, a descriptive analysis of all the variables will be carried out. Qualitative
           variables will be presented by absolute and relative frequencies and quantitative
           variables by the mean and standard deviation or median and interquartile range,
           depending on whether or not a normal distribution is followed.

           In the second stage, an intention-to-treat analysis will be developed. To perform the
           analysis between different variables or factors that could influence the results, the
           Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test will be used for qualitative variables and the
           Student's t-test and ANOVA or U of Mann Whitney and Kruskal Wallis for quantitative
           variables, depending on whether a normal distribution is followed. To explore the
           relationship between the dependent variables and the participants sociodemographic,
           psychosocial and clinical characteristics, the appropriate tests will be used in each
           situation (Student's T-test, ANOVA, Pearson's correlation coefficient) or the
           non-parametric alternatives if necessary (U of Correlation of Mann Whitney, Kruskal
           Wallis and Spearman). For the comparative analysis between the two intervention groups
           and in the repeated samples of each patient, contrast tests will be used for independent
           and related samples, respectively.

           To control the possible confounding effect of some variables and/or the possible
           interactions on the global score of EQ-5D and VNRS, multivariate regression models will
           be run, taking into account the linear or non-linear relationship of the possible
           predictors with the outcomes. The analyzes will also be carried out with relevant study
           strata such as the patient's profile, detected from the cluster analysis, according to
           variables associated with the characteristics of pain and its etiopathogenesis.

           The level of statistical significance will be set at p less than 0.05. The statistical
           analysis will be carried out with the SPSS package, version 19.0. and R Studio.

        9. COMMITTEES

           - Principal Investigators and Research Physician: Design of the protocol, registration
           and conduct of the trial. Preparation of investigators brochure and case report forms.
           Organization of meetings of the steering committee Publication of study reports.

           - Lead Investigators: In each participating Primary Health Center, the principal
           investigator (Doctor of Family Medicine) will be identified, which will be responsible
           for the identification, patient information and recruitment.

           - Data manager: Data entry, analysis and maintenance of the computer system used.

           - Patient Security Committee: Within the team, a healthcare professional and an expert
           patient will control the development of the clinical trial, ensuring that is safe for
           the volunteers and that the project materializes as designed. A quarterly report will be
           issued reflecting a degree of compliance from 0 to 5 where 0 is the total absence of
           protocol compliance and 5 is absolute compliance. This commission will also be the
           communication vehicle between the volunteers and the research team for the resolution of
           doubts or attention to suggestions.

           - Management Committee: (Principal Investigators, Monitor, Medical Investigator,
           Administrator) Study planning, randomization, organization of meetings, provide annual
           development report and ethics committee.

       10. DATA MONITORING

           10.1. Formal committee

           Although this trial focuses on a psychoeducational intervention, investigators will
           conduct quarterly reviews with the Patient Safety Committee and the Management Committee
           to assess patient feedback. If the information provided by the patients or the data
           analyzed at the time negatively affects the patients' clinic, the appropriate
           modifications are made or, in your case, the suspension.

           10.2. Intermediate analysis

           An interim analysis on the primary endpoint will be performed when 50% of participants
           have been randomized and completed the 6-month follow-up. An independent statistician,
           blinded for treatment allocation, will perform an interim analysis. The statistician
           will report to the Patient Safety Committee, which will decide on the continuation of
           the trial and will report to the central Ethics Committee.

           10.3. Auditing

           The clinical trial will have a monitor who will make visits to give support and solve
           problems. The monitor will:

             -  discuss the protocol in detail and identify and clarify any areas of weakness

             -  audit the quality and general integrity of the data

             -  interview researchers and coordinators

             -  confirm that the centre has complied with the protocol requirements

             -  verify that all adverse events were documented in the correct format and that they
                are consistent with the protocol definition

             -  Verify documentation: protocol and informed consent, the corresponding approvals,
                patient reports and documentation of dropouts and adverse events.

           The scheduling of follow-up visits will depend on patient enrollment, site status, and
           other commitments. Investigators must be available to meet with monitors.

       11. ETHICAL ASPECTS

           11.1 Approval of research ethics

           The study design and subsequent development follow the recommendations for biomedical
           research in humans reflected in the Declaration of Helsinki through the World Medical
           Association. The patient will be informed verbally and with the delivery of a written
           document of the characteristics of the study, objectives, benefits and possible derived
           damages. Participation is voluntary and the patient will perform this right, contained
           in the Principle of Patient Autonomy, by signing the informed consent. This protocol and
           the Informed Consent have been reviewed and approved with applicable regulations in
           research and human subjects by the corresponding Ethics Committee (Virgen del Rocío
           University Hospital, Seville, Spain) with the code 1589-N-19 after modifying a
           correction suggested minor (update of the date of the Official Data Protection Law).

           11.2 Consent or assent

           Family Medicine specialists at the Public Primary Health Center will present the trial
           to patients and provide a background document explaining the study. Patients, after
           receiving verbal and written information, will have the opportunity to discuss or
           consult the information provided. The family doctor will get the signed informed consent
           of the patients who accept to participate in the trial. Information documents and
           consent forms are provided for all participants. The information document will be kept
           by the patient and the informed consent with the names, surnames and ID will be kept in
           a file with a unique password for each participating doctor. Once a week two of the
           researchers will collect the paper documents and take them to the Research Unit of the
           Hospital San Juan de Dios del Aljarafe, where the data will be coded and randomized once
           the identity of the patient is known. These documents will be protected in a closed
           filing cabinet belonging to the Head of the Investigation Unit.

           As it is a psychoeducational intervention versus no intervention, the patient's
           knowledge of the group to which has been assigned could condition the responses in the
           evaluation. To minimize biases secondary to knowledge of the assigned therapy, two
           information sheets have been designed. One of them describes in a general way what the
           study will consist of. This will be delivered to all participants recruited by primary
           care physicians. The second, in which the workshop is described in more detail, will be
           given only to patients who have been randomly included in the intervention group. It
           will be delivered at the beginning of the first workshop, being able to resolve any
           doubt in this regard. At this point, the patient can drop out of the study if they
           disagree.

       12. CONFIDENTIALITY

      For the safe handling of patient information:

        1. The participants' medical record number will be coded and depersonalized, replacing the
           participant's identification information with an unrelated number.

        2. The data and the link code will be stored in a separate database using encrypted digital
           files within password-protected folders and storage media to which only the statistical
           professional of the study who only participates in the analysis of the data will have
           access. data. The Management Committee will have access to the data to carry out audits,
           without knowing the link code of each patient and therefore the identity.

        3. The confidentiality of the data will also be preserved when the data is transmitted over
           the Internet through the virtual private network of Hospital San Juan de Dios del
           Aljarafe.

      The treatment, communication and transfer of personal data of all participating subjects will
      comply with the provisions of "Organic Law 3/2018, of December 5, Protection of Personal Data
      and Guarantee of Digital Rights". Following the aforementioned legislation, the patient can
      exercise the rights of access, modification, opposition and cancellation of the data, for
      which they must contact the Patient Safety Committee. The data collected for the study will
      be identified by a code and only a professional can relate this data to the patient and the
      medical history. Personal data will be used exclusively for scientific or statistical
      research purposes and will not be communicated or transferred to third parties, nor will they
      be subject to automated decisions or international transfers. Personal data, once they are no
      longer necessary, will be kept under the legally established deadlines, after which they will
      be deleted. Therefore, the identity of the patient will not be revealed to anyone, except for
      exceptions such as a medical emergency or a legal requirement. The processing of personal
      data will comply with the requirements described in the RGPD (General Data Protection
      Regulation).

      If at any time the patient considers that the use of the data does not correspond to that
      described above, he or she may exercise the affected rights, in the terms provided by the
      regulations, as well as file a claim with the Control Authority Data Protection Agency ). In
      this sense, patients can go to Avenida. San Juan de Dios, s / n, CP 41930 Bormujos, Sevilla
      or contact our Data Protection Delegate through the email C15_DPO@sjd.es.

      In compliance with article 12 of Law 14/2007 of July 3 on Biomedical Research, which
      establishes as principles and guarantees in this field of action the requirement of a
      favourable report issued by the Research Ethics Committee before the development of any
      project of research on human beings, this project and all the related material that was
      provided to the subject have been sent to the CEIC of the University Hospital Virgen del
      Rocío for evaluation and after the indicated corrections, the favourable opinion dated
      23/10/2019 and the Internal Code of the project 1589-N-19 have been given.

      As it is a non-pharmacological clinical trial, with a low level of intervention and no
      commercial purpose, according to sections 2 and 4 of article 9 of Royal Decree 1090/2015 on
      the regulations on methodology and regulation of clinical trials in Spain, contracting
      insurance would not be mandatory.

      13. DECLARATION OF INTERESTS

      The authors have no conflicts of interest to declare
    
  