
    
      The initial study design with discussions about the different variables to be included into
      the investigators' prospective database started during 2014 PancreasFest held in Pittsburgh,
      PA in late July 2014 under the sponsorship of Collaborative Alliance for Pancreatic Education
      and Research (CAPER). Following this, a datasheet with variables was created, distributed
      through the initial participants, and further suggestions and edits were made. The
      investigators now plan to move ahead with a web based seminar. All previous participants, as
      well as new investigators/centers that have shown interest in participating throughout the
      world will be invited. The webinar will be chaired by Dr. Papachristou at the University of
      Pittsburgh and again sponsored by CAPER. The investigators plan to discuss previous
      experience with collaborative, multi-continent, clinical studies in pancreas research,
      details of IRB submission, access and technical aspects of REDCap, and review the current
      datasheet for any further edits needed.

      Following this, each investigator will initiate the process of applying for approval to the
      Institutional Review Board of his/her center. University of Pittsburgh will share their
      accepted, ongoing PROOF protocol as a reference. Investigators/centers with active protocol
      approval will start enrolling patients. The investigators plan to have a Webinar every 3-4
      months and/or schedule a working group meeting at DDW in May 2015 and/or EPC in June 2015
      pending on attendance of these meetings by the investigators. Finally, the investigators will
      present all the above steps and the progress made by our working group in 2015 PancreasFest
      in Pittsburgh, PA.

      The initial aim of this study is to develop a core of highly motivated investigators
      throughout the world and enroll large number of subjects into an Internet-based database. The
      study team plans to monitor data recording closely and prepare our first manuscript when we
      reach a critical number of patients. The future goal is to maintain this collaborative core
      and expand into designing randomized controlled trials addressing critical questions in the
      management of acute pancreatitis as well as applying for funding.
    
  