
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) has significant heterogeneity in terms of signs-symptoms, clinical
      course and outcomes (Compston, 2014). The incidence of the disease increases after the age of
      18 and reaches the highest level between the ages of 20-40 (average age 30). It is thought
      that MS affects approximately 2.1 million people worldwide with approximately 175,000 newly
      diagnosed cases each year and is among the most common causes of neurological disability in
      young adults (World Health Organization Press, 2008).

      MS signs and symptoms can be classified as primary, secondary and tertiary. Primary signs and
      symptoms are vision problems (optic neuritis), sensory influences, spasticity, tremor,
      weakness, cognitive problems and decreased motor functions. Secondary ones occur as a result
      of primary signs and symptoms. Examples include decubitus ulcers, osteoporosis and muscle
      atrophy that may develop due to immobility, as well as low physical activity levels. The
      tertiary ones are related to psychological, social, occupational, personal and sexual
      problems that occur as a result of long-term chronic disease (Stys, 2012).

      These findings and symptoms cause a decrease in the level of physical activity in patients.
      When physical activity conditions for MS are examined, there is reliable evidence that these
      patients have low levels of physical activity and spend more time in immobile postures.
      According to the studies, MS patients who participated in high levels of physical activity
      and spent time in mobile postures were found to have better mental health, better social
      functionality, less fatigue and lower early mortality rates compared to inactive ones. It is
      thought that the level of physical activity in MS may also be associated with improvements in
      health-related quality of life and stability of disease symptoms (Mothl, 2008; Motl et al.,
      2015).

      75% of patients with MS report balance problems in the course of the disease. Impairment of
      proprioception and vibration senses and the influence of optic and vestibular tracts
      adversely affect balance in MS (Cattaneo et al., 2006). Impaired balance, worsening of the
      quality of life and the fear of falling can affect the patient. As a result, mobility and
      independence decrease and fall increase (Cameron et al., 2010). The main cause of injuries
      and fractures in MS groups is falls (Mothl et al., 2015).

      Balance and fall problems in neurological diseases create kinesiophobia, which is defined as
      fear that leads to avoidance of activity in the patient, which leads to a decrease in
      functional capacity, release of movement in wrong patterns, and consequently a decrease in
      physical activity level. There is a strong correlation between the levels of kinesiophobia
      and physical activity in different patient groups (Wouters et al., 2011).

      Kinesiophobia has been described as a fear of excessive, unrealistic re-injury that can be
      gained after painful injury, reducing physical movement and activity. Patients with
      kinesiophobia think that movement will cause injury again and cause additional pain. This
      situation leads to a decrease in physical fitness, avoidance of activity, functional
      disability and depression in the long term (Vlaeyen et al., 2016). Although studies on falls,
      balance and physical activity have been conducted in patients with MS, no study has been
      conducted to investigate the relationship between these parameters and kinesiophobia. From
      this point of view, the relationship between kinesiophobia and these variables in MS patients
      will be examined.
    
  