
    
      Objectives:

      The overall goal of this protocol is to better understand the etiology of XLRS disease to
      facilitate further research to identify a potential treatment for the disease. The specific
      primary objectives of this study are to:

        1. Investigate the relationship between genotype and phenotype in X-Linked Retinoschisis by
           correlating four phenotype severity classes with two classes of genotypes (refer to
           Section 7. for definitions). This is the first step in developing a comprehensive
           genotype-phenotype correlation.

        2. Characterize the anatomical and functional characteristics of retinoschisis to refine
           the phenotype scale and investigate and characterize specific XLRS1 mutations to
           generate a well-documented genotype-phenotype correlation map.

      With the opportunity to study the genotypes and phenotypes of many affected males and the
      genotype of family members, a secondary objective of this study will be to develop a detailed
      pedigree for affected families. This information may be used to develop preliminary risk
      estimates for potential carrier females.

      Study Population:

      Up to 500 participants may enroll in this study. A minimum of 150 of participants are
      expected to be males diagnosed with X-Linked Retinoschisis. Participants may be recruited
      from the NIH and also from participating off-site locations. The quality of the genetic
      observation is directly proportional to the number of affected individuals and
      genetically-different families enrolled.

      Design:

      This natural history, multi-center, registry study to enroll males diagnosed with X-Linked
      Retinoschisis and the family members of affected individuals. Onsite affected males will
      undergo clinical examination and have their blood drawn for genotyping. Onsite unaffected
      participants will undergo eye examinations. Blood may also be drawn from the onsite
      unaffected participants but this is not required. Sites outside of NIH are participating as
      referral centers to accumulate the cohort. Offsite affected male participants will forward a
      blood sample and records from previous eye examinations to the NEI for review and analysis.
      Offsite unaffected participants will forward records from previous eye examinations and may
      provide a blood sample although this is not required.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome is the categorization of the proband s genotype and phenotype and
      determination of the relationship between the two.
    
  