
    
      Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is the treatment of choice for patients suffering from severe
      pain and functional limitation caused by osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee joint's surfaces
      (Magee et al. 2009). Within the UK, over 60,000 TKA surgeries are registered yearly (NJR
      2015), making TKA one of the most common surgeries of the joint. Rehabilitation following
      surgery is essential for recovery and with TKA this is crucial in regaining movement,
      function and control. Current rehabilitation mainly focuses on post-surgery rehabilitation to
      increase range of motion (ROM) and muscle power, and to aid in achieving a quick return to
      functional independence for patients. Despite this, research has shown that patients
      undergoing TKA, still continue to experience reduced capacities in neuromuscular responses
      which are required for quick knee joint reactions, stability and proprioception, up to months
      following TKA surgery (Silva et al. 2003). A deficit in an individual's knee joint
      proprioception (synonymously referred to as a deficit in sensorimotor performance), together
      with impaired strength, can lead to reduced functional balance capabilities and movement
      control (Piva et al. 2010; Rätsepsoo et al. 2011), and can also contribute to injury (Lephart
      et al. 1997) and a greater risk of falls (Swinkels et al. 2009; Bade et al. 2010; Rätsepsoo
      et al. 2011). In part, the latter may be due to time-constraints within the health-care
      system, where a necessary preservation of the primary focus, to decrease pain and improve
      general function in patients following a TKA, has sometimes been to the detriment of other
      aspects of rehabilitation.

      Pre-surgery exercise-conditioning:

      Studies have investigated the effects of pre-surgery exercise' (also known as
      pre-habilitation exercise) interventions on strength and sensorimotor performance deficits in
      patients undergoing TKA, through various modes of exercise. Their aim has been to utilise a
      period of time pre-surgery to improve patients' rehabilitation status (Huber et al. 2015;
      Topp et al. 2009; Desmueles et al. 2013; Mackay et al. 2012). However, the patterns of
      patients' adaptations to the generic exercise stimuli used within these studies, has not
      shown the gains that had been expected by physiological dose-response, and ultimately
      questioned the efficacy of using pre-habilitation for effective gains in long-term outcomes.
      Nevertheless, the concept of achieving early gains to conditioning status that might
      potentiate patients' later rehabilitation processes and status, remains attractive to the
      latter (Calatayud et al. 2016, Huber et al. 2015) and the NHS (Rooks et al. 2006; Crowe and
      Henderson, 2003).

      Conditioning for enhanced sensorimotor performance has been consistently endorsed in the
      sports-medical and sports-performance (Hubscher et al. 2010; Mandelbaum et al. 2005) and
      clinical literature (Tsao et al. 2007; Granacher et al. 2006) for its causal relationship to
      reduced injury likelihood and capability to improve function. While the precise dose of
      stimuli to achieve gains in sensorimotor performance is less clearly defined, enhancing motor
      performance by means of exercise that resist the effects of gravity or externally-applied
      loading to a joint system, has established underpinnings physiologically by improving motor
      performance and indirectly effecting sensorimotor responses (Vikne et al. 2006; Hakan et al.
      2002; Moran et al. 2007). Clinically, the challenge has been to formulate a suitably
      pragmatic programme of conditioning that will accommodate the time- and cost-pressures
      associated with contemporary care practice while simultaneously offering efficacy when
      delivered prior to surgery as a pre-habilitative intervention. Rehabilitative and
      prophylactic conditioning programmes used in current studies for enhanced neuromuscular and
      sensorimotor performance, have typically required and been delivered in a duration of
      6-8-weeks (Calatayud et al. 2016; Huber et al. 2015; Topp et al. 2009; Desmueles et al. 2013;
      Mackay et al. 2012). This has commanded a substantive logistical burden to elicit expected
      gains.

      A novel approach to conditioning - Development of the P-SEC protocol:

      A novel formulation of conditioning that could condense the pattern of delivery of
      physiologically-effective, dose-related stimuli, while simultaneously maintaining the vast
      proportion of potential gains in performance, would offer advantages to patients and
      clinicians for logistical versatility with which a package of conditioning might be
      delivered. This would be especially important within the relatively short period of time
      between the patients electing for surgery after clinical consultation and a surgical
      procedure, if pre-habilitation were to be incorporated effectively within care pathways.
      Recent studies have shown that with careful periodization and micro-cyclical management of
      the mode of exercise-conditioning, patterning of exercise intensity and work/recovery ratios,
      and progression of increasing physiological stimuli for adaptation, it is possible to deliver
      gains in neuromuscular performance within a programme lasting 2-3-weeks, which match 70% of
      the effects expected during longer programmes (Peer and Gleeson, in press; Peer et al. under
      review). Additional adaptations to this intervention model would be needed to counteract
      arthrogenic and autogenic sources of inhibition associated with long-term disease conditions
      such as OA (Rice et al. 2010), limiting neuromuscular performance and conditioning gains by
      the intrusion of nociceptive stimuli such as an increase in intra-articular joint pressure
      (Palmieri-Smith et al. 2007). The cost-neutrality of the embedding pre-habilitative
      conditioning for improved motor performance might be feasible if a portion of the end-phase
      rehabilitation following a surgical procedure, which has been shown recently to offer limited
      gains in performance within the formal care pathway (Bailey et al. 2014), could be sacrificed
      in favour of an equivalent time- period of conditioning prior to surgery.

      Therefore, the purpose of the P-SEC study is to undertake a randomized controlled feasibility
      trial in order to investigate the effects of this new formulation of exercise-conditioning
      for motor performance on objectively-measured and patient-perceived sensorimotor, functional
      and psychophysiological performance capacities in patients waiting for a TKA.
    
  