
    
      Background: Treatment of moderate to severe Psoriasis (Pso) and Psoriasis-Arthritis (PsA) is
      largely confined to systemic therapy in Germany. Systemic therapy includes conventional
      systemic therapy (e.g. fumaric acids, methotrexate, ciclosporin A) and biological treatment
      (e.g. adalimumab, etanercept). While short- and middle-term efficacy of most systemic
      treatments has been shown in clinical studies (and is incorporated in international
      guidelines), knowledge about long-term outcomes, optimal treatment and effectiveness under
      real-world conditions is still missing. PsoBest, the German registry on the treatment of
      moderate to severe Pso and PsA started in 2008 and documents the long-term course of patients
      being administered any biologic or conventional systemic antipsoriatic drug authorized in
      Germany for the first time.

      Objectives: Observation and analysis of the following outcomes of treatment with systemic
      antipsoriatics:

        1. Effectiveness in clinical practice ("real world")

        2. Benefits and needs on the patients' side

        3. Effectiveness in a long-term course over years

        4. Optimal maintenance dosages

        5. Safety and side-effects profile under routine conditions

        6. Use in case of and effect on co-morbidity

        7. Reliable predictors of response

        8. Benefit and effectiveness of possible combination therapies or alternating use of
           biologics and systemic therapies

      Methods: The registry evaluates the long-term course of 3,500 patients with Pso and PsA
      treated with systemic antipsoriatics.The registry started for seven treatment arms: Fumaric
      acid, methotrexate, ciclosporin A, efalizumab, etanercept, infliximab and adalimumab. While
      efalizumab was withdrawn from the market, ustekinumab was included after authorization.
      Patients are included at first initiation of a given treatment and will remain in the
      registry for 5 years, regardless of subsequent therapy. Nationwide, dermatologic practices
      and hospital ambulances with expertise in systemic and biologic treatment consecutively enrol
      patients. Follow-ups will be every 3 to 6 months, comprising patient and treatment
      characteristics, clinical parameters, patient-defined benefit, quality of life and adverse
      events. Standardized questionnaires will be addressed to the patient and to the dermatologist
      12 times at the dermatologic centres. In interim intervals, patients are directly contacted
      another 9 times by mail. PsoBest is member of the ENCePP network of psoriasis-registries
      (www.psonet.eu).
    
  