
    
      DESIGN: Longitudinal quasi-experimental educational intervention study with a quantitative
      evaluation.

      PILOT STUDY (June - July of 2018): Prior to the implementation of the program in the whole
      sample, an evaluation pilot study will be carried out with a minimum of 20 adolescents (10
      boys and 10 girls) who are finishing the same grade as those who will later receive the
      intervention in August-September 2018. This pilot study focuses on:

        -  Determining the competencies and capacities of the participants to carry out the on-line
           questionnaire.

        -  Calculating the time it takes the students to complete the questionnaire

        -  Carrying out an internal validation of the questionnaire (that is, are there different
           responses to similar questions?) among the study population by calculating internal
           consistency and validity indices.

      The obtained results will be shared among the members of the consortium in order to evaluate
      possible adaptations considered necessary.

      PARTICIPANTS: Two groups of students will be assigned either an intervention or control
      condition, respectively. The intervention group will be composed of boys and girls aged 13
      years or more, studying in secondary schools in the city. The control group will be made up
      of students from other centers with similar socioeconomic characteristics (relating to social
      characteristics and school location) to the centers. The evaluation survey will be given to a
      total of 300 students per country, 120 to 150 from the intervention group and 150 from the
      control group.

      The schools selection will be carried out by contacting different secondary education centers
      from the city as considered appropriate by the members of the research team (non-random
      sample). The program contents will be presented and the possibility to participate will be
      offered. The intervention group will be selected from among the students whose centers accept
      participation in the study. The control group will be made up of students from secondary
      education centers with social characteristics similar to the centers that will be implement
      the intervention. The students from the control and the intervention groups will have the
      same composition in terms of age, sex and academic course. It is recommended that the control
      and intervention groups belong to different educational centers in order to avoid
      contamination. It should be mentioned that this is a wait-list control study, that is, those
      centers that participate in the project as a part of the control group should be offered the
      possibility of participating in teacher training, access to guides and manuals generated by
      the project as well as carrying out the intervention in the future (i.e., when the
      intervention is finished in the intervention group) with Lights4Violence researchers' support
      if the participants consider it necessary and the research team have the capacity to do it.
    
  