
    
      Background

      Surgical bypass creates an artificial anastomosis between a diseased coronary artery and an
      extracardiac vessel. Often one of the internal mammary arteries (IMA) is used for this
      procedure. These connections have been very rarely described to occur naturally, representing
      extracardiac coronary collaterals.

      In contrast to the extensively studied coronary collateral circulation within the heart,
      clinical attention has been paid only anecdotally to extracardiac-to-coronary anastomoses.
      Usually this has been in the form of case reports giving account of angiographically visible
      anastomoses between the coronary circulation and the internal mammary artery (IMA), typically
      in the presence of a chronic occlusion of a coronary artery. In the anatomical literature,the
      most common types of extracardiac anastomoses include bronchial-to-coronary-artery and
      IMA-to-coronary-artery connections. Anastomoses between the IMA and the coronary circulation
      have been documented to occur in 12% of post-mortem patients with CAD.

      Importantly, hitherto existing observations typically have relied on visual methods
      insensitive for the adequate detection especially of structurally present but poorly
      functional anastomoses. On a diagnostic coronary angiogram, collaterals are visible only if
      the recipient vessel is subtotally stenotic or fully occluded, or can be rendered visible
      during coronary spasm or by temporary balloon occlusion of the recipient artery and
      simultaneous injection of contrast medium into the other arteries, respectively. Similarly,
      the macroscopic pathologic postmortem examination is likely to underestimate the true number
      of extracardiac coronary collaterals.

      When present, pre-existing connections between the IMA and the coronary circulation could be
      promoted to serve as natural bypasses to diseased coronary arteries. Promotion of
      extracardiac blood flow to the coronary circulation has very rarely already been attempted in
      the past. In a minimally invasive intervention, bilateral surgical ligation of both IMA was
      performed in a few patients, resulting in clinical improvement and disappearance of angina.
      However, with the advent of coronary surgery, efforts aimed at promotion of naturally
      existing bypasses have been abandoned for the placing of artificially created extracardiac
      anastomoses to the coronary circulation.

      Yet with the limitations of these established revascularization interventions becoming clear,
      the need to search for alternative treatment options gets evident. Therapeutic arteriogenesis
      with promotion of naturally existing bypasses between the coronary circulation and the
      internal mammary arteries presents a future possibility.

      Objective

      The purpose of this study is to determine the in vivo prevalence and functional distribution
      of IMA-to-coronary collateral supply via both the right and the left coronary artery.

      Methods

      Comparative observational study with CFI measurements in the IMAs (proximal IMA occlusion)
      and in the coronary circulation (distal IMA occlusion), and IMA angiography during distal IMA
      occlusion.

      Study Protocol

        -  Diagnostic coronary angiography and LV angiography

        -  Administration of 5'000 units of heparin i.v. and 2 puffs of oral isosorbide-dinitrate

        -  Right and left IMA CFI during a 1-minute ostial vessel occlusion

        -  Selection of the coronary artery for CFI according to stenotic lesion chosen for PCI or
           according to ease of access by the pressure sensor wire. Placement of a non-sensor wire
           in the left IMA. Two coronary CFI measurements (1-minute occlusion): the first with, the
           second without distal IMA balloon occlusion. Placement of a non-sensor wire in the right
           IMA. Two coronary CFI measurements: the first with, the second without distal IMA
           balloon occlusion.

        -  IMA angiography (left and right) during distal IMA and coronary occlusion.
    
  