
    
      Individuals with body dysmorphic disorder (BDD) misperceive specific aspects of one's own
      appearance to be conspicuously flawed or defective, despite these being unnoticeable or
      appearing minuscule to others. With convictions of disfigurement and ugliness, individuals
      with BDD typically have poor insight or delusional beliefs, obsessive thoughts and compulsive
      behaviors, anxiety, and depression. These result in significant difficulties in functioning,
      depression, suicide attempts (25%), and psychiatric hospitalization (50%). Despite this,
      relatively few studies of the neurobiology, and few treatment studies, have been conducted.
      This underscores a critical need for research to identify novel targets for intervention
      based on a comprehensive understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms.
      Neuropsychological, behavioral, and neurobiological research by investigators have uncovered
      mechanisms that may contribute to perceptual distortions, including prominent abnormalities
      in visual processing systems. These have contributed to a model of diminished global/holistic
      processing and enhanced local/detailed processing, attributed to "bottom-up" and "top-down"
      disturbances in perception. Using psychophysical experiments and novel visual modulation
      techniques, investigators have probed the brain's visual systems responsible for global and
      local processing and found early evidence that they may be modifiable in BDD. These
      techniques include a "top-down" attentional modulation and a "bottom-up" perceptual
      modulation strategy. Abnormal eye gaze and emotional arousal when viewing faces may further
      contribute to abnormal perception. Whether these brain and behavior abnormalities are
      directly linked to abnormal perception remains to be understood. Accordingly, this study will
      determine a) if abnormalities in neural activation and connectivity in BDD when viewing one's
      own appearance are directly associated with abnormalities in perceptual functioning; and b)
      if changes in neural activation and connectivity from these visual modulation strategies are
      linked to changes in perceptual functioning, thus representing potential biomarkers.
      Investigators will also determine how attentional systems, eye gaze behaviors and emotional
      arousal interact with brain functioning in visual systems, and with global and local
      perceptual functioning. Investigators will enroll participants with BDD, with subclinical
      BDD, and healthy controls who will undergo functional magnetic resonance imaging while
      viewing photographs of own, and others' faces. Investigators will obtain measures of global
      and local visual processing, emotional arousal while participants view own face, and eye gaze
      behaviors using eye tracking. To understand the malleability of global/local perception, and
      the neural mechanisms of these changes, investigators will determine whether repeated visual
      modulation using top-down and bottom-up strategies results in alterations of perceptual
      functioning and brain activity/connectivity, and relationships between them. Results will
      provide a comprehensive mechanistic model of abnormal visual information processing
      underlying the core symptom domain of misperceptions of appearance. This will lay the
      groundwork for next-step translational approaches.
    
  