
    
      This trial will be conducted at My Duc Hospital, Ho Chi Minh City, Viet Nam. Women who are
      potentially eligible will be provided information about the trial as long as their
      stimulation cycles are initiated. Screening for eligibility will be performed by treating
      physicians on day 2 of the menstrual cycle in the subsequent frozen embryo transfer cycles.
      Patients will be provided a copy of the informed consent documents. Written informed consent
      is going to be obtained by the investigator from all women before the enrolment. Women will
      be randomized (1:1:1) to AC (artificial cycle) or NC (natural cycle) or mNC (modified natural
      cycle) protocols using block randomization by an independent study coordinator via telephone,
      using a computer-generated random list (block size of 6, or 9).

      Artificial protocol The endometrium is prepared using oral estradiol valerate (Valiera®;
      Laboratories Recalcine) 8 mg/day, ranging from the second or fourth menstruation day. The
      endometrial thickness will be monitored from day six onwards, and vaginal progesterone
      (Utrogestan®; Besins) 800 mg/day will be initiated when endometrial thickness reaches ≥7 mm.
      Estradiol exposure must be lasting for ≥9 days before progesterone administration. Embryo
      transfer will be scheduled by the time of the initiation of progesterone and embryo stages.

      Natural protocol The first ultrasound scan will be performed on the second to the fourth day
      of the menstrual cycle to identify any problem related to patients' uterus or adnexa. The
      second ultrasound will be performed on the sixth day of the cycle; if there is at least one
      follicle with a diameter of ≥12 mm, an ultrasound scan will be performed daily. Daily
      ultrasound and serum estradiol and LH level evaluation will be performed when the mean
      diameter of the dominant follicle of ≥14 mm. LH surge initiation is defined as the serum LH
      level >20 mIU/ml detected by the ECLIA method (Roche Cobas® E 801, Roche Diagnostics,
      Germany). Embryo transfer will be scheduled by the time of the initiation of LH and embryo
      stages.

      modified Natural protocol The first ultrasound scan will be performed on the second to the
      fourth day of the menstrual cycle to identify any problem related to patients' uterus or
      adnexa. A second ultrasound scan will be performed on the sixth day of the cycle; if there is
      at least one follicle with a diameter of ≥12 mm, an ultrasound scan will be performed daily.
      When the dominant follicle's mean diameter is ≥16 mm, human chorionic gonadotropin - hCG
      (Ovitrelle® 250 μg; Merck, Kenilworth, NJ, USA) will be injected to trigger ovulation. Embryo
      transfer will be scheduled by the time of the hCG injection and embryo stages.

      A series of progesterone levels evaluation will be performed at three times: (1) The start of
      the cycle, (2) Before the time the embryo transfer is scheduled, (3) On the day of embryo
      transfer.

      The blood sample at the start of the cycle will be stored for further epigenetics analysis.

      Future babies' health will also be performed separately.
    
  