
    
      Rectal cancer is the second most common cancer in North America. Therapy has rapidly improved
      over the last 20 years, and the surgical technique of total mesorectal excision, as well as
      advances in radiation and chemotherapy, have resulted in improved survival and decreased
      local recurrence. As a result, survivorship issues become increasingly important for patients
      with rectal cancer.

      Patients uniformly demonstrate a strong desire to avoid a permanent stoma and show strong
      preferences for sphincter preserving surgery (SPS). With the introduction of the circular
      stapler, SPS is technically possible in a higher proportion of patients. Additionally, even
      tumors at the anorectal ring are considered amenable to SPS in select patients with ultra-low
      rectal cancers.

      At present, long-term outcomes after rectal cancer surgery are poorly understood. Bowel,
      bladder and sexual function appear to be negatively affected by multi-modality therapy.
      However, function has been poorly studied, and it is difficult to translate the data into
      clinically meaningful information for patients. Clinically, bowel, bladder and sexual
      dysfunction seem to affect quality of life (QOL), although this has never been well studied.
      It is important to quantify the extent of impairment so that it can be used to educate
      patients preoperatively. However, translating these data to clinicians and patients remains
      challenging, and efforts to convey the data in a meaningful manner preoperatively constitute
      an important element in managing patient expectations. By understanding patients' baseline
      needs, expectations and satisfaction at the time of the preoperative consent, we can begin to
      develop novel preoperative strategies for educating patients about postoperative function and
      quality of life in a meaningful manner, so that they may better adapt after surgery. We
      ultimately plan to use data from this study to develop and subsequently evaluate the role of
      an educational tool outlining functional outcomes after rectal cancer surgery.
    
  