
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the overall survival (OS) rate at 2 years post treatment using the Jefferson 2
      step reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) approach in patients with haploidentical family
      donors with hematological malignancies in morphological or radiographic remission or with
      chemosensitive, indolent diseases to historical OS rates in similar populations after RIC
      matched donor HSCT as reported in the literature.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the treatment-related mortality (TRM) rate at 2 years for patients treated on
      this study to the historical TRM rates of patients undergoing RIC matched-sibling HSCT as
      reported in the literature.

      II. To compare the 2 year relapse rates and relapse related mortality of patients with
      myeloid diseases to that of patients with lymphoid diseases who are treated on this Thomas
      Jefferson University (TJU) RIC 2 step approach.

      III. To determine the incidence and severity of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in patients
      undergoing treated on the TJU RIC 2 step approach.

      IV. To evaluate engraftment rates and lymphoid reconstitution in patients treated on the TJU
      RIC 2 step approach.

      V. To evaluate the incidence of TRM at 100 days in patients treated on the TJU RIC 2 step
      approach.

      OUTLINE:

      REDUCED INTENSITY CONDITIONING: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV)
      over 60 minutes on days -11 to -8 and bulsufan IV over 3 hours on days -10 to -9. Patients
      undergo total body irradiation (TBI) on day -6. Patients also receive cyclophosphamide IV
      over 2 hours on days -3 and -2.

      TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) on day -6 and cluster of
      differentiation (CD)-34+ allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT) on day
      0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Beginning on day -1, patients receive tacrolimus IV or orally (PO) with
      taper beginning on day 42. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil IV twice daily (BID)
      on days -1 to 28.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 2 years.
    
  