
    
      While being screened to determine eligibility for this study you may choose to participate in
      an additional blood sample for circulating DNA and a genomic DNA sample.

      Since we are looking for the highest dose of Radiation Therapy that can be administered
      safely without severe or unmanageable side effects in participants that have retroperitoneal
      sarcomas, not everyone who participates in this research study will receive the same dose of
      study therapy. The dose you get will depend on the number of participants who have been
      enrolled in the study before you and how well they have tolerated their doses. Your study
      doctor will tell you which dose you will get.

      Radiation planning is standard of care for all patients undergoing radiation therapy. Before
      you begin radiation therapy you will have a radiation planning CT scan of the tumor site.
      This scan will be in addition to the scans done in order to confirm your eligibility for this
      study. Doctors will use teh images from this scan to plan your radiation treatment.

      You will receive radiation therapy every day Monday through Friday for about six weeks. You
      will receive study therapy as an outpatient. During radiation therapy, you will be seen by
      the study doctor once a week. Each visit will take about 15 minutes, and the following
      assessments will be completed: medical history, vital signs, body weight and assessments for
      any side effects you may be experiencing.

      After the final dose of radiation therapy you will be assessed for side effects of radiation
      following your last dose and before surgery. The following assessments will be completed
      before your surgery at this visit: Chest CT, CT/MRI of the abdomen/pelvis and routine blood
      tests to check for overall health.

      You will be seen for a follow-up visit within one month of discharge following surgery and
      again four months after the surgery. At the first follow-up visit, the following assessment
      will be completed: medical history, vital signs and body weight, questions about side effects
      and routine blood tests to check for overall health. At the four month follow up visit the
      following assessment will be completed: medical history, vital signs and body weight, chest
      CT and abdominal/pelvic CT.

      After your four month follow-up visit, you will be seen twice yearly following radiation for
      the first five years and then once a year for the rest of your life.
    
  