
    
      This study will identify personal, parental, peer, and community factors that predispose
      children ages 6 to 12 to early initiation of sexual behavior or that foster resilience to
      sexual risk taking. The study will then evaluate an intervention designed to enhance
      resilience factors and reduce risk factors among 6- to 12-year-old children. The study will
      focus on the mother's role in promoting resilience to sexual risk taking.

      During the first phase of the study, 300 children and their mothers will be asked to complete
      a one-time interview that includes an assessment of risk and resilience factors. Information
      from the interviews will be used to modify an intervention currently being used in another
      study of parent-adolescent pairs. The modified intervention will then be tested to determine
      the efficacy of the intervention in reducing risk and enhancing resilience among children in
      this age group.

      In the second phase of the study, 296 children and their mothers will be randomized to either
      the intervention or control group. All mothers will complete a baseline interview. Mothers in
      the intervention group will attend 10 group sessions that include short presentations,
      discussions, media presentations (videotapes), and interactive exercises, including
      self-assessments, role plays, and games. The group sessions include content and skill
      development related to parenting, communication, sexuality, peer pressure, and school
      involvement. Mothers in the control group receive written information on diet and physical
      activity. The written materials are presented in a self-help format to increase physical
      activity; a cookbook contains low fat recipes designed especially for African American men
      and women living in the Atlanta, GA, area.

      All participants complete follow-up interviews at 6 and 12 months after the baseline
      interview. Primary outcomes for mothers include measures of resilience and communication
      related to sexual issues. For children, outcomes include measures related to possible sexual
      situations.
    
  