
    
      BACKGROUND

      Borderline personality disorder

      It is estimated that 1-5% of the Scandinavian population meets the criteria for borderline
      personality disorder (BPD). General consensus regarding estimates for the western world
      population, is that around 1,5% of the population meets criteria for BPD. Lifetime prevalence
      will be estimated as 3 times as high (about 5%). The percentage for clinical populations is
      considerably higher and is estimated to be around 28% (range 9.3 to 46.3 % of patients in
      different current studies) of all psychiatric patients meeting this diagnosis. BDP is
      characterized by an instability across a number of domains: Mood, interpersonal
      relationships, self-image, impulse- and behavioral control. Generally, these BDP
      manifestations are attributed to a lack of ability to emotionally regulate. Patients with BDP
      have a four times increased risk of premature death compared to the general population,
      emphasizing the need for appropriate treatment.

      Treatment of borderline personality disorder

      Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT) has shown good clinical efficacy and is regarded as one of
      the most well researched evidence-based treatments for BPD. The DBT treatment centers around
      the learning of a predefined set of behavioral skills, targeting lack of emotional, mental
      and behavioral self-control. These skills are trained in group and individual therapy.

      In standard clinical practice, evaluation of a patient's progress in learning skills is left
      to the clinician's subjective memory and evaluation of weekly data.

      Self-monitoring of skill use and accompanying changes in suicidality, self-harm, and
      emotional reactivity have traditionally been done by means of paper diaries. Technological
      advances in self-monitoring might reduce the burden on the patient, increase data quality and
      generate new opportunities for registration (8). Recent studies on pain management have
      suggested that mhealth solutions significantly increase compliance. Studies using electronic
      diaries in the treatment of bipolar disorders, in pain- and weight management, and in
      patients treated with chemo-therapy have also shown promising results. DBT skills have been
      shown to mediate improvements in BPD defining behaviors.

      However, no randomized studies to date have examined if a mobile phone-/mhealth solution
      could speed up the time it takes for patients to assimilate the DBT-skills, while at the same
      time serving the function of filling out diary cards for the treatment of BDP.

      Regarding the time series part of the study, a single pilot study of ecological momentary
      assessment (EMA) has demonstrated significant differences in fluctuations of positive and
      negative affect on a daily basis when comparing major depressive disorder to BPD. Hence, this
      lends promise that a purpose-designed mobile phone application aimed at collecting DBT-diary
      data will produce time-efficient and valid data of higher quality than traditional
      paper-registrations. This will also at the same time generate objective outcome data, thus
      collecting multimodal data. Both self report and passive sensor data. The exact same sensor
      data have been shown to have value in predicting manic episodes in bipolar patients.

      When starting an mhealth-supported session, it is possible to view the EMA data (for content,
      see Table 1), self-rated daily assessments, monthly questionnaires together with the
      therapist. The mDiary system will automatically generate chosen relevant questionnaires at a
      selected ratio, making the research data-collection much easier. The patient and the
      therapist can also get access to phone sensor data, such as activity level, phone use,
      internet use and minutes of communication on phone as well.

      The increased overview provided by diarycard-, sensor- and questionnaire data can also be
      useful when evaluating and discussing patient cases at staff meetings or during therapist
      supervision.
    
  