
    
      This is a Phase 1, two-part, single dose, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled
      parallel study to evaluate the efficacy, safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of
      subcutaneous TRV250 following glyceryl trinitrate infusion-evoked migraine type headache.

      Approximately 360 patients (120 in Part A and 240 in Part B) are planned to complete dosing
      and assessments.

      Part A will be a proof of concept study; approximately 120 patients will be randomised to 1
      of 2 treatments (60 patients per treatment arm). Patients will receive either TRV250 (20 mg)
      or placebo administered subcutaneously in a double-blind manner. Part B will be a
      dose-ranging study; approximately 240 patients will be randomised to 1 of 4 treatments (60
      patients per treatment arm). Patients will receive 1 of 3 doses of TRV250 or placebo
      administered subcutaneously in a double-blind manner.

      The study will consist of 3 phases: Screening, Confinement, and Follow-Up. Patients will
      participate in an outpatient Screening visit, a 3-day inpatient Confinement Phase that
      comprises GTN-infusion and treatment with TRV250 or placebo, and an outpatient safety
      Follow-Up visit 5 to 7 days post-dose.

      The expected duration of participation is up to 6 weeks.

      The diagnosis and criteria for inclusion covers male and female patients aged 18-55 years
      (inclusive), with a body mass index (BMI) within the range 18-32 kg/m2 inclusive at
      Screening. The patient must experience a migraine without aura as defined by International
      Headache Society (IHS) criteria 1.1 and experience between 1 migraine attack every other
      month to 8 migraine attacks per month. They should have had a positive outcome with Triptans,
      for their migraine attacks (Triptan Responders).

      The investigational product (TRV250) will be administered by subcutaneous injection (10 mg/ml
      per injection). In Part A, 2 injections will be administered to deliver a single dose of 20
      mg. In Part B, the dose levels to be administered will be decided following interim analysis
      of the data collected in Part A; however, the doses selected will not exceed that
      administered in Part A (up to 2 injections will be administered to deliver a single dose of
      up to 20 mg). Matched placebo injections will be administered by subcutaneous injections to
      maintain blinding.

      By virtue of this being an exploratory study for the purpose of estimation and prediction,
      Bayesian estimates along with posterior predictive probabilities will be provided to address
      the primary and secondary efficacy objectives, as appropriate. Standard descriptive
      statistics will be provided to assess secondary safety and pharmacokinetic objectives.

      Interim analyses will be conducted at the end of Part A of the study prior to proceeding to
      Part B. Preliminary pharmacokinetics (using nominal times) will be conducted to estimate the
      AUCt, AUC∞, Cmax, and t1/2. These preliminary efficacy, pharmacokinetic, safety and
      tolerability data will be evaluated unblinded at the end of Part A and shared with the
      Investigators in an unblinded manner, prior to starting Part B.

      Once the study is complete, pharmacokinetic analyses will be completed using actual
      collection times.

      In Part A, the difference in treatment proportions of patients who experience a headache
      occurring up to 4 hours post-dose will be tested using a chi-square. If the patient requires
      rescue medication then the patient will be considered a non-responder. In Part B, a Bayesian
      approach will be utilized using the prior information obtain from Part A. The proportion of
      patients who experience a headache occurring up to 4 hours post-dose, will be modelled using
      a Bayesian hierarchical logistic regression. This logistic regression will include a
      continuous covariate for TRV250 dose where Placebo is considered to be 0 mg of TRV250. If the
      patient requires rescue medication then the patient will be considered a non-responder.

      Demographic and baseline data will be listed and summarised descriptively. Safety and
      tolerability assessments will be listed and summarised descriptively by treatment group as
      the observations and when appropriate, as the change from baseline. Plasma PK parameter
      values will be listed and summarised by treatment group. Dose proportionality may be assessed
      with a power model and slope analysis.

      Safety laboratory tests will be tabulated and any out of range values highlighted. Clinically
      significant changes in safety laboratory results will be recorded as AEs.
    
  