
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) and Hepatitis B (HBV) infection are known to cause morbidity and
      mortality especially among those who are coinfected with Human Immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
      HCV infected individuals who are also coinfected with HIV have more rapid progression of
      liver disease, abnormal diagnostic serologies, higher levels of HCV viremia, and markedly
      lower levels of therapeutic responses to the standard combination therapy with peginterferon
      and ribavirin.

      The underlying immunopathogenesis of HCV and HBV infection, progression of liver disease, and
      interactions with HIV are not yet clearly understood. A clear understanding of the immune
      correlates of protection against HCV and HBV are important in development of a vaccine for
      HCV and novel immune-based therapeutics for the cure of HBV.

      This study will recruit individuals who are coinfected with HIV and HCV and/or HBV as well as
      those who are monoinfected with HCV or HBV. The study will enroll 2 groups. Participants in
      the first group (hereafter referred to as Group 1) will consist of participants recruited for
      research and clinical related blood draws, leukapheresis, and liver biopsies for long term
      study participation. Participants in the second group (hereafter referred to as Group 2) will
      consist of participants with known or suspected HCV and/or HBV who need assistance with
      diagnosis or treatment.

      Participants in Group 1 will be apheresed or undergo blood draw several times after
      enrollment and may be followed for up to 10 years. Participants in Group 2 will be evaluated
      for HBV and/or HCV infection or complications, or receive treatment. The expectation is that
      may be followed for one year.

      Leukapheresis is used in Group 1 in order to obtain sufficient cells to pursue the following
      objectives: delineating B cell response to CD4+ T cell help, delineating CD8+ T factors
      associated with suppression of viral replication and normalization of immune function,
      characterizing natural killer function relative to HCV and/or HBV disease, and identifying
      biomarkers for progression of liver disease. The required number of mononuclear cells needed
      to perform these experiments can be easily and safely obtained using leukapheresis procedures
      in the Clinical Center Apheresis Unit. Participants who do not meet apheresis criteria may
      participate through routine blood draws to contribute to this research. All participants in
      Group 1 may also receive a liver biopsy at NIH (every 3 years for HIV/HCV coinfected and all
      HBV infected and every 5 years for HCV monoinfected subjects) to assess the progression of
      liver disease.

      Treatment plans for Group 2 HBV and/or HCV will be in accordance with standard medical
      practice, and the number and length of additional visits and diagnostic evaluations will vary
      accordingly.
    
  