
    
      For this in silico planning study all treatment plans will be performed in centers that are
      already operating and have experience in treatment planning. Photon treatment plans will be
      carried out in Maastricht, proton treatment plans at the University of Pennsylvania and the
      C-ion treatment plans at the University of Wisconsin.

      A dataset with state-of-the-art image data is available. 25 patients will be included
      according to a-priori defined selection criteria. Each patient will function as his or her
      own control. For this reason, the number of patients per tumor group can be limited to 25
      patients per tumor group (power = 80%, alpha = 5%).

      The datasets will be stored on a secure website hosted by MAASTRO. High quality CT-images
      will be used for radiotherapy treatment planning. If available, secondary image information
      such as FDG-PET and MRI will be used for GTV delineation. All relevant OARs will be
      delineated in both the primary and secondary studyset. GTV/CTV will be used accordingly to
      the actual treatment. New DVH's will be calculated for the added OAR. Dose restrictions for
      the re-irradiation plan will be defined for each individual patient based on the DVH dose in
      the primary photon treatment plan.

      Photons will be planned with direct Aperture Optimized Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy
      (IMRT). Protons will be planned using active beam delivery with Intensity Modulated proton
      therapy (IMPT)and carbon-ions with a pencil beam delivery treatment planning technique with
      gantry. Each participating center will use its own treatment planning system according to
      standard practice at that center. The GTV to PTV margin will be determined by the individual
      institutes according to the treatment technique and treatment modality. The same tumor dose,
      overall treatment time (OTT) and an equal number of fractions will be used for all treatment
      modalities.

      Photon, proton and C-ion treatments will be compared based on dosimetric parameters on normal
      tissues. In addition, the NTCP for a fixed tumor dose or the same expected TCP will be
      determined. Cobalt Gy equivalent doses will be used when reporting the proton and carbon-ion
      dose. In the case of protons, a constant RBE value of 1.1 will be used for both the tumor and
      the normal tissues. The RBE of carbon-ions will be calculated based on the models used by the
      participating centers.

      Dose in the following structures will be taken into account:

        -  Lungs

        -  Spinal court

        -  Heart

        -  Oesophagus
    
  