
    
      Perinatal Asphyxia continues to be a major cause of neonatal mortality and morbidity even in
      the most technologically advanced and prosperous countries of the world. The incidence
      remains unchanged; 1-2% of live births in developed world countries and much higher in
      developing world countries. Perinatal Asphyxia is a multisystem disorder. Neonatal brain is
      the most important organ affected by Asphyxic insult because the resulting neuronal damage is
      permanent. Hypoxic Ischemic Encephalopathy (HIE), the pathognomonic clinical syndrome of
      asphyxic neuronal insult, occurs in 50-60% of babies with Perinatal Asphyxia. Moderate and
      severe HIE causes significant neonatal mortality and morbidity. Among patients with moderate
      HIE, 10-20% die and 30-40% develop neurological deficit, whereas 50% of patients with severe
      HIE die and almost all survivors develop neurological deficits. Hence the toll on the society
      continues to be very high in spite of dramatic improvements in neonatal intact survival,
      particularly in developed world countries.

      Until recent years, the management of HIE was limited to supportive intensive care only
      because there was no specific treatment available to rescue neurons during HIE. However, over
      the last decade, therapeutic Hypothermia, has emerged as a promising new therapy in reducing
      neonatal mortality and morbidity due to HIE. This is due to improved understanding of the
      physiology of neuronal damage during asphyxia insult. Hypoxic Ischemic Encephalopathy (HIE)
      is a dynamic process which evolves over a period of seventy two hours starting from the time
      of insult. Two distinct episodes of neuronal damage occur during this time:

        1. The immediate (primary) hypoxic insult followed by a

        2. latent period of recovery which lasts for almost six hours.

      This is followed by a much longer and profound period of secondary neuronal damage due to the
      release of chemical mediators. Therapeutic modalities which can potentially reduce the
      release of these chemical mediators will provide neuronal rescue. Moderate controlled
      hypothermia (33.5-34.5 0C) offered during the first 72 hours after the asphyxic insult is one
      such therapeutic modality which has been the subject of animal studies as well as extensive
      multicenter trails in human infants over the last two decades.

      The studies on animal models have not only confirmed the safety of moderate therapeutic
      hypothermia; they have also shown a dramatic neuronal rescue in experimental HIE model of
      lambs subjected to prolonged therapeutic hypothermia immediately after birth. This was
      followed by pilot RCT's in human infants; the outcomes of which were very encouraging.
      However a universal change of practice requires large well designed multicenter trails and
      Meta analyses.

      After having established therapeutic hypothermia as a safe and effective modality for
      neuroprotection in HIE, the neonatologists are facing a new question. Can the investigators
      enhance the neuroprotective effect of therapeutic hypothermia by adding other potential
      neuroprotective agents? These potential therapeutic agents include Xenon, Erythropoetin,
      Magnisium sulphate, Allopurinol, opoids, Topiramate, Inhaled Nitric Oxide (iNO),
      N-Acetylcystine, Minocycline and Melatonin.13,17 Due to their different mechanisms of action,
      it is likely that these neuroprotective therapies may add incrementally to the proven
      beneficial effects of hypothermia. Indeed hypothermia may buy additional time for these
      neuroprotective agents to act within an expanded 'therapeutic window'.13 These Hypothermia
      plus therapies are going to be the subject of many new RCT's worldwide over the next few
      years.

      Magnesium Sulphate, a potential neuroprotective agent, acts by reducing neuronal
      excitotoxicity. MgSO4 has long been used in Obstertrics as a tocolytic agent and has a proven
      neuroprotective effect in preterm babies born to mothers tocolyzed with MgSO4. A recently
      conducted RCT in human neonates has compared postnatal magnesium sulfate with placebo in the
      management of Neonatal HIE. This study, which did not use hypothermia therapy due to lack of
      facilities, has shown that treatment with MgSO4 improves neurologic outcomes at discharge in
      term neonates with severe perinatal asphyxia. The animal studies done by Knuckley's group has
      compared a combination of therapeutic hypothermia and MgSO4 with therapeutic hypothermia
      alone. In their rat model MgSO4 alone had a minimal beneficial effect. However, MgSO4 plus
      hypothermia had a significant beneficial effect in reducing the size of the post asphyxia
      infarct. This animal focal stroke model provides an intriguing suggestion that hypothermia
      plus MgSO4 provides an additive neuroprotection. No human studies have been done so far to
      test the difference between therapeutic hypothermia alone and therapeutic hypothermia plus
      MgSO4. Mag Cool Study (Hypothermia plus MgSO4 Vs Hypothermia plus placebo) will test this
      hypothesis.
    
  