
    
      It is not uncommon for a cardiac surgical patient to have his heart fixed but his brain
      damaged. Sometimes the damage is overt and manifests itself as a major neurological
      deficiency. The frequency of stroke, the so called type 1 damage, is reported to be between 1
      and 4 percent. This may increase mortality from 1.4% to 22% and hospitalization from 6.6 days
      to 17.5 days. Diffuse encephalopathy, presenting as delirium, confusion, coma and seizures,
      so called type 2 damage, is reported to appear in a much higher frequency of 3% to 7%,
      depending on timing and methods of evaluation. This type of damage will increase mortality
      from 1.4% to 7.5% and hospitalization from 6.6% to 15.2%. Sometimes it is more subtle and
      appears as neurocognitive decline. This type of damage may be found in 53% of the patients at
      discharge, in 24% after six months and the frequency rises again to 42% at five years. The
      impact on the patient and his family might be devastating and the burden on the medical
      system and society enormous. Long term, moderate to severe disability may affect 69% of the
      stroke patients and survival may decline to 67% after one year.

      After years of research efforts it became evident that inadequate global blood flow to the
      brain is relatively uncommon and cerebral hemorrhage is a rare cause of brain damage during
      cardiac operations. It also became evident that one of the most important damage mechanisms
      is embolization to the brain and the inflammatory response which amplifies the ischemic
      embolic damage. Looking for possible embolic sources by monitoring embolic signals (HITS) on
      the transcranial doppler (TCD) tracings, researchers found that manipulation of the aorta
      during cardiac surgery, like cannulation and especially clamping is a major source of emboli.
      Using the side biting clamp while performing proximal anastomosis has the potential to crush
      the aortic wall and release macro and micro emboli especially when the aorta is
      atherosclerotic. Using a single cross clamp technique might eliminate the aortic wall solid
      debris but introduce air emboli instead.

      Dealing with the same problem, a few proximal anastomotic devices have been introduced and
      most of them withdrawn from the market because of inferior patency rate. The Heartstring
      proximal anastomotic device is one of the recently introduced devices for which early good
      patency rate has been demonstrated. The advantages, in terms of less brain embolization or
      improved neurologic outcome, have never been demonstrated for the Heartstring or any other
      anastomotic device.

      A recent potential breakthrough in this field of emboli research and prevention in order to
      improve neurologic outcome after cardiac surgery is the introduction of the EmbodopR system
      by DWL. This is a high quality TCD system which has been further developed to monitor
      cerebral emboli. It contains a module which automatically screens every event suspected as
      embolic, eliminates those recognized as artifacts according to four different criteria and
      records only real embolic events. Another module can differentiate every event as gas or
      solid emboli by simultaneously insonating the middle cerebral artery blood with tow
      ultrasound beams, each of different frequency. The result is a new ability for real time
      monitoring and characterization of embolic events during cardiac operations.
    
  