
    
      Objectives of the Study

      Primary Objective:

      • To determine the pharmacokinetics of tenofovir (TFV) in blood, urine and plasma in adults
      with perfect, median and low adherence to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF).

      Secondary Objectives

        -  To determine the rate of tenofovir washout in blood, plasma and urine among participants
           with various levels of TDF adherence.

        -  To determine the steady-state concentrations of TFV in blood and plasma among controlled
           levels of TDF adherence.

        -  To compare the agreement between TFV in blood, plasma and urine concentrations.

        -  To determine the intracellular tenofovir-diphosphate (TFV-DP) trough concentrations in
           peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and dried blood spot (DBS) samples in adults
           with perfect, median and low drug adherence.

        -  To identify possible concentration thresholds for the clinical interpretation of a
           binary point-of-care adherence test for measurement of TFV (and/or TFV-DP) in relation
           to adherence to TDF.

      Design:

      The study design is a randomized, open-label pharmacokinetic study in healthy adult
      volunteers. The study involves collection of clinical data and biological specimens, and
      subjects will provide written informed consent to participate. Healthy adult volunteers (HIV
      serology and hepatitis B surface Ag negative) will be enrolled. Once written consent is
      obtained, the screening visit will be performed. The study team will obtain each
      participant's phone number, address, and relevant contact information.

      Screening Visit:

      Participant screening will be performed within 14 days of enrollment. A detailed background
      demographic and health questionnaire will be administered. Ten mL of blood will be drawn for
      baseline assessments: complete blood count, HIV antibody testing, Hepatitis B surface Ag
      testing, renal and liver function tests and storage of blood in the biorepository. The blood
      and chemistry tests will be used to exclude subjects with any abnormal laboratory test among
      neutrophil count, hemoglobin, platelets, AST, or ALT. An abnormal test will be defined as
      Grade ≥3 by DAIDS Table for Grading the Severity of Adult and Pediatric Adverse Events,
      Version 2.0 Nov. 2014). The results of the clinical examination and baseline laboratory
      assessments will be reviewed for inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      Entry:

      All entry visits will begin on a Monday morning. After receiving in-depth information on the
      study schedule, subjects meeting the inclusion criteria will be enrolled and randomized
      (1:1:1) into one of 3 groups to receive a controlled number of doses of Truvada® (Gilead
      Sciences Inc.), which contains tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF, 300 mg) and emtricitabine
      (FTC, 200 mg) for 6 weeks. The participant will be carefully explained about their
      drug-dosing schedule, visit schedule and potential medication side effects.

      We will enroll a total of 30 adults with evaluable PK samples (10 per group). All
      participants will start TDF in the morning of the Entry visit. The 6-week treatment period
      was chosen in order to ensure concentrations of tenofovir in the different matrices (i.e.
      blood, plasma, urine, PBMCs) mimic the expected conditions in patients with chronic dosing of
      perfect, median and low drug adherence. The blood/urine sampling schedule is based on the
      reported tenofovir plasma half-life and results of previous PK studies.

      Tenofovir concentrations will be determined in each participant during three study phases (1)
      lead-in period, (2) intensive PK sampling, and (3) wash-out period.

      Phase 1: Lead-in Period (Entry to 6 weeks) Visit Prior to 2nd Dose: Immediately prior to the
      second dose (i.e. Group 1: 24 post-dose (Day #2; Tuesday Morning); Group 2: 48 hours
      post-dose (Day #3; Wednesday Morning); and Group 3; 72 hours post-dose (Day #4; Thursday
      Morning) the subject will return to the hospital. A single blood sample will be drawn (5 mL).
      From this venous blood sample, 5 dried blood spots (50 µL/spot) will be prepared on a Whatman
      903 filter paper card. The remaining blood will be centrifuged and the plasma stored. A
      single fingerstick whole blood sample will be collected and on a second Whatman 903 filter
      paper card 2 dried blood spots (50 µL/spot) will be prepared. A separate 10 mL blood drawn
      will be taken to collect PBMCs for determination of intracellular tenofovir-DP
      concentrations. Finally, a spot urine sample will be collected (5-10 mL). All samples will be
      stored at -70°C to -80°C.

      Weeks 3 and 5 (both Monday morning, pre-dose): A single blood sample will be drawn (5 mL)
      prior to dose administration. From this venous blood sample, 5 dried blood spots (50 µL/spot)
      will be prepared on a Whatman 903 filter paper card. The remaining blood will be centrifuged
      and the plasma stored. A single fingerstick whole blood sample will be collected and 2 dried
      blood spots (50 µL/spot) will be prepared on a second Whatman 903 filter paper card. A
      separate 10 mL blood drawn will be taken to collect PBMCs for determination of intracellular
      tenofovir-DP concentrations. Finally, a spot urine sample will be collected (5-10 mL). All
      samples will be stored at -70°C to -80°C. Renal and liver function tests will be performed.

      Phase 2: Intensive PK sampling (starting Monday morning of Week 7 for 24 hours) Week 7
      Intensive PK visit: On the Monday morning of Week 7, subjects will return to the hospital in
      the early morning. A medical officer will conduct a physical examination and blood will be
      drawn for laboratory safety evaluations (AST, and ALT). Following their normal morning daily
      schedule of drug intake, a pre-dose blood sample will be drawn and a single Truvada® tablet
      will be administered on an empty stomach (at least 6 hour fast beforehand). This will be the
      last dose of Truvada® for all subjects. Venous blood (3 mL/time point) will be collected at
      1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, and 24 hours post-dose. At each time point, a venous blood DBS (5
      spots) and fingerstick (2 spots) will be collected. Renal and liver function tests will be
      performed.

      Urine samples will be collected pre-dose and over the intervals of 0-4 hours, 4-8 hours, 8-12
      hours, and 12-24 hours. Subjects will have an additional 10 mL blood drawn pre-dose and PBMCs
      will be collected and stored at -70°C to -80°C. After 24 hours, the participant will be
      discharged from the hospital. The subject will be asked to collect all their urine until
      their next study visit in 24 hours.

      Phase 3: Wash-out PK sampling (Weeks 7 to Week 10) Week 7 (Wednesday to Saturday): After the
      intensive PK sampling is complete, participants will return to the clinic once a day for the
      next 4 days (i.e. until the Saturday of Week 7) for a single venous blood draw (5mL),
      fingerprick sample collection for dried blood spot, and a spot urine sample (5-10 mL). The
      subject will be asked to collect all their urine until their next clinic visit.

      Week 8 (Monday and Thursday): A single venous blood draw, fingerprick sample collection for
      dried blood spot, and a spot urine sample (5-10 mL) will be drawn on Monday and Thursday of
      Week 8. A single PBMC sample (10 mL blood) will be collected on Monday morning of week 8
      (i.e. 1 week since last TDF dose).

      Week 9 (Monday): A single venous blood draw, fingerprick sample collection for dried blood
      spot, and a spot urine sample (5-10 mL) will be drawn on Monday. A single PBMC sample (10 mL
      blood) will also be collected on Monday (i.e. 2 weeks since last TDF dose).

      Week 10 (Monday): A single venous blood draw, fingerprick sample collection for dried blood
      spot, and a spot urine sample (5-10 mL) will be drawn on Monday. A single PBMC sample (10 mL
      blood) will also be collected on Monday morning (i.e. 3 weeks since last TDF dose).

      End of Study visit (i.e. end of Week 10):

      A single venous blood draw, fingerprick sample collection for dried blood spot, and a spot
      urine test (5-10 mL) will be drawn on Monday. A single PBMC sample (10 mL blood) will also be
      collected on Monday (i.e. 4 weeks since last TDF dose). A renal and liver function tests will
      be performed.

      At this time the participants will have completed the study and no additional evaluations
      will be performed.

      Tenofovir concentrations will be measured using validated liquid chromatography-triple
      quadrupole mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) assays at the Faculty of Associated Medical Sciences
      at Chiang Mai University. Intracellular tenofovir-diphosphate (TFV-DP) concentrations will be
      determined using a validated a LC-MS based assay.
    
  