
    
      The objective of this clinical study is to compare the safety and effectiveness of the
      dermaPACE (Pulsed Acoustic Cellular Expression) Device to sham application, when administered
      in conjunction with the standard of care, in the treatment of DFUs.

      Diabetic patients are susceptible to chronic foot ulcerations due to the effects of the
      diabetic's systemic disease halting the wound healing process. In the United States, 20.8
      million people with active diabetes, and 41 million with pre-diabetic symptoms account for
      $132 billion dollars in healthcare costs per year. In 2002, 82,000 non-traumatic lower-limb
      amputations were performed on diabetics, corresponding to 60% of all lower limb amputations,
      usually preceded by a non-healing foot ulceration. Given the magnitude of this disease and
      the long-term effects and morbidity of amputation, DFUs require immediate and aggressive
      treatment to ascertain the best possible outcome for the diabetic patient.

      Despite the development of advanced wound care products, there is still a need to find the
      most effective treatment for reducing the time required to close a DFU. At any given time,
      3-4% of diabetics (600,000 patients) have a foot ulcer, and $2.5 billion was spent in 2002 in
      the United States treating DFUs. The average cost for a single episode of a foot ulcer has
      been reported to be $4,595.00 to $28,691.00. Shock wave devices, which utilize acoustic
      pressure waves, have been used for about 30 years in urology for lithotripsy. In the last
      decade this technology has gained FDA approval to treat chronic plantar fasciitis and lateral
      epicondylitis conditions that do not respond to conservative treatments (OssaTron® SANUWAVE,
      manufacturer). Further, clinical reports have indicated efficacy in treating many other
      orthopedic conditions including pseudoarthroses, calcification of the joints and avascular
      necrosis. This technology has also been shown to promote healing in several wound-healing
      applications, and it is worthwhile to continue to seek the full potential of this technology
      in wound healing.

      Acoustic pressure waves initiate a biological response at the cellular level-stimulating
      production of angiogenic growth factors, including endothelial nitric oxide synthase (ENOS),
      vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA).
      These factors are important components of the normal wound healing process. This cellular
      activation and growth factor expression stimulated by acoustic pressure wave treatment could
      play a decisive role in overcoming cell quiescence and increasing growth factor titers to
      levels sufficient to overcome proteases. This leads to the in-growing of newly formed
      vessels, and the increased cellular proliferation and tissue regeneration needed to heal a
      wound.

      Clinical publications have recently reported the pressure wave induced mechanism described
      above can initiate and accelerate healing in burns, traumatic wounds and reconstructive skin
      flaps, and diabetic wounds. A pilot study using the dermaPACE device, performed in nine
      diabetic subjects with chronic leg ulcers has shown that this technology in patients with a
      history of chronic ulcers may achieve wound closure. Treatment with dermaPACE has the added
      benefits of being non-invasive and devoid of significant clinical side effects. Therefore,
      the objective of this study is to examine the safety and effectiveness of the dermaPACE
      acoustic pressure wave treatment device in combination with standard of care for the
      treatment of foot ulcers in diabetic patients.

      The dermaPACE should offer an improved non-invasive standard of care that may shorten an
      otherwise lengthy healing process and therefore make later operative measures unnecessary.
      Given that conservative therapy may not be effective, dermaPACE may become a preferable
      alternative that would carry minimal risk based on the expected clinical outcomes described
      in this protocol. dermaPACE may improve patient quality of life when conservative therapy is
      not effective as well as provide a cost savings for the health care system.
    
  