
    
      Physical training has beneficial effects on exercise capacity, cardiac function, quality of
      life and mortality in patients with acute cardiovascular syndrome or after cardiac surgery
      and is therefore one of the main aspects of cardiac rehabilitation. However, adherence to
      this therapy is low and effects tempt to decrease directly after the treatment period.

      The objective of this study is to compare the effects of home-based exercise training (HT)
      with telemonitoring guidance and regular centre-based exercise training (CT) on physical
      fitness (PF), assessed by peak oxygen uptake, and physical activity (PA), assessed by
      physical activity energy expenditure (PAEE), in low to moderate risk cardiac rehabilitation
      (CR) patients. Secondary endpoints are cost-effectiveness, training adherence, health-related
      quality of life (QoL) and patient satisfaction.

      Single-centre randomized controlled trial. CR patients are randomized to HT (n=45) or CT
      (n=45). Assessments are performed at baseline, 12 weeks and 1 year, consisting of maximal
      exercise testing with respiratory gas exchange analysis, assessment of PAEE, QoL (also at 6
      months), patient satisfaction (at 12 weeks only) and health care costs (12 weeks, 6 months
      and 1 year) Study population: Low to moderate risk patients entering outpatient CR after an
      acute coronary syndrome or revascularization with internet access and PC at home.

      12-week training program (24-36 one-hour sessions) at 70-85% of their maximal heart rate
      (HR). In the CT group training is supervised by a physical therapist; in the HT group
      training is performed in the home environment using a HR monitor to determine training
      intensity and with weekly feedback / motivation by an exercise specialist who has access to
      the online HR-data. After 12 weeks, subjects in the HT group are encouraged to continue using
      the HR monitor.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: Primary endpoints: PF (peak oxygen uptake) and PA (physical
      activity energy expenditure, PAEE) assessed by a tri-axial accelerometer and HR monitor.
      Secondary endpoints: training adherence, QoL (SF-36) and patient satisfaction (CQ index).

      Exercise training performed by patients after Acute Coronary Disease (ACS) and
      revascularization, classified as low to moderate risk, is considered to be safe. The training
      program that will be used in this study has been evaluated in a similar population of elderly
      cardiac patients without any documented harmful effects. In order to reduce potential risks
      of exercise training all patients perform a maximal cardiopulmonary exercise test at
      baseline, excluding patients with myocardial ischaemia and ventricular arrhythmias during
      exercise. The first three training sessions will be under supervision of trained
      physiotherapist in a clinical setting. The patients will receive a heart rate monitor and
      accelerometer to use at home. These monitors are developed and optimized to cause minimal
      physical discomfort and are non-invasive. During the measurement periods, all patients are
      asked to wear the monitors continuously for 5 days and to note the physical activities
      performed. The HT group will use the HR monitors during their physical trainings as well.
    
  