
    
      Currently, adjuvant therapy is not recommended for patients with esophageal squamous cell
      carcinoma who received surgery as their first treatment. However, the recurrence rate is as
      high as 23.8%-58%, and the median time-to-recurrence is about 10.5 months. In patients who
      had residual tumor after surgery, evidence lacks for chemoradiation.

      Retrospective data of 218 cases in our hospital indicated patients underwent salvage
      chemoradiation had significantly improved survival compared with chemotherapy, radiotherapy
      or best supportive care. For patients with locoregional recurrence, the 1-, 3-year overall
      survival (OS) rates were statistically higher in patients received salvage chemoradiation
      than radiotherapy (1-year OS, 70.0% vs. 55.2%, 3-year OS, 41.9% vs. 23.5%, p=0.045). Patients
      received chemotherapy had 1-year OS of 0%.

      Data of 218 cases of our hospital indicated patients received radiation dose > 54Gy had a
      significantly longer median overall survival time of 21.2 months compared with 11.3 months in
      patients had <54Gy. The optimal radiation dose should be further investigated.

      The recurrence pattern of patients with esophageal cancer after esophagectomy mainly consist
      of supraclavicular and mediastinal lymph nodes. For patients recurred after radical surgery,
      prophylactic irradiation to high-risk lymph node regions should be considered. The study use
      simultaneously integrated boost (SIB) intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) in this
      trial, which made different radiation dose to recurrent tumor and high-risk lymph node
      regions possible.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of chemoradiation therapy in
      patients with recurrences after radical surgery or palliative surgery. Patients were further
      assigned to receive elective field irradiation (ENI) or involved field irradiation (IFI)
      according to tumor size, tumor location and time-to-recurrence.
    
  