
    
      This is a randomized (study drug is assigned by chance), open-label (all people know the
      identity of the intervention), parallel-arm, multicenter, phase 2 study of treatment with
      abiraterone acetate (AA) and 4 alternative steroid treatment strategies in asymptomatic,
      chemotherapy-naïve, mCRPC patients. A target of 144 patients will be enrolled in this study
      with 36 patients planned per treatment arm. All patients participating in this study will
      receive abiraterone acetate. All patients will also take either prednisone or dexamethasone.
      Patients will receive abiraterone acetate along with either prednisone at one of three
      different dose schedules or with dexamethasone at one dose schedule. Patients may also be
      asked to take a medication to protect from osteoporosis as this can be increased by long term
      use of corticosteroids. There are 4 treatment groups in this study: (a) Four 250 mg tablets
      of abiraterone acetate taken together once daily and one 2.5 mg tablet of prednisone taken
      twice daily; (b) Four 250 mg tablets of abiraterone acetate taken together once daily and one
      5 mg tablet of prednisone taken once daily; (c) Four 250mg tablets of abiraterone acetate
      taken together once daily and one 5 mg tablet of prednisone taken twice daily; (d) Four 250
      mg tablets of abiraterone acetate taken together once daily and one 0.5 mg tablet of
      dexamethasone taken once daily. The chance that patients will get prednisone is 3 out of 4
      patients. The chance that they will get dexamethasone is 1 out of 4 patients. Abiraterone
      acetate, prednisone and dexamethasone will be considered as study drugs. The main study will
      consist of a screening phase of 4 weeks followed by an open-label treatment period of a
      maximum of 39 treatment cycles (156 weeks or approximately 3 years). The main study treatment
      period cut-off date will be 156 weeks after the start of study treatment for the first
      patient participating in the study. Patients will participate in the main study treatment
      period until the cut-off date, and will receive study treatment until radiographic disease
      progression and/or unequivocal clinical progression and/or other specific reasons for
      discontinuation of treatment. Patients will be asked if they would be willing to participate
      in a follow-up or extension phase of the study for approximately 4.5 years after the start of
      study treatment of the first subject participating in the study. The amount of time patients
      will be in the study will vary depending when they join the study and time remaining to the
      study end date and on their response to the treatment. Patients may come off the study drug
      if their cancer worsens, if they are unable to tolerate the study treatment, if their doctor
      determines that they should begin another cancer treatment, or if they decide to withdraw
      consent. A treatment "cycle" in this study is the amount of time a patient will be asked to
      take the study medication, and have regularly pre-scheduled checkups and laboratory
      assessments. Each treatment-cycle will last 28 days. There are a maximum of 39 treatment
      cycles in this study (over a period of 156 weeks). If patients enter the extension phase,
      they will be asked to attend hospital every 12 weeks for the remaining time that they stay on
      the study. Other anticancer therapy or immunotherapy must be ended before and while
      participating in this clinical study with abiraterone acetate. Also some medications are not
      allowed during the study. For example, if patients are receiving a steroid other than
      prednisone, it will be necessary to switch it to prednisone or dexamethasone, depending on to
      which treatment group patients have been assigned, for the duration of the study. If needed,
      their study doctor may slowly decrease and stop some or all of their current medicines before
      the study treatment starts. This is called washout. Do not stop taking any of their current
      medicine unless their study doctor tells patients to do so. At screening the study doctor
      will first check that patients are qualified. Screening procedures will be conducted within 4
      weeks before randomization. During the main study treatment phase patients will come to the
      study clinic for Study Visits about 21 times in total (including for screening) if they stay
      on treatment for 39 cycles. During Cycle 1 of this study, patients will be asked to come to
      the clinic three times for assessments: on Day 1 which also will usually be their first day
      of treatment, Day 15 and two weeks later. After that patients will need to return to the
      clinic once every four weeks for the first 6 months. After that, the visits are once every 3
      months for assessments. In addition, patients will need to visit either the clinic or the
      Outpatients every 2 weeks for the first 3 months and every 4 weeks after that to the end of
      their treatment to provide a small quantity of blood for testing. If patients either continue
      study treatment to 39 cycles, or if patients discontinue from the study before 39 treatment
      cycles, their last visit with drug dispensed will be called an End-of-main-study-treatment
      (EOMT) visit. EOMT assessments will be performed for all patients who started study
      treatment, either at the cut-off date or when they discontinue before the cut-off date.
      Additionally, for patients discontinuing study treatment before the cut-off date, an
      end-of-main-study (EOMS) visit will be performed 4 weeks after study medication is stopped.
      Patients will also be required to return to the study site 4 weeks after their last treatment
      for the "End of Main Study" visit as below. This visit is for some routine study assessments.
      During the extension phase, patients will be provided with study drug outside of the main
      study for approximately 4.5 years after the start of study treatment of the first subject
      participating in the study. During this phase, patients will receive study drug during their
      12 weekly visits and their doctor will check on their health status at the same time.
      Patients will not be required to provide blood or urine samples during this phase. Patients
      are likely to be eligible to join this extension phase if patients have responded well to the
      study drug and have not been discontinued from the main study. Also even if they have
      discontinued from the main study, if they have had no disease progression their doctor may
      advise them that they are eligible to join this phase. Their last visit will be called an End
      of Extension visit. For this visit, patients will be required to return to the study site 4
      weeks after their last treatment for some final assessments. Follow-Up: Following
      discontinuation of study treatment at any time during the study, for any reason other than
      withdrawal of consent, survival and subsequent prostate cancer therapies will be monitored
      approximately 4.5 years after the start of study treatment of the first subject participating
      in the study. This information will be obtained by 6-monthly telephone contact and/or chart
      review, with a source data verification visit scheduled after the death of the patient or at
      the end of the study. Their doctor may phone them or their family to ask about their health
      status during this approximately 4.5 years of period if he/she feels that their chart records
      may need to be updated. A Scientific Advisory Committee will be commissioned to ensure
      scientific validity of this study, to identify any scientifically relevant trends, and to
      provide recommendations to the sponsor.
    
  