
    
      The proposed intervention is designed to implement and evaluate a pharmacist-led intervention
      to promote dispensing appropriate doses and quantities of opioids for acute pain at the
      initial prescription stage. This would include patients discharged from hospital
      post-surgery, following emergency room visits, after dental procedures, and patients visiting
      primary care prescribers. Thus it will capture a wide spectrum of prescribing. This study
      focuses on incorporating into routine pharmacy practice the assessment and adjustment of
      opioid doses and quantities for the treatment of acute pain to appropriate levels.
      Pharmacists in Ontario are able to reduce the quantities of prescriptions with the agreement
      of the patient. The remainder of the prescription quantity can remain active to be filled
      subsequently if needed. By implementing the option of part-fills for prescriptions with
      higher quantities, this intervention does allow patients to access more analgesia if their
      pain management requires it.

      Project Objectives

        1. To develop, test, optimize and implement an intervention in 5 randomly selected regions
           in Ontario to promote pharmacist-led practices to limit initial quantities of opioid
           prescriptions to appropriate levels for the treatment of acute pain. The intervention
           components include a pharmacist a training program, patient engagement tools and
           prescriber engagement communication.

        2. To measure pharmacist uptake of the intervention.

        3. To compare initial prescription opioid quantities and daily doses in the intervention
           regions to 10 matched control regions.

      This is a prospective, cluster randomized controlled trial evaluating a 6-month pharmacy
      practice intervention to limit initial doses and quantities of opioid prescriptions to
      appropriate levels for the treatment of acute pain. The intervention components include a
      pharmacist a training program, patient engagement tools and prescriber engagement
      communication. The development of the intervention was informed by the systematic approach
      described by French and colleagues (2012) for behaviour change interventions implementing
      evidence into practice. The 5 eLearning modules (15-20 minutes each) and the patient
      communication tools (patient handout and pharmacy poster) have undergone usability testing
      using a human factors research approach prior to finalization. The intervention will be
      implemented in 5 public health unit regions in Ontario randomly selected along with 10
      matched (1:2) control public health unit regions. All community pharmacists in the
      intervention regions will be invited to undertake the eLearning program to promote the
      specific practice change related to opioid quantities. The primary outcome measure will be
      the quantities of opioids dispensed to patients receiving initial prescriptions for the
      treatment of acute pain. Analyses will be at the cluster level in which quantities dispensed
      will be compared both between intervention and control public health unit regions after 6
      months, and before and after implementation within intervention sites.
    
  