
    
      Study participants will receive the following treatment:

      Day -5 to -2...Fludarabine 30mg/m2* and CAMPATH** 1H 10mg IV

      Day -1.........Day of rest

      Day 0..........Stem cell transplant (infusion)

      Where possible, patients will receive peripheral blood stem cells. When peripheral stem cells
      are unavailable (e.g. from some unrelated donor centers) or insufficient, bone marrow will be
      substituted. If peripheral blood stem cell collection is performed, the donor will be
      stimulated with G-CSF for 5 days and cells collected and frozen until the stem cell target
      number is obtained prior to the patient beginning the therapy. If a bone marrow harvest is
      performed, this will be performed on Day 0 (infusion day). After transplantation, G-CSF 5
      micrograms/kg/day will be administered SC from day 7 until granulocytes >1000/ul.

      Because CAMPATH-1H infusions will provide a persisting level of antibody over the transplant
      period, it will contribute to anti-GvHD activity. Additional GVHD prophylaxis will consist of
      FK506 administered IV via continuous infusion over 24 hours from Day-2 until engraftment or
      when the patient is able to take by mouth, every 12 hours. This is continued until 6 months
      post-transplantation. The dose is then tapered every 2 weeks until discontinued. All patients
      will receive supportive care (prophylaxis for antimicrobial, antiviral, antifungal and
      Pneumocystis Pneumonia, transfusions of blood products and intravenous gamma globulin and
      routine laboratory testing of chemistry and complete blood counts) as per Cell and Gene
      Therapy Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).

      Donor engraftment will be evaluated via standard bone marrow studies (cytogenetics/DNA
      studies for chimerism) on days 30, 60, 100, 180 and 365 post transplantation. If these
      studies reveal loss of donor cells on two consecutive studies and/or evidence of relapsing
      disease, the donor will undergo a peripheral blood stem cell harvest via G-CSF stimulation.
    
  