
    
      Atherosclerosis is a life-threatening condition, as long as cardiovascular disease is
      responsible for one-third of all global mortality.

      Inflammation is extremely important in atherosclerosis pathophysiology. The use of
      inflammatory biomarkers to predict risk, monitor treatments and guide therapy, has shown
      substantial potential for clinical applicability. Many studies in primary and secondary
      prevention of cardiovascular disease showed that individuals with lower high sensitive
      C-reactive protein (hsCRP) have better clinical outcomes than those with higher levels.

      The potential benefit of anti-inflammatory therapy in atherosclerosis has been previously
      demonstrated in studies in patients with chronic inflammatory diseases (rheumatoid arthritis,
      psoriasis). The use of methotrexate has been associated with a reduction in cardiovascular
      events in these patients.

      In this setting, the use of non-invasive treatments to reduce lesion size and inflammation is
      essential for the prevention of sub-sequent cardiovascular events.

      The systemic use of methotrexate at high doses for the treatment of atherosclerotic
      cardiovascular diseases is unlikely due to their significant, often life-threatening
      toxicity. Nonetheless, the toxicity of such agents can be strongly diminished by the use of
      optimized drug-delivery systems. In a pioneer study performed on patients with acute
      leukemia, was reported the potential of a cholesterol-rich non-protein nanoparticle (LDE) as
      a drug targeting agent. LDE particles have lipid compositions and structures that resemble
      low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and can be injected directly into the bloodstream. When LDE
      particles come into contact with plasma, the particles acquire exchangeable apolipoproteins
      from native lipoproteins, such as apolipoprotein (apo) E, which binds the particles to LDL
      receptors. In neoplastic cells, lipoprotein receptors are overexpressed, such that uptake of
      native LDL and of LDE particles is increased relative to that in normal tissues. In aortas of
      cholesterol-fed rabbits the uptake of LDE particles is increased in comparison to normal
      aortas and in rabbit-grafted hearts take up the nanoemulsion at amounts fourfold greater than
      native hearts.

      LDE-methotrexate treatment of rabbits induced to exhibit atherosclerosis via high cholesterol
      intake resulted in a 65% reduction in lesion size.

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether patients with aortic and coronary
      atherosclerotic disease showed good tolerability to LDE-methotrexate treatment and whether
      this formulation could achieve reduction in plaque volume and characteristics by coronary and
      aortic CT angiography.
    
  