
    
      The recent publication of the decree of June 20th 2013 (n° 2013-527) suggests a protocol
      regarding the transmission of information of the relatives after genetic diagnosis of a
      serious condition allowing preventative or care measures. In the case a mutation career
      refuses to directly inform other members of his family, option is to call on services of a
      genetic professional for the transmission of its family information. This decree includes a
      specific model of letter that can be sent to relatives by genetic professionals.

      The main objective of the present study is the standardization of the procedure concerning
      the information to relatives by all genetic professionals. It would allow the same format of
      information in all families involved.

      The first part (study 1a) evaluated the understanding and feelings after the reading of the
      decree's letter (letter A) on patients and the public, through the use of an individual and
      oral questionnaire. Interviews with the patients, public, genetic professionals and people
      who have received this letter completed the study 1a (study 1b). A focus group (accounting
      different genetic professionals and patient associations) composed a new version of letter
      (letter B) through these observations (study 1c).

      The second part will compare the two letters model (A vs B) impact through precise items on
      three populations: patients, public and genetic professionals. This study will allow to:

        -  Evaluate how the letter composed by the focus group (letter A) is understood and
           perceived by the patients and the public with the same methodology as study 1a (study
           2a) ;

        -  Compare the two letters model (A vs B) to describing the preference of patients, public
           and genetic professionals (study 2b).

      The expected results would help us to choose the letter accommodating as many people as
      possible to standardize practices.
    
  