
    
      Spasticity, a common impairment after stroke, has a profound impact on activity and
      participation for patients. BoNT-A injection combined with rehabilitation training is
      recommended to enhance functional recovery of patients with spastic hemiplegic stroke.

      Patients with spasticity usually have lower motor function and worse sensory deficits than
      patients without spasticity. Designing the post BoNT-A injection rehabilitation program
      should consider the above issues. RT and MT are two interventions providing sensorimotor
      input for patient with low motor function. Combining both approaches (wearing robotic hand to
      do mirror therapy) might facilitate the sensorimotor cortex that controls movement and might
      augment somatosensory input and further treatment efficacy. It is unknown whether and how
      combining BoNT injection with bilateral RT vs with MT vs with RMT engenders differential
      effects on motor and related functional performance in patients with spastic hemiplegic
      stroke.

      Forty-eight participants with chronic spastic hemiplegic stroke will be recruited and
      randomly assigned to one of 2 groups: RT, and RMT. All the post- injection interventions will
      be implemented 60 minutes/day, 3 days/week, for 8 weeks. At each training session all
      patients will receive 45-minute RT, or RMT, then 15-minute functional task training.

      The outcome measures include 1) body function and structures: Fugl-Meyer Assessment, Modified
      Ashworth Scale, Medical Research Council scale, 2) activity and participation: Box and block
      test, Motor Activity Log, and Nottingham Extended Activities of Daily Living Scale, Action
      Research Arm Test. In addition, to directly reflect a patient's unique needs and goals, Goal
      Attainment Scaling will be assessed. Electroencephalography (EEG) and functional near
      infrared reflectance spectroscopy (NIRS) assessments will be done to assess the
      neurophysiologic effects of the 3 kinds of intervention. The outcome will be measured at
      pre-treatment,1-week after BoNT-A injection, post-treatment, and 3-month follow- up.
    
  