
    
      Study design: A prospective, open-label, randomized, mono-center, phase II clinical trial
      (with registration intent).

      Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize a clinically relevant increase in PFS by 3 months;
      from 2 months as reported for TAS-102 to 5 months in patients treated with sunitinib. They
      further hypothesize that this will result in a meaningful improvement in Quality of Life
      (QoL).

      Primary Objective: The primary objective of this study is to improve progression free
      survival (PFS), of patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma (mCRC) treated with
      high-dose sunitinib once every 2 weeks to 5 months, compared to the reported 2 months for
      TAS-102 monotherapy.

      Secondary Objective: Secondary objectives include: overall survival (OS), the safety and
      efficacy of the treatment, the quality of life in the two study arms, the value of
      phosphoproteomics as a potential predictive biomarker for response to sunitinib, the
      potential value of blood markers for molecular diagnostics disease and response monitoring
      and the sensitivity, specificity.

      Study Population: Patients eligible for inclusion are at least 18 years of age, with adequate
      organ function, who have histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the
      colon or rectum with documented metastatic disease and have an indication for palliative
      treatment with TAS102 (refractory or intolerant to systemic therapy with fluoropyrimidine,
      irinotecan, oxaliplatin, anti-VEGF therapy and anti-EGFR therapy (for tumours with wild-type
      KRAS)). Major exclusion criteria include evidence of significant uncontrolled concomitant
      disease, previous extensive radiotherapy, recent major surgery or infection, unresolved bowel
      disorders and poorly controlled hypertension. All patients will provide Informed Consent
      prior to inclusion in the study and during the course of the trial, all relevant data will be
      stored in electronic Case Report Forms (eCRF).

      Treatment Schedule:

      After study inclusion, patients will be randomized (1:1) via a centralized randomization
      system to receive either oral sunitinib (700 mg once every 2 weeks) or TAS-102 (35 mg per
      square meter, twice daily, 5 days a week, with 2 days of rest, for 2 weeks, followed by a
      14-day rest period). Patients will receive treatment until disease progression or
      discontinuation due to unacceptable toxic effects, withdrawal of consent, or other reason.
    
  