
    
      The first cohort of 3 participants enrolled into Phase I of the study will receive dose level
      1. A full safety evaluation will be conducted when these participants have completed one
      cycle (21 days) of combination therapy. Further patient accrual will be suspended while the
      safety data is evaluated at each dose level.

      Dose escalation for subsequent patients will proceed through dose levels 2, 3 and 4 as
      follows:

        -  If no dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is reported in the first 3 participants at a dose
           level, that dose level will be considered safe and 3 participants will be enrolled at
           the next dose level. If 1/3 participants in a cohort at a dose level has a DLT, the dose
           level will be expanded to obtain 6 evaluable participants.

        -  If > 1 of 3 participants in a cohort experience DLT, that dose level will not be
           considered safe. No further dose escalation will take place, and the immediate lower
           dose level will be considered the maximum planned dose (MPD) if 6 patients had been
           enrolled at that dose level. Otherwise, expand the immediate lower dose level to 6
           evaluable patients*.

        -  If there are < 2 participants with a DLT among the expanded cohort of 6 evaluable
           participants, a cohort of 3 participants will be enrolled in the next higher dose level.

        -  If there are 2 or more participants with a DLT among the expanded cohort of 6 evaluable
           participants, that dose level will not be considered safe. No further dose escalation
           will take place, and the immediate lower dose level will be considered the MPD if 6
           patients had been enrolled at that dose level. Otherwise, expand the immediate lower
           dose level to 6 evaluable patients*.

        -  * If DLT occurs in no more than 1 patient in the expanded dose cohort, then that dose
           level will be considered MPD. Otherwise, the dose will be further de-escalated in a
           similar fashion until the MPD is reached.
    
  