
    
      In any open surgery bleeding usually occurs. Surgeons try to stop the bleeding by using
      his/her usual surgical practice. These include, but are not limited to: suturing (stitches),
      ligation (tying up) or cautery (to burn in order to stop or prevent bleeding). It is often
      necessary for surgeons to use an additional treatment to stop the bleeding. This may include
      the use of a hemostatic product (used to stop bleeding).

      This Phase I study consists of a single arm evaluating the safety of ClotFoam as an adjunct
      to hemostasis. ClotFoam® is an investigational product-a gelatin-based hydrogel carrying a
      fibrin monomer-that has been designed for supportive treatment in general surgery for the
      improvement of hemostasis, where standard techniques are insufficient.

      The evaluation will be conducted in 24 patients who are scheduled to undergo elective open
      surgery in which liver bleeding is encountered requiring control of mild-to- moderate
      bleeding where standard surgical techniques are expected to be ineffective and/or
      impractical. All subjects who meet eligibility criteria and who provide informed consent to
      participate will be assigned to ClotFoam topical treatment. Subjects who will be screened for
      eligibility to participate in this study will be those who are scheduled to with undergo an
      elective (non-emergency) hepatic wedge resection or anatomic resection (of 1 to 5 contiguous
      hepatic segments or a surgical procedure in which liver bleeding is encountered such as
      removal of the gall bladder (open), bile duct excision wherein an appropriate target bleeding
      site is identified.

      Subjects undergoing living-related liver donation are also eligible. Participants will have
      post-operative follow ups at day 1,2,5, and 10 post-procedure, 2 weeks post procedure, and 12
      weeks post-procedure. The follow up visits will consist of safety evaluations (physical exam,
      adverse event assessment, laboratory evaluations).
    
  