
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of AZD2171 in pediatric patients with recurrent,
      progressive, or refractory primary CNS tumors.

      II. Describe the toxicity profile and dose-limiting toxicities of AZD2171 in these patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Characterize inter-patient variability in the pharmacokinetics of AZD2171 in these
      patients.

      II. Describe changes in circulating endothelial cells (CECs) and circulating endothelial cell
      precursors (CEPs) in patients treated with AZD2171 at different dose levels.

      III. Correlate changes in CECs, CEPs, plasma, serum, and urine levels of proteins with
      angiogenesis, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and VEGF receptor, in
      patients treated with AZD2171 at different dose levels.

      IV. Correlate changes in CECs, CEPs, and angiogenic modulators with changes in magnetic
      resonance (MR) perfusion.

      V. Obtain preliminary evidence of biologic activity of AZD2171 by evaluating alterations in
      tissue perfusion, tumor blood flow, and metabolic activity using MR perfusion and diffusion
      imaging, and positron-emission tomography, and correlating these findings with changes in
      tumor size by standard MRI.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      concurrent enzyme-inducing anticonvulsant drugs (yes vs no).

      Patients receive oral AZD2171 once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up
      to 13 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      For each stratum, cohorts of 2-6 patients receive escalating doses of AZD2171 until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which 25% of
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, an additional 6
      patients per stratum are enrolled and treated at the MTD.

      After completion of study, patients are followed at 30 days.
    
  