
    
      Our hypothesis, based on prior research, is that DBS to the nucleus accumbens will have
      beneficial neural and symptomatic effects in severe Anorexia Nervosa.

      As a test of this hypothesis, and to evaluate acceptability and ethical issues we aim to
      initially study up to 10 patients.

      This study may provide important clinical and scientific information to contribute to larger
      studies.

      DESIGN SUMMARY The design will consist of a case series of 10 patients with repeated
      measures. The individuals will be aged 20-65 with at least 7 years history of severe
      treatment resistant AN, who are fully consenting and motivated to recover.

      The patients will be selected on the basis of specific suitability criteria. A small case
      series study design is needed as this is a novel and invasive strategy, and further
      information about acceptability, feasibility and neural processes involved is required to
      inform more extensive studies. This can optimally be obtained by initial detailed study of a
      small number of patients. As some heterogeneity of response is likely, as advised by our
      external reviewer Professor Walter Kaye, we are aiming to study 10 patients ..

      The intervention will be bilateral deep brain stimulation targeted at the nucleus accumbens
      with stimulation at the ventral anterior limb of the internal capsule. Following DBS each
      patient will be followed up every month weeks for 13 months.

      First, after recruitment there will be a 2 month preoperative period of thorough preoperative
      examination of ethical issues including qualitative and semi structured interviews (MacCATCR
      (MacArthur Competence Assessment Tool for Clinical Research))to assess competence and
      informed consent will be completed by an independent researcher experienced in ethical issues
      in AN (Jacinta Tan).

      The study participants will then be have the initial research assessment and will be reviewed
      every month in joint eating disorders psychiatry -neurosurgery clinics . In month 10 there
      will be two randomly assigned 2 week periods of active or sham stimulation,.

      monthly assessments will include : • BMI • Semi structured interviews : Eating Disorder
      Eating Disorder Examination (EDE)

        -  Yale Brown CornellEating Disorder Scale (YBCEDS)

        -  Observer rated comorbidity (SCID / Hamilton Depression rating scale)

        -  Computerized behavioural tasks: Food reward (Leeds-Oxford food preference task) habit
           formation tasks

        -  Self report schedules: EDE Questionnaire, functional impairment (CIA) , quality of life
           scale (WHOQUALBREF); starvation dependence scale, Beck Depression Inventory (BDI, Beck
           et al. 1961), the State Trait Anxiety Inventory (Spielberger, 1998), the Snaith-Hamilton
           pleasure scale (SHAPS, Snaith et al. 1995) and the Ruminative Response Scale for Eating
           Disorders (RRSED). Pre-operative imaging will involve fMRI and MEG. Post-operative
           imaging will involve 3 MEG scans, two in month 10 and at study end, 15 months.

      DETAILS OF METHODOLOGY:

      Subjects selection and recruitment:

      A list of eligible patients, fulfilling inclusion and exclusion criteria will be made in
      discussion with Specialist Eating Disorder services clinicians. Patients will be ranked in
      order of suitability according to specific suitability criteria:

      i. Severity and intractiblity of Anorexia Nervosa ii. Restrictive anorexia nervosa - without
      binging/purging iii. Absence of currently severe comorbid depression or self-harm iv. Ideally
      on no, or minimal Psychotropic medication v. No recent history of compulsory treatment ( i.e.
      in the last year) vi. Has tried existing treatment options without success vii. Has never had
      periods of full remission viii. Intensity of desire to recover ix. Good intellectual function
      and education - well able to comprehend the facts of the intervention (e.g. healthcare
      background, university education) x. Poor social and occupational function, high levels of
      distress - not functioning well, having poor quality of life.

      The highest ranked patients will be asked if they consent to receiving information about the
      project. If they are interested they will be approached by Dr Park with information about the
      project, given an information sheet and the opportunity to discuss with family members. If
      they remain interested they be will be offered the opportunity to meet with Dr Park and
      Professor Aziz, for further information and to address questions , and involve their family
      if they wish. Following this they will be reviewed by Dr Park a week later and thus given a
      up to week to decide if they would like to participate. Consent to participate in the project
      will be taken by Dr Park and can be freely withdrawn at any point with no effect on their
      usual clinical care. Throughout the study the patients will receive supportive treatment as
      usual from the clinical team who will be independent from the research team, and it will be
      made clear they can opt out of the study at any point without having to give explanations.

      If the patient consents to participation they will have preoperative assessments in the
      University Research Department at the Warneford hospital:

      I: PREOPERATIVE PHASE: 2 months

        1. Initial assessment with Research team. BMI: height and weight Semi structured interviews
           of Eating Disorder and comorbidity: EDE, SCID, Yale-Brown-Obsessive Compulsive scale (
           YBOCS); Self reported questionnaires as above indexing mood and quality of life
           Computerised Behavioural tasks: Leeds -Oxford food preference task , Habit formation
           task

        2. Weekly self report measures of symptoms done at home, weekly (5 minutes) using the' True
           Colours' online self monitoring system pioneered at the University of Oxford Department
           of Psychiatry, adapted for Eating disorders by Dr Park including the OXBREAD brief
           rating scale. http://oxtext.psych.ox.ac.uk/true-colours. This self report system will
           continue from entry to the study end. These self report schedules will be augmented by
           brief weekly on - line face to face reviews by skype or face time with the aim of
           offering participants maximal support and monitoring.

        3. Neuropsychological assessment battery, duration approximately 1 hour:
           (Neuropsychological assessments are routine for all DBS operations done in Oxford).

           • WAIS IV subtests : Vocabulary , Matrix Reasoning , Digit Span , Coding (Wechsler
           2008): Measures of general intellectual skills that is needed to make sense of
           performance across other cognitive domains.

           • BIRT Memory and Information Processing Battery : List Learning Task. Baseline measure
           of Verbal Memory and Learning( Coughlan, Oddly, & Crawford, , 2007).

           • Verbal Fluency. Baseline measure of Phonemic and Semantic Fluency(Spreen ,& Strauss
           1998).

           • CANTAB: IED and SWM subtests: Assess executive faculties such as set shifting and
           spatial working memory (Robbins, James, Owen, Sahakian, McInnes& Rabbitt, 1994)

        4. Preoperative Capacity assessment Once each suitable patient is identified, and consented
           , Dr Jacinta Tan will interview the patient independently to do a full MacCAT-CR
           assessment plus in depth interview to explore the patient's experience of treatment,
           rationale for participation and motivations for taking part in research from the
           participants' perspective, to ensure a high level of capacity , voluntariness and
           informed consent.

           The assessment is expected to take 2.5 -3 hours and can be done in sections if the
           patient tires. It will be tape recorded and transcribed. Jacinta will score the
           MacCAT-CR and an independent observer will also score the MacCAT-CR. Both will also
           provide global assessments of capacity to consent to research. Dr Tan will provide a
           detailed report of the interview and her assessment of ethical acceptability of
           participation for that individual. If she decides the patient is not suitable, the
           process will be repeated with the next individual on the list who agrees.

        5. Neuroimaging:

      Pre-operatively the patient will have:

      a whole brain MRI scan including T1, T2, Inversion Recovery sequences and fMRI in resting
      state and task based using our food reward task: These scans will occur at the John Radcliffe
      Hospital , Oxford; total duration 1 hour.

      a whole brain MEG scan- resting state and task based food reward task , which will be done at
      the Warneford Hospital, Oxford, duration 30 minutes.

      Medical optimisation: patients will have normalisation of electrolytes and ECG prior to being
      considered fit for the operation. They will need to be a BMI of> 13.

      II OPERATIVE PHASE: Month 2.

      The DBS operation-will require up to 4 days of inpatient stay at the John Radcliffe Hospital
      On the day of surgery, the patient will be anaesthetised and the base ring fixed to the skull
      and a CT scan performed with a localiser fixed to the ring. The patient will then be
      transferred to theatre and the scalp cleansed.

      By fusing the structural MRI scan to the stereotactic CT scan the trajectory to implant
      electrodes into the nucleus accumbens bilaterally will be calculated. Then through bilateral
      scalp incisions and a twist drill skull perforation, deep brain electrodes will be passed to
      target bilaterally and fixed to the skull with titanium mini-plates. The scalp will then be
      closed and a repeat stereotactic CT scan will be obtained to confirm electrode placement.

      Having done so, back in theatre the electrodes will be connected to extension cables that
      will then be passed sub-cutaneously down one side of the head, behind the ear to a
      sub-cutaneous pouch below the collar bone and connected to a rechargeable pacemaker and all
      the wounds closed. Video recordings are used as part of the assessment process during routine
      implantation of DBS wires whether taking part in a study or not and is therefore considered
      part of standard operating procedure. They will be assessed as part of the study to measure
      the response to DBS.

      The day after surgery, the pacemaker will be turned on to ascertain any immediate effects of
      stimulation on symptoms and then switched off again. Having done so the patient will be
      discharged two days after implant to be assessed six weeks after implant when all wounds are
      healed and any acute effects of the DBS electrode insertion operation such as headaches,
      scalp soreness or wound tenderness have worn off.

      III: POST OPERATIVE FOLL0W-UP PHASE: Month 3 ( off): Month 4-15: DBS On

      In the first post -operative month the stimulator will remain off. At the end of Month 3:
      post op MEG, followed by DBS switch on Month 4-6: 3 month dose optimisation period: dose
      adjustment may require more frequent visits to Oxford, up to weekly, for neurosurgical review
      Months 7-9: Dose stabilization period Month 10: Two fortnight periods of double blind either
      DBS On or off. MEG scans in each condition.

      Months 11-15: DBS at stable optimised dose. At month 15: Final MEG scan, neuropsychology

      Post operative assessments, aiming to track the neural and symptomatic change as a result of
      DBS will involve:

        1. Continuation of weekly self report rating scale of eating disorder, anxiety and
           depression involving the True Colours text messaging system started in phase I:
           http://oxtext.psych.ox.ac.uk/true-colours (5 minutes)

      1. Monthly reviews (up to 2 hours) in the Warneford Research department incorporating:

      • Interview with Dr Park , research assistant and/or DPhil student: BMI: Semi structured
      interviews including Eating Disorder Eating Disorders Examination (EDE), comorbid
      psychopathology (SCID) Yale-Brown-Obsessive Compulsive Scale (YBOCS), . Behavioural
      paradigms: food reward (Oxford-Leeds food preference task, habit task; Self report schedules
      as in phase 1 assessing eating disorder symptoms, starvation dependence, functional
      impairment and quality of life .

      • Joint Neurosurgery-psychiatric reviews with Professor Aziz , and/ or Senior nurse
      practitioner , and Dr Park: During this review neurosurgical parameters such as the degree of
      stimulation, and psychiatric parameters such as experience of eating disorder and comorbid
      psychiatric symptoms will be jointly assessed. Any necessary adjustments to stimulator
      intensity will then be programmed.

      Post operative neuroimaging :

      MEG resting state and food reward task based: (LO food preference task (OHBA, Warneford
      Hospital) - 30 minutes; at month 3 ( pre DBS switch on , 2 scans in month , 10 in DBS ON and
      OFF conditions , and end of study, month 15 Post operative Neuropsychological assessment 12
      month after DBS on ie at 15 months. approximately 1 hour.

      Optional post operative Ethics sub-study:

        -  A separate, post operative ethics sub study will be optional and participants will be
           informed about this option in the main study patient information sheet, In the main
           study consent form they will be asked if they agree to being contacted about the ethics
           sub-study post operatively or not.

        -  At the end of the study it will thus be possible to produce a detailed report of the
           ethics of the research, including the participant's perspective of the research
           experience

      Optional Annual follow up phase for up to 5 years postop: repeating interview and
      questionnaires measures taken at entry and protocol end .
    
  