
    
      PURPOSE OF THE INVESTIGATION The purpose of this investigation is to generate evidence about
      cerebral oxygenation during shoulder surgery and the incidence of POCD. Currently, evidence
      relating to POCD following surgery is conflicting and relates mostly to outcomes following
      cardiac surgery. There is a strong need to explore this relationship in the specific context
      of shoulder surgery in the BCP.

      INTERVENTION GROUPS This study will involve a single prospective cohort. Patients who meet
      the selection criteria will be recruited to the study following voluntary informed consent .
      Cerebral oxygenation will be measured by application of cerebral oximeters to each patients
      forehead.

      AIM OF THE STUDY This study has three aims; (i) To examine the relationship between cerebral
      desaturation during shoulder surgery in the BCP, and the incidence of POCD.

      (ii) To determine the variation in cerebral oxygenation recorded using randomised (for
      superior/inferior) simultaneous application of the INVOS™ and FORE-SIGHT® oximeters, during
      shoulder surgery in the beach chair position.

      (iii) Assess the relationships between cerebral oxygen desaturation during shoulder surgery
      in the BCP and variables including mean arterial pressure, incidence of nausea/vomiting,
      duration of hospital stay, BMI, hypertension and adverse events.

      RESEARCH QUESTION There are three research questions correlating with the three research
      aims; (i) Is cerebral desaturation during shoulder surgery associated with POCD? (ii) Do the
      FORE-SIGHT® and INVOS™ 5100 devices vary in their measurement of cerebral oxygenation during
      shoulder surgery in the BCP? (iii) Is there a relationship between cerebral desaturation
      events during shoulder surgery in the BCP and variables including mean arterial blood
      pressure, post-operative nausea/vomiting, length of hospital stay, BMI, hypertension and any
      adverse events?

      NULL HYPOTHESES The three null hypotheses are; (i) Cerebral desaturation as measured using
      cerebral oximetry is not related to POCD after shoulder surgery in the BCP.

      (ii) There is no significant difference between the INVOS™ 5100 and the FORE-SIGHT® monitors
      assessment of cerebral oxygenation during shoulder surgery in the BCP.

      (iii) There is no relationship between cerebral desaturation events during shoulder surgery
      in the BCP and variables including mean arterial blood pressure, the frequency of
      post-operative nausea/vomiting, length of hospital stay, BMI, hypertension and any adverse
      events.

      PRIMARY HYPOTHESES The primary research hypotheses are; (i) Cerebral desaturation events
      during surgery in the BCP will be related to POCD.

      (ii) The INVOS™ 5100 and the FORE-SIGHT® monitors will show no significant difference in
      their ability to measure cerebral oxygenation.

      (iii) Cerebral desaturation events experienced during shoulder surgery in the BCP are related
      to a drop in mean arterial blood pressure, an increased likelihood of post-operative nausea
      and vomiting, greater length of hospital stay, a higher BMI, hypertension and greater
      frequency of adverse events.
    
  