
    
      Eligible, consenting adults will be prepared for general anaesthesia in the usual way
      consisting of ECG, pulse-oximetry, NarcotrendTM, a venous cannula and an arterial line for
      continuous blood pressure monitoring. They will receive additional monitoring such as
      transcutaneous measurement of pCO2 and O2, NIRS, and thoracic electrical impedance tomography
      (EIT, PulmoVista® 500, Draeger, Luebeck, Germany).

      Normal pre-oxygenation (until etO2 is > 90% or time > 3 minutes) will occur. Anaesthesia will
      be started (= "induction") using Propofol and Fentanyl, using NarcotrendTM to measure depth
      of anaesthesia. All patients will receive a standard dose of neuromuscular blockage to
      facilitate airway management and total intravenous anaesthesia will be installed. Using the
      train of four measurement (TOF) full neuromuscular blockage with Rocuronium will be confirmed
      every 30 seconds. If necessary, additional dosage of neuromuscular blockage will be
      administered.

      After administration of Rocuronium, possibility of mask ventilation will be confirmed and the
      sealed envelope with the randomization will then be opened. As a study intervention, the
      assigned method (HFNCT 70 l/min with either jaw thrust or laryngoscopy, or 10 l/min or 2l/min
      with the standard nasal canula, or 0.25l/min delivery of oxgen via a tracheal tube) will be
      installed and mask ventilation discontinued starting the apnoea period. Nasopharyngoscopy
      (EF-N slim, Acutronic, Hirzel, Switzerland) will confirm upper airway patency. Blood gas
      analysis will be conducted: baseline awake, start of apnoea, first minute after apnoea start,
      and every 2 minutes thereafter with a maximum of 75ml 150 ml in total. Other measurements
      (ECG, pulse-oximetry, blood pressure, NIRS, thoracic EIT, NarcotrendTM, PtcO2, PtcCO2) will
      be measured continuously over the study period The study intervention will end when one of
      the following criteria (study end-points) is met: SpO2 <92%, PtcCO2 > 100 mmHg or time > 30
      minutes.

      When any of the end points is reached, patient-centred standard anaesthesia care will be
      continued, as planned for the case.

      A post-operative interview will be conducted before discharge to evaluate injuries during
      airway management (bleeding, sore throat, hoarseness), pain, postoperative nausea and
      vomiting.
    
  