
    
      Colorectal cancer (CRC), a largely preventable disease, remains the third leading cause of
      cancer death in the United States. Compared to other racial groups, African Americans have
      the highest CRC morbidity and mortality rates. Recent reports have found that African
      Americans' CRC incidence rates are 20% higher and mortality rates are 45% higher than those
      of whites. Given these disparities, it is critical to increase African Americans'
      participation in CRC screenings. Of the recommended CRC screening mechanisms, a colonoscopy
      is often the preferred method because it allows for both the detection and removal of
      precancerous and cancerous polyps. Although screening colonoscopies can detect and prevent
      CRC, more than 1/3 of African Americans have not received a screening colonoscopy within the
      recommended time frame (one screening colonoscopy per ten years). It is critical to increase
      African Americans' screening colonoscopy rates in order to reduce racial inequities in CRC
      morbidity and mortality.

      A motivational interviewing (MI) intervention can help improve African Americans' screening
      colonoscopy uptake. MI is a brief patient-centered intervention that increases perceived
      competence, autonomy, and relatedness in order to promote behavioral change. Extensive
      research supports the efficacy of MI to promote preventive health screening uptake, including
      increasing screening colonoscopy rates, and MI has proven efficacious with African Americans
      across a wide range of diseases.

      Traditionally, MI is delivered live, where individuals meet with a professional for a
      one-on-one intervention. Although efficacious, live-MI is not without limitations. Of
      greatest concern, live-MI requires both staffing and economic resources, limiting its ability
      to be widely disseminated. A digital intervention, such a tablet app, may overcome these
      limitations. By eliminating the need for an on-site professional, a tablet app is a high
      reach, low cost intervention with the potential to have a significant public health impact.

      The primary goal of this study is to conduct a randomized clinical trial (RCT) that examines
      the efficacy of a tablet app, called e-Motivate, to improve screening colonoscopy rates in
      African Americans.

      The app first underwent iterative field-testing and subsequent modifications to ensure that
      the app had high usability and acceptability ratings.

      The final version of the app, called e-Motivate, will be tested in a randomized clinical
      trial. African American patients referred for a screening colonoscopy will be recruited to
      the RCT. Participants (N=200) will be randomly assigned to a usual care group (N=100) or an
      e-Motivate group (N=100). Participants in the usual care group will receive standard patient
      navigation (e.g., scheduling, reminder calls). Participants in the e-Motivate group will
      receive standard clinical care and will also complete the e-Motivate app. The app will be a
      20-minute tablet app that will include motivational interviewing informed exercises and
      education. The app will be completed in the clinic immediately after a participant receives a
      referral for a screening colonoscopy. Six months following the initial referral, participants
      medical charts will be reviewed to determine whether they completed the recommended screening
      colonoscopy. It is hypothesized that participants in the e-Motivate group will be more likely
      to complete the recommended screening colonoscopy.

      The study will also explore whether the e-Motivate app can improve secondary outcomes (e.g.,
      bowel prep quality, number of cancellations).

      Potential mediators, informed by Self Determination Theory, will be evaluated. Potential
      moderators (e.g., age, education, family history of CRC) will be explored.
    
  