
    
      -  Since we are looking for the dose of RAD001 that can be given safely in combination with
           trastuzumab, not everyone will receive the same amount of RAD001. Small groups of
           participants will be enrolled at a certain dose of RAD001 and if they tolerate the
           medications well, the next small group will receive a higher dose. This will continue
           until the optimal dose of RAD001 that can be given in combination with trastuzumab is
           found.

        -  Blood will be drawn on days 1, 2, 8, and 15 of the first cycle of treatment and then
           once at every 4 cycles for everolimus pharmacokinetics analysis.

        -  There is an optional tissue biopsy component to this study asking for 2 biopsies
           performed pre-treatment and after the cycle one.

        -  We will keep track of the participants medical condition for the next three years by
           calling them on the telephone twice a year to see how they are doing.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

      - To assess the safety and tolerability of RAD001 in combination with trastuzumab in
      HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the activity of RAD001 plus trastuzumab, as defined by objective response
           rate, in patients with progression on a trastuzumab-containing regimen

        -  To evaluate changes in signaling molecules in response to trastuzumab and RAD001 in
           circulating tumor cells and tumor tissue

        -  To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of RAD001 in combination with trastuzumab.

      STATISTICAL DESIGN:

      This Phase I study followed a standard 3+3 dose escalation design with two dose levels of
      everolimus in combination with trastuzumab to be evaluated. The DLT observation period was
      cycle one (first 21 days of treatment). There is a 20 patient expansion cohort treated at the
      MTD. The regimen would be considered promising if at least 2 objective responses are observed
      out of 20 treated patients. If the true but unknown response rate is 15% then the probability
      of observing at least 2 responses is 82% but if the true rate is 5% this probability reduces
      to 26%.
    
  