
    
      Although often overlooked, Eating Disorders in men are a serious and deadly public health
      problem, affecting up to 7 million men in the United States. Efficacious, promulgated Eating
      Disorder treatments largely remain unknown, particularly for males. Over recent decades, men
      have faced increasing social pressures to obtain an unrealistically lean and muscular
      physique, which have contributed to body dissatisfaction and unhealthy eating and weight
      control behaviors among men, including symptoms of both Eating Disorders and muscle
      dysmorphia (body image disturbance characterized by the unhealthy pursuit of muscularity.
      Despite the impairment and distress associated with these conditions, males are less likely
      to seek treatment than females, in part due to stigma. Importantly, for those men who do seek
      help, existing treatments are targeted mostly towards females, rarely address male-specific
      risk factors, and are ineffective for over 50% of patients. Thus, well-accepted, easily
      replicable preventative programs that target male-specific Eating Disorder risk factors prior
      to disorder onset are critical to reduce the public health burden and disparities associated
      with eating disorders in men.

      Research supports that for men, pressures from media, friends, partners, and family to pursue
      a lean, muscular body can lead to body-ideal internalization -- the belief that one's
      self-worth and value are defined by physical appearance. This can lead to dissatisfaction
      with muscularity and body fat, which in turn, contributes to eating disorder and muscle
      dysmorphia-related attitudes and behaviors. Thus, targeting internalization of the lean,
      muscular ideal portrayed in media culture would be important for reducing both Eating
      Disorder and muscle dysmorphia symptoms for men.

      While studies have targeted body-ideal internalization in groups of women using
      dissonance-based interventions, until recently, no programs had been developed to address
      internalization of the lean, muscular body ideal for men. Our group recently developed and
      evaluated the Body Project: More than Muscles (MTM) in a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to
      target eating disorder and muscle dysmorphia risk factors in body-dissatisfied men. Results
      demonstrated significantly greater decreases in body-ideal internalization, dietary
      restraint, drive for muscularity, bulimic symptoms (e.g., binge eating, self-induced
      vomiting, laxatives, fasting, and/or excessive exercise), and muscle dysmorphia symptoms for
      men in the MTM intervention compared to assessment-only controls, both pre- to
      post-intervention and at 1-month follow-up. Further, body-ideal internalization mediated
      intervention outcomes for bulimic and muscle dysmorphia symptoms, supporting that the
      intervention's effects were exerted through reducing internalization of lean, muscular ideal
      images portrayed in media.

      While initial results for MTM are promising, prior to disseminating this program to a wider
      audience, the present study will replicate and extend effects observed in the previous trial
      by comparing the intervention to a time- and attention-matched media advocacy (MA) active
      control condition used in previous Eating Disorder prevention programs. The present study
      will also explore the impact of MTM on additional risk factors for Eating Disorders and
      muscle dysmorphia in men not explicitly included in the previous RCT including unhealthy
      exercise, self- and other-objectification, appearance- and performance-enhancing drug (APED)
      use, and overall levels of depression, stress, and anxiety.

      Results from the present study will provide critical support to help translate research on
      Eating Disorders and muscle dysmorphia in men into evidence-based prevention of these
      problems. MTM represents a novel approach to eating disorder prevention in this underserved
      population. This intervention has potential for wide dissemination, as peer-led interventions
      in women have demonstrated comparable impact to professional-led interventions. Further, if
      effects for MTM replicate, future research could adapt online or web-based versions of the
      program to help disseminate this program to a wider audience of men across the country. Thus,
      if results support the intervention's efficacy, this could lead to the expanded delivery of
      the intervention into university-based or online effectiveness trials to help prevent Eating
      Disorders and reduce body dissatisfaction for men at a national level.
    
  