
    
      The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) pathway is a key molecular pathway in the
      pathogenesis of SCCHN. Cetuximab, a therapy targeting the EGFR pathway, has shown great
      promise in SCCHN. The EXTREME study found that by combining cetuximab to a regimen of
      cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil, PFS could be extended to 5.6 months from 3.3 months, and that
      overall survival increased to 10.1 months versus 7.4 months. While this study proved a
      survival benefit with the addition of cetuximab, there were high rates of Grade 3 or 4
      toxicities to the chemotherapy backbone of high dose cisplatin with 5-fluorouracil.

      The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway is activated when conditions favor cellular
      growth and proliferation. The PI3K-Akt pathway is one of the key modulators in the activation
      of mTOR. Phosphorylated Akt is detected in the majority of SCCHN tumors by
      immunohistochemistry.

      Temsirolimus is an mTOR inhibitor that has been shown to have a synergistic effect with
      cisplatin and carboplatin in other tumor models. Due to the minimal toxicities associated
      with temsirolimus in clinical studies to date, this is an ideal agent to use in combination
      with other chemotherapies.

      There is limited experience for the combination of EGFR inhibitors and mTOR inhibitors in
      human subjects. These agents have been combined with a suggested synergistic effect in
      preclinical models of colon cancer xenografts and cell lines from non-small cell lung,
      pancreas, colon, and breast cancers. Cetuximab has been safely combined with everolimus (on
      oral mTOR inhibitor) in human subjects.

      There is sufficient evidence to suggest that the addition of the mTOR inhibitor,
      temsirolimus, may increase both the cytotoxicity seen from platinum-based chemotherapy as
      well as augment the effect of EGFR pathway inhibition from cetuximab, and possibly provide
      clinical benefit of its own. It is hypothesized that the combination of cisplatin, cetuximab,
      and temsirolimus will be an effective, well tolerated regimen for patients with R/M SCCHN.
    
  