
    
      In this project investigators will develop adaptive DBS algorithms based on cortical and
      subcortical signals using the RC+S. This bidirectional neural interface is rechargeable (for
      up to 9 years of use), and is capable of delivering therapeutic open-loop stimulation or
      closed-loop stimulation. Its sensing capability includes four simultaneous time series
      channels at up to 1000 Hz sampling rate. In addition the device can stream time series data,
      and calculate and stream spectral power within a preset bandwidth. Twenty patients with
      idiopathic PD and motor fluctuations, or medically intractable tremor, will be implanted with
      unilateral or bilateral RC+S devices, each connected to a standard quadripolar DBS lead
      implanted in STN or globus pallidus, and to a 4-contact paddle type electrode placed
      subdurally over sensorimotor cortex. The basal ganglia lead will be used for both stimulation
      and LFP recordings, while the cortical lead will be used only for recording ECoG potentials,
      not for stimulation.

      Patients with motor fluctuations cycle between a hypokinetic state (too little movement) and
      a hyperkinetic state (excessive movement). During open-loop DBS, brain state continues to
      fluctuate between these states and stimulation may induce dyskinesia or inadequately relieve
      akinesia.

      With the goal of maintaining motor function within a normal range away from these two
      extremes, investigators will develop and test stimulation algorithms that utilize putative
      markers of both kinetic states. The basic strategy is to automatically adjust stimulation
      parameters until the physiological signature of abnormal function is minimized. First,
      investigators will prototype adaptive stimulation paradigms and briefly (2 hours) test them
      in clinic, using a "distributed" configuration (streaming to a computer). Then, investigators
      will embed these algorithms in RC+S to test chronic and fully closed-loop DBS in a small
      double-blinded clinical trial. Investigators will pay careful attention to the possibility of
      progressive reduction in stimulation currents over the course of the study, which could
      support the hypothesis that "adaptive stimulation" might make the brain progressively less
      dependent on the device. In quantifying DBS amplitude and comparing open loop with adaptive
      stimulation, an important parameter is the total electrical energy delivered (TEED). TEED is
      calculated by the following equation as suggested by Koss and colleagues (TEED1sec =
      ((voltage2 x frequency x pulsewidth)/impedance) x 1sec). This can be used as measure of the
      energy saved when stimulation is delivered in closed-loop mode relative to empiric open-loop
      stimulation.
    
  