
    
      To compare the efficacy and safety of a select serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI,
      sertraline) and a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA, nortriptyline) in outpatients over the age
      of 60 who meet Diagnostic and Statistical Manuel-IV criteria for unipolar major depression,
      excluding patients who meet criteria for psychotic or atypical subtype. To test the
      hypothesis that medication condition interacts with diagnostic subtype (melancholic vs
      non-melancholic) in determining antidepressant response. To examine the roles of symptom
      severity and alternative diagnostic subtyping in contributing to this pattern.

      SSRIs are effective in the treatment of major depression. However, there is also evidence
      that SSRIs may be significantly less effective than TCAs for depressed patients with
      melancholia. This issue is of particular concern in late-life major depression. SSRIs have
      important safety advantages with respect to overdose and a benign cardiovascular profile.
      Furthermore, the SSRIs do not have significant anticholinergic effects, and appear to be
      better tolerated than the TCAs. Perhaps most important, the SSRIs currently are prescribed
      widely as the medication treatment of first choice for major depression in late life.
      Therefore, if it were determined that SSRIs are considerably less effective than TCAs in the
      treatment of melancholia in the elderly, there would be significant ramifications for
      clinical practice.

      Randomization to sertraline (a SSRI) or nortriptyline (a TCA) is stratified by the presence
      or absence of melancholia. Outcome measures for the 12-week acute phase include clinician and
      patient ratings of symptoms, side effects, and an evaluation of the health-related quality of
      life (HRQOL). At the end of the acute treatment phase, patients who meet criteria for
      clinical response participate in a 6-month continuation phase.
    
  