
    
      Obesity is associated with a spectrum of metabolic disorders including high blood pressure,
      dyslipidemia, insulin resistance and a state of low grade inflammation that predispose
      individuals to the development of type-2 diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular diseases. The
      intestinal microbiota has been recently proposed as a new actor in the development of obesity
      and its complications. In animal models, high-fat diets have been shown to affect the
      intestinal microbiota, increasing colonic gram-negative bacteria and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)
      concentrations, resulting in an impaired gastrointestinal barrier function and in subsequent
      endotoxinemia in the animals. This phenomenon would trigger chronic inflammatory and
      metabolic disorders leading to insulin resistance and other complication such as hepatic
      steatosis. Probiotics and prebiotics are GRAS (Generally recognized as safe) food ingredients
      which have been proposed to maintain the balance of the intestinal microbiota. Studies in
      mice fed a high fat diet have shown that the administration of oligofructose increases the
      counts of Bifidobacterium spp. in the colon and correlatively induced decreases of the
      endotoxinemia and low-grade inflammation while at the same time improving insulin
      sensitivity.

      On the basis of these antecedents, the aim of this study is to determine whether the intake
      of a synbiotic product (B. animalis subsp. lactis BB12+ Oligofructose) for six weeks
      contributes to improve the low grade inflammation and glucose tolerance of obese subjects.

      Obese subjects will be randomized into two groups (Synbiotic or Placebo) stratifying by sex
      and age. Anthropometric data (body composition by Bod-pod, weight, height, waist
      circumference) and systolic and diastolic blood pressure will be registered. A food survey
      will be carried out by a trained dietitian to quantify fat consumption. Each subject of the
      Synbiotic group must ingest one gram of BB12 (containing 1010 CFU) and 5 g of oligofructose
      twice a day for 6 weeks while those from the Control group will receive the corresponding
      placebo (maltodextrin). Digestive symptoms as well as stool frequency and consistency will be
      registered daily during the study using ad hoc forms and the Bristol Chart.

      Blood samples will be obtained at baseline, at the end of the six weeks period and one month
      after the end of the treatment, to determine lipid profiles and ultrasensitive C-reactive
      protein (CRP); plasmatic biomarkers of inflammation including IL-6, LPS binding protein and
      sCD14 will be also determined by Elisa using commercial kits. At the same times, a glycemia
      /insulinemia curve will be performed in the fasted subjects, as well as an intestinal
      permeability test (lactulose/mannitol/sucralose) to assess their gut barrier function. A
      fresh stool sample will be also obtained to characterize some bacterial population of their
      IM (Bifidobacterium, Lactobacillus, F. prausnitzii, Bacteroides and Clostridium cluster) by
      real-time PCR.
    
  