
    
      Children who have experienced abuse and neglect are at increased risk of mental and physical
      health problems throughout life. This places an enormous burden on individuals, families and
      society. Regardless of the severity of this abuse and neglect, these negative effects can
      largely be reversed if children are placed in secure, loving homes early enough in life.
      Placing children in nurturing foster placements can help them recover rapidly, but it is not
      known whether it is better for children's long term development to place them with substitute
      (foster or adoptive) families or return them to birth or extended families. Efforts to
      improve the mental health of maltreated children in birth families or foster placements have
      had mixed success and researchers have recommended that far more intensive approaches are
      required.

      The investigators have carried out careful exploratory research, in Glasgow, on an intensive
      approach, which was developed in the United States. This is was investigators have called
      this the New Orleans Intervention Model (NIM). NIM offers families who have a child who
      enters care due to abuse or neglect a structured assessment of family relationships followed
      by an intensive treatment that aims to improve family functioning and child mental health. If
      adequate change is achieved a recommendation is made for the child to return home but, if
      not, the recommendation is for adoption. Preliminary research from the US suggests that NIM
      might reduce future maltreatment of the child and other children in the family, and improve
      mental health in middle childhood.

      The investigators are currently conducting a study in which, since December 2011, has
      recruited around two-thirds of all maltreated children aged 6 months to 5 years coming into
      an episode of care in Glasgow. Half of the families who are taking part receive NIM, which is
      delivered by a multidisciplinary team comprising health and social care professionals. The
      remaining half of families will receive usual services, which is delivered by social workers.
      Preliminary findings suggest that NIM is acceptable to parents, foster carers, social workers
      and legal professionals. Investigators are currently conducting detailed exploratory work in
      two potential additional sites, South London and Fife/Tayside, as there is a need to test
      whether NIM is effective, in terms of both clinical outcomes and cost, in the different legal
      systems across England and Scotland. The plan is to launch NIM teams at these sites in 2016.

      The Investigators, therefore, propose a study of NIM involving a continuation of our current
      Glasgow work and including 1-2 additional sites. This will involve approximately 500 children
      (462 families) in total across the sites, including those recruited in our current Glasgow
      internal pilot study. This will determine whether or not NIM is effective in the UK and to
      follow up Glasgow children for five years to examine longer term effects on mental health.
    
  