
    
      Arsenicosis or arsenic toxicity caused by prolong ingestion of contaminated groundwater by
      inorganic arsenic (more than 0.05 mg/liter). It is the severest natural calamity widespread
      specially in Bangladesh where 61 districts out of 64 are affected. The commonest and earliest
      feature of arsenicosis is skin involvement like keratosis, melanosis and skin carcinoma.
      Keratosis of the palm and soles reduce the working ability of the patient's and affect their
      socio-economic condition. There is no specific treatment for keratosis. Short-term
      improvement may occur by using some topical keratolytic like salicylic acid, propylene
      glycol, eating some dietary supplementation like vitamin A, C, E, zinc, folic acid and
      foodstuffs like corn, spinach but symptoms recure after stoppage of these treatments. Also,
      these treatments require longer duration which ultimately affects patient adherence.
      Azadirachta indica leaves contain flavonoids, quercetin, azadirachtin, nimbin, steroids,
      alkaloids, phenolic compounds and other biologically active compounds that have
      anti-proliferative, anticarcinogenic, antioxidative and immunostimulant effects. For this
      reason, a study named "Effect of ethanol extract of leaves of Azadirachta indica on palmer
      arsenical keratosis: A single-blind trial" was done in the Department of Pharmacology,
      Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University, which was found effective . So, the purpose of
      this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the identified compound on moderate to severe
      arsenical keratosis which will be isolated from A. indica leaves extract. After IRB
      clearance, 35 patients with moderate to severe arsenical keratosis will be collected based on
      inclusion and exclusion criteria from the arsenic affected area, located at Kamalla Union of
      Muradnagar Upazilla, Comilla. The study will be quasi-experimental study. Included patients
      will be informed about the purpose of this study, as well as harmful and beneficial effects.
      Informed written consent, detail history, clinical examination, photographs of the palm and
      sole and nail samples will be collected before starting recruitment to confirm arsenicosis.
      For identification of isolated compounds present in the A. indica leaves, thin layer
      chromatography, nuclear magnetic resonance, and infrared spectrometry will be done. Cytotoxic
      effects of the A. indica leaves extract will be assessed by using brine shrimp bioassay. The
      ointment will be prepared from A. indica leaves extract and supplied to the patient at an
      interval of 2 weeks. Each patient will be advised to apply the ointment, with a clean
      fingertip by rubbing gently in the morning and night for 12 weeks. Regular monitoring will be
      done through phone calls and during a follow-up visit at the field level, about improvement
      and side effects of the ointment. Clinical improvement will be assessed by measuring the
      keratotic nodular size with the help of slide calipers. Statistical analysis will be done by
      paired t-test.
    
  