
    
      Study design: A prospective, randomized, controlled two-arm trial design: Group 1) exergaming
      with the Interactive Rehabilitation and Exercise System (IREX®) and Group 2) traditional
      gym-based exercise (TGB).

      Ethical Approval was sought from and granted by the School of Health and Social Care Research
      Governance and Ethics Committee at Teesside University on 20th September 2010 The study was
      conducted in the Physiotherapy Research Laboratory, Constantine Building, Teesside
      University.

      Participants were recruited by non-direct contacts from nine local community groups in the
      Middlesbrough area.

      Sixty-one potential participants were screened for eligibility. Four were excluded due to not
      meeting the eligibility criteria and three did not attend scheduled sessions. Fifty-four (42
      females and 12 males, age: 71 ± 5 years) were allocated to either exergaming with the IREX™
      (n = 27) or TGB (n = 27).

      Procedure

      On arrival for data collection at the Physiotherapy Research Laboratory at Teesside
      University, participants were asked if they had further questions about the study. These
      questions, if any, were answered. The study Consent Form was then signed. Participants'
      demographic details and all outcome measures were recorded, after which the participants were
      randomised by stratified blind-card allocation (picking a sealed opaque envelope).

      Data extraction

      Range and Standard Deviation (SD) of Centre of Pressure (CoP) displacements in the
      anterior-posterior (AP) and medio-lateral (ML) directions (CoPAP SD, CoPAP range, CoPML SD,
      CoPML range - all mm) and the resultant CoP velocity (mm.sec-1) were extracted from the force
      platform using Bioware software (Kistler™), after low-pass filtering of the raw data at 10
      Hz. CoP velocity (mm.sec-1) was calculated.

      Statistical analysis

      Data was analysed with Version 19 of the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS,
      Chicago, Illinois, USA). Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) was used to assess between-group
      final scores for each outcome measure used with baseline scores as covariate. Variables that
      did not meet the assumption of homogeneity of variance were analysed by two-way independent
      measures ANOVA with blocking using mean splits of scored pre-measures. Mixed analysis of
      variance (ANOVA) was used to determine any within-subject changes over time. All analyses
      used a significance level of 0.05. The effect size measure epsilon squared was used, where
      values of 0.01, 0.06 and 0.14 were interpreted as small, moderate and large.
    
  