
    
      Rapid maxillary expansion (RME) is the orthopedic procedure of choice to treat maxillary
      constriction and posterior crossbite, and the study of dental, skeletal and periodontal
      effects of this procedure has been widely discussed in the orthodontic literature. The
      conventional RME expanders promote a similar expansion in the anterior and posterior regions
      of the maxillary arch. On the other hand, the fan-type expander allows the expansion
      concentrated in the intercanine region with little effects the intermolar distance. Finally,
      the expander with differential opening has two palatal screws and the differential activation
      protocol promotes a different amount of expansion for the anterior and posterior regions of
      the maxilla. No clinical study compared dental and skeletal effects of the expander with
      differential opening with those of the fan-type expander, including a three-dimensional
      analysis using CBCT exams and digital dental models. So, the aim of the present randomized
      clinical trial is to compare the skeletal and dentoalveolar effects of the maxillary expander
      with differential opening and the fan-type expander in the mixed dentition.

      For this, patients will be recruited at the Orthodontic Clinic of Bauru Dental School,
      University of São Paulo, Brazil. A sample of 48 patients from 7 to 11 years old with
      transverse maxillary dental arch constriction will be prospectively and randomly allocated
      into two study groups. The first group will consist of 24 individuals treated with the
      expander with differential opening (DEG). The second group will consist of 24 individuals
      treated with the fan-type expander (FEG). In 12 patients from each group (immediate
      subgroups), a cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) will be performed in the beginning of
      treatment (T1) and immediately after the rapid maxillary expansion (T2). In the other 24
      patients, 12 from DEG and 12 from FEG (late subgroups), a CBCT will be obtained at T1 and 6
      months after maxillary expansion (T3). Dental models will be obtained for all patients at T1
      and T3. In digital dental models, maxillary arch width, perimeter, length and shape will be
      assessed. Standardized CBCT coronal sections will be used for measuring maxillary transverse
      dimensions, nasal cavity width and posterior tooth inclinations. Segmentation and
      superimposition of T1 and T3 CBCT images at the cranial base will be also performed. The
      opening of the midpalatal suture at the anterior and posterior region and the geometry of the
      suture opening will be evaluated in axial reconstructions of the CBCT.Discomfort, pain and
      quality of life will be evaluated by questionnaires.

      After the normality test, the paired t test will be used in the intragroup comparison, and
      the independent t test will be used in the intergroup comparison. In the case of lost to
      follow-up patients, intention to treat analysis will be used. A significance level of 5% will
      be regarded for all tests.

      Possible harms that could appear are related to temporary discomfort during the first days
      after the installation of the expander. Patients and legal guardians will be carefully
      oriented and they will be able to stop the treatment at any moment.
    
  