
    
      Introduction Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the fourth most common malignant disease with over 1
      million new cases each year worldwide (1) The outcome of surgery for rectal cancer has
      improved substantially during the past two decades due to TME, which involves complete
      removal of the mesorectum with preservation of the pelvic autonomic nerves. Local recurrence
      rate of rectal cancer has fallen sharply because radially spread cancer cells in the
      mesorectum are removed by complete resection of this tissue.(2)(3)(4) Minimally invasive
      surgery (MIS) is slowly taking over as the preferred operative approach for colorectal
      diseases. Recently published randomized clinical trials (RCTs), such as COLOR II, COREAN and
      CLASICC, have shown better results for laparoscopic total mesorectal excision (in terms of
      short-term and long-term outcomes), when compared with open TME(5)(6)(7) However the utility
      of laparoscopic TME is limited in patients with low rectal cancer, who require surgeons with
      experience in ultra-low sphincter-saving laparoscopic surgery, which has a high risk of
      leaving a positive circumferential resection margin (CRM). In addition, narrow pelvic
      anatomy; male sex and high body mass index (BMI) are also unfavourable patient
      characteristics for a laparoscopic approach

      The need to overcome these challenges has motivated surgeons to adopt alternative techniques.
      The two more recent procedures that have been introduced to surgical management of rectal
      cancer are robotic low anterior resection (RLAR) and Transanal Total Mesorectal Excision
      (TaTME). These two new procedures have the potential to overcome anatomical limitations like
      obesity, narrow male pelvis and bulky and low tumours to improve surgical treatment and
      thereby potentially oncological outcomes.

      TaTME combines the TAMIS ( transanal minimally invasive surgery ) and trans-abdominal
      approaches in order to achieve TME.Transanal TME (TaTME) typically starts with the rectal
      resection and progresses to the splenic flexure/sigmoid colon mobilization in a "bottom-up"
      manner (8). A single-incision laparoscopic surgery port is introduced into the anal canal to
      gain endoscopic access to the rectum, pneumorectum is established, A purse-string suture is
      applied below the tumor, and this ensures an adequate oncological distal margin (9).
      Transanal excision is subsequently performed using laparoscopic instruments Rectal distension
      with CO2 combined with magnified optics permits excellent visualization of tissue planes.
      Easier access to the low rectum aid the surgeon with better quality TME and precise selection
      of the distal resection margin under direct visualization helps ensure an adequate margin.
      TaTME may potentially aid to a safer anastomosis by avoiding the multiple stapler firings
      often required in the laparoscopic approach and may result in higher rates of sphincter
      preserving surgery.

      Robotic approach has been subject to much interest in recent years from its potential
      learning benefits to the operating surgeon and clinical benefits to the patients. Some of the
      clinical benefits include shorter hospital stay and improved functional outcomes compared to
      laparoscopic surgery (10) The other advantages provided by the robotic platform hold the
      potential to provide improved clinical outcomes, (11)(12) (13).

      Both of the new procedures have been compared retrospectively to open and conventional
      laparoscopic surgery in various trials, which show that these methods are safe and feasible
      (9)(14). However, data on direct comparison of these two techniques are still lacking.

      Potential benefits of robotic rectal resections Technical Benefits The potential benefits of
      robotic systems over laparoscopic TME include superior three-dimensional vision, seven
      degrees of freedom of movement replicating the surgeon's hand movements, lack of tremor and
      potential superior ergonomics, suggesting potential application in both routine and more
      difficult cases

      Operator Learning Benefits The main criticisms of robotic TME are the longer operating times
      and notable trends of higher costs, compared to laparoscopic TME(14). Greater use of and
      familiarity with the robotic system has led to significant improvements operation time, rates
      of conversion to open surgery and the number of harvested lymph nodes.

      Bokhari et al (15) suggested that the learning curve of robotic colorectal surgery was
      achieved at 15 to 25 cases with 3 learning phases after analysing 50 patients by using
      cumulative sum (CUSUM ) method. The author suggested that Phase 3 was achieved after 25 cases
      and this represented a mastery phase in which more challenging cases can be managed. Kim et
      al showed that the learning curve plateaued after 65 cases for early Laparoscopic TME as
      opposed to after 32 cases for Robotic TME (16) Most studies to date about RLAR were done
      using the da Vinci Si system or older models. With the newer systems X or Xi, and once the
      surgeons have achieved at least 60 procedures we believe that the outcomes and operating time
      is less, that has been recently published by the ROLAR trial (12). Similarly to achieve good
      clinical and oncological outcomes with TaTME surgeons are required to have performed at least
      60 cases. Hence we decided to choose 60 procedures as an arbitrary number to select our
      surgeons experience involved in this trial. Selecting this number suggest that the surgeons
      are in a mastery period and hence are expected to have good clinical and oncological outcomes
      Considering the paucity of evidence on direct comparison of these two procedures we aim to
      directly compare both procedures for the disease free survival and other clinical and
      oncological outcomes in the hands of experienced surgeons.

      Potential benefits of TaTME rectal resections TaTME offers better access to the lower rectum
      even in a difficult pelvis and also ensure a clear distal margin with insertion of a distal
      to the tumour purse string under direct vision. This ensures an end-to-end anastomosis
      without the need of multiple stapler firings. This approach also allows two-team synergy with
      an abdominal and perineal surgeon operating simultaneously.

      The technique however still requires significant surgical skills and the abilty to operate in
      a confined space and concerns have been expressed about the spillage of tumour cells with
      direct handling and instrumentation.

      Methods and analysis Design This is an observational prospective, multicentre trial. Patients
      will be assigned either RLAR or TaTME depends on the chosen centres.The centres would be
      doing either TaTME or RLAR for rectal cancer management. The study will include 330 patients
      from UK and Denmark. This study has no impact on staging investigations, timing of surgery or
      any other aspect of the patients' pre, peri or post-operative care. All decisions remain with
      the local clinician multi-disciplinary team including when to discharge from hospital.
      However, the biostatisticians performing the analysis will be blinded to the intervention

      Objectives Outcome Measures Time point(s) of evaluation of this outcome measure (if
      applicable) Primary Objective The primary aim of the study is to compare the 3 year disease
      free survival between RLAR and TaTME in the hands of an experienced surgeon 3 year disease
      free survival 6 monthly post op for the first 2 years and 12 -monthly follow-up for next 3
      years Secondary/ exploratory Objectives Surgical morbidity/mortality up to 90 days

      Pathological quality assessment

      Assessment of intraoperative adverse events within advanced minimally-invasive surgery

      Overall survival at 3 years

      Health economics assessments

      Evaluation of the operative length of time

      Recruitment per month per centre for the RLAR and TaTME ARMS

      Completeness of mesorectum excision (TME) will be assessed by the pathologist and is defined
      as:

        1. Distal resected margin ≥ 1cm

        2. Lymph node yield

        3. Mesorectalplane of surgery

        4. R0 resection (all margins clear) To report "near misses" and associated impact upon
           clinical outcomes

      Healthcare resource utilization (costs) including hospital length of stay, ICU hours, and
      productivity losses collected through a Labour Force survey). Return to work/activity will
      also be included Total OR utilisation time and operative time skin to skin, minutes This will
      be used as part of the feasibility assessment to determine the duration of the recruitment
      period and the follow-up phase. Patients dropout rate during follow-up will also be monitored
      Study population Participants with rectal cancer who are scheduled for initial treatment by
      TME.The inclusion and exclusion criteria are shown in Table 1 Table 1 Inclusion criteria
      Exclusion criteria

        -  Participant is willing and able to give informed consent for participation in the trial.

        -  Female participant who is pregnant, lactating or planning pregnancy during the course of
           the trial.

        -  Male or Female, aged 18 years or above.

        -  Participant with life expectancy of less than 6 months.

        -  Undergoing TME surgery for rectal cancer after MDT discussion.

        -  Any other significant disease or disorder which, in the opinion of the Investigator, may
           either put the participants at risk because of participation in the trial, or may
           influence the result of the trial, or the participant's ability to participate in the
           trial.

        -  Participant has no contra-indication to pelvic radiotherapy at the time of enrolment.

        -  Participants who have participated in another research trial involving an
           investigational product in the past 12 weeks.

        -  In the Investigator's opinion, is able and willing to comply with all trial
           requirements.

        -  Tumour distance from anal verge - 12 cm or less

        -  Willing to allow his or her General Practitioner and consultant, if appropriate, to be
           notified of participation in the trial.

      The Number of Participants The primary study end point, DFS is defined as the time following
      successful surgery to the first date of local, regional/distant relapse or death due to
      colorectal cancer (patients with secondary malignancy will be censored). Overall survival is
      defined as the time following successful surgery to death.

      In the TaTME, it is assumed that the DFS is 92% and in the RLAR arm 95% at 3 years. A
      non-inferiority margin of 90% is selected. Based on this estimation, sample size calculation
      has been done with a one-sided level of significance of 20% and a power of 80%. A total
      number of 330 patients is needed, 165 patients in the RLAR arm and 165 patients in the TaTME
      are required with a 10% loss to follow-up assumed.

      DFS will be analysed on an intent-to-treat (per protocol) basis using a log-rank test after
      propensity matching analysis has been conducted; a secondary analysis of DFS will also
      performed be using a Cox proportional hazards regression model with the unmatched cohort
      (without adjustment of baseline characteristics, i.e. propensity score match) that allowed
      for the effect of treatment and include lists of covariate with a statistical interaction of
      alpha level of 20%.

      Data Management Case report forms (CRFs) will be entered in a secured online page. Only
      authorized staff at sites will have access via an individual secure login username and
      password to enter the data. All paper CRFs must be completed, signed/dated and returned to
      the investigator. Data reported on each CRF should be consistent with the source data or
      discrepancies should be explained. If information is not known, this must be clearly
      indicated on the CRF. All missing or ambiguous data will be queried. All sections are to be
      completed.

      All trial records will be archived and securely retained for at least 25 years.

      Ethics and dissemination The trial will be performed in accordance with the recommendations
      guiding physicians in biomedical research involving human subjects, adopted by the 18th World
      Medical Association General Assembly, Helsinki, Finland and stated in the respective
      participating countries laws governing human research, and Good clinical Practice. The
      medical ethical committees of all participating countries will have to approve the study
      protocol prior to enrolling patients.

      Discussion

      To date studies on TaTME and robotic TME have focused mainly on short term outcomes and
      oncological endpoints such as specimen quality, circumferential resection margin involvement
      and the free distal margin(14,17,18) In a recent study comparing TaTME and Robotic TME, there
      were no differences in the incidence of poor quality resection including incomplete quality
      of TME and positive circumferential resection margin (CRM) in both groups. However the
      authors noted that distal resection margin (DRM) involvement was higher in the TaTME
      group.(17) They attributed this to the learning curve effect of TaTME. As discussed earlier,
      previous reports have noted that the learning curve for robotic TME was less than
      laparoscopic surgery, which in effect TaTME is still a laparoscopic "bottom up "approach.

      Nonetheless, the long term oncological parameters for both procedures , including overall
      survival, disease-free survival and local recurrence, are yet to be clarified. Secondly,
      there have been significant concerns in regards to an increased recurrence rate after TaTME
      (19).The Norwegian group have noted an unexpected increase in local recurrence after TaTME of
      9.5 % after a median of 11months after surgery(19).The reasons for their observations were
      unclear , despite that fact that their surgeons performing TaTME were experienced and were
      proctored and trained in England and Spain for the procedure.

      In 1980 Knight and Griffen (20)publised their stapling technique for low rectal cancer
      anastomosis using linear and circular stapler.This has lead to the introduction of the double
      stapling technique(21). The advantage is that the distal segment of the bowel is not opened
      and this avoids spillage from the rectal stump.

      The possibility of increased local recurrences in TaTME may be related to the rectal
      transection and air flow during dissection from the perineum. The rectal purse-string suture
      is never completely air tight and this will invariably lead to shredding of microscopic
      cancer cells in the pelvis and hence this may lead to an increase rate of local
      recurrence.During a robotic TME and the use of the articulating robotic stapler ,the rectal
      transection is precise and there are no leakage of microscopic cancer cells in the pelvis.

      With these current issues in mind, we aim to compare the 3 year disease free survival and
      local recurrence rate of the two procedures performed by experienced surgeons who are beyond
      their learning curve . Only surgeons who have peformed more than 60 procedures in either
      TaTME or robotic TME will be selected .

      ROTA study will be the first multicentre prospective trial comparing RLAR and TaTME in
      regards to disease free survival (DFS) and other clinical trials Applications for funding,
      ethics approval and protocol amendments will be required.

      Conclusions There is an urgent need to assess the long oncological outcomes of newer surgical
      techniques for TME (TaTME & RLAR) This will allow recommendations to be made for tailor made
      treatment of RC.
    
  