
    
      Objectives:

      The primary objectives of this study are to evaluate the long-term safety, efficacy and
      clinical performance.

      Study Design:

      This is a prospective, single center, non-interventional, non-randomized, post-market release
      clinical study

      Sample Size and Study Duration:

      A total of 255 patients had aortic valve replacement and 47 patients had mitral valve
      replacement in the Albertinen-Krankenhaus (Hamburg, Germany) during the previous Mosaic
      Pre-Market approval (PMA) study.

      All surviving patients from the Mosaic Pre-Market Approval study at this center, will be
      invited to participate. Approximately 225 patients will be invited.

      This study is intended to serve as an ongoing source of information on long-term durability
      and safety of the CE-marked Medtronic Mosaic bioprosthesis. As such the study is to continue
      indefinitely until the last follow-up visit (until patient study exit due to patient death,
      withdrawal of patient consent,...) of the last study patient.

      PATIENT SELECTION:

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  All patients who were enrolled and implanted with the Mosaic bioprosthesis in the
           Albertinen-Krankenhaus (Hamburg, Germany) during the previous Mosaic PMA study, will be
           invited to participate in this long- term follow-up study.

        -  Patients who are able to provide informed consent

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients who are not from the Albertinen-Krankenhaus (Hamburg, Germany) and who did not
           participate in the Mosaic PMA study are ineligible for this study.

        -  Patients refusing or not able to provide informed consent.

        -  Patients not willing and unable to comply with the Clinical Investigation Plan
           (CIP)-requirements.

      Data Requirements and analysis:

      For each patient enrolled in the study, information will be collected annually. Data will be
      collected on the patient status and device hemodynamic performance by echocardiography.
      Patient identity is anonymized.

      Appropriate statistical analysis will be performed for the collected clinical data.
    
  