
    
      Advances in the treatment of HIV-disease have shown dramatic effects on improving immune
      function in a significant proportion of people infected with HIV in the United States. For
      the first time since the beginning of the HIV epidemic, individuals with HIV are faced with
      the prospect of living longer, healthier lives. Cigarette smoking is highly prevalent among
      HIV+ individuals and, in addition to the negative health consequences commonly resulting from
      smoking, poses unique health risks to those with HIV. Our present research investigation,
      Positive PATHS (PATHS), the only NIH-funded smoking cessation study in HIV+ persons, is
      designed to evaluate a clinic-based motivational smoking cessation intervention among HIV+
      smokers in Southern New England. Preliminary analysis of the PATHS investigation indicate
      that both a standard care intervention (brief advice and NRT) and a more extensive
      motivational counseling condition have similar biochemically verified smoking abstinence
      rates 6-months post intervention, with Latino participants responding better to the brief
      standard care condition. The goal of the current application is to expand upon the
      preliminary results of this study and target the standard care intervention to Latino HIV+
      patients who were found to respond best to a brief directive approach. This expanded standard
      care approach will incorporate the use of culturally specific materials to provide brief
      advice to both the patient and a patient-identified social support person who will be trained
      in ways to support cessation efforts. Latinos are a population greatly affected by HIV and
      tobacco use, yet rarely discussed in existing research. Most tobacco research that includes
      Latinos has focused on prevention efforts. The few culturally specific cessation
      interventions that have been done have focused mostly on Mexicans in the Southwest and
      California1,2,3. Considering the diversity of the Latino population in the US, those
      interventions may not generalize to Latinos in the Northeast, who are mostly of Puerto Rican
      and Dominican origin. Research is limited in the area of HIV among Latinos and there are no
      studies to date that address the problem of tobacco use among HIV+ Latinos. We propose to
      address this disparity by focusing this particular research study on Latino men and women
      living with HIV/AIDS.
    
  