
    
      The primary study is a double blind, two-arm, 28-day, placebo-controlled study with
      approximately 120 infested "index" subjects randomized 1:1 to Natroba™ or Placebo. All
      members of a household (no more than 6 individuals) with a suspected "index" subject must be
      screened at the first visit. In this study, "index" subjects are defined as the youngest
      infested household member (≥4 years). If the members have an active scabies infestation and
      meet all other criteria, they must agree to participate in the study. Household members who
      do not present with scabies at the screening visit must also agree to apply the same blinded
      investigational product (IP) as household members who present with scabies. All household
      members must agree to participate in the study or none will be enrolled. Screening procedures
      include informed consent, medication and medical history, urine pregnancy test for females of
      childbearing potential, scabies assessment (visual evidence of burrows,
      inflammatory/non-inflammatory lesions and pruritus), microscopic examination of skin
      scraping, or dermatoscopy, to demonstrate the presence of mites, eggs, and/or scybala
      (dermatoscopy must confirm burrows), vital signs, general skin and eye assessment,
      randomization, CBC and serum chemistry, and IP dispensing and instruction.

      After screening on Day 1, all randomized subjects in the primary population will be dispensed
      IP (Natroba™ or Placebo) to apply at home later the same day as a single treatment over the
      entire body from the neck down to the toes (including the soles of the feet) and to the scalp
      (if balding) or hairline, temples and forehead on the same day. Subjects less than 12 years
      of age should be assisted with administration by a parent, guardian or caregiver. Subjects
      will rub the treatment into the skin followed by a 10-minute wait period before getting
      dressed. Showering or bathing must not occur earlier than 6 hours after treatment and no
      later than at least 1 hour prior to Day 2 visit.

      A separate population of 24 pediatric "non-index" subjects that do not reside in the "index"
      subject's household will be enrolled to assess the PK of spinosad and benzyl alcohol for 12
      hours after open-label topical application on a single in-clinic visit (Day 1, or Day 2 if
      screening only on Day 1). There will be 12 male or female subjects 4 - 9 years of age (with a
      minimum of 6 male or female subjects 4 - 6 years of age) and 12 male or female subjects 10 -
      16 years of age. With assistance from a caregiver, Natroba™ will be applied over entire body
      from the neck down to the toes (including the soles of the feet) and to the hairline,
      temples, and forehead. The open-label product will remain on the skin for at least 6 hours
      before bathing or showering. The subjects will stay in the clinic until the 12-hour
      procedures are completed. Blood draws will be taken at 0 hours just prior to treatment, and
      then at 0.5, 1.0, 3.0, 6.0 hours post-treatment and then at 12 hours post-treatment. Bathing
      must occur after the 6 hour blood draw but prior to the 12 hour blood draw. A ±5 minute time
      window will be allowed for all post-treatment blood samples. Safety will be assessed with
      adverse events (AEs), general skin and eye irritation assessments, pre-dose and pre-discharge
      laboratory evaluations, and vital signs during the 12 hours in-clinic. Following the sample
      collections subjects will be released from the clinic and directed to their primary care
      physician for follow-up. PK subjects will be provided 5% Permethrin upon discharge to
      dispense to household members.

      In the primary population (all household members), on Day 2 (Visit 2), general skin and eye
      assessments will be made for possible irritation, and to confirm that all IP was left on for
      a minimum of 6 hours before bathing or showering. If a subject reports an adverse event
      assessed as related by the PI on Day 2 (Visit 2) then a follow-up visit with the investigator
      must be scheduled within 7 days of visit. Subjects will receive a well-being phone call on
      Day 14 to continue to emphasize instructions to prevent re-infestation, determine if any
      concomitant medications have been used, and check for adverse events. If a subject reports an
      adverse event assessed as related by the PI on the Day 14 well-being phone call, then a
      follow-up visit with the investigator must be scheduled within 7 days of phone call.

      On Day 28 (Visit 3), all household members will return to the clinic for safety and efficacy
      assessments. The primary endpoint of complete cure will be assessed in the infested household
      members. If the infested subject is completely cured at Day 28, he or she will have completed
      the study and termination procedures will be conducted. If the subject is not completely
      cured at Day 28 (with Natroba™ or Placebo), the subject will receive 5% Permethrin and will
      be directed to their primary care physician for follow-up.

      Safety assessments will be made for all household members and will include monitoring of
      adverse events (AEs) throughout the study, vital signs recording (Days 1 and 28), clinical
      laboratory analyses (Days 1 and 28), and general skin and eye irritation assessments (Days 1,
      2, and 28).

      The Day 28 procedures will also be completed for early termination (ET) except subjects will
      not receive rescue Permethrin, but will be directed to follow-up with their primary care
      physician.
    
  