
    
      Scientific Background In many patients with severe left heart failure (LHF) a chronic
      pulmonary hypertension (PH) occurs during follow-up leading to a remodeling of pulmonary
      arteries with an increase in pulmonary artery pressure (PAP), pulmonary vascular resistance
      (PVR) and transpulmonary gradient (TPG). According to the International Society for Heart and
      Lung Transplantation and the German Standing Committee on Organ Transplantation, cardiac
      transplantation is contraindicated if values of PAP, PVR, and/or TPG are above 40 mmHg, 240
      dyn x s x cm-5, and 15 mmHg, respectively. Even if the patients show only slightly elevated
      hemodynamic values at the time of application for transplantation, values most often reach
      the respective exclusion limits during the waiting period. Patients signed in for
      transplantation partially are not any longer electable for orthotopic heart transplantation
      (OHT) at the time of identification of an appropriate donor organ. In the meantime the time
      on the waiting list for heart transplantation is increasing. In 2001, patients being on the
      waiting list were undergoing heart transplantation within one year. In contrast, 972 patients
      were on the waiting list while only 325 heart transplantations were performed in Germany in
      2011 (www.eurotransplant.nl).

      At present, no specific therapy for PH due to left heart disease is available (Galie 2009),
      treatment with PAH agents is not recommended due to lack of data (Rosenkranz 2011).

      There are only few studies with PH-targeted medication within this indication.
      Phosphodiesterase inhibitors (e.g. Sildenafil), Endothelin-receptor antagonists and
      Prostacyclin are potential agents for the treatment of PH during the waiting period for a
      heart transplantation.

      Iloprost is a synthetic analogue of Prostacyclin PGI2. Iloprost dilates systemic and
      pulmonary arterial vascular beds leading to a reduction of blood pressure.

      In a previous study the investigators administered aerosolized Iloprost (ILO) in 14 patients
      with pulmonary hypertension due to chronic cardiac failure on the waiting list for heart
      transplantation. Iloprost caused a significant reduction in pulmonary arterial pressure and
      pulmonary vascular resistance without severe side effects and was more effective than nitric
      oxide (Sablotzky, Grünig et al. 2002, 2003). In a retrospective non-controlled study in 51
      patients awaiting orthotopic heart transplantation Iloprost inhalation caused a significant
      decrease in PVR (from 458 dyn x s x cm-5 to 345 dyn x s x cm-5), a significant decrease in
      TPG (21 mmHg to 17 mmHg), and a significant improvement in Cardiac Index (CI) from 2,09
      l/min/m2 to 2,23 l/min/m2 (Schulz et al., 2010). In a retrospective non-controlled study
      low-dose Bosentan improved hemodynamic parameters and 1-year survival rate in 82 end-stage
      heart failure patients on the waiting list for cardiac transplantation (Hefke et al., 2011).

      Randomized-controlled trials are missing within this indication. Sildenafil is not a
      medication of first choice due to contraindications and as well as many patients waiting for
      OHT are treated with nitrate (medication due to coronary heart disease). In contrast, inhaled
      Iloprost has advantageous effects on coronary perfusion. However, in this indication the
      adverse event profile of inhaled Iloprost regarding frequency and time-dependency is not yet
      clear. In Germany inhaled Iloprost is administered by the I-Neb AAD-System which allows
      precise, reproducible dose of the drug.

      Due to the positive results in retrospective analyses and in the treatment of patients with
      pulmonary hypertension, the initiation of this proof-of-concept study seems to be justified.
    
  