
    
      Nonspecific low back pain is defined as localized pain and discomfort between the lower
      margins of the costal gradis and the lower gluteal folds. Chronic low back pain may be
      associated with central sensitization (CS) which is a proposed physiological phenomenon in
      which a deregulation in the central nervous system. Another relevant point related to
      worsening pain is kinesiophobia, which is fear of movement due to pain which impedes the
      movement or causes the person to gradually decrease their activities, thus limiting their
      functions, and restricting their participation in activities of daily living. The research
      design is a randomized, controlled, blinded clinical trial on the influence of central
      stabilization on the basis of the Pilates method in improving pain, kinesiophobia, central
      sensitization and function in patients with chronic low back pain of non-specific origin. It
      is a research with four evaluations: pre-treatment, post-two weeks, post four weeks and three
      months after the end of treatment. An evaluation form will be used, containing questions
      about personal data, history of diseases, ethylism, smoking, medications used and pain
      intensity by the numerical scale of pain. The Tampa scale for kinesiophobia will also be
      used. The Central Sensitization questionnaire, which has two parts, part A containing 25
      questions about the presence of pain in the last 3 months and part B containing 10 questions
      about possible medical diagnoses will be used. Finally, the Oswestry 2.0 Disability Index
      will be applied. 34 (thirty-four) volunteers, of both genders, aged between 18 and 35 years
      old will be recruited for at least 3 (three) months of non-specific back pain; of which 17
      (seventeen) will undergo the Pilates Method and 17 (seventeen) will be part of the control
      group. Pilates exercises will be performed three times a week for 4 weeks, totaling 12
      sessions of treatment, by a researcher with training in the method and previous training in
      performing the exercises. The re-evaluations will be performed after the sixth treatment
      session (Pilates group) and two weeks after the initial evaluation (control group), after the
      twelfth session (Pilates group) and after four weeks for the control group. A reevaluation
      will also be performed after 3 months of treatment, in order to analyze how well the Pilates
      method was effective in maintaining the improvement of the patient's clinical condition.
    
  