
    
      Specific Aim 1 tests the hypothesis that the nutrition intervention (low-fat, low-GI, vegan
      diet; henceforth called the 'vegan diet') improves glycemic control, body weight, plasma
      lipid concentrations, blood pressure, and indices of renal function in a within-group
      analysis.

      Glycosylated hemoglobin is the primary dependent variable, as well as fasting plasma glucose
      and urinary albumin and creatinine concentrations. The within-group changes in these
      variables from baseline to week 20, one-year follow-up will be compared.

      Specific Aim 2 tests the hypothesis that the vegan diet is more effective than standard
      nutrition care for improving glycemic control, body weight, plasma lipid concentrations,
      blood pressure, and indices of renal function in individuals with type 2 diabetes.

      Glycosylated hemoglobin is the primary dependent variable, as well as fasting plasma glucose
      and urinary albumin and creatinine concentrations in both the intervention and control
      groups. The between-groups differences in the changes in these variables from baseline to
      week 20, and one-year follow-up will be compared.

      Specific Aim 3 tests the hypothesis that the vegan diet is sustainable among individuals with
      type 2 diabetes for a 20-week period, with weekly classes, and in a follow-up period of one
      year with limited professional support.

      This will be assessed by 3-day dietary records at weeks 0, 20 and one-year follow-up.

      Specific Aim 4 tests the hypothesis that the vegan diet has an acceptability that is
      comparable to that of standard nutrition care among individuals with type 2 diabetes.

      This hypothesis will be addressed by quantitatively assessing adherence to and acceptability
      of the intervention and control diets, using the 3-day dietary record, the Food Acceptability
      Questionnaire, and the Eating Inventory, as described below.

      Specific Aim 5 tests the hypothesis that the effects of the dietary interventions on A1c and
      body weight are reduced in individuals with the A1 and B1 alleles of the DRD2 gene.

      This will be assessed through Taq1 A1 and B1 genotype determination at baseline.
    
  