
    
      Epidemiological Data

      It is estimated that chronic infection with the chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) affects
      approximately 180 million people worldwide (1). It has surpassed HIV infection as the leading
      cause of death from viral infection in multiple countries including the United States (2).
      Complications of chronic HCV occur after several years and include cirrhosis, liver failure,
      need for liver transplantation, and hepatocellular carcinoma. Complications of cirrhosis
      include portal hypertension, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, gastrointestinal bleeding,
      and hepatic encephalopathy, among others (3). There are also multiple extrahepatic
      manifestations of the disease such as uveitis, cryoglobulinemia, autoimmune thrombocytopenic
      purpura, membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, Porphyria Cutaneous Tarda (PCT), among
      others (4). Consequently, HCV represents a major cause of health care expenses.

      In Peru, the prevalence of HCV in the general population is estimated at less than 1%. While
      people receiving multiple blood transfusions and health workers are known risk groups, the
      highest prevalence - 59% (5,6) - has been reported in people receiving chronic hemodialysis.

      Previously, patients with chronic kidney disease - stage 5 received blood transfusions for
      the treatment of anemia associated with this disease so it was considered an important risk
      factor, which has decreased with the use of erythropoietin (EPO). Currently, the most
      important risk factor in dialysis is nosocomial transmission related to the biosecurity
      practices used.

      New era in the treatment of HCV: The HCV treatment standard in Peru has been pegylated
      interferon +/- ribavirin, however, its use in patients on hemodialysis has been limited due
      to its low efficacy and unfavorable safety profile. There is a clear need for new HCV
      treatments that are effective and well tolerated.

      In recent years there has been a significant improvement in drugs and drug combinations for
      the treatment of HCV. The current treatments are oral interferon-free schedules, which
      combine 2 or more medications called direct acting agents (DAA). DAAs schemes are highly
      effective and well tolerated, with cure rates above 90% even in patients who have
      traditionally been difficult to treat. The metabolism of DAAs varies among the different
      classes, being that only a few have indication of use in people receiving hemodialysis (7).

      Preliminary local data: The Social Security of Peru (EsSalud) is the second largest public
      health system in the country, which has been treating most people who require chronic
      hemodialysis in Peru. The National Renal Health Center (NRHC) of the Social Security of Peru
      (EsSalud) provides specialized health care, including hemodialysis, to people with advanced
      kidney disease from all the districts of Lima. Currently they serve 293 people on chronic
      hemodialysis. Because the NRHC routinely performs the serology test for HCV, they have
      identified 124 patients (42.32% of all patients on hemodialysis at the NRHC) with positive
      serology for HCV and 12 additional patients (4% of patients in hemodialysis) who have mixed
      infection with HCV and with the hepatitis B virus (HBV). Those 136 patients with chronic
      hepatitis C will have already developed or will eventually develop the complications of the
      disease that will result in a high economic burden for EsSalud.

      Since Peru is entering the era of interferon-free HCV treatments, with regimens that are
      effective and safe in hemodialysis patients, there is the potential to implement
      interventions that reduce or even eradicate HCV infection from hemodialysis programs.

      Significance: The characterization of HCV disease in chronic hemodialysis patients in terms
      of genotype, viral load, and degree of liver fibrosis will be of key importance to understand
      the burden of disease and to define priorities and interventions. Additionally, understanding
      the risk factors associated with chronic HCV infection in this setting will inform decision
      makers so that they can optimize policies and procedures to keep hemodialysis programs free
      of this infection.

      METHODS:

      Study design:

      This is an observational study of cases of chronic hepatitis C and negative HCV controls in
      adults receiving chronic hemodialysis at the NRHC-EsSalud.

      Objectives of the study:

        -  Primary objective: Characterize HCV disease in patients receiving chronic hemodialysis
           at the NRHC-EsSalud.

        -  Secondary objective: Identify factors associated with an increased risk of HCV
           infection.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Age > 18 years

        -  Receive chronic hemodialysis (for at least 6 consecutive months) at the NRHC-EsSalud

      Exclusion criteria:

      • Inability to provide informed consent

      Procedures of the study:

      All adult patients receiving chronic hemodialysis at the NRHC-EsSalud will be invited to
      participate in the study. Before conducting any study procedure, volunteers will sign a
      consent form approved by the local ethics committee. For volunteers who have signed the
      informed consent will proceed to make the review of their clinical history will be invited to
      provide a blood sample for HCV serology to be held in the Roe Clinic Laboratory. Although
      patients in hemodialysis in the NRHC-EsSalud undergo periodic evaluation with HCV serology,
      performing the HCV serology in Roe Clinic Laboratory as a procedure of this study will
      provide a confirmation of the results with a standardized method (an automated test of
      third-generation electrochemical-luminescence, made with the Cobas® e 601 immunoassay
      analyzer from Roche Diagnostics).

      After determining the serology result for hepatitis C in each patient, proceed according to
      the following flow diagram:

      Chronic hemodialysis in adults: Informed consent

      HCV + :

      Main objective: Define HCV disease Clinical chart review HCV genotype HCV viral load
      Fibroscan

      HCV -:

      Secondary objective: Define HCV risk factors Clinical chart review Electronic data review

      To comply with the primary objective of the study, samples from volunteers with HCV serology
      confirmed in Roe Clinic Laboratory (cases) will be subjected to additional tests: HCV viral
      load followed by determination of the HCV genotype. The total blood volume to be obtained
      from each volunteer will not be greater than 16 ml.

      The viral load of HCV will be quantified by using the Abbott m2000 real-time Polymerase Chain
      Reaction (PCR) system. Samples from volunteers with positive serology for HCV and detectable
      viral load will be analyzed to determine the HCV genotype using the Abbott RealTime HCV
      Genotype II test, capable of identifying genotypes 1 (1a and 1b), 2, 3, 4 , 5 and 6, using
      fluorescent probes of oligonucleotides specific for each genotype.

      In addition to these lab tests, volunteers will have a Fibroscan test performed at a local
      provider, with the Fibroscan Model 402 with E and XL (extra large) probes.

      To comply with the secondary objective, both cases and controls (volunteers with negative
      serology for HCV in Roe Clinic Laboratory) will be invited. A predefined format will be
      applied to collect information on cases and controls including: date of birth, sex, time
      since the first hemodialysis, date of the first positive local serology, frequency of
      dialysis, time since the first hemodialysis at the NRHC-EsSalud , number of centers where
      hemodialysis was attended, history of surgery (yes / no, and type of surgery) before the
      diagnosis of HCV, history of blood transfusions or by-products (yes / no, and number) before
      diagnosis of HCV, type of venous access for hemodialysis (AV / catheter fistula), use of
      dedicated hemodialysis machines (yes / no), use of individual filters (yes / no),
      comorbidities (such as diabetes mellitus, HIV infection, and other conditions of
      immunosuppression), history of transplantation, number and type of sexual partners, and
      history of intravenous drug use.

      The study is expected to be completed within six months of its local approval.

      Statistical considerations:

      Study population: By December 2017, there were 293 adults receiving chronic hemodialysis at
      the NRHC-EsSalud. Given that the patients of this center are tested for HCV serology every
      six months, it is known that 124 (42.3%) patients have HCV infection and 12 additional
      patients have co-infection with HBV and HCV, giving a total of 136 infected with HCV (general
      prevalence of 46.41%). The remaining 157 patients have negative serology for HCV. These
      numbers may vary when the serology confirmation results are known (done as a procedure in
      this study).

      All adult patients receiving chronic hemodialysis at the NRHC-EsSalud will be invited to
      participate, therefore an estimate of sample size does not correspond.

      The collected data will be analyzed with Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS).
      Descriptive statistics will be applied, including medians and means ± Standard Deviation
      (SD). Proportions will be used for the categorical variables. Unpaired T-test will be used to
      compare medians of time in dialysis and age. Poisson regression (bivariate) will be used to
      evaluate associations of variables with HCV infection. Multivariate Poisson regression
      analysis will be used to model the associations between the explanatory variables detected as
      significant in the univariate analysis. The level of statistical significance for the
      univariate analysis will be 0.10 and for the multivariate it will be 0.05.

      Collection and Data Management:

      The information will be collected in a Case Report Form (CRF), which will be filled out by
      study staff. The source of clinical information will be primarily the clinical history of the
      NRHC-EsSalud. The source of information on the results of the auxiliary tests will be
      obtained from the results issued by Roe Clinic Laboratory and by the image center of the
      Delgado Clinic.

      Protection of Human Subjects:

      The protocol and informed consent will be reviewed and approved by the Ethics Committee at
      the NRHC. No study procedure will be carried out if the volunteer has not given his or her
      written consent. All reasonable precautions will be taken to protect the privacy of the
      volunteer's information, whose data will be identified only through a code. Researchers will
      keep the study folders in a locked cabinet in a safe place.
    
  