
    
      This is a double-blind, randomized study comparing the effects of an amino acid moisturizing
      cream and desonide cream in reducing skin symptoms associated with AD/eczema in subjects with
      mild to moderate atopic dermatitis/eczema. Atopic dermatitis (AD), also known as Eczema, is a
      chronic inflammatory skin disease that most commonly affects infants and children with a
      prevalence of 10-20% in children as compared to 1-3% in adults. Patients with AD have dry,
      irritated skin and often experience severe pruritus. Treatment of AD involves avoidance of
      triggers and infectious agents, cutaneous hydration, control of pruritus, and
      anti-inflammatory agents. Topical calcineurin inhibitors and steroids are commonly used
      prescription anti-inflammatory treatments. Unfortunately, there are potential side effects of
      long-term topical glucocorticoid use including skin atrophy, development of striae, perioral
      dermatitis, acne, and even hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis suppression. However, many
      moisturizers are available without a prescription to soothe skin and reduce symptoms
      associated with AD/eczema via increased hydration, improved barrier function and
      anti-irritancy effects. The study cream being compared to desonide is a cosmetic moisturizing
      formulation that contains a cosmetic amino acid dipeptide (e.g., contains 2 amino acids).
      This study is being conducted to understand the benefits of the amino acid dipeptide
      moisturizing cream versus dermatologist-prescribed desonide cream in reducing the symptoms
      associated with AD/eczema in order to evaluate its potential use in the eczema care market.
      For this study, approximately 60 males and females, 18 years of age and older, who are in
      general good health, but diagnosed with mild to moderate AD/eczema, will be recruited,
      screened, and fully consented, with the goal of enrolling up to 42 evaluable subjects. The 42
      Subjects (21 subjects per group) will be randomly and equally assigned to either one of 2
      treatment groups of amino acid moisturizing cream or desonide cream. Neither study subjects
      nor study staff will be aware of the treatment assigned. The subjects will be asked to
      participate for approximately 5 weeks, over 5 study visits: Screening/Baseline, Weeks 1-3
      (Treatment Period), Regression weeks 4 & 5. Each subject will receive one, 15 gram, blinded
      study cream at each treatment visit to apply twice daily at home for 3 weeks; a 2-week
      regression phase of no study cream will follow the treatment phase. A predetermined target
      lesion will be assessed at each time point via established clinical grading scales including:
      Target lesion Atopic Dermatitis Severity Index (TADSI), Eczema Area Severity Index (EASI),
      Static IGA of targeted lesion, Total IGA (PGA) and Body Surface Area involvement. All grading
      will be completed by the principal or sub-investigators. Photographs will also be taken at
      each time point to assess changes during the treatment and regression phases. Other
      established scales will be utilized to collect patient perception of skin effects such as:
      Patient-Oriented Eczema Measure (POEM), subjects' assessment of pruritus (VAS); a
      self-assessment questionnaire will be utilized to collect information on perceived benefits
      and product aesthetics. This study has been IRB approved and is scheduled to begin November
      of 2014 at Massachusetts General Hospital, specifically at the Clinical Unit for Research
      Trials in Skin (CURTIS) under principal investigator, Alexandra B. Kimball, MD. The study is
      being sponsored by NeoStrata Company, Inc, Princeton, NJ.
    
  