
    
      Shoulder pain is a common condition affecting our society. It is estimated that between 7 and
      67% of the adult population will suffer from shoulder pain at least once in their lifetime.
      Some research suggest that shoulder impingement syndrome (SIS) is responsible for 44 to 60%
      from the medical consultations regarding shoulder pain with an approximate prevalence of
      70-200 per 1000 adults, which implies a remarkable use of health care resources.

      Among all the musculoskeletal injuries affecting the shoulder complex, SIS remains as the
      most common condition, characterized for leading to loss function and disability. Its
      pathogenesis is associated with the affection of diverse structures and tissues like the
      subacromial bursa, rotator cuff tendons, acromion, coracoacromial ligament and the long head
      of biceps brachii. The etiology of this condition comprises multiple causes, including
      capsular tightness, alteration of shoulder kinematics with scapula dysfunction and muscle
      imbalance, and also the overuse factor.

      Treatment modalities to deal with SIS embrace both surgical procedures, i.e., arthroscopic
      subacromial decompression) and conservative approaches (i.e., physical therapy), becoming the
      therapeutic exercise increasingly popular due to arising evidence from the last 30 years.
      Furthermore, with regard to potential effects, therapeutic exercise presents itself as a
      safer and less aggressive alternative, causing fewer adverse effects than pharmacological or
      surgical options, which are relegated preferably as secondary choices.

      There is a wide evidence supporting the exercise therapy as an effective strategy for the
      management of SIS. However, some controversy exists regarding the optimal approach in terms
      of intensity, frequency and number of repetitions. Thus, a program acting as a gold standard
      for the development and progression of the proposed exercises is still lacking, especially
      when attempting to estimate the pure effect of progressive exercise in isolation between
      experimental and control group.

      Prior research evaluating the effect of progressive exercise for the management of SIS
      usually included programs with a duration of 3 months. However, other studies established
      follow-up periods of either one month and a half or, conversely, more than 6 months. That,
      together with the wide variety of post-treatment follow-ups, makes it difficult to find the
      optimal period where the results derived inherently from the intervention and not from the
      natural course of the condition may be observed.

      Regarding the progression criteria, there seems to be a tendency to consider the modulation
      of the painful sensation as the main benchmark from which the exercise may progress in
      difficulty, but some other progression sub-criteria can also be found, such as fatigue or
      subjective perception. Furthermore, the presence of other conditioning elements, like
      proximity to pain threshold or a certain reference value in the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS),
      reduces the homogeneity among the exercise programs and hinders the standardization of the
      ideal exercise progression when performing the exercises for the management of SIS.

      The main objective of this clinical trial is to prove the efficacy of a progressive exercise
      program based on strength and resistance training in comparison to an exercise protocol from
      the literature to increase neuromuscular and cardiorespiratory capacities and improve the
      symptoms in subjects with SIS. In addition, we propose to determine the existence or not of
      statistically significant differences between treatment modalities by evaluating whether
      these changes occur before, during or after the application of the proposed exercise
      protocol.
    
  