
    
      The PALM registry is a multicenter, observational registry aimed at evaluating how
      cholesterol management is applied in current clinical practice. This registry will recruit
      approximately 175 sites in the United States to enroll 7,500 patients with cardiovascular
      risk factors warranting consideration of lipid-lowering therapies as well as those already on
      statin therapy. Enrolling clinicians will include primary care providers, internal medicine
      providers, family medicine providers, cardiologists, and endocrinologists. Site selection
      will also target geographic diversity to ensure representation from all regions of the U.S.,
      including rural and urban areas, as well as from minority populations. This registry is
      unique featuring the use of a mobile tablet-based enrollment device. This tablet-based
      enrollment tool is designed to adapt to the workflow of an outpatient practice, allowing
      research procedures (including screening, informed consent and patient survey) to be carried
      out during the patient visit, and maximizes paper-less data entry. All patient management
      decisions (including the choice of cholesterol-lowering therapy) are completely at the
      discretion of the care providers. This registry will involve retrospective and prospective
      patient data collection. Baseline data from patients and physicians will be collected. There
      will be no patient follow-up.

      The target sample size (n=7,500) in this registry is not determined based on statistical
      considerations, but is based upon a non-probabilistic sampling approach, in order to obtain
      sufficient exposure data in patients who are in the various atherosclerotic cardiovascular
      disease (ASCVD) risk groups. During the enrollment period, balance across groups will be
      maintained by frequent monitoring of enrollment. Adaptive enrollment and capping will be
      considered to ensure adequate exposure across groups, physician type, and geographic
      location. Data quality will be assured by web-based or application-based data collection tool
      queries and data quality reports . Data quality control measures will include: data entry
      missing and range checks, data validation checks; standard record level checks that are run
      on the database to identify suspected duplicate, blank, or missing records; and logic checks
      and data surveillance of trends in data entry and query processing. The tools will prompt
      user to correct any missing, out of range, or potentially incorrect data. There are no
      interventions, no outside monitoring of sites nor a DSMB with this registry.
    
  