
    
      Background

      Owing to successful scale-up and decentralization of anti-retroviral therapy (ART) in rural
      Lesotho, the number of persons infected with HIV who stay alive increased dramatically. The
      new situation of HIV having turned from a deadly disease into a chronic but manageable
      condition creates a new challenge to health care providers in rural facilities of the
      country. Patients on long-time ART may suffer from comorbidities endangering the success of
      ART and their health and/or from ART-failure due to development of resistance of the virus.
      The magnitude of the burden of comorbidities as well as ART- failure has not been examined
      extensively in Lesotho yet.

      Objectives of the Study

      The study has six major objectives:

        1. To assess the prevalence of virologic failure and genotype-resistance of HIV among
           patients on ART in rural Lesotho.

        2. To assess the prevalence of hepatitis C and hepatitis B among patients on ART in rural
           facilities in Lesotho

        3. To assess the prevalence of diabetes mellitus, arterial hypertension and dyslipidaemia
           among patients on ART in rural facilities in Lesotho

        4. To assess the prevalence of depression and alcohol use disorder among patients on ART in
           rural facilities in Lesotho

        5. To examine associations between chronic comorbidities and virologic outcome among
           patients on ART in rural Lesotho

        6. To follow-up patients with virologic failure and/or comorbidity(ies) among patients on
           ART in rural Lesotho

      Design/Methods

      The study is planned to take place in two districts of Lesotho: Botha-Bothe and Thaba-Tseka.
      Prevalence of the selected comorbidities is measured in a cross-sectional, facility-based
      survey in eight health centers and two hospitals from the two districts. Patients with a
      detectable viral load will receive enhanced adherence counselling and a second viral load
      measurement after 2-3 months. In case of confirmed virologic failure, a genotype resistance
      testing will be done before patients are switched to second-line. Patients with specific
      comorbidities or patients with virologic failure who had been switched to second-line ART
      will be followed-up in a cohort study 12-18 months after the survey.

      Expected Results and Impact

      Prevalence of the selected comorbidities will inform the Ministry of Health as well as its
      implementing partners on which chronic conditions might be most urgent to be addressed among
      patients on ART in Lesotho and the national HIV-programme may be used to leverage on for
      other chronic conditions. Data on virologic failure will inform on the prevalence of
      virologic failure among a previously not virologically monitored cohort. Moreover it will
      provide data on the resistance patterns among patients who fail on first-line ART and on the
      one-year outcome after switch to a second-line regimen.
    
  