
    
      New techniques covering a wide range of clinical and scientific applications will be
      developed, tested and evaluated. These include 1. Investigation of sensory stimulus
      processing and cognitive processing, both in normal subjects and patients with psychiatric
      disorders, 2. Early detection of stroke and other ischemic injury, and 3. Characterization of
      tumor distribution and activity. The new techniques will routinely need to be tested with
      respect to the following: 1. Sensitivity to blood oxygenation versus blood flow versus blood
      volume contrast mechanisms, 2. Signal-to-noise and contrast-to-noise ratio, 3. Spatial and
      temporal resolution, 4. Distribution and severity of image artifacts, and 5. Duty cycle
      limitations. Most clinical applications will require coverage of the entire brain and
      consequently high duty cycle operation, which needs to be traded off with spatial and
      temporal resolution, as well as contrast mechanisms. The work will also involve the testing
      of different experimental paradigms (time sequence of stimuli or cognitive tasks) to identify
      that which provides the highest signal change associated with the specific brain activity of
      interest.

      Although 3T provides twice the signal of 1.5T systems, for some research applications this
      image quality advantage of 3T may be outweighed by other effects of higher field on the
      signal. Consequently, most new techniques will be evaluated on both the 1.5T and 3T systems,
      and a decision will be made based upon the overall image quality, regarding which system is
      to be used.

      The Protocol does not involve injection of any contrast agent or drug, or other
      minimally-invasive or invasive procedure. It is intended specifically for those studies in
      which the subject is required, in addition to trying to relax and lie still, only to
      experience and respond to various non-harmful sensory stimuli, or to perform common cognitive
      (e.g. math calculations) and or motor (e.g. finger tapping) tasks.
    
  