
    
      This is a single centre, pharmacodynamic pilot study of a prolonged enoxaparin infusion
      following the guideline directed bolus treatment in patients undergoing PPCI conducted at
      Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.

      Patients admitted to the catheter laboratory or coronary care unit with STEMI and accepted
      for PPCI will be screened. Those meeting the inclusion criteria will be recruited following
      angiography. Aspirin is usually administered in the ambulance prior to patient's arrival to
      hospital and ticagrelor or prasugrel is given as soon as possible on arrival to hospital.
      This is part of standard clinical care.

      The proposed anticoagulant intervention is a parenteral (intra-arterial or intravenous;
      IA/IV) bolus dose of enoxaparin (0.5 mg/kg) at the time of PPCI followed by an infusion of
      0.5 mg/kg over a 6-hour period. In patients with impaired kidney function (eGFR < 30 ml/min),
      the infusion will be stopped at 3 hours (cumulative dose of 0.75 mg/kg).

      Blood samples for anti Xa activity, VerifyNow P2Y12 assay and fibrin clot dynamics will be
      collected at the following time points:

        1. Time point 1 (T1) prior to anticoagulation - at the start of PCI procedure.

        2. Time point 2 (T2) at the end of PPCI.

        3. Time point 3 (T3) 2-3 hours from the start of enoxaparin infusion.

        4. Time point 4 (T4) at the end of enoxaparin infusion. In patients with impaired kidney
           function (eGFR < 30 ml/min), T3 will be the last blood sample taken (at the end of the
           infusion).

      As PPCI is time critical and delay in treatment can be detrimental to clinical outcome,
      informed written consent will not be possible prior to the procedure. However, verbal consent
      using an abbreviated patient information sheet will be obtained prior to enrolment. This will
      be clearly documented in the patient hospital notes and CRF. As soon as possible after the
      procedure and whenever possible prior to obtaining T3 blood sample, full written informed
      consent will be obtained. Blood sampling for T1 and T2 will be done through the arterial
      sheath and therefore should not cause any significant delay or distress. In the unlikely
      event where a participant deteriorates and loses capacity during the study, they will be
      withdrawn from the study but data and blood samples obtained with consent will be retained in
      the study. In such a case, the treating cardiologist will decide whether to continue with the
      enoxaparin infusion or not. The consent process will be performed by a qualified medical
      practitioner according to the principles of Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and the declaration
      of Helsinki. Following consent, details of patient participation will be sent to their
      general practitioner.

      Clinical outcomes and adverse events will be recorded 12 hours after the end PCI or at the
      time of transfer to another hospital, whichever comes first. The half-life of enoxaparin is
      1-2 hours when given intravenously, and therefore, adverse events are unlikely to arise
      following the proposed follow-up period.

      The primary objective is to assess the pharmacodynamic effect of a prolonged enoxaparin
      infusion in the context of PPCI. This will be achieved by serial measurements of anti Xa
      activity.

      For inclusion in the study, subjects should fulfil the following criteria:

        1. Age ≥ 18

        2. Confirmation of the diagnosis of STEMI by the clinical team on the basis of history, ECG
           changes and angiographic findings

        3. Pre-treatment with either ticagrelor or prasugrel

        4. Intention to proceed with PPCI

        5. Feasibility to obtain informed verbal consent pre PPCI

      Subjects should not enter the study if any of the following exclusion criteria are fulfilled:

        1. Active bleeding that cannot be controlled by local measures

        2. Female patients of child bearing age who have not had a sterilisation procedure

        3. Patients with end stage renal failure requiring renal replacement therapy

        4. Known thrombocytopenia (Platelet count < 100,000/μL)

        5. Known history of intracranial haemorrhage

        6. Known current treatment with oral anticoagulants

        7. Known history of major surgery or trauma or history of GI/GU haemorrhage within the last
           month

        8. Known intracranial malignancy or aneurysm

        9. Known allergy to enoxaparin

       10. Inability to easily understand verbal information given in English for any reason

       11. Inability to give informed consent due to either temporary or permanent mental
           incapacity
    
  