
    
      Considerably less attention has been paid to Plasmodium vivax epidemiology than Plasmodium
      falciparum. In areas of relatively low unstable transmission, which comprise the majority of
      P.vivax affected areas, vivax malaria is predominantly a disease of children (Luxemburger et
      al 1999). Chloroquine has long been the standard treatment for vivax malaria. Primaquine is
      recommended for radical cure of vivax malaria, but is difficult to administer due to dosing
      duration and side effects.

      This study aims to characterize the epidemiologic history comparing the efficacy of 3
      antimalarial regimens (chloroquine, artesunate, and chloroquine/primaquine) for plasmodium
      vivax in western Thailand. Chloroquine is currently the standard of treatment for Plasmodium
      vivax. Due to the long half-life or chloroquine, the first relapse of vivax malaria may be
      delayed. In contrast, artesunate has a very short half-life, thus, having no impact on first
      relapse. It is not known whether chloroquine reduces the overall number of relapses, or only
      delays the first relapse. There are many important questions about the biology of vivax
      malaria of relevance to treatment that remain unanswered. For example is the number of
      relapses per infection (i.e. per successful inoculation) predetermined or adaptive? If it is
      predetermined then suppression of the first relapse (as with chloroquine, mefloquine or
      piperaquine) will reduce the total number of relapses and this is a clear benefit. If it is
      adaptive then these drugs will simply delay the relapses and there is less clear benefit.
      These various uncertainties illustrate the importance of detailed comparative longitudinal
      evaluations. In order to characterize the biology of vivax malaria, it will be necessary to
      compare regimens with and without primaquine. Because of the challenges that face primaquine
      prescription (side effects, toxicity in G6PD deficient patients and duration of treatment),
      it is not commonly deployed along the Thai Burma border. In effect, we will be comparing
      usual practice (non primaquine regimens) with the recommended WHO and Thai MOPH practice (use
      of primaquine for 14 days). The information we will gather is crucial to the understanding of
      chloroquine and its effect on the vivax parasite. This will lead to future studies and
      invariably change the way we treat vivax malaria.
    
  