
    
      Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a common, chronic, and debilitating disease that tends to present
      in children under age 2 and has a waxing and waning course. Poor adherence to treatment is
      the primary preventable contributor towards adverse outcomes such as infection,
      hospitalization, permanent disfigurement, and disruptions in normal childhood psychological
      development. The burden of care for these patients often falls upon parents, who may have
      difficulty incorporating the necessary daily treatments into the family's lifestyle. Thus,
      investigating ways of improving adherence could have a significant impact on a patient's long
      term prognosis and the family's ability to understand and adjust to the demands of AD.Text
      message reminders with embedded health literacy information have been shown to improve
      vaccination rates in children and caregivers have reported increased satisfaction with this
      means of communication.

      This study aims to assess whether text message reminders with information about AD are an
      effective way to improve treatment adherence and provide disease specific information to
      caregivers of children with AD. The measure of AD severity will be the Eczema Area and
      Severity Index (EASI) score. Health literacy with regard to AD will be assessed via in-office
      survey.This study will involve children age 0-6 with newly diagnosed AD and their primary
      caregivers. The subjects will be randomized to standard care or text message reminder group.
      All study participants will be asked to complete a survey after their initial evaluation and
      after their follow up visit on the same day they are in the office. The text message group
      will receive text messages with information and treatment reminders. All participants will
      receive the standard of care with regard to AD.

      If this study demonstrates that text message reminders can improve EASI scores in AD patients
      it could lead to a significant change in how these patients are managed. Fewer complications
      from episodic flares, infections, and other sequelae may lessen the burden of this disease
      for both patients and their caregivers. Text messaging is an inexpensive, noninvasive, and
      broadly applicable tool that is worth studying for the purpose of improving treatment
      adherence and disease literacy.
    
  