
    
      General Description:

      This study has two sub-studies: one for youth who experience behaviorally insufficient sleep
      syndrome (BISS) and one for youth who obtain sufficient sleep. This includes a randomized
      controlled trial for youth who obtain insufficient sleep (BISS), and a universal education
      (UE) only intervention for youth who obtain sufficient sleep.

      All participants will complete a pre-consent screen. Those with sufficient sleep will
      complete consent/assent and a full screening assessment, and they will watch a sleep
      education video (UE). If eligible for the sufficient sleeper study, the full screening
      assessment will serve as a baseline assessment as well. Participants will complete a
      follow-up assessment about one month later.

      Those who pre-screen as insufficient sleepers will complete consent/assent, complete a full
      screening process, and watch a sleep education video (UE). Those who remain eligible after
      the full screening process will complete a baseline assessment. Then, youth will be
      randomized to the TAPAS intervention or to a wait-list control (monitoring only). After
      completing the post-period 1 follow-up assessment, participants will switch to the other arm,
      via a cross-over design. After this period, participants will complete the post-period 2
      follow-up assessment.

      Detailed Description:

      Participants. Youth ages 13-15 will be recruited through various methods (e.g., social media
      advertising, University research registry, and from the waiting room of the Children's
      Hospital of Pittsburgh Center for Adolescent and Young Adult Health (CAYAH)). Among those
      screened, the investigators will deliver universal education about sleep and conduct baseline
      and follow-up assessments among n=22 sufficient sleepers. Investigators will randomize n=50
      with insufficient sleep to the TAPAS intervention or wait-list control (monitoring only).
      Overall, investigators plan to collect complete data on n=40 participants, after attrition.

      Baseline assessments will include: measures of sleep (sleep diary and actigraphy), academic
      functioning, attention, affect, motivation, and risk behavior.

      TAPAS Intervention. Program goals are to increase knowledge about healthy sleep practices, to
      increase sleep duration by going to bed earlier (sleep extension), and to increase regularity
      in sleep timing over the week by limiting oversleeping on the weekends. During the 45-60
      minute in-person session, the youth and clinician will discuss the youth's sleep timing and
      quality and explore the youth's attitudes and social influences on sleep. The clinician will
      develop discrepancies between current sleep behavior and the youth's values and goals.

      It is proposed that the 4-week text messaging/web-based portion of the intervention will
      begin immediately after the clinician session. Participants will receive twice-weekly
      summaries of their sleep based on diary entries. Participants will then be asked via the web
      if they'd like to modify their sleep, providing them with autonomy in their answer.
      Investigators will rely on strategies for extending and regularizing sleep.

      Wait-List Control (monitoring only) Condition. The wait-list is proposed to last the same
      duration as the targeted intervention. Participants will monitor sleep with the sleep diary,
      but they will not receive feedback or any other information on their sleep.

      Participants will repeat the baseline assessments and 7 days of actigraphy at the end of
      Period 1 prior to crossing to the other study arm. Youth will also repeat assessments after
      completing the second study arm.

      Follow-up assessments will include: measures of sleep (sleep diary and actigraphy), academic
      functioning, attention, affect, motivation, and risk behavior.
    
  