
    
      We will review all files from consecutive patients with active acromegaly coming to the Units
      of Endocrinology or Neurosurgery of the "Federico II" University of Naples from Jan 1st 1997
      to December 31st 2006, primarily treated with either surgery or depot SSA, i.e. lanreotide
      (LAN) or slow-release octreotide (LAR), and with an available follow-up of at least 12
      months. Due to the study design, this is a non randomized study. However, our routine
      procedure generally considers first-line treatment with SSA for 6-12 months, unless the
      tumors are clearly non invasive on Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and/or the patients who
      do not present any surgical or anesthesiological risk.

      Cure criteria are considered according with Giustina et al. Acromegaly is considered to be
      controlled if mean fasting GH levels were ≤2.5 μg/liter in presence of normal IGF-I levels
      for sex and age. Nadir GH after oral glucose load (oGTT) ≤1 μg/liter is also an option to
      evaluate disease control according with the 2000 Consensus Statement. However, oGTT is
      generally not routinely performed in patients receiving SSA, since GH-induced glucose
      suppression is likely to be mediated by the endogenous somatostatin tone. To avoid
      ascertainment bias, disease control after surgery and SSA will be only based on fasting GH
      and IGF-I levels. The diagnosis of acromegaly is defined as previously reported, by high
      serum GH levels during a 6 hr time course, not suppressible <1 µg/l after oGTT and high
      plasma IGF-I levels for age [expressed as value upper limit of normal range (ULN)].

      For the purpose of this study only the patients with controlled acromegaly will be included
      to provide a period of follow-up long enough to investigate changes in cardiomyopathy
      parameters.

      Study protocol: As for our routine procedure, at diagnosis all the patients undergo a
      complete metabolic and endocrine screening. After an overnight fasting, serum IGF-I levels
      are assayed twice in a single sample at the time 0 of the GH profile; GH levels are
      calculated as the mean value of at least 5 (up to 8) samples drawn every 30 min over a period
      of three-six hours and the average value will be considered for the statistical analysis;
      fasting total cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, glucose and insulin levels are also measured. The
      total/HDL-cholesterol ratio, index of cardiovascular risk, is calculated.
    
  