
    
      The evolution in the understanding of the biology of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML), that
      eventually translated into highly effective molecular targeted therapies, is unparalleled in
      cancer medicine. This knowledge led the development of a number of orally active molecule
      tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) that have dramatically improved clinical outcomes. In less
      than two decades, the 10-year survival probability increased from 20 to 53% with previous
      (IFN)-therapies to about 90% in the TKI era. Life expectancy of these patients now approaches
      that of the general population. While oral TKIs are now the standard of care for CML, it
      should be considered that therapy is lifelong and patients are requested to take medication
      on a daily basis. Importantly, there is convincing evidence that full adherence to therapy is
      a critical factor to obtain and maintain an optimal response to therapy. However,
      non-adherence is a major challenge in CML, since side effects induced by these drugs
      negatively impact on patient's quality of life (QoL), seriously undermine full adherence with
      treatment schedule and thereby often lead to sub-optimal clinical responses to drugs. From
      previous Preliminary Data we extrapolated the following evidences: Systematic monitoring of
      Patient-Reported Outcomes (PRO) in routine care has several advantages, such as improved
      symptom control, enhanced patient-physician communication, as well as patient satisfaction
      and wellbeing. Furthermore, it was found that Adverse Events (AEs) are the most frequent
      cause for non-adherence to CML therapy and that even experienced physicians tend to
      underestimate burden of TKIs of their patients. This mismatch might have major clinical
      implications in disease management, as physicians might not be able to early identify those
      patients who might be at heightened risk of poor adherence behavior. Given these findings, we
      hypothesized that systematic electronic monitoring of Patient-Reported AEs in CML routine
      practice may improve adherence to therapy, quality of life, and clinical response to therapy.
      This hypothesis will be addressed in the experiments of the following Specific Aims: 1) To
      develop an online platform for systematic monitoring of patient-reported AE assessment that
      is tailored to the unique demands of TKI therapy for CML. 2) To assess patient and physician
      acceptability and satisfaction with use of this platform in CML routine practice and evaluate
      its value in improving symptom management, quality of life, adherence to therapy as well as
      preliminary efficacy. We anticipate this study will provide unprecedented information on the
      value of systematically collecting patient-reported AEs information in CML routine care. If
      positive, our results will inform the development of large international randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) to investigate whether this experimental approach can improve depth
      and rates of clinical responses to TKI therapies in CML patients.

      Dr. Fabio Efficace is also a Principal Investigator on this study. He is also a Professor in
      the Department of Medical Social Sciences at Northwestern University, Feinberg School of
      Medicine.
    
  