
    
      The best mode of analgesia delivery after hepatectomy is currently unknown. Many institutions
      routinely use continuous epidural analgesia (CEA) for pain control in hepatectomy patients.
      However, its safety has been the subject of debate. Paravertebral block (PVB) has been
      suggested as a safer alternative in this patient population. Despite this, there are no
      studies comparing the efficacy of CEA and PVB as analgesic techniques after hepatectomy.
      Although CEA provides high quality analgesia, and reduces cardiovascular and respiratory
      complications and the incidence of postoperative thromboembolic events, it is associated with
      hypotension and complications such as epidural hematoma, epidural abscess, and spinal cord
      injury, which are serious concerns in hepatectomy patients. Furthermore, patients given CEA
      are more likely to need blood transfusions, and transfused patients have significantly higher
      mortality rates, complications related to infection, and hospital length of stay. PVB is a
      less popular technique that involves injecting local anesthetic (LA) into the paravertebral
      space. This technique has been successfully used for pain relief after several surgical
      procedures, including ablation of hepatic tumours and hepatectomy. Although CEA and PVB have
      never been compared in hepatectomy patients, they have been compared in thoracotomy patients;
      in this patient population, PVB and CEA provide similar levels of pain control, but CEA is
      associated with more complications and side effects such as hypotension, nausea, vomiting,
      and urinary retention, and PVB is associated with better pulmonary function. Both CEA and PVB
      are reasonably effective for post-hepatectomy analgesia compared to placebo, and have their
      own strengths and weaknesses. The gold standard CEA provides excellent analgesia at the
      expense of more intense hypotension, significant failure rates (20-30%), and a higher risk of
      epidural hematoma and its serious neurological consequences. These limitations highlight the
      need to explore other options for analgesic control after hepatectomy such as PVB. Therefore,
      the investigators propose a randomized controlled trial to compare the analgesic efficacy,
      hemodynamic changes, and side effects in CEA and PVB in patients undergoing elective
      hepatectomy through a right subcostal incision. Since CEA is currently the gold standard for
      analgesia after hepatectomy, the investigators propose a non-inferiority trial to determine
      whether PVB produces a similar analgesic profile to CEA in hepatectomy patients, while being
      associated with fewer adverse side effects.

      This is a randomized, controlled, pilot study. It will consist of two groups of participants
      undergoing hepatectomy: those receiving CEA, and those receiving PVB for analgesic control.
      CEA and PVB protocols will follow the usual standard of care at Kingston General Hospital
      (KGH). Participants in the CEA group will receive bupivacaine with hydromorphone infusion
      after induction of general anesthesia for surgery. Participants in the PVB group will receive
      a bolus dose of ropivacaine, and then ropivacaine infusion after induction of general
      anesthesia. Upon emergence from anesthesia, all participants will be transferred to the
      post-anesthetic care unit (PACU). Here, CEA participants will be started on
      patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA) of bupivacaine and hydromorphone plus a
      self-administered bolus dose with a lockout period of 30 min if participants require
      additional pain relief, and PVB participants will be started on a patient-controlled
      paravertebral analgesia (PCPA) of ropivacaine plus a self-administered bolus dose with a
      lockout period of 30 min if participants require additional pain relief. All participants
      will receive oral hydromorphone every 4 hours as required for breakthrough pain relief
      starting on the morning of the second postoperative day. A member of the research team will
      assess the presence and severity of pain and nausea during the postoperative period. The
      assessments will be performed at 30 minutes after arrival to the PACU, and thereafter at 4,
      8, 24, 48, and 72 hours after surgery. Investigators will ask all participants to give visual
      analogue scores (0=no pain, 100=worst pain imaginable) for their pain at rest and on
      coughing, and nausea scores (0=none, 1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=vomiting) at each of the above
      listed time points. At 72 hours after surgery, participant satisfaction with regard to
      analgesia will be assessed (1=poor, 2=fair, 3=good, 4=excellent). The requirement for
      breakthrough pain relief, the time of first breakthrough pain relief request, and cumulative
      opioid consumption will be recorded during the postoperative 72 hours.
    
  