
    
      Primary liver cancer is a common malignant tumor of the digestive system in the world. There
      are about 854,000 new incidences and 810,000 mortality each year. In China, there is a high
      incidence of liver cancer, with about 466,000 new cases and 422,000 mortality each year.
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounted for about 90% of primary liver cancer in
      pathological type. Most patients have reached advanced stage or with distant metastasis when
      diagnosed and the natural median survival time is only 3 to 4 months. Then only systemic
      therapy is recommended for patients in advanced HCC in many global guidelines.

      Hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) of mFOLFOX7, anti-angiogenic targeting drugs,
      and antibody immunotherapy against programmed death molecule-1 (PD-1) immunological
      checkpoints are effective treatment options for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. Many
      clinical studies have shown that the two-two combination of the above three treatment options
      can improve the anti-tumor overall response rate, the survival rate and even achieve clinical
      complete remission of patients with advanced HCC.

      Shi Ming et al reported HAIC combined with systemic targeted therapy has a better survival
      outcome compared to systemic targeted therapy mono-therapy [OS 13.37 vs 7.13 months, PFS 7.03
      vs 2.6 months] in JAMA Oncology. Although the toxicity of combination therapy is slightly
      higher than that of sorafenib monotherapy, these adverse effects are tolerable.

      In addition, in a phase Ib study of Camrelizumab combined with apatinib in the treatment of
      advanced liver cancer, gastric cancer or gastroesophageal junction cancer showed that in 16
      patients with HCC, the ORR was 50.0% and the DCR was 93.8%. When the dose of apatinib was 250
      mg, the median PFS was 7.2 months. Camrelizumab combined with low dose apatinib can
      effectively reduce the incidence of adverse reactions, ≥10% of patients have
      treatment-related adverse reactions (all levels), no treatment-related adverse reactions
      leading to death. Therefore, low-dose anti-angiogenic drugs can inhibit tumor angiogenesis on
      the one hand, reduce immunosuppression by inducing normalization of blood vessels, enhance
      effector immune cell infiltration, and enhance anti-tumor immunity.

      In summary, for patients of C-staged Hepatocellular Carcinoma, HAIC, anti-angiogenic targeted
      therapy, and anti-PD-1 immunotherapy have their important status, and the combination of any
      two treatments brings about synergy effect. Then, could the combination of the three
      treatment methods further improve the outcome of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma? This
      study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a combination of hepatic arterial
      infusion chemotherapy, targeted drugs (Apatinib), and anti-PD-1 immunotherapy (Camrelizumab)
      to provide a more effective and toxic-tolerable treatment for patients in C-staged
      Hepatocellular Carcinoma in BCLC classification.
    
  