
    
      The increasing rate of obesity in youth has reached epidemic proportion in the United States.
      African Americans share an overwhelming burden of this disorder and its complications.1
      Vitamin D deficiency is prevalent in black girls and women2 and is associated with insulin
      resistance in populations at risk for diabetes.3 The use of Metformin, an oral diabetic
      agent, to halt the progression to diabetes in individuals at risk has been studied, but not
      in a population with concurrent vitamin D deficiency. In this proposal, we hypothesize that
      treatment with vitamin D with calcium supplement along with Metformin together will improve
      insulin resistance in obese, black teen girls. We will investigate this hypothesis in two
      specific aims to: 1) examine the effect of treatment of Vitamin D deficiency on insulin
      resistance in mature black teen girls, 2) to determine if there is any additional benefit of
      Metformin with treatment for Vitamin D deficiency to improve insulin resistance in this
      group. We propose to accomplish these aims through a clinical trial in obese black teen girls
      who have reached developmental maturity (approximately 15-18 years old) with vitamin D
      deficiency. Eligible participants will be randomized to one of three groups: standard of
      care, treatment with vitamin D/calcium supplement, and treatment with Vitamin D/Calcium
      Supplement and Metformin. We will enroll 30 obese adolescent subjects, (10 participants per
      group) into this 2-month study. The following measurements will be performed at baseline and
      2 month follow-up: a) 25-hydroxy-vitamin D, b) Oral glucose tolerance tests to calculate
      homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance (HOMA IR), and 4 to determine insulin
      resistance and total body insulin sensitivity index (TBISI) to determine insulin
      sensitivity,5 c) body mass index calculations, and c) lipid panel to include triglyceride,
      HDL-C, and LDL-C measurements. We will control for the effect of nutritional counseling on
      vitamin D and calcium intake will be controlled. Our outcome measures will include
      improvement in insulin resistance and decreased body mass index for our participants treated
      with vitamin D, calcium supplementation and Metformin. Validation of our hypothesis will show
      that Metformin along with vitamin D treatment and calcium supplementation is a novel
      treatment combination to improve insulin resistance, the health of an at-risk adolescent
      population.
    
  