
    
      In our double blind randomized study 40 patients undergoing cardiac surgery will be randomly
      divided in two groups. The group A who will be infused with 2 IU/hr. vasopressin and the
      group B who will be infused with normal saline (placebo) intraoperatively starting at the
      time we give I.V. Heparin, throughout CPB and infusion will be ended when we give the
      Protamine after coming off bypass. VOTs will be measured at the following time points:
      Pre-induction of anesthesia, post-induction of anesthesia and at 30 minute intervals during
      the cardiopulmonary bypass. And we will select cases that are expected to have a longer CPB
      time such as Redo CABG, CABG + valve replacement, double valve replacement, Bentall procedure
      and Mitral valve repair with mini thoracotomy.

      Measurements of mean artery pressure (MAP), central venous pressure (CVP), ejection fracture
      (EF), heart rate (HR), mean pulmonary artery pressure (MPAP), cardiac index (CI) will be
      performed before, during, and after the operation. The requirements of catecholamine support
      (eg. phenylephrine, epinephrine, vasopressin, norepinephrine, and dopamine) during CPB and
      for first 24 hours postoperatively, urine-output, blood-loss, and the requirements in blood,
      plasma and platelets for the first 24 hours will be included in the data collected.

      The purpose of the present study is to quantify the micro-oxygenation parameters in patients
      undergoing cardiac surgery with CPB, to investigate the relationship of micro-oxygenation and
      macro-perfusion parameters, to investigate the relationship of NIRS parameters and to
      evaluate the association between micro-oxygenation parameters and outcome using VOT and
      comparing the degree of falling of re-perfusion slope.

      We hypothesize that the administration of a low dose vasopressin will reduce both the
      incidence and severity of vasoplegia and it will maintain the normal vasomotor reactivity
      during cardiopulmonary bypass and this will reduce the total requirements of alpha-adrenergic
      agonists specially Phenylephrine. That will reduce the risks of the use of high dose of
      Phenylephrine and other inotropes, such as gut ischemia and end organ damage.

      Vascular Occlusion Test (VOT)

        -  After the tissue oximetry probe is applied to the skin the oximeter machine records a
           baseline value.

        -  A pneumatic cuff (blood pressure cuff) is placed over the brachial artery of the same
           arm above the elbow and inflated to 50 mmHg above systolic blood pressure. The cuff
           remains inflated for 5 minutes. The oximeter machine is continuously recording StO2
           values and other pertinent technical information such as quality of the signal and
           events marked by the user.

        -  After 5 minutes the cuff is quickly deflated and StO2 measurements continue to be
           recorded until back to baseline.

        -  VOTs will be measured at the following time points:

        -  Pre-induction of anesthesia

        -  Post-induction of anesthesia

        -  At 30 minute intervals during the cardiopulmonary bypass

      Several measurements and calculations will be made from the recorded data:

        -  Baseline tissue oxygen saturation (StO2baseline) at time (t) = 0

        -  Lowest StO2 reached after vascular occlusion (StO2nadir) and at what time

        -  Occlusion slope: defined as = (StO2baseline - StO2nadir/tbaseline - tnadir)

        -  After cuff release, time at which baseline StO2 was reached (StO2recovery)

        -  Reperfusion slope: defined as = (StO2recovery - StO2nadir/trecovery - tnadir)

        -  ∆StO2: defined as = (StO2peak - StO2baseline)

        -  Peak StO2 reached after cuff release and at what time

      Measurements of mean artery pressure (MAP), central venous pressure (CVP), ejection fracture
      (EF), heart rate (HR), mean pulmonary artery pressure (MPAP), cardiac index (CI) will be
      performed before, during, and after the operation. The requirements of catecholamine support
      (eg. phenylephrine, epinephrine, vasopressin, norepinephrine, dopamine) during CPB and for
      first 24 hours postoperatively, urine-output, blood-loss, and the requirements in blood,
      plasma and platelets for the first 24 hours will be included in the data collected.
    
  