
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the progression-free survival, median (2-year) survival, and long-term (5-year)
           survival in patients with newly diagnosed, stage IIIA (N2) non-small cell lung cancer
           treated with radiotherapy concurrently with cisplatin and etoposide with or without
           surgical resection.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the patterns of local and distant failure in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine the relationship of tobacco use, alcohol use, and diet with toxicity of these
           regimens and outcome in both men and women.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by contralateral
      mediastinal sampling or biopsy (yes vs no), tumor stage (T1 vs T2 vs T3), and performance
      status (70-80% vs 90-100%). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive induction with cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 8 and
           etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Treatment continues every 4 weeks for 2 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning within 24 hours
           of the first dose of chemotherapy, patients undergo induction radiotherapy 5 days a week
           for 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
           without local progression or distant metastases at 2-4 weeks after completion of course
           2 undergo resection approximately 3-5 weeks after completion of course 2. All visible,
           accessible bronchopulmonary, hilar, and mediastinal lymph nodes are excised. The choice
           of surgical procedure (thoracotomy, lobectomy, or pneumonectomy with en bloc resection
           of tumor extending into the parietal pleura, chest wall, pericardium, or diaphragm) is
           at the discretion of the surgeon. Patients who undergo resection receive 2 additional
           courses of chemotherapy alone beginning 4-6 weeks postoperatively. Patients with
           unresectable disease or who are medically unfit for or refuse resection receive 2
           additional courses of chemotherapy alone beginning immediately after completion of
           course 2.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo induction chemoradiotherapy as in arm I but do not undergo
           resection. Patients without local progression or distant metastases within 1 week before
           anticipated completion of induction radiotherapy receive 2 additional courses of
           chemotherapy beginning immediately after completion of course 2. Patients without local
           or distant progression after completion of course 4 undergo boost radiotherapy for 8
           days.

      Patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6
      months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 510 patients will be accrued for this study within 4.9 years.
    
  