
    
      IBD is a complex disorder that is thought to be the result of an aberrant immune response to
      commensal bacteria in a genetically susceptible host. The chronic inflammation along the
      gastrointestinal tract that characterizes IBD results from an imbalance of effector
      lymphocytes and pro-inflammatory cytokines. Some of the cytokines, as well as the triggered
      leukocytes and activated macrophages, can produce large amounts of reactive oxygen species
      (ROS) thus predisposing to oxidative stress disturbances. Many of the clinical and
      pathophysiological features of IBD, particularly tissue injury (mucosal erosions) and
      fibrosis have been associated to redox imbalance due to continuous ROS production and a net
      decrease of antioxidant molecules. Although uncontrolled oxidative stress is destructive in
      inflammatory conditions, the body's antioxidant defenses can counteract the effects caused by
      excess of ROS. Antioxidants are protective molecules/compounds toward pro-oxidant molecules.
      They can be endogenous or/and come from the diet. Endogenous compounds include intracellular
      enzymatic antioxidants such as superoxide dismutases (SODs), glutathione peroxidase (GPX),
      and catalase (CAT), intracellular nonenzymatic antioxidant such as glutathione (GSH) and
      extracellular antioxidants such as vitamins (Vit. A-C-E-B group). GSH is considered the major
      non-protein low molecular weight defender against oxidative (or redox) stress and the most
      important cellular thiol buffer. Moreover it acts as cofactor for the antioxidant enzymes
      GPxs and GST. GSH has been used as a biomarker for inflammation and several studies showed
      reduced levels of GSH in inflammatory conditions. Experimental colitis models showed
      decreased GSH levels that can be restored to a normal level by antioxidants supplementation.
      Also antioxidant enzymes as SODs, CAT and GPxs were found dysregulated in IBD condition. The
      differences in the regulation of expression of SOD, CAT and GPxs may not only reflect their
      importance in physiology, but may be also insufficient in removal of ROS under inflammatory
      conditions such as IBD.

      Recently an association between SOD1, CAT and GSHPX1 polymorphisms and the risk of
      inflammatory bowel disease in the Polish population has been described. Kosaka et al. found a
      correlation between age of onset and severity of IBD with polymorphisms in SOD2 manganese
      superoxide dismutase and NAD(P)H quinone oxidoreductase. In this respect, IBD disease can be
      regarded as multifactorial disease. There are several lines of evidence to suggest that diet
      is a key player in the onset, perpetuation and management of IBD. The most important evidence
      linking diet to IBD comes from exclusive enteral nutrition (EEN) that is the primary
      induction treatment of active paediatric Crohn Disease (CD). Epidemiological evidence
      associates certain dietary nutrients and components to the increased risk of IBD. There is
      emerging evidence that some diets, including the Specific Carbohydrate Diet (SCD) and the CD
      Exclusion Diet (CDED) could treat or prevent subsequent disease flare. Data previously
      presented induce to the hypothesis that an antioxidant dietetic approach, could have a role
      in the treatment of IBD. Dietary antioxidants may include ascorbic acid, vitamin E,
      glutathione, methionine, carotenoids, polyphenolic compounds, selenium and vitamin A.
      Clinical experience evaluating antioxidant dietetic approach in IBD patients is limited to
      few studies, mostly investigating the effects of single antioxidants in small number of
      patients. So far pediatric data regarding the oxidative status in children with IBD have
      rarely been reported. Collecting data in IBD children and comparing these with adults data,
      particularly in subjects at diagnosis, would give the unique opportunity to evaluate the role
      of oxidative stress in IBD pathogenesis. OxIBDiet working hypothesis is that oxidative stress
      imbalance is a key feature of IBD and the persistence of such imbalance is likely to
      contribute to the development of complications and more broadly to the evolution of the
      disease. A comparison between oxidative stress imbalance in children and adults with IBD and
      controls will address the question whether the stress imbalance is a consequence or a primary
      event in the inflammatory burden of IBD. Addressing these pathways and targeting the
      oxidative damage can have potential implications in IBD monitoring and treatment.
    
  