
    
      Rationale:

      Malaria, a disease caused by the parasite Plasmodium, is one of the world's major infectious
      diseases. With approximately 627.000 deaths a year, it is both a chief cause of morbidity and
      mortality as well as a significant contribution to ongoing poverty in endemic countries.
      Ultimately, the key to malaria control and hopefully eradication, would be an effective
      vaccine. Though a number of vaccine-candidates have entered the pipeline of pre-clinical and
      clinical development, they have yet to achieve the level of efficacy necessary for effective
      malaria prevention. It has been shown previously that healthy human volunteers can be fully
      protected against malaria infection with a homologous parasite by immunization with
      Plasmodium parasites while taking chloroquine chemoprophylaxis (ChemoProphylaxis and
      Sporozoites, CPS-immunization). The unprecedented efficacy of CPS-immunization makes it a
      unique model to identify pre-erythrocytic target antigens for the development of a subunit
      vaccine. Identification of antigens that play a significant role in the development of
      sterile protection against malaria will provide a basis for the development and evaluation of
      more effective sub-unit candidate vaccines.

      Primary objective:

      • To delineate the antibody repertoire directed against the pre-erythrocytic stages of
      Plasmodium falciparum induced by CPS-immunization.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To assess the functionality of CPS-immunization induced antibodies.

        -  To determine T-cell antigen specificities in CPS-immunized, protected volunteers.

      Exploratory objectives:

        -  To assess the functionality of CPS-immunization induced T-cells.

        -  To explore the adaptive and innate immune responses during CPS-immunization and early
           malaria infection.

      Study design:

      This is a single-centre, randomized open-label study. A total of 15 volunteers will be
      divided into two groups, one scheduled to receive CPS immunization (Group 1, n=10) and one to
      receive only chloroquine prior to malaria challenge (Group 2, n=5).

      Study population:

      The study population will be comprised of male and female healthy subjects. A total of 15
      subjects will be enrolled to participate in the study and randomized.

      Intervention:

      In the immunization group a total of four CPS immunizations will be performed, with 15 bites
      from Plasmodium infected mosquitoes per immunization, over a period of four months, during
      which volunteers will take chloroquine prophylaxis. The control group will take only
      chloroquine prophylaxis during this period. All volunteers will undergo Controlled Human
      Malaria Infection (CHMI) by exposure to 5 bites from Plasmodium falciparum sporozoite
      infected mosquitoes.
    
  