
    
      This study will be carried our at the Mood Disorders Psychopharmacology Unit (MDPU),
      University Health Network (UHN), University of Toronto, with the approval of the Research
      Ethics Board (REB). Informed consent will be obtained from all subjects prior to study
      enrollment.50 male subjects between the age of 40 and 65 will be evaluated by the
      psychiatrist to assess whether each patient meets DSM-IV criteria for Major Depression using
      the MINI and to obtain their medical and psychiatric history. In addition, the SEX FX
      questionnaire (an instrument measuring sexual dysfunction) will be administered. Once each
      patient has signed the informed consent document, the research staff will assess the severity
      of depressive symptoms by administering the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D-17). A
      Symptom/Side Effect Rating Scale will also be administered to measure the presence and
      severity of side effects that each patient may be experiencing. Each patient will then have
      pulse, blood pressure, weight, height, waist and hip measurements taken to evaluate their
      health. Patients will be asked to provide blood (about 3 teaspoons) and urine (about 1/4 cup)
      samples for laboratory tests (bioavailable testosterone, LH, thyroid and prolactin). The
      blood samples will be obtained in the morning between 0800 and 1100 hr. Each patient will
      then be asked to complete a series of self-report measures including the SASS, the ADAM, and
      the Beck Depression Inventory.The 50 healthy controls will have a structured diagnostic
      interview (MINI) administered by the coordinator to obtain their psychiatric and medical
      history. They will undergo all laboratory tests required of the depressed population and all
      rating scales mentioned above will be completed with this population as well. Each patient is
      free to withdraw from the study at any time.
    
  