
    
      STUDY PARTICIPANTS

        -  Participants receiving oral or intravenous therapy will be included in this study.

        -  Drug level sampling will be undertaken once the participant is at steady state (after at
           least 5 doses have been administered to those on treatment).

        -  All patients will be consented using the participation information leaflet and consent
           form provided in appendix 1.

      DRUG LEVEL SAMPLING

        -  Patients will be identified for inclusion, and researchers will discuss inclusion in the
           study with the patient and provide clinical information for them to consider.
           Individuals will be recruited from all areas of secondary care (including, general
           medicine, general surgery, augmented care, and out-patient parenteral antimicrobial
           therapy [OPAT]).

        -  They will then be consented by researchers after being given at least 24 hours to
           consider this information and as long as the patient has expressed interest in
           participating to their treating physician.

        -  This will include permission for basic, anonymised demographic and clinical data to be
           collected related to the patients infection, for which they are receiving antimicrobial
           therapy.

        -  An extra 3mLs of blood will be collected during the patient's routine daily phlebotomy
           round following their consent. They will be enrolled for up to 72 hours or two days of
           routine blood tests (whichever is shorter). Up to 10 samples may be taken during the 2
           days the patient is enrolled, depending on the number of routine blood tests the patient
           receives during that day. No more than 3mLs will be taken per each routine blood sample.
           For example, if the individuals will only have routine blood tests taken at 8am on day 1
           and day 2. Then only two extra samples will be taken (3mLs on D1 and 3mLs on D2).

        -  The time they received their dose of antimicrobials, the length of infusion time (if
           available), and time the sample was collected will all be recorded.

        -  PK/PD indices for evaluation will be calculated post-hoc during
           pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic analysis. TDM sampling can occur at any time during the
           dosing schedule (in line with routine blood testing).

        -  A standard operating procedure for this study can be found in appendix 3.

      SAMPLE PREPARATION AND ANALYSIS

        -  All blood samples will be allowed to clot and placed on ice. They will be centrifuged at
           2,400rpm for 10 minutes. Sera from each sample will be separated into three vials and
           stored at -80C.

        -  Beta-lactam concentrations will be measured using validated high-performance liquid
           chromatography methods.

        -  Samples will be stored for up to three years post completion of data collection.

             -  Consent will be gained for samples to be used for calibration of electrochemical
                sensors in ex-vivo studies. This will be performed within 90 days of the samples
                being collected.

      PHARMCOKINETIC-PHARMACODYNAMIC MODELLING

        -  Data will be anonymised and analysed using Pmetrics in R.

        -  Different pharmacokinetic models will be explored using in built statistical analysis
           options and visual predictive checks.

        -  Pharmacodynamic models will then be incorporated into the model using evidence
           identified in the literature for selection of parameters.

        -  Monte Carlo simulation will then be used to for simulation of target attainments and
           analysis of pharmacodynamic outcomes
    
  