
    
      Background:

      Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) continue to be a leading cause of death in older age
      groups. In the 60-85 year-old population, AAA represents the 14th-leading cause of death.
      Federal funding through Medicare has been allocated for early detection using abdominal
      ultrasound screening programs. Despite these more aggressive screening programs and concerted
      efforts by surgeons for timely repair, the incidence of ruptured AAA has continued to
      increase.

      Endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) has been the most common type of repair since 2006.
      Multiple studies reflecting decreased perioperative morbidity and mortality over open repair
      make this an attractive option for patients. EVAR requires more intensive follow-up than
      standard open surgical repair, however. Secondary interventions are more common to maintain
      "seal" of the endograft within the aorta and subsequent exclusion of the aneurysmal
      component.

      The term endoleak is specific to EVAR, and describes the primary means by which endografts
      fail. Type I endoleaks occur because of inadequate graft seal proximally or distally,
      resulting in perigraft flow and aneurysm sac pressurization. Type II endoleaks occur when
      branch arteries arising from the aneurysmal aorta back-bleed into the aneurysm sac due to
      collateral flow. Type III endoleaks occur when flow persists between segments of a modular
      graft. Type IV endoleaks occur when flow persists through endograft material (graft
      porosity). Type V endoleaks have also been called "endotension", and occur when
      pressurization of the sac occurs in the absence of any demonstrable endoleak. Type I and Type
      III endoleaks are most concerning for rupture, although persistent Type II endoleaks can also
      lead to aneurysm rupture and premature death.

      The most common method of EVAR follow-up is computed tomographic angiography (CTA). These
      studies allow accurate measurement of aneurysm sac diameters and volumes. They also are
      highly sensitive and specific for endoleaks. Type II endoleaks are treated if they remain
      persistent and are present in the setting of aneurysm sac enlargement. Type I and III
      endoleaks are immediately treated when identified. Type IV endoleaks are rarely seen with
      current endograft technology.

      Study Objectives:

      The purpose of the current study is to compare routine postoperative surveillance by CTA with
      color duplex ultrasound and contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) for the detection of
      endoleaks.

      Study Design

      This is a pilot study comparing the imaging techniques of CTA to CEUS in 25 patients
      undergoing EVAR at their one month post endograft surveillance. The one month standard
      follow-up will be used for comparing techniques as this will yield the highest number of
      endoleak positive patients. Patients will complete a color duplex examination in conjunction
      with CEUS using the FDA approved ultrasound contrast agent OptisonTM (Perflutren Protein Type
      A Microspheres for Injection, USP). Following ultrasonographic evaluation, study patients
      will undergo routine CTA.

      Eligible subjects will be asked to participate in the trial following post-op day number 1
      from their endovascular procedure. Study participation is ~30 days (+ 7 days).
    
  