
    
      The absence of all natural teeth has negative effects on edentulous subjects' quality of
      life. It affects badly the masticatory muscles, chewing efficiency and digestive process,
      ability to speak clearly, psycho-social impacts related to esthetics and non-self-confidence
      and it is often associated with increasing risk for chronic systemic diseases.

      In Brazil, tooth loss is still a public health problem with high prevalence and negative
      impacts on the lives of individuals, despite the possibility of control by means of
      preventive and rehabilitation technologies aimed at promoting oral health. The prevalence of
      tooth loss is 76.6% in the general population, with a median of 6 teeth lost for the
      population aged 15 or more years old. There is a high prevalence of edentulism in the 65-74
      years age group for the maxilla (63.1%) and mandible (37.5%). Epidemiological data showed
      that there was an improvement in the oral health status of adults as the demand for dentures.
      However, the major problem is still concentrated in the population aged 65 to 74, who had an
      average caries index rate of 27.1 in 2010 (in 2003 the average was 27.8) with a predominance
      of component lost by decay. From 2003 to 2010, the proportion of elderly people who need
      dentures dropped from 24% to 23% and from 16% to 15% for those who need partial dentures.

      Although treatments using implants are widely available, conventional complete dentures are
      still an important part of oral health care for edentulous individuals, mainly due to
      economic reasons. However, conventional complete dentures do not always achieve all treatment
      goals regarding patient satisfaction and function, as a number of edentulous patients have
      problems with their dentures related to retention and comfort during mastication and speech,
      especially for the mandibular denture.

      The limitations of conventional dentures make the implant-supported mandibular overdenture be
      considered the preferred option for a number of edentulous elders. As stabilization by
      implants can increase denture retention and stability, improve masticatory efficiency and
      patient satisfaction. Furthermore, there are scientific evidences that it also contributes
      for prevention of bone resorption.

      The mandibular overdenture retained by two implants has been recommended as the minimum
      standard of care for the edentulous mandible. However, these consensus reports consider that
      anything less is negligent care disregard who cannot afford two implants, so the main problem
      related to implant overdenture is higher financial costs compared to the conventional
      complete denture. This is inconsistent with treatment concepts for the elderly, which include
      simplicity and cost effectiveness as major requirements in treatment planning.

      In recent years, the single-implant mandibular overdenture has been proposed as an
      alternative to more complex overdenture designs for the treatment of mandibular edentulism.
      This treatment approach is assumed to be simpler and less costly than both the fixed implant
      treatment and the overdenture retained by two implants. It is also considered a more feasible
      option for geriatric patient groups because of their diminished functional demands and the
      favorable local bone condition in the symphyseal region that ensures satisfactory primary
      implant stability.

      A series of clinical studies showed satisfactory results of the single-implant mandibular
      overdenture treatment regarding patient satisfaction and quality of life measures, as well as
      other clinical and radiographic outcomes such as implant survival rate, marginal bone loss
      and longitudinal implant stability. Although these studies differed on the experimental
      design, use of different implant and retention systems, loading protocols and evaluation of
      distinct clinical outcomes, they agree that the use of a single implant to retain an
      overdenture results in marked improvements compared to the conventional treatment Attachment
      systems used for implant-retained overdentures are small interlocking devices which links the
      implant with the dentures and this offer many balanced solutions between functions and oral
      comfort. The attachment systems allow an improvement in masticatory function, bite forces,
      food selection and quality of life. The retention design can be classified as mechanical,
      friction fit or magnetic. There are various attachments available for the clinicians in the
      market today such as bar connections, ball attachments, magnets, rigid or non-rigid
      telescopic copings and stud attachments.

      Clinical studies also reported complications related to the clinical performance of
      attachment systems used for single-implant mandibular overdentures. Loss of retention and
      matrix replacement was one of the most common maintenance events in single mandibular
      overdenture patients, although some studies reported no need for replacement in the long-term
      follow-up. Studies showed great variation on the incidence of matrix replacement, although no
      comparison of different types of retention systems and no time-to-event analysis were
      reported. No difference between the incidence of repair and adjustments of mandibular
      overdentures supported by 1 or 2 implants was observed.

      The impact of different attachment types on patient satisfaction and quality of life is
      recognized as a critical outcome requiring further investigation. For single-implant
      mandibular overdentures, studies reported in their majority the use of ball-o'ring, magnet
      and stud attachment systems. However, no evidences of the superiority of one system over
      another are available, considering both patient-reported outcomes such as individual
      preferences, easy to handle and oral comfort; and technical criteria such as level of
      retention, longevity, retrievability and the need of adjustments and replacement.

      This study will focus in improving patient health care quality, satisfaction and treatment
      outcomes as it is considered the golden goal for studying clinical benefits from treatments
      by comparing between different types of attachments for single-implant mandibular overdenture
      treatment. This will be an experimental study using a randomized clinical trial with a
      crossover design to test if clinical and patient-reported outcomes are dependent on the type
      of retention system, and if patients have distinct preferences about the tested attachments.
    
  