
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a global health issue that has a substantial impact on
      affected individuals. Chronic inflammation, which is widely seen in CKD including long-term
      dialysis patients, is associated with malnutrition, atherosclerosis and an increased
      mortality risk. Inflammatory markers such as C-reactive protein, IL-6, IL-18, and TNF-α, are
      elevated in dialysis patients and can predict cardiovascular event and all-cause mortality.
      Endotoxin is bacterial lipopolysaccharide, and makes up the outer membrane of Gram-negative
      bacteria. Endotoxin is also an important source and also a marker of inflammation in CKD.

      The natural intestinal microbiota is altered in CKD patients as an increase in aerobic
      bacteria such as E. coli and a decrease in anaerobic bacteria such as Bifidobacterium.
      Dysbiosis might contribute to the chronic inflammatory state in dialysis patients through
      endotoxemia, induction of the pro-inflammatory cytokine, and production of uremic toxins
      through fermentation of protein in the large intestine. Probiotics containing Bifidobacterium
      species and Lactobacilli species could benefit the host by inhibiting the growth or
      epithelial invasion of pathogenic bacteria, enhancing the intestinal barrier function, and
      regulating the immune system.

      Probiotics could suppress proinflammatory cytokines, such as TNF-α and IL-6 . In addition,
      probiotics could improve renal function parameters in uremic rats and significantly lower
      levels of blood urea nitrogen in stage 3 and 4 CKD patients. The aim of the present study is
      to evaluate:

        1. Whether probiotics could retard the decline of renal function?

        2. Whether probiotics could change microbiota?

        3. Whether probiotics could reduce the serum levels of endotoxin and cytokines (TNF-α,
           IL-6, and IL-18)?

        4. Whether probiotics could improve the gastrointestinal symptoms in CKD patients?

      Estimated glomerular filtration rate, stool microbiota, serum cytokines and endotoxin, and
      gastrointestinal symptoms of stage 3-5 patients are measured before and after intervention.
      The Wilcoxon signed-rank and Wilcoxon rank-sum tests were used to compare intra- and
      intergroup differences for continuous variables, as appropriate. A p value less than 0•05 was
      considered significant.
    
  