
    
      BACKGROUND

      Soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor

      The biomarker soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR) is the soluble form of
      the cell membrane-bound protein urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR), which is
      expressed mainly on immune cells, endothelial cells, and smooth muscle cells. uPAR is
      released during inflammation or immune activation, and therefore the suPAR level reflects the
      extent of immune activation in the individual. All human beings have a baseline level of
      suPAR that is individually determined and increases with age. Studies have shown that the
      suPAR level is associated with morbidity and mortality in a number of acute and chronic
      diseases and in the general population. The suPAR level is elevated across diseases, and not
      solely associated with one specific disease. Therefore, suPAR is applicable as a prognostic
      marker and not as a diagnostic marker. This characteristic may be utilized for risk
      stratification in unselected patients.

      In critically ill patients, the suPAR level is significantly increased. suPAR is an
      independent prognostic marker, and the change over time correlates with organ dysfunction.
      suPAR is elevated and has a prognostic value in patients with: SIRS (systemic inflammatory
      response syndrome), sepsis/septic shock, burn injuries, and traumatic brain injuries. The
      suPAR level reflects the body's immune response to infections, and the level increases with
      the severity of the infection. In patients with organ dysfunction, the suPAR value is often a
      two-digit value. In particular hepatic and renal dysfunction affects the suPAR level.

      suPAR in surgery

      The suPAR level is elevated in patients with infections, chronic diseases, and cancer
      compared to healthy individuals. A high suPAR level is associated with increased mortality
      risk, poor prognosis, postoperative pneumonia, and prosthetic joint infection. suPAR is a
      well-studied biomarker predicting prognosis, disease severity, and organ dysfunction and is
      being considered as a marker of the individual's inflammatory status. It has been
      demonstrated that biomarkers are able to improve triage and are effective in identifying high
      and low risk patients among acutely admitted patients. Improving the preoperative risk
      stratification using biomarkers may optimize the patient's clinical outcome.

      AIM

      SPARSE is a single-center observational study aiming to investigate if suPAR measured
      preoperatively and immediately after surgery can predict the risk of future complications and
      post-operative mortality in adults following major non-cardiac surgery.

      METHODS

      Design

      This is a prospective observational study designed in accordance with the declaration of
      Helsinki. The study will be register at Clinical Trials.gov and will be approved by the
      Institutional Review Board of the University Hospital of Larisa, under reference number.

      Management of Anesthesia and Surgical Procedures

      Endotracheal intubation and anesthetic care will be performed according to institutional
      routine. Intravenous induction of general anaesthesia will include midazolam 0.15-0.35 mg/kg
      iv over 20-30 seconds, fentanyl 1μg/kg, propofol 1.5-2 mg/kg, ketamine 0.2 mg/kg (intravenous
      bolus), and rocurnium 0.6 mg/kg. All drugs will be prepared in labelled syringes and
      induction will be achieved by administration of a predetermined iv bolus dose on the basis of
      the patient's weight and/or age. Laryngoscopy and intubation will proceed in a standard
      fashion, while the position of the endotracheal tube will be confirmed by auscultation and
      capnography/capnometry. The patients will then connected to an automated ventilator (Draeger
      Primus®; Drägerwerk AG & Co., Lübeck, Germany).

      All patients will be ventilated using a lung-protective strategy with tidal volume of 7
      mL/kg, positive end-expiratory pressure of 6-8 cmH2O, plateau pressures <30 cmH2O, and
      recruitment maneuvers repeated every 30 min after tracheal intubation. Maintenance of general
      anesthesia will include desflurane 1.0 MAC with 40% oxygen and 60% air, while intraoperative
      dose changes will be left to the anesthesiologist in charge of the patient. Depth of
      anesthesia (bispectral index-BIS, Covidien, France) will be monitored, with the target
      ranging between 40 and 60. Normocapnia will be maintained by adjusting the respiratory rate
      as needed, while normothermia (37ºC) will be maintained throughout the intraoperative period.

      Sampling and laboratory measurements

      Participants will undergo sampling of peripheral venous blood, immediately after arrival to
      the OR, and at the Post-Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU). Blood samples drawn from all patients
      and EDTA plasma will be stored at -80° C until suPAR levels are determined.

      Microcirculation flow analysis

      In addition to routine hemodynamic data, sublingual microvascular flow will be measured using
      noninvasive technology. Measurements will be obtained preoperatively (PRE), intraoperatively
      (INT), and postoperatively after arrival in the PACU (POST). At each time point, the
      microcirculatory network of the sublingual mucosa will be imaged using sidestream darkfield
      (SDF+) videomicroscopy which has an increased optical resolution resulting in one pixel
      recording an area of 0.56 μm2.

      Data Collection and Monitoring

      Data analysis will be based on predefined data points on a prospective data collection form.
      The staff will be blinded to measurements until the end of the study and all data are
      analyzed. Clinical monitoring throughout the study will be performed to maximize protocol
      adherence, while an independent Data and Safety Monitoring research staff will monitor
      safety, ethical, and scientific aspects of the study. Data collection will include
      demographics, anesthesia parameters, C-reactive protein, P-POSSUM score, ACS-NSQIP score,
      APACHE II, SOFA, and the Charlson Age-Comorbidity Index (Charlson score). A SAS macro based
      on ICD-10 diagnoses will be used to calculate the Charlson score. Two other simpler models
      adding predictive value to the ASA classification will be also used; the Surgical Mortality
      Probability Model and a similar model proposed by Glance and Donati.
    
  