
    
      Design:

      A prospective cluster controlled randomized study. The intervention is a multifaceted group
      training program for GPs in priority setting and waiting time indication by using the
      national prioritization guidelines. The comprehensiveness and appropriateness of the
      referrals are scored and registered by trained hospital consultants. Three of the hospital
      divisions who receive most referrals are chosen for registration: dermatology, urology and
      orthopedics. The referral rates will be followed for both groups.

      Method:

      280 GPs in South Rogaland organized in 58 continuous professional development (CPD) groups of
      5-10 participants will be invited to participate. The groups are cluster randomized to
      control or intervention groups. The intervention will be a training program in priority
      setting and waiting time decision by use of the national priority guidelines. Hospital
      consultants who read and assess referrals are selected for recording data on referrals.
      Referring physician's priority (P1) and recommended waiting time (W1) and hospital doctors'
      own priorities (P2) and waiting time for examination and treatment in hospital (W2) are
      recorded as well as the comprehensiveness of the referrals (symptoms, severity, prognosis,
      expected outcome). We will look at the correlation between comprehensiveness and the presence
      of priority setting and waiting time in the referrals. The degree of inter-rater correlation
      between referring GP and hospital consultant will be used to measure the mutual understanding
      about the actual health problem and the need for specialist care on the basis of the
      information in the referral. The referral rates for both groups will be registered before and
      after intervention.

      Participants:

      All the GPs referring to Stavanger University Hospital who participate in one of the 58 CPD
      groups in South Rogaland County and who agree to participate in the study are included. The
      CPD groups are cluster randomized into intervention or control groups. Information about
      priority setting and waiting time in 1000 consecutive referrals is recorded by hospital
      consultants representing three divisions: dermatology, urology and orthopedics.

      Intervention:

      The intervention is a team-based multifaceted case-based interactive training program in
      priority setting and waiting time decision by using the national priority guidelines. Each
      participant receives written information about the national guidelines and the benefits of
      using these, for themselves, hospital consultants and for the patients. Training takes place
      in the CPD groups where they normally meet. The participants will study prepared cases on
      realistic patient problems with examples of different referrals evaluated and scored
      according to priority and waiting time, and be trained in priority setting and indication for
      waiting time consistent with the national guidelines. Actual diagnoses or clinical problems
      can be prostate cancer, malignant melanomas and coxarthrosis. The training takes
      approximately 2 hours. There will be follow-up by e-mail and telephone support by the project
      leader to support the use of priority setting.

      Effect variables:

      The main effect variable is the use of priority setting and waiting time in referrals. Other
      effect variables are the inter-rater agreement between GPs and hospital consultants on
      priority setting and waiting time indication in referrals and the referral rates to hospital.

      Sample size and statistics:

      We base the sample size calculations on a simple comparison of the post intervention mean
      referral qualities of the intervention arm and the control arm. All calculations are for 80%
      power and alpha-level 0.05, and relate to standardized differences. All results and plots
      were obtained using R. In this study we have fixed CPD groups with an average size of 8
      associated GPs. We plan to invite all groups in the south county, meaning that the maximum
      number of groups is 58. The total number of referrals registered and scored can be higher by
      increasing the study period. The correlation of observations within each CPD group will
      reduce the power of the study, thus the number of observations required will be inflated by a
      factor related to the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Some recent studies have
      reported on the ICC for antibiotics prescribing habits in these CPD groups; Flottorp et al
      (2002)found ICC=0.085, whereas Gjelstad et al found 0.013 and 0.061(2013). We anticipate that
      the qualities of referrals may be even more correlated than antibiotics prescriptions (at
      least on the GP level), thus we allow for ICCs from 0.05 to 0.15. Following Hemming et al
      (2011), we find that for a given number of CPD groups, there is a limit to the difference
      possible to detect, even for an infinite number of observations per group. Thus, we will
      likely not be able to detect "small" differences (standardized differences of 0.2 or smaller
      by Cohen's definition). Aiming for a sample size that enables us to detect a difference of
      0.4 between the intervention and the control arm, we find that the number of observations
      required per CPD group depends on the number of groups included in the study. As can be seen,
      with smaller number of groups included in the study, the number of required observations per
      GP becomes very large in the "worst case" scenario. Thus, some effort should go into
      recruiting a maximal number of groups. Varying cluster sizes and drop-outs will reduce the
      power (Hemming et al., 2011), thus we plan to randomize 40 CPD groups, 20 in each group.

      Time schedule:

      A pre-intervention pilot study to register the use of priority setting in referrals will
      start in November 2013. The pre-intervention registration of referrals will start in December
      2013. Intervention will start in January 2014 and lasts for 3 months. Registration will last
      until April 2014, or until 1000 consecutive referrals have been registered. Analysis and
      article work will be done from April to September 2014. Preparation of dissertation will be
      done from October 2014 to March 2015.
    
  