
    
      Healthy People 2010 included the goal of increasing breastfeeding duration to 6 months for
      50% of all mothers. Other professional and national health organizations and the Health and
      Human Services Blueprint for Action on Breastfeeding recommend that women breastfeed
      exclusively for six months. Increasing breastfeeding among low-income women is a priority, as
      disparities exist. Only 20.1% of low-income women (on WIC) breastfeed for six months compared
      to 40.7 % of more affluent women. Consistent, comprehensive, culturally sensitive
      breastfeeding support increases duration of breastfeeding, thus offering well-documented
      health benefits often specifically appropriate for low-income women. Breastfeeding relates to
      lower formula cost, lower health care costs, and breastfeeding may be less time consuming.
      These cost savings can potentially offset costs of breastfeeding promotion. Facilitating
      breastfeeding among low-income women includes comprehensive and culturally relevant support
      in the hospital, during the first week postpartum, and periodic support in the mother's home.
      Nearly 35% of low-income women stop breastfeeding within eight days of delivery. Repeated
      contact with supportive persons such as peer counselors and nurses, affects the duration and
      exclusivity of breastfeeding practice after the immediate postpartum period. However, support
      for low-income women has been neglected and not made available because of generally
      unsubstantiated claims that it is not cost effective. The breastfeeding intervention used an
      enhanced traditional community health nurse/peer counselor home visit, which is no longer
      usual care for contemporary community health nursing practice, along with in-hospital and
      telephone support. The overall hypothesis was the intervention group will have improved
      breastfeeding outcomes and will demonstrate a net cost savings over usual care.

      The consent form explained the purpose of the study; the actual number of visits and
      telephone calls (if randomized into the intervention group) and the data collecttion
      procedures. There were no identified risks for those enrolled in the study. Incentives
      included $105 if the participant completed each data point.
    
  