
    
      1. An integrated study design

           This clinical study combines a clinical safety evaluation of the contraceptive vaginal
           ring (CVR) with social science research on acceptability and adherence of ring use in
           Rwandan women.

           The clinical part of the study assesses the general safety of the contraceptive ring
           including the effect on the vaginal microbiome, genitourinary symptoms and signs and
           clinical adverse events. In addition the clinical part of the study aims to understand
           better the possible biofilm formation and to explore the impact of the ring on the
           microbiome and inflammation in the vagina.

           The social science component consists of a combination of a mixed-methods research
           including In-depth Interviews (IDIs), Focus Group Discussions (FGDs), questionnaires,
           and (if funding permits) audio computer-assisted self-interviewing (ACASI).

        2. Clinical study design

      This is an open label single-centre cohort study with the NuvaRing®. A total of 120 Human
      Immunodeficiency Virus(HIV)-negative women will be randomized to an intermittent regimen or a
      continuous regimen of ring use and will be followed for maximum 14 weeks, to determine
      general safety of the ring in the African context, and to determine differences in the
      vaginal microbiome and vaginal inflammation before and after use of a contraceptive vaginal
      ring (CVR). Qualitative research for the social science component will be performed to
      address the acceptability and adherence of intermittent or continuous CVR use in more depth.

      Women will be randomized into two study groups: 60 intermittent users in group A and 60
      continuous users in group B. Both groups will use the NuvaRing®. Women in group A (the
      intermittent users) will use each CVR for 3 weeks followed by one week of no ring use to
      allow menstruation. Women in group B (the continuous users) will use each ring for 3 weeks,
      with the next ring being inserted immediately after the previous one and no off period in
      between [4]. The total duration from enrolment to the last study visit is maximum 14 weeks.
      The screening process will be a maximum of 6 weeks.

      As noticed above, the study will include also a social sciences component, aimed at assessing
      the level of acceptability and reported adherence to intermittent and continuous
      Contraceptive Vaginal Rings (CVRs) use in women in Rwanda; at identifying and describe the
      context specific attitudes and beliefs regarding family, family planning, and gendered norms;
      at exploring the women's beliefs and expectations regarding future potential use of a
      multi-purpose ring (contraception and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) prevention); and at
      exploring how women and men in Rwanda perceive and experience risk related to unwanted
      pregnancy and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). This part of the study will result in
      qualitative outcomes.
    
  