
    
      Aim 1: Adapt the health club curriculum and provider/staff sensitization training using
      Assessment, Decision, Administration, Production, discussion with Topical experts,
      Integration, Training, and Testing (ADAPT-ITT) Formative mixed methods data will be collected
      from stakeholders to assess the landscape of adolescent-friendly care and gaps to adapt the
      intervention. Intervention sessions will be presented to groups of stakeholders to elicit
      feedback on adaptations.

      The formative research entails a mixed methods assessment of the adolescent sexual
      reproductive health landscape in the study area, and adaptation of the intervention
      components through interactive sessions, consistent with ADAPT-ITT.

      ADAPT-ITT Assessment Phase

      Key informant interviews (KIIs) - Qualitative key informant interviews (N=35) will be
      conducted with both public and private community-based health providers, NGO workers,
      community health workers (CHWs), and parents of young women. Interviews will also be
      conducted with government officials at the community and M Ward levels (wards are the
      smallest administrative unit of governmental ministries). These interviews will focus on
      qualitative mapping of adolescent health and treatment-seeking pathways and providers in the
      study area, and factors in the family, community, and elsewhere that influence adolescent
      girls' and young women's health. The KIIs will also provide insight into aspects of the
      intervention and evaluation tools requiring modification. KIIs will also be invited to join a
      community advisory board (CAB) for the duration of the project. This CAB will provide a forum
      for AGYW to present their learnings from the adolescent club, and serve as a resource should
      community members have questions or concerns about the intervention.

      In-depth interviews with adolescent girls and young women (IDIs) - Qualitative in-depth
      interviews will be conducted with 20 AGYW (aged 15-25 years old) to understand their
      experiences with healthcare in the study area, treatment-seeking patterns, and factors in the
      family, community and elsewhere that influence their health. Young women will also be asked
      to comment on the proposed intervention's feasibility and acceptability, and provide input on
      aspects of the intervention and evaluation tools that need modification. Roughly equal
      numbers of married and unmarried young women will be recruited for participation. Young women
      will be recruited with assistance from NGO programs, CHWs, and referrals from other
      participants.

      Survey with AGYW on care-seeking patterns and perceptions of healthcare quality and
      quantitative analysis - A random sample of AGYW seeking care at a set of public (N=3) and
      private (N=3) healthcare facilities in the study area will be selected and asked to
      participate in a brief, 20-30 minute survey using validated measures to discuss their
      patterns of healthcare-seeking (where they go for different problems, and what influences
      those choices), and their perceptions and experiences with adolescent healthcare. For
      unmarried participants under the age of 18, consent will be obtained from both a parent and
      the young woman. The investigators involved in this study have experience obtaining consent
      from parents, and do not anticipate challenges obtaining consent. About 20-25 AGYW will be
      surveyed from each facility, with a total N=100-150. Survey data will be entered into R, and
      bivariate and multivariate analyses will be conducted to understand factors associated with
      AGYW treatment-seeking that may need to be addressed in the health clubs. Analyses will also
      explore quality of care to identify elements that may need to be incorporated into the
      provider sensitization. This survey will the investigators to apply skills gained in Training
      Aim 1.

      Theater testing with key stakeholders for intervention adaptations - Theater testing meetings
      will be held in which intervention sessions are presented and, in some cases, acted out to
      the group. Audience members' responses and post-meeting critiques of the material will be
      recorded and analyzed (see below). During the meetings, both general feedback, as well as
      whether adolescent health club sessions need to be conducted separately with different age
      groups or based on marital status (married adolescents, regardless of age could have
      different needs than unmarried adolescents) will be evaluated. Separate meetings will be held
      with the following stakeholder groups to present the intervention modules and elicit feedback
      on revisions or adaptations: 1) AGYW; 2) community members/KIIs; and 3) healthcare providers,
      CHVs, and NGO staff. Additional meetings may be conducted after modifications are made to
      ensure agreement

      Qualitative data analysis and finalization of intervention modules - Interviews and group
      discussions will be transcribed and translated (as needed, some KII materials will already be
      in English) and coded with the qualitative data analysis software, Atlas.ti. Using a
      framework approach with codes based on key implementation and conceptual model factors of
      interest, data will be coded and analyzed to identify elements of the intervention needing
      revision, with additional codes added as novel topics/issues arise.Coding will be conducted
      by myself and a research assistant, consulting with Dr. Maitra as needed. Using the formative
      data and the expertise of my mentors, the intervention modules will be adapted to the
      context, while making sure the key evidence-based elements are not lost. As needed,
      additional in-depth coding of the formative qualitative data can be conducted once rapid
      analysis for intervention adaptation has been completed. Once the modules have been
      finalized, the intervention facilitators will be trained, and the intervention implemented.

      Aim 2: Implement a pilot of the intervention and assess implementation outcomes.

      The provider and staff component will consist of two groups to facilitate participation and
      accommodate provider/staff schedules. Four separate groups of AGYW will participate in the
      adolescent health club component, using a wait-list control group design. Separate groups are
      needed due to the group nature of the intervention activities which limits the number of
      people who can participate at one time. Intervention participants will be surveyed pre- and
      post-intervention to examine acceptability, feasibility, and uptake. Qualitative process data
      will also be collected and analyzed.

      Aim 3: Assess a pilot set of health outcomes for future research. Quantitative pre- and
      post-tests will also assess pilot effectiveness health and behavioral outcomes.

      Intervention (the "Testing" phase of ADAPT-ITT: Research Aims 2 and 3)

      The ADAPT-ITT Model - The ADAPT-ITT model was developed by Wingood and DiClemente as a
      systematic approach for the adaptation of sexual health/HIV-related evidence-based
      interventions.41 The ADAPT-ITT acronym stands for each of the eight phases of the model
      (although not all applications of the model use all phases): assessment, decision,
      administration, production, discussion with topical experts, integration, training, and
      testing. The assessment phase involves conducting needs assessments with the target
      population. The decision phase (which for some studies, such as the one proposed here,
      happens before the assessment) occurs when one chooses the evidence-based intervention(s) to
      be adapted. Administration involves the use of theater tests or interactive presentations
      with key stakeholders to determine what adaptations are needed and to ensure the intervention
      will be designed with end-users in mind. The revised/adapted draft of the intervention is
      finalized in the production and integration phases with the guidance of topical experts and
      information from the theater tests. Once the research team is trained in intervention
      delivery, the intervention can be pilot tested and results analyzed. The model explicitly
      includes the target population/patients/end-users and other key stakeholders in the process
      of intervention adaptation, enabling a participatory approach to implementation. Not all
      frameworks or models of implementation allow for this engagement, which is why the ADAPT-ITT
      approach was chosen. The ADAPT-ITT model has been used to adapt interventions for sexual and
      reproductive health substance use,mental and behavioral health, and chronic health issues in
      both international and domestic settings.

      Neither providers/staff or clinics can be randomized, as only a subset of the
      clinics/providers in the study area see enough AGYW to meet inclusion criteria, and some
      providers/staff who participate will work in the same clinics. Providers/staff will complete
      brief pre- and post-training surveys; however, the primary measures of their intervention
      will be derived from the AGYW's outcomes.

      For the adolescent health club component, the pilot study employs a waitlisted control group
      design. In this modified version of the stepped wedge design, all groups receive the
      intervention, and participants serve as their own controls. This design utilizes a smaller
      sample size of AGYW and fewer facilitators, making it more feasible for a K award, while
      still enabling all participants to participate in the intervention. The waitlisted control
      design also avoids some of the challenges associated with carryover effect that can occur in
      other crossover designs, as participants move unidirectionally from control to intervention.
      The adolescent health club curriculum (which takes approximately 2.5 months to complete) will
      be sequentially administered to four groups, each with a waitlisted control group.
      Individuals can be compared to themselves, and the other groups. Sequentially administering
      the intervention will be more feasible than administering the intervention simultaneously to
      separate neighborhood clusters, limiting the number of facilitators needed.

      Provider Sensitization Component and Evaluation - Providers and clinic staff at the public
      UHC and health posts, as well as from private clinics known to provide care for adolescents
      will be screened to determine if they meet eligibility criteria, and if they do, then they
      will be invited to participate in the sensitization workshop. There will be two workshop
      groups with 20 participants each. All participants will complete pre/post intervention
      surveys, primarily focused on feasibility and acceptability of the intervention, using
      previously validated measures. After each session, the facilitator will complete a log to
      code activities as implemented fully, implemented partially or modified significantly and
      describe any changes. The log will also include a section to document any unusual events
      associated with any of the sessions, and the effect of these events on implementation,
      acceptability, or feasibility. Every other session will be observed and documented in
      fieldnotes that will be analyzed to contribute to process evaluation (see analysis details
      below). The log and observations will enable a qualitative assessment of intervention
      fidelity. A subset will be selected for exit interviews to contextualize the quantitative
      measures, and learn about participants' perspectives on feasibility and acceptability.

      Adolescent Health Club Component and Evaluation - Households with AGYW ages 15 to 25 will be
      identified by community health workers from randomly selected block sectors of the study
      area. Clubs will be conducted in separate neighborhood sectors, to limit contamination.
      Conducting club meetings near to the lanes adolescent girls live in will make it easier for
      attendance. To further assess and address potential contamination, individuals will be asked
      to verify the adolescent health club they attended in the post-intervention survey, whether
      they attended an additional health club outside the intervention (such as, in school). If any
      contamination is evident based on this question, it will be modeled in the analysis. AGYW and
      their mothers (if unmarried and under the age of 18) will be approached by a member of the
      research team and the adolescent health club intervention will be explained. If consent is
      obtained, the AGYW will be enrolled, and randomized to either participate or join the
      wait-list. AGYW will complete the pre-intervention evaluation instrument upon enrollment. In
      addition to the activities in the "It's All One" Curriculum spread over eight modules,
      providers from the sensitization component will attend one meeting to discuss services
      available in the adolescent-friendly clinics, and hear young women's previous experiences
      accessing care. Similar to the process for the provider sensitization component, the
      facilitator will complete a log after each session to code activities as implemented fully,
      implemented partially or modified significantly and describe any changes. The log will also
      include a section to document any unusual events associated with any of the sessions, and the
      effect of these events on implementation, acceptability, or feasibility. Every other session
      will be observed and documented in fieldnotes that will be analyzed to contribute to process
      evaluation (see analysis details below). As with the provider component, the log and
      fieldnotes will enable a qualitative assessment of intervention fidelity. When young women
      complete the curriculum, they will also complete the post-intervention evaluation instrument.
      A sub-sample of young women (N=15) will be asked to participate in a focus group discussion
      to reflect on the club's impact and acceptability. Domains measured by previously validated
      instruments to be covered in the pre- and post-intervention surveys. There are relatively few
      validated quantitative measures of implementation outcomes, and none in Hindi, thus the
      measure chosen will have to be translated and back-translated to ensure comprehension.
    
  