
    
      Ancillary Study at the center of Genoa:

      To investigate in a subgroup of patient, taking part in the AIACE study, the ability of PMBL
      to induce an Ig response, to modify the NK blood pattern, and to modulate inflammatory
      parameters (e.g. CRP).

      Material & Methods:

      30 patients who were enrolled at the Respiratory Department of Genoa University during the
      AIACE trial and double blind randomly treated with bacterial lysate or placebo, will
      participate in this ancillary study.

      A further informed consent to participate in this laboratory trial will be requested to the
      patient besides the already ethical procedure approved for the AIACE study.

      In order to assess the enhancement of the concentration of salivary antibodies, a sample of
      salivary fluid (SF) will be collected at day 0 using Salivette (Starsted, Germany, used
      according to the manufacture's instructions) and stored frozen until assayed. Then, treatment
      with PMBL will be carried out for ten days. After twenty-day rest (day 30), at the end of
      first treatment course (day 90) at the beginning and at the end of the second drug course
      (day 180, 210) and at the end of the study (day 360), a SF sample will be collected and
      stored frozen.

      Besides the AIACE laboratory procedure already approved, a further blood sample (6 glass
      tubes) will be collected for peripheral NK blood phenotyping and CRP dosage.

      Purified NK cells will obtained from peripheral blood sample at time 0, 90 and 360 by
      negative selection by using the NK cell isolation Kit (Miltenyi Biotech, Bergisch Gladbach -
      Germany) following the manufacturer instructions. The NK cell populations are assessed for
      purity and only those homogeneously displaying CD3-CD14-CD15-CD19- phenotype are selected.

      Cells obtained as above described will be analyzed (time t0) by flow cytometry using the
      following mAbs: anti-CD3, anti-CD56, anti-NKp30, anti-NKp46, anti-NKp44, anti-NKG2D,
      anti-CD158B1/B2j, anti-KIR p70, anti-CD159A , anti-CD226 (Immunotech -Marseille, France).

      In order to assess the efficacy of PMBL on systemic inflammation CRP will be evaluated at day
      0 90 and 360. Finally, special T cell subpopulations, such as regulatory T cells, will be
      assayed on collected samples, together with the concentration of circulating chemokines,
      cytokines and inflammation-related molecules using a specific immunobeads and flow cytometry.
    
  