
    
      Patients suffering from oesophageal cancer are known to suffer from important weight loss
      preoperatively, due to dysphagia attributed to the growing tumour. Postoperatively, the
      challenge of maintaining weight is even more important given the new way of eating through
      the gastric conduit that replaces the oesophagus. They often also need to tackle dysphagia
      caused by an anastomotic stricture and overcome the physiological stress of the operation. As
      a consequence, almost all patients are confronted with postoperative weight loss. Obviously,
      patients with a low preoperative weight do not have a lot of reserve and are thus even more
      at risk of becoming anorectic in the postoperative setting.

      This postoperative weight loss has a direct relationship with impaired survival. Therefore,
      reversing or at least stabilizing the postoperative weight loss might improve survival. The
      link between weight loss and impaired survival is found in the concept of sarcopenia, the
      breakdown of muscle fibers. Indeed, by losing muscle strength, patients become too weak for
      general tasks like bathing, putting clothes on or shopping. In a more pronounced stage, loss
      of muscle mass is responsible for impaired recovery and eg. the inability to fight against
      respiratory infections due to lack of cough power.

      A logical reaction would therefore be to maximize caloric intake in the peri- and
      postoperative setting. One could therefore implement extra caloric intake as early as
      possible in the postoperative track in order to improve recovery. This has been up to now
      been advocated by scientific organisations like ESPEN (European Society for Clinical
      Nutrition and Metabolism) by spreading their guidelines on postoperative nutrition.

      In contrast, within the field of intensive care and nutrition, discussion has risen about
      timing of feeding. The focus here shifted in the direction of postponing nutrition to a later
      stage in the recovery of a sick patient, rather than initiate feeding too soon. Through
      fundamental research, the concept of impaired autophagy at muscular level in case of early
      feeding was put forward as underlying mechanism. Muscle cells get swollen and their
      interlinking structure gets disturbed, resulting in decreased function. The muscle loss
      itself is triggered by the initial inflammatory storm that these patients go through when
      their lives are at stake at admission on the ICU. Early energy suppletion seems to aggravate
      this process even more. This cascade negatively influences recovery. This finding led in our
      own institution to postpone feeding of patients at the ICU until one week after admission, in
      order to minimize muscle tissue loss.

      The investigators consider the experience in ICU patients as a proof of concept of the
      postoperative aggravation of sarcopenia in esophageal cancer patients. As patients following
      esophagectomy are also confronted with a similar catecholamin storm and insulin resistance,
      they could also be considered to suffer from similar processes that inhibit recovery as
      patients at the ICU.

      The main research hypothesis is therefore that relative energy restriction following surgery
      would result in better qualitative muscle tissue, in comparison to patients that receive
      early enteral nutritional support. By doing so, the researchers assume to minimize autophagy
      at muscular level, resulting in better function and ultimately also in better postoperative
      recovery. Ultimately, this limitation of muscle loss most likely will have a beneficial
      effect on survival.

      The primary outcome parameter, improvement of muscle function, will be assessed by means of a
      6 minute walk test. Apart from this test, several side measurements will be performed - a
      nutrition diary, activity assessment by means of a MoveMonitor sensor, bio-impedance
      measurement, quantitive evaluation of muscle mass by CT, qualitative evaluation of muscle
      quality by muscle biopsy, quality-of-life-questionnaires and continous monitoring of glucose
      levels during enteral feeding will give the researchers more insight in the underliying
      mechanisms.
    
  