
    
      1. This study is a prospective single-center, clinical trial to be conducted at one
           clinical site. Up to 20 subjects will be enrolled and treated (total enrollment may be
           more than 20 due to screen failures) if they meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria and
           provide written informed consent.

        2. Duration of Study The duration from when the study opens to enrollment until completion
           of data analysis is anticipated to be six months

        3. Study Endpoints 3.1 Primary Endpoint: One grade improvement on Depressor Anguli Oris
           Scale as assessed by the Principal Investigator

      Depressor Anguli Oris Scale

      0-None Slight or no muscle contraction

        1. Mild Mild contraction with mild pull down of corner of the mouth

        2. Moderate Moderate muscle contraction and moderate pull down of corner of mouth

        3. Severe Severe Muscle contraction with sever pull down of corner of the mouth

      3.2 Secondary Endpoints

      The secondary endpoints of this clinical trial include:

        1. The Principal Investigator, sub-investigator or qualified clinician delegated by the
           principal investigator, will complete a Global Aesthetic Improvement Scale (Investigator
           Global Aesthetic Improvement Scale) assessing overall aesthetic improvement at 2 weeks,
           6 weeks, and 12 weeks after the treatment visit.

        2. The subjects will complete the Global Aesthetic Improvement Scale (Subject Global
           Aesthetic Improvement Scale) assessing overall aesthetic improvement at 2 weeks, 6
           weeks, and 12 weeks after the treatment visit.

        3. The subject will complete a Patient Satisfaction Questionnaire at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, and
           12 weeks after the treatment visit.

        4. Analysis of photography to provide data on change in facial muscle contraction

      4. Outcome Measures 4.1 The Global Aesthetic Improvement Scale is a 5-point scale that rates
      global aesthetic improvement from the pretreatment appearance. The ratings are worse, no
      change, improved, much improved, and very much improved. In this study both live observation
      and photo review are utilized by the physician or a qualified, delegated clinician and
      subject in order to assign a score. The Investigator Global Aesthetic Improvement Scale must
      be performed by the principal investigator, sub-investigator or qualified clinician delegated
      by the principal investigator.

      4.2 Subject Satisfaction Questionnaire Part A (Baseline Only Visit)

        1. How satisfied are you with your appearance?

           - Very satisfied

             -  Satisfied

             -  Slightly satisfied

             -  Neither satisfied or dissatisfied

             -  Dissatisfied

        2. Which statement do you agree with?

             -  I look younger than my age

             -  I look my current age

             -  I look older than my age

      Subject Satisfaction Questionnaire Part B

        1. How satisfied are you with your appearance?

           - Very satisfied

           - Satisfied

             -  Slightly satisfied

             -  Neither satisfied or dissatisfied

             -  Dissatisfied

        2. Which statement do you agree with?

           - I look younger than my age

           - I look my current age

           - I look older than my age

        3. Do you notice any improvement in how your skin looks in the area that was treated?

           - Yes

           - No

        4. How would you characterize your satisfaction with the treatment?

           - Very satisfied

           - Satisfied

             -  Slightly satisfied

             -  Neither satisfied or dissatisfied

             -  Dissatisfied

        5. Would you recommend the treatment to your friends and family members? (check one)

             -  Yes

             -  No

      5. Subject enrollment 5.1 Participant Inclusion Criteria The study population will consist of
      males and females aged 18 years and older who have chosen to participate in this clinical
      trial as evidenced by execution of the informed consent document. 10 subjects will receive
      treatment and 10 subjects will receive placebo.

      5.1.1 Informed Consent Written informed consent will be obtained from all subjects (or their
      guardians or legal representatives) before any study-related procedures, including any
      pre-treatment screening procedures, are performed. Investigators, or delegated study
      personnel, may discuss the availability of the study and the possibility for entry with a
      potential subject without first obtaining consent. Informed consent must be obtained and
      documented prior to initiation of any procedures that are performed solely for the purpose of
      determining eligibility for research.

      Investigators have ethical and legal responsibilities to ensure that the protocol is clearly
      explained to each subject considered for enrollment in the study. Compliance with this
      requirement should be documented on a written Informed Consent Form approved by the reviewing
      Institutional Review Board. Each Informed Consent Form will include the elements required by
      Food and Drug Administration regulations in 21 Code of Federal Regulations Part 50.

      The Institutional Review Board approved Informed Consent Form will be signed by the study
      personnel obtaining consent. The subject will be given a copy of the signed Informed Consent
      Form. The investigative site will keep the original on file.

      6. Study Drug BOTOX Cosmetic (onabotulinumtoxinA) for injection, is a sterile, vacuum-dried
      purified botulinum toxin type A, produced from fermentation of Hall strain Clostridium
      botulinum type A intended for intramuscular use. It is purified from the culture solution by
      dialysis and a series of acid precipitations to a complex consisting of the neurotoxin, and
      several accessory proteins. The complex is dissolved in sterile sodium chloride solution
      containing Albumin Human and is sterile filtered (0.2 microns) prior to filling and
      vacuum-drying.

      The primary release procedure for BOTOX Cosmetic uses a cell-based potency assay to determine
      the potency relative to a reference standard. The assay is specific to Allergan's products
      BOTOX and BOTOX Cosmetic. One Unit of BOTOX Cosmetic corresponds to calculated median
      intraperitoneal lethal dose in mice. Due to specific details of this assay such as the
      vehicle, dilution scheme and laboratory protocols, Units of biological activity of BOTOX
      Cosmetic cannot be compared to nor converted into Units of any other botulinum toxin or any
      toxin assessed with any other specific assay method. The specific activity of BOTOX Cosmetic
      is approximately 20 Units/nanogram of neurotoxin complex.

      Each vial of BOTOX Cosmetic contains either 50 Units of Clostridium botulinum type A
      neurotoxin complex, 0.25 mg of Albumin Human, and 0.45 mg of sodium chloride; or 100 Units of
      Clostridium botulinum type A neurotoxin complex, 0.5 mg of Albumin Human, and 0.9 mg of
      sodium chloride in a sterile, vacuum-dried form without a preservative.

      7. Study Procedures and Schedule 7.1 Study Images Standardized baseline and follow-up images
      will be taken. To ensure consistent, reproducible study photos from baseline photographs to
      the follow-up photographs, Moradi MD's study specific photography guidelines and procedures
      should be followed.

      8 Study Schedule Visit 1-Screening, Baseline & Treatment

        -  Obtain informed consent of potential participant verified by signature on study informed
           consent form.

        -  Verify all preliminary/screening inclusion/exclusion criteria are met.

        -  Document medical history.

        -  Investigator skin assessment

        -  Obtain pregnancy screen (if applicable).

        -  Safety assessments

        -  Focused physical examination

        -  Subject satisfaction questionnaire part A

        -  Perform baseline photography.

        -  Document concurrent medications.

        -  Obtain demographics.

        -  Perform study treatment.

        -  Assess for expected treatment effects and adverse events

      Visit 2- 2 week follow up visit (+/- 4 days)

        -  Obtain images.

        -  Assess for expected treatment effects and adverse events

        -  Obtain aesthetic improvement scores

        -  Obtain patient satisfaction questionnaire

        -  Obtain Depressor Anguli Oris Scale Score by Principal Investigator

        -  Focused physical examination

        -  Subject satisfaction questionnaire part B

        -  Safety Assessments

      Visit 3-4 week follow up visit (+/-7 days)

        -  Obtain images.

        -  Assess for expected treatment effects and adverse events

        -  Obtain aesthetic improvement scores

        -  Obtain patient satisfaction questionnaire

        -  Obtain Depressor Anguli Oris Scale Score by Principal Investigator

        -  Focused physical examination

        -  Subject satisfaction questionnaire part B

        -  Safety Assessments

      Visit 4- 12 week follow up visit (+/-7 days)

      • Obtain images.

        -  Assess for expected treatment effects and adverse events

        -  Obtain aesthetic improvement scores

        -  Obtain patient satisfaction questionnaire

        -  Obtain Depressor Anguli Oris Scale Score by Principal Investigator

        -  Focused physical examination

        -  Subject satisfaction questionnaire part B

        -  Safety Assessments

           9. Unscheduled Visit Any unscheduled visit or examine should be documented in the
           subject's medical record and adverse event form (if applicable) stating the reason for
           the visit and any actions taken.

           10. Study Treatments This study involves a treatment of either onabonulinumtoxin A or a
           placebo to be injected in the Depressor Anguli Oris after obtaining informed consent,
           screening for inclusion/exclusion, complying with standardized photography requirements,
           and completing pregnancy tests, if applicable.

           11. Pre-Treatment Medications For this protocol, pre-treatment medication will be at the
           investigator's discretion and will be documented accordingly.

           12. Subject Preparation for Treatment The investigator, sub-investigator, or delegated
           clinician will first identify the skin areas to which treatment is to be performed.
           Treatment records for all regions will be maintained in accordance with this protocol.
           Skin in target treatment area should be cleansed with mild cleaner. No lotion, make-up,
           perfume, powder, or oil should be present on the area to be treated.

           13. Treatment All study treatments will be performed by the Investigator. For the study
           treatment 4.5 units of Botox Cosmetic will be injected per side in three injection
           points. Each injection point is 1.5 units of Botox for a total of six injection point,
           with a total of nine units. First injection is just below and lateral to the oral
           commisure where the skin dimples upon activation of the Depressor Anguli Oris. The
           second injection is between 1st and 3rd injection points along the same oblique line.
           The third injection is more laterally and at the mid distance from oral commisure to
           Jawline, along the line of Depressor Anguli Oris

      Placebo subjects will have injections in the same manner, but will be injected with
      Bacteriostatic 0.9% Sodium Chloride.

      The subjects will be monitored during the treatment for Adverse Events.

      14. Concomitant Medications All concomitant prescription, non-prescription and
      over-the-counter medications taken during study participation will be recorded on the
      appropriate study-specific data form. For this protocol, a prescription medication is defined
      as a medication that can be prescribed only by a properly authorized/licensed clinician.
    
  