
    
      This study will be carried out in patients who have undergone septoplasty for deviated nasal
      septum under general anesthesia, and who are categorized as American Society of
      Anesthesiologists (ASA) grade I to II. Consent will be obtained from the patient for the
      same.

      Septoplasty will be carried out under general anesthesia and in all patients Merocel nasal
      packs (expandable polyvinyl acetate nasal packing) that expand upon contact with fluid will
      be used.

      The postoperative analgesia will include Ibuprofen 400mg + Paracetamol 500mg combination
      thrice daily and Ketorolac 30mg intravenous when needed. The packs will be removed on the
      second postoperative day, 48 hours after packing.

      During nasal pack removal, the subjects will be randomly divided into 2 groups: the
      Lignocaine group (2% lignocaine HCl) and the Normal saline group (0.9% NaCl) using simple
      random sampling by lottery method. Subjects won't know which group they belong to and what
      medication they will be receiving. A 23-gauge needle will be used for direct application of
      the treatment to the Merocel, with care taken not to touch the patient.

      In the Lignocaine group, 2.5 ml of 2% of lignocaine is diluted with 2.5 ml of distilled
      water, and the 5ml solution will be injected into the Merocel pack 15 minutes before removal
      of the pack. Nothing will be done to the opposite nostril, which would act as a control.

      In the Normal saline group, 5 ml of normal saline was injected into the Merocel pack 15
      minutes before removal of the pack. Nothing will be done to the opposite nostril.

      All patients will be blinded to which group they belong and which solution was being kept in
      their pack.

      All patients will be asked to evaluate the severity of pain during removal of nasal packing
      by Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) (range, 0-10; 0 = no pain and 10 = intolerable pain).

      Adverse events such as vomiting and nausea will be recorded. These procedures will be done by
      the same team to minimize observer variations.
    
  