
    
      To induce clinical tolerance, a failure to respond to an allergen to which one was previously
      responsive, is an important objective for physicians, one that plays a significant role in
      the primary prevention of allergic reactions in the clinical practice of Allergy &
      Immunology. The tolerance resulting after standard subcutaneous immunotherapy to aeroallergen
      and insect venom allergens is long lasting and allergen-specific, and may involve
      antigen-specific T regulatory cells. In contrast, tolerance resulting from drug
      desensitization protocols is short-lived, and postulated to target mast cells and basophils.
      Research into the cellular and biochemical processes by which desensitization occurs has
      revealed that mast cells desensitized to one antigen in vitro, under certain conditions, lose
      the ability to degranulate to unrelated antigens or to direct FcεRI cross-linking.
      Preliminary data suggests that this cross-desensitization can happen in patients undergoing
      incremental desensitization, depending in part on the percentage of IgE targeted to the
      allergen used for desensitization. This proposal therefore aims to explore desensitization
      and cross-desensitization in human volunteers undergoing standard sublingual (SL)
      immunotherapy to grass or ragweed pollen.

      Subjects will undergo SL immunotherapy with either Timothy or Short Ragweed tablets, taking
      one tablet per day, or will take a placebo tablet. Titration skin testing to Timothy or Short
      Ragweed, to one or preferably two additional allergens to which the subject is sensitive, and
      to codeine as a control for mast cell activation capability through a non-IgE-dependent
      pathway will be performed to determine the PC3 value (see below). Skin testing, including
      histamine and diluent controls, will be performed prior to and at one and four weeks after
      initiation of immunotherapy. At each time point, blood will be obtained to measure total and
      antigen-specific IgE levels, tryptase and cytokine levels, and basophil activation with the
      relevant allergens and C5a as a non-IgE-mediated control for basophil activation.
    
  