
    
      All patients will continue treatment for 18 cycles (12 induction cycles, 6 maintenance
      cycles) unless development of adverse events that require early cessation of treatment.
      Patients will be followed up for progression and survival until 1 year following the
      completion of the last patient's final cycle of induction therapy.

      Proteasome inhibitors and IMiDs have different but overlapping mechanisms of anti-MM
      activity. In the clinical setting, both proteasome inhibitors and IMiDs enhance the activity
      of dexamethasone, and synergy has previously been demonstrated between the first in class
      proteasome inhibitor, bortezomib[16] and the immunomodulatory drug lenalidomide[17]. Relative
      to bortezomib, carfilzomib demonstrated increased apoptosis in MM cell lines, and induce high
      ORR in both bortezomib-naïve and resistant patients.

      We hypothesise that carfilzomib will induce a synergistic anti-myeloma activity when combined
      with the first in class immunomodulatory drug thalidomide, and dexamethasone. Thalidomide is
      a cheaper immunomodulatory drug that is more accessible in the Asia-Pacific region compared
      to lenalidomide. This makes the combination of carfilzomib, thalidomide and dexamethasone a
      more viable salvage option for patients in this region.

      In the PX-171-006 study, combination carfilzomib lenalidomide and dexamethasone induced a
      CR/VGPR in 59% of patients. The maximum per protocol doses of carfilzomib (27g/m2) was used
      safely with full dose lenalidomide (25mg po daily days 1-21 every 28 days) and dexamethasone
      (40 mg po weekly), and the MTD of carfilzomib was not reached.

      Carfilzomib 56mg/m2 was tolerable in phase II trials and induced durable responses in
      patients with relapsed and/or refractory myeloma. The most common grade 3/4 side effects of
      lymphopenia (43%), thrombocytopenia (32%), hypertension (25%), and pneumonia (18%) are not
      expected to overlap significantly with the expected side effects of thalidomide [15].

      We will combine carfilzomib 20/56mg per m2 in combination with thalidomide 100mg daily and
      dexamethasone 40mg weekly. The rationale for dose escalation of carfilzomib to 56mg/m2 is
      based on two findings: a) the 20/56mg/m2 dose escalation was well tolerated in the PX-171-007
      trial and b) no dose limiting toxicities were seen with carfilzomib 20/27mg/m2 when combined
      with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with RRMM who were heavily pre-treated, in
      the PX-171-006 and PX-171-009 trial. The rationale for assigning an equal number of patients
      between the ALLG sites and AMN sites is to avoid bias with respect to potential biological
      differences between patients in Asia and Australia/New Zealand.
    
  