
    
      Lifestyle interventions can result in weight loss, but most people experience a plateau after
      6-10 months when weight stabilizes and many subsequently regain weight over the subsequent
      months. This pattern of weight plateau and regain is typical and appears to be independent of
      the lifestyle intervention used. The apparent resistance to further weight loss in not well
      understood.

      We recently demonstrated that participants engaged in an intensive intervention employing
      caloric restriction and vigorous exercise had a profound slowing of metabolism that was
      significantly greater than expected due to weight loss alone. This phenomenon is called
      metabolic adaptation and has also been observed following weight loss through caloric
      restriction without exercise and may persist long after weight loss has ceased. Metabolic
      adaptation has been hypothesized to limit weight loss and predispose individuals to weight
      regain, but this has yet to be demonstrated and the concept is controversial. In addition to
      the metabolic adaptations to weight loss, the brain also adapts in ways that enhance the
      activation of reward regions in response to palatable food cues and their receipt. In
      particular, the brain s dopamine circuitry is believed to be altered in obesity and it is
      presently unclear how this pathway responds to a weight loss intervention in humans.

      The primary aims of this study are to investigate the metabolic and neural adaptations in 60
      obese adult volunteers participating in lifestyle interventions resulting in weight loss
      through a structured meal replacement program or caloric restriction plus vigorous exercise.
      The secondary aim is to determine whether the magnitude of metabolic adaptation or the
      changes in the brain s reward circuitry or responsiveness to food cues are related to the
      ubiquitous weight loss plateau after 6-10 months or the rate of weight regain in the
      subsequent months.
    
  