
    
      In the physical evaluation, the participants were asked that they bathe with clothes
      (swimsuit, trunks) to measure the body composition, stature and IMC. All of the results were
      recorded in elaborated cards by the researcher.

      The participants were physically evaluated through systemic observation during 16 weeks. The
      first collection of data occurred in the first week of April and the second collection
      occurred in the first week of August, 2009 during the morning.

      A weighing machine with the unit of Filizola registered to INMETRO (precision of 100 grams)
      was used to evaluate body composition. Stature was measured through the use of a Estadiometer
      registered to INMETRO (precision of 1 mm). In order to evaluate the functional autonomy,
      GDLAM (Group Development of Latin American Maturity) created by Dantas and Vale, was used. It
      consists of hiking ten meters (C10m); standing up from the sitting position (SSP); to stand
      up from the ventral decubitus position (SSPVD); to stand up from a chair and be able to walk
      around your home (SCWH); and to be able to wear and remove a t-shirt (DTS). Everybody was
      measured in seconds and consists of a score called the General Indice of the GDLAM (IG).

      The results of reference for classification of the functional autonomy level were the same
      for IG and its components and GDLAM. The intervention took place three times per week
      (Monday, Wednesday, Friday) from 5 PM to 5:45 PM. Intensity varied between 50% and 75% of the
      frequency maximum from heart (FMH) obtained by the equation: FMH = 220 - age. The FMH was
      controlled by the standardization of the heart frequency (HF) from the carotid at six seconds
      and then multiplied by ten. This HF WAS measured by the participants themselves. They
      received training and orientations to learn the right method.

      All the participants had their HF measured by monitors, at least one time per session.
      Therefore after the self-standardization, with the aim to confirm the identified results by
      the older women. The moment of standardization of the HF varied due to the voice of the
      responsible teacher or asked by the monitor close to the old woman.

      The sessions were spread out in the subsequent ways:

        -  Warm up: Duration five to ten minutes of articular exercises of upper body, neck, trunk
           and lower body.

        -  Development: twenty to thirty minutes of hiking in a natural method.

        -  To came back to calmness: three to five minutes of sitting elongated and/or laying down:
           neck, upper and lower body and trunk; using the changed method by segment. The activity
           of intervention was oriented at a controlled environment as the surface (plain and does
           not glide) and markation of the walked distances (field jogging does not count - 260
           meters) where the training was controlled by the time of hiking, according to Norms of
           the American College Sport of Medicine and of the fifth Brazilian Norm of arterial
           Hypertension, that has the requirement of a minimum frequency of three times per week
           with the duration of twenty and thirty minutes; adequate to have a good mean to
           physiological adaptations in etary group.

      Statistic Evaluation:

      Descriptive Statistics were used with average, error-standard, median, standard deviation,
      minimum and maximum and absolute delt. The normality of the sample was evaluated by the test
      by Shapiro-Wilk (GC) and by Kolmogorov Smirnov (GE). To analyze the answer variables,
      comparisons were made between groups, t-student test couplet or by Wilcoxon, when appropriate
      (homogeneous or heterogenous distributions of the data, respectively). To make evaluations
      between groups the parametric test by ANOVA was used in two ways, followed by Post Hoc de
      Scheffe. The study used the level of p < 0.05 to test the statistical significance. The
      results were evaluated by Excel and the Statistical Package for the Social Science® (SPSS),
      version 14.0.
    
  