
    
      Study Setting The study was carried out at the Paediatric Infectious Disease Clinic (PIDC)
      now Baylor College of Medicine Bristol Myers Squibb Children's Clinical Centre of Excellence
      at Mulago Hospital. The PIDC is an HIV outpatient clinic operating 5 days a week with three
      paediatric clinics, one adolescent and one family-based clinic. The clinic provides care to
      one hundred and eighty children with HIV/AIDS daily. Approximately 50 children per month
      qualify for antiretroviral therapy based upon clinical and laboratory parameters.

      The Makerere University Faculty of Medicine, Research Committee and Ethics Committee, the
      Uganda National Council of Science and Technology and IRB boards of Baylor College of
      Medicine and the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics approved this study. Informed
      consent and assent (when applicable) was obtained from the primary caregiver and/or child
      before enrollment.

      Study Participants and Enrollment Starting in 2007 children between the ages of 6 weeks and
      18 years having confirmed HIV infection and receiving no ART were consecutively enrolled into
      this observational cohort study following consent and/or assent (where applicable). Children
      were excluded from participation if they were enrolled in another cohort study, or had
      psychosocial issues precluding participation (no parent or guardian willing to promote ART
      adherence or clinic HIV counselor evaluation of non adherence). The enrollment goal for this
      study was approximately100 children recruited over a period of 8 months.

      Initiation of ART and Study Design Children confirmed to be HIV infected were screened with
      clinical history and examination by the study physician to determine eligibility. One hundred
      and twenty two children were recruited and 111 were enrolled into this prospective cohort
      study. Once enrolled a decision to start ART was based upon guidelines set forth by WHO (2006
      guidelines with addendum in 2008)/UNAIDS recommendations, the Ugandan National Policy on ART
      and laboratory parameters (described below). ART treatment decisions were made at the
      discretion of the treating physician. Adherence monitoring was done by means of
      self-reporting and pill counts during patient visits to the clinic. Antiretroviral (ARV)
      medications used in the study included: zidovudine (AZT), lamivudine (3TC), abacavir (ABC),
      stavudine (d4T), nevirapine (NVP), efavirenz (EFV), didanosine (ddI), tenofovir/emtricitabine
      (Truvada), lopinavir/ritonavir (Aluvia/Kaletra). History of peripartum NVP use by the child
      and/or mother was obtained through interview.

      Clinical assessment with disease staging (both WHO and CDC) and baseline laboratory
      investigations which included complete blood count (CBC), renal and liver function tests (RFT
      and LFT, respectively), CD4%/absolute count, HIV-1 RNA level and genotype were done prior to
      the patient starting ART. All blood samples were labeled with a study number that was used
      for participant identification. Clinical assessment was done at every patient visit. VL
      monitoring was done every three months during the first year of ART follow up and every 6
      months thereafter to the end of the study period. CD4%/absolute count and safety laboratory
      evaluations were done every 6 months. Genotype evaluation was done prior to starting therapy
      and when virological failure was documented. Virologic failure was defined as two consecutive
      (for our clinic one month apart) HIV-1 RNA levels >400 copies/ml occurring at any time during
      the study period in a child who previously was suppressed or had a 1-2 log10 response to ART;
      a persistent viral load elevation (>400 copies/ml) during the first 3 months of ART; or a
      viral load >1000 copies/ml on the last blood drawn from a child at the end of the study
      period, before death, or at withdrawal or lost to follow-up. Initial virologic response was
      defined as a decrease in the HIV-1 RNA level (viral load) of at least 1 log from baseline
      after 4-8 weeks of ART. A full virologic response was defined as an HIV-1 RNA level <400
      copies/ml (undetectable) by week 24 and/or 48 after starting ART.

      Successful immunologic reconstitution was defined as an increase of at least 10 percentage
      points over the baseline CD4 percent level occurring within the first year of therapy. An
      absolute CD4 cell count response to ART was defined as an increase of 50-150 cells/mm3 over
      baseline levels occurring within the first year of therapy. A sustained decline of 5% in the
      CD4%, a decline below the pre-therapy CD4% or absolute count or no change in the baseline
      CD%/absolute count was used to define immunologic failure.

      Laboratory Measurements Complete blood count (CBC), liver function (ALT), renal function
      (creatinine), CD4 percent/absolute count and plasma HIV-1 RNA were performed at the Makerere
      University-Johns Hopkins University (MU-JHU) core laboratory, Kampala, Uganda (certified by
      the College of American Pathologists). CD4%/ absolute counts were assessed using a BD FACS
      Calibur instrument (Becton, Dickinson and Company). The plasma HIV-1 RNA level was measured
      using the Amplicor HIV-1 Monitor Test Standard assay (version 1.5, Roche Company, Branchburg,
      NJ/USA). We report plasma HIV-1 RNA levels as log10 in this study.

      HIV-1 subtyping and genotyping was assessed using the GeneSeq technique at Monogram
      Bioscience, South San Francisco CA/USA. In this assay, amplifying the pool of virus variants
      in the plasma sample using the polymerase chain reaction (adapted for use with non-subtype B
      virus) product enabled construct of resistance vector DNA pools. Deduced amino acid sequences
      and drug susceptibility of sample virus were compared with a reference virus strain to
      identify mutations. Genotype analysis was conducted only on blood samples having >1000 copies
      of virus particles per ml. The GeneSeq HIV assay detects minor virus populations at
      concentrations above 10-20%.

      Statistical Analysis Survival and virologic treatment failure analyses were evaluated with
      Kaplan-Meier statistics. Cox Regression multivariate analysis and Kaplan-Meier statistics
      were used to examine the relationship of clinical and laboratory parameters to virologic
      failure and a t-test of significance was used to evaluate the immunologic (mean CD4
      %/absolute count at different time points) response to ART.
    
  