
    
      OBJECTIVES Main objective Describe the pharmacokinetic of prednisone when administered to
      adult patients in the setting of an internal medicine service.

      Secondary objectives To identify individual vulnerability factors (renal and hepatic
      functions, albuminemia, age, comedications) and glucocorticoid tolerance factors in adults.

      To study the association between individual exposition and glucocorticoids' frequent and
      clinically significative side effects.

      METHOD Conduct of research Population follow up Clinical and biological data will be
      collected through an observational prospective mono-centric study. Patients' inclusion will
      be performed in the "Internal medicine service of Cochin hospital, Assistance Publique -
      Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP)" during hospitalization and will be supervised by the pharmacology
      service of Cochin hospital.

      The evaluated drug is prednisone, used for routine care in auto-immune and other systemic
      inflammatory diseases. Prednisone will be administered according to the service usual
      practices, dosing will be determined according to the patient's disease. The study will not
      modify the prescription of the treatment. Blood tests will be performed at different
      intervals during each patient's normal biological monitoring of the treatment.

      Several tubes will be collected for the needs of the study at the time of each venipuncture
      (blood sample or peripheral venous catheter laying). The delay between drug intake and blood
      sampling will be attributed to routine care hazard, samples will be then realized on
      different occasions. No venous or arterial punction will be specifically planned for protocol
      purposes, GLUCOMAD's samples will be adapted to routine care blood samplings.

      1st visit : Patients recruiting phase Will occur during hospitalization. Its goal is to check
      for eligibility criteria.

      During this visit, the investigator will explain the patient the purpose of the study. The
      patient will receive an information notice and a consent form.

      Patient's data collection :

        -  Age

        -  Sex

        -  Pregnancy, menopause

        -  Personal history of kidney, liver or thyroid disease. Personal or familial history of
           adrenal pathology, impaired glucose tolerance, diabetes mellitus, gestational diabetes,
           high blood pressure, preeclampsia, hypertension in pregnancy, open angle glaucoma,
           cataract, osteoporosis/osteopenia, osteoporotic fracture, gastric ulcer, psychiatric
           disorder, dyslipidemia.

        -  Osteoporosis risk factors

        -  Blood pressure, body weight, height, and clinical exam results looking in particular for
           hepatocellular insufficiency, or uremic syndrome.

        -  Face photography at the beginning and the end of the study participation.

      Data collection about prednisone :

        -  Treatment indication

        -  Anterior corticotherapy, and optionally, anterior treatment duration, total dose taken
           up (as estimated by recovered orders from the patients pharmacy), and side effects of
           this previous treatment.

        -  Name of the chosen molecule (international nonproprietary name and commercial name),
           daily dosing (mg/Kg), treatment's start date.

        -  Adherence to the treatment, evaluated by the medication possession ratio (MPR42).

        -  Clinical symptoms of corticotherapy side effects Actual co-occuring treatments,

        -  Especially for medications interacting with P450 cytochrome, or P glycoprotein.
           Including the non proprietary name, treatment's start date, dosage, and optionally the
           results of plasma rates testing.

        -  Side effects treatments : anti hypertensive drugs, hypolipidemic drugs, potassium
           supplementation, oral antidiabetic drugs/insulin, psychotropic drugs.

      Blood tests Follow up

        -  During hospitalizations, routine care blood samples will be performed, on these
           occasions, blood will be collected in a dry tube for the study purposes.

        -  At the end of the attack phase, albumin, transcortin, HbA1c, and 8am cortisol will be
           assayed.

        -  Usual clinical and biological follow up results, including body weight and side effects
           monitoring, will be collected.

        -  Medication possession ratio assessment

        -  Co-occuring treatments Collection Sampling procedure, place of collection Blood samples
           necessary to the study will be stored in an anonymous way. Anonymity will be guaranteed
           all the study long.

      Storage location and conditions Samples for non pharmacological tests will be tested and
      destroyed. All the pharmacological samples will be stored during the study at -80°C in the
      pharmacology service of Cochin hospital where pharmacological analyses will be performed.

      Samples processing Molecules plasma assays will be performed in the drug dosing platform of
      clinical pharmacology service of Cochin hospital, AP-HP. Free and bound forms of prednisolone
      will be tested.

      Samples management Pharmacological samples will be stored at the end of the study for
      complementary studies.

      Statistical considerations Statistical analyses We propose to describe prednisone's
      pharmacokinetic in adults thanks to a population pharmacokinetic approach. This technique is
      specially adapted for populations affected by rare inflammatory diseases that are supported
      in internal medicine services. Indeed, it only requires a few measures in each patient and
      allows flexibility in data collection ; thus it enables us to assay concentrations on routine
      care samples. This method will allow us to describe an average subject pharmacokinetic and
      then to estimate interindividual variability in the population under prednisone treatment. We
      will the attempt to explain this variability according to covariates as age, bodyweight,
      size, liver or kidney insufficiency, or co-occurring treatments.

      Individual pharmacokinetic parameters will be estimated from this population model through a
      Bayesian estimation method. Potential associations between individual expositions (i.e.
      residual concentration, area under the curve, maximal concentration), and prednisone side
      effects will be studied.

      Pharmaco-statistical analysis will be made thanks to non linear mixed effects modelisation
      softwares (Monolix 4.2 or Nonmem 7) to calculate prednisone's pharmacokinetic parameters as
      well as inter-individual variability parameters on one hand and residual variability on the
      other hand (the latter including intra-individual variability and measurement error).

      The final model will be validated by a simulation technique. Briefly, 500 simulations of the
      final model will be generated from the original database. Then the 5th, 50th, and 95th
      percentiles of the simulated predictions will be compared to observations (the simulation
      median has to be close to the observation's median, and 90% of the observation must be
      between the 5th and 95th percentiles of simulations).
    
  