
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the diagnostic yield of whole breast bilateral screening ultrasound and
           mammography for the detection of breast cancer in women at high risk for breast cancer.

        -  Determine the cancer detection yield of a single contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance
           imaging (MRI) examination after 3 rounds of annual screening with ultrasound and
           mammography in these participants. (MRI component of the study)

      Secondary

        -  Determine the independent sensitivity and specificity of these screening methods in
           these participants.

        -  Correlate performance of these screening methods with selected participant
           characteristics (e.g., breast density and heterogeneity of the parenchyma).

        -  Validate the sonographic classification of lesions as "probably benign" and estimate the
           rate of malignancy in participants screened with these methods.

        -  Determine the cost effectiveness associated with screening breast ultrasound, in terms
           of radiologist and resource time performing the exam and the induced cost of screening
           ultrasound (e.g., follow-up and biopsy).

        -  Determine the reproducibility of lesion identification, measurement of lesion diameters,
           and volume and recording of lesion location on ultrasound in these participants.

        -  Determine the size, type, grade, and nodal status of cancers seen only on MRI in these
           participants. (MRI component of the study)

        -  Estimate the rate of benign biopsies and short interval follow-up induced only by MRI in
           these participants. (MRI component of the study)

        -  Determine the cost effectiveness of MRI, including induced costs of unnecessary biopsies
           and follow-up. (MRI component of the study)

        -  Compare the agreement among multiple examiners in sonographic, mammographic, and MRI
           feature analysis (using terms from the BI-RADS® lexicon) and final assessment (e.g.,
           estimated probability of malignancy and/or recommendation for biopsy) in the enriched
           set of diagnostic training cases with consensus and histopathologic reference standards.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Participants are randomized to 1 of 2
      screening arms.

        -  Arm I: Participants undergo physician-performed bilateral whole breast ultrasound (US)
           followed by mammogram within 2 weeks.

        -  Arm II: Participants undergo mammogram followed by physician-performed bilateral whole
           breast US within 2 weeks.

      In both arms, participants with negative or benign findings are rescreened according to their
      screening arm at 1 and 2 years. Participants with "probably benign" findings are rescreened
      at the 6-month follow-up visit. Participants with findings that are suspicious or highly
      suggestive of malignancy are recommended for biopsy.

      A subset of participants* in both arms undergo contrast-enhanced breast MRI within 4 weeks
      after completion of the 2-year screening US and mammogram. Participants with "probably
      benign" findings seen only on MRI may undergo an additional breast MRI at the 6-month
      follow-up visit. Participants with additional suspicious lesions seen only on MRI undergo
      second-look targeted US for biopsy guidance or MRI-guided vacuum-assisted biopsy after
      completion of any biopsies or additional views prompted by the 2-year screening US and
      mammogram visit.

      NOTE: *No diagnosis of metastatic cancer of any type since entering this clinical trial.

      Participants are followed annually for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,808 participants will be accrued for this study within 2
      years.
    
  