
    
      Plaque type psoriasis of the hands and/or feet affects approximately 3-4% of patients with
      psoriasis. It is characterized by well-defined erythematous desquamative plaques located on
      the palms and soles, which may be limited to acral involvement or occur in combination with
      generalized psoriasis. Psoriasis that affects the hands and/or feet has a profound impact on
      quality of life (QoL) as it contributes to more physical disability and discomfort than
      patients with other forms of psoriasis, such as difficulty walking or using the hands.

      Furthermore, psoriasis of the hands and/or feet is generally considered a therapeutic
      challenge because the thicker stratum corneum reduces the penetration of topical treatment
      agents. Systemic treatments (retinoids, psoralen-ultraviolet A [PUVA], methotrexate,
      cyclosporine, and biologic therapy) have shown limited efficacy on psoriasis in acral areas.
      Unfortunately, patients with hand and/or foot involvement often have too low of body surface
      area (BSA) to participate in clinical trials for new psoriasis treatments, resulting in
      limited studies among this sub-population and no clear treatment algorithm.

      The high unmet need for an effective treatment for psoriasis of the hands and/or feet has
      been addressed in recent years with the development of new medications for generalized
      psoriasis that may also be effective in treating disease localized to acral areas. In 2015,
      two multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group phase 3 studies were conducted to
      assess the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of lotion containing a combination of
      halobetasol propionate 0.01% and tazarotene 0.045% (HP/TAZ). The study population was
      subjects with moderate-to-severe psoriasis. The study results found that treatment success
      (defined as at least a 2-grade improvement from baseline Investigator Global Assessment score
      and a score of clear or almost clear) was achieved in around 40% of subjects by week 8, with
      substantial reductions in affected BSA, improvement in QoL, and a significant reduction in
      signs and symptoms of psoriasis.

      These phase 3 studies did not include a sub-analysis of the effect of HP/TAZ on psoriasis of
      the hands and/or feet. Given that topical steroids and topical retinoids are separately
      recommended as treatment options for psoriasis of the hands and/or feet, an agent that safely
      combines these medications - and that has demonstrated safety and efficacy in generalized
      psoriasis - offers a potential treatment for psoriasis of the hands and/or feet.

      The purpose of the study described in this protocol is to evaluate the effect of HP/TAZ on
      plaque type psoriasis of the hands and/or feet after 24 weeks of daily treatment. In
      addition, given the impact of this variant of psoriasis on QoL and the relative lack of
      currently available treatment options, this study will also evaluate the impact of HP/TAZ
      treatment on patient-reported QoL measures and treatment satisfaction scoring.
    
  