
    
      The primary purpose of Part I of this study was to determine the maximum dose of perifosine
      that can be administered with tolerable gastrointestinal toxicity; and to obtain preliminary
      information on the response rate of perifosine in non-small cell lung cancer. In addition,
      the trial was and is designed to provide some insight into the nature of the anti-tumor
      effect, the time to response, and dose-schedules that should be used in future trials.

      Part 2 - In the second part of this study, patients will be randomized to one of 3
      dose-schedules of perifosine and to test if the response rate of perifosine in non small cell
      lung cancer is > 10% in any of the 3 arms of the study. The study is not designed to compare
      the response rates in the 3 arms of the trial, but toxicities will be compared. The regimens
      are:

        -  A weekly dose of 900 mg to be divided into three doses of 300 mg each. If patients
           experience no grade 2 toxicities during their first month of therapy, the dose will be
           escalated to 1,200 mg divided into four doses of 300 mg.

        -  A daily dose of 150 mg to be divided into three doses of 50 mg each. If patients
           experience no grade 2 toxicities during their first month of therapy, the dose will be
           escalated to 200 mg divided into four doses of 50 mg.

        -  A daily dose of 150 mg to be given in one dose at bedtime. If patients experience no
           grade 2 toxicities during their first month of therapy, the dose will be escalated to
           200 mg to be given in one dose at bedtime.

      Patients receiving weekly perifosine will receive prophylactic antiemetics. Patients
      receiving daily perifosine will not routinely receive prophylactic antiemetics unless they
      experience nausea. All patients may continue therapy unless disease progression is documented
      on two occasions at least 4 weeks apart. Patients who experience toxicity may continue on
      treatment with doses delayed or reduced.
    
  