
    
      The parent study, BEGIN, has full ethical approval. From within Recovery Record, individuals
      are directed to a link to the BEGIN study. From outside Recovery Record, interested
      individuals complete a brief screen. If they are potentially eligible, they are directed to
      Recovery Record. Informed consent for phenotyping is obtained digitally via the Recovery
      Record app. After consent, interested participants complete a validated eating disorders
      diagnostic questionnaire based on Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders,
      Fifth Edition (DSM-5) criteria adapted from the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-5
      (ED100K). This questionnaire was developed for use in large genetic studies as a means to
      recruit large samples efficiently with high diagnostic accuracy. Those who screen case
      positive are offered the opportunity to participate in the full study (with a second informed
      consent also delivered from within Recovery Record). Eligible participants are mailed a
      package containing a description of the study, saliva collection kit, stool collection kit,
      and an Apple Watch. Participants complete the Eating Disorder Examination Questionnaire
      (EDE-Q), Generalized Anxiety Disorder 7-item scale (GAD-7), and Patient Health
      Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) at enrollment, midpoint, and endpoint. Participants are asked to log
      mood and food in the Recovery Record app on their Apple Watch for 30 days, the duration of
      the study. During those 30-days, participants are also asked to submit their saliva and stool
      samples. Saliva kits are returned directly to Rutgers University Cell and DNA Repository
      (RUCDR).

      The questionnaire, active, and passive data will all be used to characterize patterns of when
      and where individuals are more/less likely to binge and/or purge in their daily lives. The
      investigators will identify low-risk and high-risk passive data patterns that will facilitate
      the prediction of transitions to high risk states signaling impending binge or purge
      episodes.
    
  