
    
      There will be a total of 6 study visits, each lasting approximately 1 hour and separated by
      at least 2 days. At the beginning of each visit, a set of measurements will be taken by an
      experienced optometrist. These are:

        -  What symptoms you are feeling and how severe they are - you will be asked to complete a
           short questionnaire about how your eyes currently feel.

        -  The redness and temperature of your eyes - the front surface of both eyes will be
           photographed using digital cameras.

      After these measurements we will ask you to stand inside a specially designed room where the
      environment can be controlled by a computer. The pollen that you were found to be allergic to
      will then be introduced into the atmosphere of the room, so that the signs and symptoms of
      SAC can be induced - this is intentional, but normally resolves within a few hours with no
      treatment. At each visit, you will experience a different duration (no longer than 10
      minutes) and either no treatment, artificial tear supplement (ATS; preservative free ocular
      lubricant), cold compress (CC; cooled gel eye mask) or anti-allergic medication (epinastine
      hydrochloride 500μg/mL). The measurements will then be repeated even 5 minutes for an hour.

      After the final set of measurements, the front surface of your eyes will be assessed using a
      temporary dye to highlight using a blue light any changes. Fluorescein dye does not sting,
      lasts only a few minutes and has no effect on vision or driving. However it may cause a self
      limiting mild allergic reaction where the eyes become red, irritated and sore but this is
      highly unlikely as there are no known reported cases. In the unlikely event this does happen
      the experienced optometrist is immediately available to manage the condition.

      The anti-allergic drug epinastine hydrochloride (Elestat, Allergan) is a prescription only
      medicine indicated for the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis. As with all medications,
      there are potential side effects - although uncommon (1 in 10 to 1 in 100 people), there may
      be a slight burning sensation on application but this temporary and subsides quickly. The
      epinastine formulation also contains preservatives called benzalkonium chloride and disodium
      edetate. As with fluorescein sodium, these may cause a self limiting mild allergic reaction.
      In the unlikely event this does happen the experienced optometrist is immediately available
      to manage the condition.

      Study Length and Reimbursement Each of the 6 measurement visits is separated by 7 days
      therefore the total study length for each participant is 6 weeks.
    
  