
    
      Appendicitis may be classified as uncomplicated (the appendix has not ruptured) or
      complicated (the appendix has ruptured or gangrene has begun). Typically all patients with
      complicated appendicitis are treated with intravenous (IV, through a vein) antibiotic
      therapy. This is a multicenter, open-label, randomized study of patients who have complicated
      appendicitis. Prior to surgery, patients will be randomized to either the
      levofloxacin/metronidazole IV group (given once daily) or the piperacillin/tazobactam IV
      group (given 4 times daily) and will be started on study drug. Patients who are confirmed
      during surgery to have complicated appendicitis, will continue to receive study drug to
      complete a total of 4-14 days of therapy. Those found to have uncomplicated appendicitis will
      stop taking study drug and be discontinued from the study. Patients may be switched after 48
      hours to oral therapy, at the doctor's discretion. Patients randomized to
      levofloxacin/metronidazole will be switched to oral levofloxacin/metronidazole given once
      daily. Patients randomized to piperacillin/tazobactam will be switched to oral
      amoxicillin/clavulanate acid given twice daily. While in the hospital, daily assessments will
      be made of the patient for clinical signs and symptoms of post-operative wound infection. In
      addition, temperature, vital signs, pertinent physical findings, white blood count (until
      normal), and tests for infection will be assessed daily while in the hospital. Wound
      assessments and laboratory tests will be performed on the last visit as an outpatient. The
      main objective of this study is to determine the safety and effectiveness of the regimen
      containing levofloxacin and metronidazole compared with the regimen of
      piperacillin/tazobactam in the treatment of complicated appendicitis.

      Levofloxacin 750 mg IV (through a vein) or orally then metronidazole 1500 milligrams IV (or
      tablet form by mouth) once daily for 4 to 14 days; or piperacillin/tazobactam 3.375 grams IV
      every 6 hours (or amoxicillin/clavulanate acid 875/125 milligram tablets by mouth every 12
      hours) for 4 to 14 days
    
  