
    
      wound refers to a condition in which the skin is damaged by a cause. In general, open wound
      rather than closed wound requires active treatment. It is important to make sure that the
      wound are cured early and through proper treatment. If the wound is open for a long time,
      secondary complications such as infection can occur and are easy to transition to chronic
      wound. Chronic wound refers to an idea that does not heal after a period of time after a
      normal wound healing process, which is usually defined as if it does not heal for more than
      three to four weeks. 1. These chronic wound include diabetic foot ulcer, pressure ulcer,
      vascular ulcer, etc. In addition, with the recent aging of the population, the proportion of
      elderly patients increases, and the proportion of chronic wound where even simple surgical
      wound does not heal normally, resulting in increased expenditure on health care and decreased
      quality of life for patients.

      Biotechnical dermal transplantation material, including acellular dermal matrix, are known to
      be more effective in wound healing than conventional wound treatments.

      The mechanism of action of acellular matrices including acellular dermal matrix, is as
      follows: 1) it functions as a support for cell growth and granulation tissue formation, 2)
      has receptors capable of attaching to fibroblasts, 3) induction of angiogenesis, 4)
      chemoattractant activity of vascular endothelial cells, 5) role of providing various growth
      factors, and temporary storage function.

      Unlike other products generally known as CG paste, the acellular allo-dermal matrix product
      to be used in this study is made into a paste type for ease of use after freeze-drying and
      granulation process after undergoing the process of degreasing of the same kind of dermis .
      Conventional sheet-type products can not be applied to curved wounds, they must be cut and
      rehydrated during use, while CG paste is easy to apply to curved wounds and can be applied
      directly to the desired wound area without rehydration It is expected to be a ready-to-use
      product with similar clinical effects to existing acellular allo-dermal matrix.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of wound sizing and
      completeness in chronic window treatment, and to confirm the superiority of area reduction in
      CG Paste and form-dressing as compared to form-dressing alone groups and CG Paste and
      form-dressing companion groups.
    
  