
    
      The investigators will perform a clinical trial of efficacy, single-arm, until D28 from
      volunteer subjects infested with head lice.

      The two villages of the study (Dielmo and Ndiop) will be visited to explain the protocol and
      obtain community permission to work on it. Schools will also be visited to inform teachers
      and explain the protocol. The search for lice will be done by village women recruited for
      this purpose. A systematic census by family will be performed. A clinical examination of the
      hair will detect the persons infested with lice. On D-1, individual informed consent (an
      assent for participants between the ages of 15 and 18) will be systematically obtained before
      inclusion.

      At D1, an interview and a complete clinical examination will be done on each subject
      consenting. All volunteers meeting the inclusion criteria will be taken on a single arms. For
      each voluntary participant selected fasting 1 hour before, the treatments will be
      administered by the investigators of the study. After taking the AZIT + IVER dose, each
      treated volunteer will be followed for 1 hour to observe the appearance of any side effects,
      then a breakfast will be offered. Head lice and nits will be searched on D1, D7, D15 and D28
      for each volunteer and the hair taken on D2, D5, D7, D15 and D28. Possibly, before each
      treatment, Stool samples will be taken systematically on day 1 and after treatment on day 15
      at any participant infested with head lice to identify intestinal parasites (load parasite in
      helminthiasis) to evaluate also the efficacy of ivermectin on these parasites.
      Sociodemographic, clinical, dose and type of material taken biological will be documented.
      Data on co-infections (body lice, Sarcoptes scabeii) will also be collected and reported on
      the study register. Each volunteer will have an identification number (ID). Only, the
      principal investigator, the coordinator and the investigators can access sensitive
      information if they exist. Data will be entered immediately by a data entry agent. The
      investigators will sleep on the sites and will face possible cases of effects undesirable.
      Regular visits will be scheduled on D2, D5, D7, D15 and D28. A clinical monitor will stay
      with the team on the field of D2, D5, D7, D15 and D28. A Clinical Research Organisation (CRO)
      will ensure the external monitoring of the study (1 site initiation visit, 2 monitoring
      visits and 1 visit closing of the test). It will also be scheduled for a visit by Comité
      National d'Ethique en Santé (CNERS) members on the field according to their schedule. All
      willing participants and completing the eligibility criteria for entry into this study, will
      be taken on a single treatment arm Azithromycin-Ivermectin in orodispersible tablets. The
      evaluation of the answer therapy will be done on D7 and / or D15.
    
  