
    
      Background. Severe brain trauma and especially serious brain lesions inducing coma lead to
      many cases of disability. A large number of these patients (about 30%) present
      neurovegetative and hypertonic episodes that are associated to a bad vital prognosis and the
      degree of disability. Several teams including two in France have reported the efficacy of
      intrathecal baclofen on such neurovegetative episodes that to date have not been able to be
      treated efficiently.

      Objectives. The main objective of this trial is to assess the efficacy of infused intrathecal
      baclofen on the number of neurovegetative episodes in seriously brain-injured patients. The
      secondary aims are to evaluate the efficacy of the treatment on hypertonia, to assess changes
      in waking and treatment safety.

      Study design. Double-blind randomized trial on two parallel groups. The second part of the
      study is open label: both groups receive the experimental treatment.

      Intervention

      Experimental group: continuous progressive dose of intrathecal baclofen for one week;
      constant dose of baclofen during the second week receives at a dose determined after the
      first week. Treatment is stopped after two weeks, but patients are assessed until the end of
      the third week.

      Control group: intrathecal placebo for one week; progressive dose of intrathecal baclofen
      during the second week. Treatment is stopped after two weeks, but patients are assessed until
      the end of the third week.

      Outcomes. The main outcome is the number of neurovegetative episodes in the last 48 hours of
      the first week of treatment. Secondary outcomes are hypertonia as measured by the Ashworth
      scale on D2 to D5 of all three weeks. Waking will be assessed by the WHIM scale on D5 each
      week. Adverse events are assessed throughout the 3 weeks of study.

      Eligibility criteria. Inclusion criteria are focal or diffuse encephalic lesions leading to
      coma (Glasgow score <8), age 18 years or over, in waking phase (spontaneous eye-opening)
      since at least one month and less than six months, severe hypertonia of the lower members
      (mean Ashworth score >= 3) with neurovegetative episodes (at least 10 in 48 hours) and/or
      decortication after failure of treatment per os (clonidine, beta-blocker, baclofen per os).
      Non inclusion criteria are surgical, anesthetic or allergic contraindication to baclofen,
      uncontrolled sepsis directly threatening the implanted device or associated medullary trauma.

      Expected results. Throughout the trial the patients will be hospitalized in the neurosurgical
      or neurological intensive care departments. Expected results are a very clear decrease in the
      number of neurovegetative episodes and a substantial reduction in hypertonia, at least in the
      lower limbs. It will also be possible to quantify the consequences of these improvements on
      waking.
    
  