
    
      Phase I: Build up a network and need assessment

        1. We will invite collaboration with the Hong Kong Women Development Association (18
           organizational members and over 30,000 individual members), the Hong Kong Federation of
           Women (45 organizational members), Women's Club of Family Planning Association (7
           Women's Club), Hone Kong Young Women's Christian Association (around 260,000 members)
           and other woman organizations to build up a network by setting up a Women Against
           Tobacco Taskforce (WATT) jointly with representatives from women organizations and led
           by the Department of Nursing Studies of The University of Hong Kong. This proposed Task
           Force will focus on promoting smoking cessation among female smokers and arousing the
           public's awareness of health risks specific to women from smoking.

        2. Need assessment survey and focus group interview of the women volunteers and staff: all
           volunteers and staff will be invited to participate in a need assessment survey and
           focus group interview. The perceived needs identified will be used to design a
           tailor-made smoking cessation counselor training curriculum for the participants, and
           they will be asked to indicate their interest and commitment to undertake such training
           (free of charge), and to help women quit smoking.

      Phase II:

      Design and deliver training curriculum: Based on the needs assessment data, we will design
      and deliver a tailor-made smoking cessation counseling training program for the woman
      volunteers and staff. A maximum capacity of 200 participants can be trained. At the end of
      the program, participants should be capable of delivering smoking cessation advice for women,
      and a referral system can be set up so that women that required more intensive counseling can
      be referred to us if necessary. The outcome of the training will be evaluated through a
      survey before and immediate after, and 6 months post training, which include: knowledge,
      attitudes, and practice of smoking cessation.

      We aim to train women smoking cessation counselors as they can better understand the needs
      and feelings of female smokers. Female addiction to cigarette smoking may be reinforced more
      by the sensory and social context of smoking2, and therefore it is important to reduce the
      gap between the female smoker and the counselor. Upon completion of the program, a
      certificate of attendance will be awarded to the participants and their organizations for
      their contribution.

      Phase III:

        1. Brief gender-specific advice provided by trained women volunteers: The trained women
           counselors will use motivational approach to provide smoking cessation advice to female
           smokers.

        2. Intensive gender-specific intervention provided by experience nurse counselor: The
           project will provide intensive counseling at the Centre for Health Promotion (CHP) of
           HKU Department of Nursing Studies, female smokers (including all types of tobacco
           products such as shisha, electronic cigarettes and heat-not-burn (HNB) which are
           available in the market) who require more intensive counseling or advice on nicotine
           replacement therapy, upon referral from the women's organizations and trained women
           counselors. The smokers will receive face-to-face (or telephone) counseling and a 1 week
           supply of Nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) (4 mg nicotine gum or 10 mg/ 15 mg nicotine
           patch) from the nurse counselor, and follow up calls at 1 week, 1-, 3-, 6-, 36- and
           72-month post-intervention. Their smoking status, information about usage of nicotine
           replacement products and quality of life measures will be assessed. All women reported
           to have quit smoking at 6-, 36- and 72-month will be invited for biochemical validation
           (measurement of urine / saliva cotinine level). Participants will be invited to do
           qualitative interviews (individual / focus group interviews) at the 36-month follow up.
           Interviews will be conducted according to participants' smoking status (3 levels:
           continuous smoker; those who had quit attempts but relapsed; and those who abstained
           from tobacco within the 3-year period) and martial status (2 levels: single; and
           married). 30 participants with 5 subjects per group will be recruited. Each interview
           will last for 60 minutes and to be conducted by an experienced facilitator at the School
           of Nursing, The University of Hong Kong. During each individual interview, the
           facilitator will first welcome the participants, obtain written consent, and assure that
           the interview will be audio-taped and kept confidential. The facilitator will guide the
           discussion using an interview guide and prompt for further information as necessary.

      Phase IV:

      The trained women counsellors will observe the women smokers on the street and walk forward
      to look for opportunities talking to them. Counsellors will first explain the basic
      information of this research and acquire their reliance. After we got the permission to
      conduct a small interview, smokers will be asked a few questions about their awareness about
      women quitline and obstruction to call the quitline. Each interview will last no more than 10
      minutes. We can invite them to participate in a further phone call survey and encourage them
      to leave their phone number.
    
  