
    
      Pericoronitis is a common disease in the eruption phase of third molars, sometimes
      debilitating, with an impact on the quality of life. The most indicated treatment in the
      initial phase is the irrigation for cleanliness of the region. If there is no adequate
      treatment at this stage, there may be evolution of the infectious condition so that
      antibiotic therapy is indicated. In order to reduce the chances of systemic dissemination of
      the infection and the use of antibiotics, it is mandatory to test effective treatments in the
      initial phase of pericoronitis aiming to avoid the evolution of the infectious disease.
      Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is an interesting alternative because it is an effective
      antimicrobial treatment that is easy to perform and does not cause bacterial resistance. The
      methylene blue used in PDT has been studied in a surfactant vehicle, which optimizes the
      formation of monomers increasing its antimicrobial action. Objective: The aim of this study
      is to evaluate the effectiveness of photodynamic therapy (PDT) with methylene blue in an
      surfactant vehicle in pericoronitis in the initial phase in healthy youngsters through
      microbiological, clinical and immunoregulatory response. The impact of pericoronitis on oral
      health-related quality of life (OHRQoL) of these patients will also be evaluated. Method: In
      this randomized, controlled, double-blind clinical bioequivalence trial, 64 healthy young
      patients with pericoronitis will be evaluated. Patients will be randomized into the positive
      control group (G1) (n = 32): irrigation with sterile saline and photodynamic therapy
      (conventional methylene blue at 0.005% concentration and irradiation with low intensity laser
      λ = 660 nm, 9J per point and radiant exposure of 318 J / cm2), and the experimental group
      (G2) (n = 32): treatment identical to G1, however methylene blue will be delivered in a new
      formulation for oral use. Microbiological analysis will be performed by RT-PCR for the
      bacterium Tannerella forsithia (Tf).Non-stimulated saliva will be collected to evaluate
      TNF-α, IL1-β, IL-6 and IL-8 and IL-10 by Luminex assay. The pain (visual analogue scale),
      edema and buccal opening (digital caliper) and oral health-related quality of life (OHRQoL)
      will also be evaluated through the OHIP-14 questionnaire. The variables will be evaluated in
      T1 (baseline), T2 (immediately after PDT), and T3 (4th day after PDT).
    
  