
    
      This study will be an open-label, cross-over RCT in healthy adults. Healthy adult (>18 y)
      participants will be recruited from the community by means of an advertisement leaflet (see
      associated supporting document-"Advertisement flyer") and word of mouth. The researcher will
      arrange a meeting with those expressing an interest about the study. The researcher will
      collect demographic information (e.g. age and gender) and ask the subjects whether they
      suffer from any acute or chronic illness (defined as illness which requires regular visits to
      health services) (see associated supporting document-"Health Questionnaire"). If they suffer
      from a chronic illness they will be excluded. Other exclusion criteria include history of
      previous of major gut surgery, unstable weight, use of antibiotics or steroids the last 3
      months. Participants will be informed about the study at Human Nutrition, New Lister
      Building, Glasgow Royal Infirmary, or at the University of Glasgow main campus social areas
      (e.g. Gilchrist). No children will be recruited. Subjects who have expressed an interest
      about the study but are not suitable to participate will be acknowledged and will receive an
      explanation as to why they have been excluded.

      Following informed written consent, participants will be randomly allocated to intervention
      groups using the MS Excel "rand()" function. Women will start their intervention on the same
      phase of their menstrual cycle to avoid the effect of hormonal changes on study outcome.

      Dietary interventions: Participants will be asked to undertake two experimental diets. The
      two dietary interventions are identical with the only difference being the timing of the main
      meal consumption (dinner and lunch). Participants will follow each diet for a period of one
      week with a three week washout period between the two interventions. The wash out period aims
      to drive the gut microbiota characteristics back to baseline levels. The diet will provide
      the average energy requirements of the participants (Department of Health) and aims to keep
      participants' weight stable during the study period. All dietary aspects of the study will be
      designed and supervised by the qualified dietitians/nutritionists, who are members of the
      research team. Participants will be given a list of meals and snacks to choose from (see
      associated supporting document-"Food List Preferences"). All meals will be provided to the
      participants free of charge. Meals will be ordered online by the researchers, using the
      University of Glasgow Hub, and will be delivered to the participants' residence by the
      supermarket staff. Weight and height will be measured.

      Week 1 Participants will follow a structured diet containing meals of their choice for a
      week. The participants will select these meals from a list which the researcher will provide
      to them. The timing of the meal will be specified and the participants will have to complete
      their meals within 25±5 minutes. The participants will be given written instructions on how
      to follow the diet (see associated supporting document-"Instruction Sheet" & "Participant
      Study Calendar"). Participants will provide all faecal samples produced during days from noon
      of day 5 to noon of day 8. Fasted blood (6 ml) and urine samples will be collected the day
      after the end of the Week 1 intervention (i.e. day 8). These will be collected at the Human
      Nutrition laboratory, at the New Lister Building, Glasgow Royal Infirmary. Weight and height
      measurements will be repeated.

      Week 2, 3 & 4 During the wash out period, the participants will follow their habitual diet
      and no research intervention will take place.

      Week 5 This will be replication of the dietary intervention and sample collection at Week 1.
      The only difference is that lunch meal from Week 1 will swap to dinners in Week 5.

      Diet compliance: Over the course of the two experimental diets compliance will be monitored
      by asking participants to complete a "checklist" with their prescribed diet (see associated
      supporting document-"Compliance Questionnaire"). A gentle reminder call or text will be sent
      to the participants every 3 days to increase participants' motivation and compliance on the
      diets.

      Sample collection & analysis: Fresh faecal and urine samples will be collected as described
      above. The main outcome measurements will be: a) changes in gut microbiota composition based
      on 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing and shotgun metagenomics, b) changes in bacterial
      functional capacity (whole genome shotgun metagenomics) and urinary/faecal metabolomics, c)
      changes in targeted bacterial metabolites (short chain fatty acids, sulphide, ammonia,
      lactate, succinate, ethanol). Blood lipids, appetite hormones, adipokines, and inflammatory
      markers will be measured using ELISA kits. Stool samples will be collected from participants'
      homes or delivered to the lab by pre-paid taxi.

      Detailed analysis: Genomic DNA will be extracted by the faecal samples using in-house
      developed assays. The sample will be tested for purity on 1% Agarose gel and the
      concentration of nucleic acids will be measured with Nanodrop. Amplification of the V4 region
      of the 16S rRNA gene will be performed in house using PCR and High Fidelity Mastermix and
      Golay Barcodes. The pooled sample will be sent to the University of Birmingham for 250 bp
      pair-end sequencing on MiSeq. The data will be analysed by Dr Gerasimidis PDRA in
      Bioinfomatics. Similarly measurements of SCFA will be performed in acidified ether extracts
      using Gas Chromatography equipped with an FID detector. Quantification will be performed
      against authentic standards. Other bacterial metabolites and cardiovascular markers will be
      assayed with colorometric and enzymatic assays and commercially available ELISA kits as these
      have been reported previously. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28318688 and
      https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26119811

      Power calculation: An accurate power calculation is impossible to compute due to lack of
      pilot data. Based on a similar study for a mean difference of 5.4 μmol/g of faecal acetate
      (SD=5) and 80% power, 20 participants are required. Power calculation will be revised
      following recruitment and study completion of the first 7 participants.
    
  