
    
      There is mounting evidence suggesting that current practice is failing to provide early
      detection of LONIPCs, before critical loss of lung function occurs. Furthermore, autopsy
      series in HSCT patients have revealed a wide spectrum of pulmonary pathology in different
      compartments of the lung (airway, parenchyma, interstitium) within the same individual. These
      findings imply that LONIPCs and the extent of their pulmonary involvement are
      under-recognized, which adversely impacts the clinical trajectory and outcomes of HSCT
      patients. These findings also suggest that the underlying pathophysiology is multi-faceted
      and diffuse, highlighting a need for a multi-modal approach to early detection, and better
      characterization of the spectrum of pulmonary involvement. In this study, we plan to examine
      and compare different diagnostic modalities which can provide detailed physiological and
      anatomical characterization of LONIPCs. We propose an observational study using
      hyperpolarized magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to capture the anatomical and functional
      spectrum of LONIPCs post-HSCT. Hyperpolarized magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a novel and
      noninvasive functional imaging method, with the capacity to evaluate pulmonary structure and
      function. Inhaled hyperpolarized gas (129Xenon) maps focal areas of ventilation defects, a
      functional consequence of small airway obstruction, which often goes undetected on PFT in
      early disease states. It can provide additional information on alveolar structure and gas
      diffusion, lending insight into pathology in other compartments. Oscillometry technique (FOT)
      is a non-invasive technique using wave frequency to map out large and small airways, commonly
      used in pediatric pulmonology. We propose to examine the 2 novel modalities in HSCT patients
      with and without LONIPC/BOS. We hypothesize that the use of functional-structural imaging and
      FOT will provide better characterization and the extent of LONIPCs in early diseases states
      post-HSCT. These findings will provide invaluable insight into the pathophysiology of
      LONIPCs, providing a platform for future research into the early diagnosis and treatment of
      these high-burden diseases.
    
  