
    
      Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is an increase of blood pressure in the pulmonary vascular system
      that could cause shortness of breath, dizziness, leg swelling and heart failure. .

      The diagnosis of PH requires confirmation of elevated pulmonary pressures.. Right heart
      catheterization (RHC) is a procedure to determine the diagnosis of PH. .

      This research study is looking at the effect of intravenous infusion of the medication
      Regadenoson on pulmonary vasodilator response compared to the inhaled nitric oxide (iNO)
      response. iNO is the current standard of care practice.

      The purpose of this study is to see if Regadenoson may offer improved ease of use, single
      dose administration, and better tolerance for testing for pulmonary hypertension than iNO.
      You will be screened to make sure Regadenoson is safe for you with a clinical evaluation,
      blood tests, and an ECG.

      You will be asked to sign this informed consent form. Then, you will undergo right heart
      catheterization as part of your clinical care. Those who are positive for pulmonary
      hypertension will then undergo Regadenoson infusion and a inhaled iNO. Prior to the infusion,
      subjects will be asked if they have had in the last 12 hours any caffeine-containing foods or
      beverages, caffeine-containing medications such as theophylline 12 hours prior. Vital sign
      measurements will be taken to measure your heart. For those subjects that have low heart
      volume they will be given 500 cc of normal saline in their IV. Vital sign measurements will
      be taken again to make sure your heart volume is in the normal range. The doctor will
      administer Regadenoson 0.4 mg intravenously and this will cause your heart rate to increase.
      The doctor will be taking heart measurements 90 seconds, 5 minutes, 10 minutes, and 20
      minutes after administration. Approximately 30 minutes after the Regadenoson has been
      administered you will be given iNO by facemask for 5 minutes.
    
  