
    
      There is converging evidence at systems levels that physical exercise participation is
      beneficial to cognition, especially to the different subtypes of attention. Such evidence
      highlights the importance of promoting physical exercise to prevent or reverse cognitive and
      neural decline. Accordingly, physical exercise can serve to promote function in patients.
      Physical exercise games may be engaged to gauge performance increases in motor learning and
      early rehabilitation programs as performed on an intensive care unit.

      This project proposes the development and design of a cognitive motor intervention using a
      custom video game (which will be performed in supine position in bed) to enhance brain
      activity and describes the feasibility, safety and acceptability of virtual augmented video
      dance gaming.

      This project is divided in two (2) phases:

      Phase1 The patients are not expected to exercise the video game in the usual standing
      position due to their condition. Thus, we designed a patient friendly construction with
      colleagues of the construction department of the Paul Scherrer Institute (Villigen,
      Switzerland), which enables video game exercising in supine position. This construction and
      custom video game will be tested first in healthy participants for feasibility, acceptability
      and safety. Furthermore, brain activity of the participants will be measured and evaluated,
      before during and shortly after playing the video game in 15 healthy participants.

      Phase 2 After the device and procedures tested in phase 1 is feasible, acceptable and safe,
      maximal 10 patients on the ICU ward (receiving elective heart surgery, will be recruited to
      evaluate the feasibility, safety, acceptability and effect on brain function of a custom
      video exercise game.

      The aims of this study are:

      Phase 1 Objective To determine the feasibility, safety acceptability and effect of brain
      function of a cognitive motor intervention using a custom video game in healthy participants.

      Phase 2 Objectives To determine the feasibility, safety and acceptability (if possible) of a
      cognitive motor intervention using a custom video game at the Intensive Care Unit.

      Evaluation of brain functions before, during and after exercising using a video game.
    
  