
    
      Surgical complications are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. Surgical
      complications account for up to 40% of hospital complications. Complications and adverse
      events are also becoming increasingly important for measuring health care quality.

      Many physician practices notice a surge of patients seeking care at the end of the year
      compared to other times of the year. Patients who meet their insurance deductibles are likely
      more eager to proceed with an elective procedure. Patients who have met their deductible
      likely utilize more healthcare resources because they have more health problems, or have had
      more procedures performed during that year. Thus there may be potential for sicker and more
      complicated patients to undergo surgery at the end of the year as compared to other times of
      the year.

      Prior studies have often evaluated the "July effect" which is the beginning of a new academic
      year at teaching hospitals. Not only are new interns involved in patient care but trainees at
      all levels are in participating in a new role. Several prior studies have found high
      morbidity and mortality rates in July-August compared to April-June. There is paucity of
      research evaluating the measures for the months of November-December.

      Identifying which patients are at a higher risk for perioperative morbidity is important to
      help prevent surgical complications and lower healthcare costs. Proper patient selection and
      appropriate timing for elective procedures will positively impact these adverse outcomes.

      This study is a retrospective cohort study investigating whether there are differences in
      perioperative morbidity for elective surgery based on the time of the year surgery is
      performed. The results of this project could impact counseling for patient regarding timing
      of their surgery based on calendar month. This could also help implement changes in how
      systems based care is provided regarding insurance deductibles and maximums.
    
  