
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the event-free and relapse-free survival of children with initially
           unresectable congenital, infantile, or childhood fibrosarcoma treated with neoadjuvant
           chemotherapy comprising vincristine, dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide (VAC) before
           definitive local control.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the event-free and relapse-free survival of patients initially treated with
           this regimen followed by observation after local control with positive microscopic
           margins.

        -  Determine the event-free and relapse-free survival of patients initially treated with
           this regimen followed by additional chemotherapy comprising etoposide and ifosfamide
           after local control with gross positive margins.

        -  Determine the event-free and relapse-free survival of patients treated with surgery
           alone.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot, multicenter study. Patients begin treatment according to lesion
      resectability.

      Patients with resectable lesions proceed to surgery.

        -  Surgery: Patients undergo resection of disease lesions. Patients with clear or
           microscopically positive margins undergo observation only. Patients with grossly
           positive margins undergo re-resection if feasible. Patients with grossly positive
           margins after re-resection or for whom re-resection is not feasible receive chemotherapy
           comprising vincristine, dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide (VAC).

      Patients with unresectable lesions receive VAC chemotherapy.

        -  VAC chemotherapy: Patients receive vincristine intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, and 15
           and dactinomycin IV and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats
           every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Patients with disease progression after 2-4 courses of VAC chemotherapy proceed to
      chemotherapy comprising etoposide and ifosfamide (IE).

      Patients with stable disease after 4 courses of VAC chemotherapy proceed to IE chemotherapy.

      Patients with a partial response (PR) and unresectable lesions after 4 courses of VAC
      chemotherapy receive 2 additional courses of VAC and are then re-evaluated. Patients proceed
      to surgery if they continue to have a PR or achieve a complete response (CR) and lesions are
      now resectable.

      Patients with a CR or PR and resectable lesions after 4 courses of VAC chemotherapy proceed
      to surgery.

      Patients with stable disease, progressive disease, or a PR and unresectable lesions after 6
      courses of VAC proceed to IE chemotherapy.

        -  IE chemotherapy: Patients receive etoposide IV over 1 hour and ifosfamide IV over 1 hour
           on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with a CR or PR and resectable lesions after 2-4 courses of IE chemotherapy proceed
      to surgery.

      All patients are followed every 3 months for 6 months, every 6 months for 1 year, and then as
      clinically indicated.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 60-70 patients will be accrued for this study within 8 years.
    
  