
    
      Most patients admitted to an intensive care unit undergo central venous catheterization (CVC)
      or already have received a CVC. Over 5 million CVC placements are performed each year in the
      United States. An indication of central venous access is for example when peripheral veins
      are inaccessible or for the administration of potent vasoactive drugs such as norepinephrine
      or dopamine. Three anatomical sites are frequently used to insert a CVC: the subclavian,
      jugular and femoral site. Although central venous catheterization offers multiple advantages,
      it is associated with adverse events that could be hazardous for patients. Mechanical,
      infectious or thrombotic complications could occur. Most common mechanical complications
      include arterial puncture, hematoma and pneumothorax. Besides mechanical complications,
      malposition of a CVC could also lead to complications, including phlebitis, perforation, and
      venous thrombosis or occlusion. Malposition of the CVC tip into the right atrium could also
      lead to arrhythmias. The frequency of primary mal-positioning has been shown to be up to
      3.7%. A recent multicenter trial, which included 3471 catheters in 3027 patients, showed that
      subclavian-vein catheterization was associated with a lower risk of bloodstream infection and
      symptomatic thrombosis but involved a higher risk of pneumothorax as compared to jugular-vein
      or femoral-vein catheterization. The risk of mechanical complications in subclavian, jugular
      or femoral catheterization was 2.1%, 1.4% and 6% respectively.

      To date, the post-procedural chest X-ray (CXR) has been the reference standard to detect
      these mechanical complications. Some studies suggest that it should not be considered a
      reliable procedure for detecting complications in the absence of clinical symptoms. In
      addition, reading of a bedside CXR alone is not very accurate to identify intra-atrial tip
      position. The exceedingly low complication rate after right internal jugular vein
      catheterization suggests that, to detect pneumothorax and intra-atrial malposition, routine
      post-procedure CXR is neither necessary nor accurate and causes delay until catheter use.
      Omitting the need for CXR could reduce healthcare costs as well.

      Due to some clear advantages, there has already been an increasing role for ultrasonography
      in the critical care setting. In comparison to radiography, an advantage of ultrasound is
      that the patient is not exposed to radiation, and is often faster performed. Compared to the
      traditional 'blind' landmark method, ultrasound-guided subclavian cannulation reduces failed
      catheterizations and complications associated with subclavian catheterization. Advantages of
      ultrasound-guided cannulation include correct identification of the vein, detecting variable
      anatomy and reducing events of arterial puncture. Due to the developing knowledge and
      techniques in ultrasound, is has been suggested that it would be a suitable method to replace
      CXR in the role of detecting pneumothorax and identifying CVC tip position. A small number of
      studies already demonstrated this effect.

      In this study we evaluate the use of ultrasound as diagnostic modality in patients after CVC
      placement in the subclavian or jugular vein. This research proposal aims to evaluate US
      examination as diagnostic tool for misplacement, bleeding and pneumothorax after
      CVC-placement. Combining the different strategies from previous studies. we developed "tHe
      UltraSound evaluation of Cvc Insertion" i.e. HUSCI-protocol. Hereby, we aim to improve
      accuracy The outcome measure will be the sensitivity and specificity of US. In addition,
      diagnostic concordance between US and CXR in patients after CVC placement will be studied. If
      US catches clinical relevant findings accurately we can replace standard expensive and
      harmful CXR as standard diagnostic tool in patients after CVC-placement in the future. We
      hypothesize that US can confirm correct CVC placement and detect potential associated
      complications accurately.
    
  