
    
      In angiographic materials, chronic total coronary occlusion (CTO) is present in approximately
      15-25% of patients and in 25-50% of those with significant coronary disease. Until recently,
      because of low procedural success and increased risk of complications, PCI was a problematic
      treatment in these patients. The introduction of drug eluting stents and a variety of
      dedicated CTO devices combined with the evolution of specific CTO techniques have made
      revascularization by PCI a promising treatment.

      In CTO patients, clinically significant arrhythmia seems to be an important and a poorly
      investigated problem. The arrhythmia prevalence in an all-comer CTO-population is unknown,
      but in ICD-populations with ischemic heart disease, a CTO may be found in half of patients
      with life-threatening arrhythmia. Further, in patients with ischemic heart disease receiving
      ICDs as primary prevention, presence of a CTO was an independent predictor of occurrence of
      ventricular arrhythmias, and in survivors of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest, the risk of
      ventricular arrhythmias was found to be increased in patients with a chronic total coronary
      occlusion. Nevertheless, the genesis of arrhythmia in CTO-patients is likely to be
      multifactorial. It has been documented, that ischemic heart disease patients who present with
      a chronic occlusion of at least one coronary artery are older and have additional risk
      factors such as hypertension, diabetes, lower left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and
      more frequent myocardial infarction, i.e. a higher Chads2Vasc score (risk score for stroke in
      atrial fibrillation patients). Although LVEF is lower in patients with a chronic coronary
      occlusion, less than 1/3 are potential ICD candidates with an LVEF <35%. However, a recent
      study in consecutive post-AMI survivors documented the highest incidence of sudden cardiac
      death in patients with a relatively preserved LVEF.

      The purpose of the CTO-ARRHYTHMIA study, is to investigate the incidence of clinically
      significant arrhythmias in CTO patients using an implantable loop recorder. Further, the
      investogators intend to identify predictors for arrhythmias as well as the impact on
      arrhythmia of optimized pharmacological treatment and revascularization in CTO patients.
      Here, CTO patients with failed PCI may be individuals with a particularly high risk of severe
      arrhythmias.
    
  