
    
      Design: This will be a randomised, double-blind 'placebo' controlled trial of optimised
      programming versus standard rate-response settings, aiming to determine whether the short
      term improvements translate into longer term benefits.

      Study participants: 60 adult patients (>18years) aiming for 50 matched datasets (25 in each
      arm).

      Study Procedures: Patients attending the heart failure clinic, the pacemaker clinic or
      previous participants in the acute cross-over study (pilot data 2) will be approached with a
      standard letter and information sheet and then a telephone call to make sure any remaining
      questions are answered.

      Patients agreeing to participate will attend the clinical research facility (CRF) and will be
      asked to sign a consent form. Each patient will have a standard device check, check of their
      demographic data, and co-morbidities. The investigators will record a resting cardiac
      ultrasound, and, in those who did not participate in the pilot study (or did so more than six
      months previously), we will measure the force frequency relationship (FFR) as described to
      determine critical heart rate (HR), and the optimal range of HR rise. All images will be
      stored for offline analysis. Participants will then be asked to do a symptom-limited walk
      test on the treadmill (until they cannot do any more). At this first visit, participants will
      also complete a quality of life questionnaire. All of these activities will take place in the
      Clinical Research Facility at Leeds General Infirmary.

      Randomisation: Each patient will then be randomised to either optimised programming (n=30) as
      predicted by their force-frequency curve or standard settings (n=30). In the optimised group,
      programming will keep heart rates below the critical HR. Randomisation will be by a random
      number generator and programming will be undertaken by one of my colleagues to maintain
      blinding.

      Follow-up: Each patient will be called at one month to check that they are tolerating any
      changes and will then be invited back at 6 months for a repeat resting echocardiogram,
      treadmill walk test and quality of life assessment.

      Data: All data will be stored on a bespoke Excel spreadsheet on an LTHT server in a
      password-protected folder.

      Primary Endpoint: The effects of heart rate programming that optimises heart rate for
      contractility on change in treadmill-based walk distance over six months in patients with
      heart failure and a pacemaker.

      Secondary endpoints: 1) the safety of pacemaker programming optimised for heart rate in
      patients with heart failure and a pacemaker, 2) the effect of this programming on change of
      quality of life at 6 months 3) the effect of this programming on change in cardiac function
      at 6 months.
    
  