
    
      Sleep deprivation is one of the only interventions that have consistently been demonstrated
      to produce rapid antidepressant effects. The mechanisms by which sleep deprivation brings
      about rapid antidepressant effects remain to be elucidated. It is noteworthy, however, that
      recent genomic and proteomic studies have shown that acute sleep deprivation rapidly brings
      about an upregulation of several mediators of neuronal plasticity, most notably CREB and
      BDNF. Intriguingly, these are the very same molecules that are upregulated by chronic
      antidepressants, and are believed to underlie the delayed therapeutic effects of most
      antidepressants. Additional investigation of the regulation of CREB and BDNF by sleep
      deprivation has revealed that these changes are critically dependent upon the activation of
      the noradrenergic system. This is particularly noteworthy, since the locus coeruleus (LC)
      noradrenergic projection is quiescent only during rapid eye movement sleep (REM), when the
      target tissues display their greatest sensitivity; indeed, the temporal dissociation between
      the firing of the LC noradrenergic neurons, and the sensitivity of its postsynaptic targets
      in the cortex may have considerable relevance for the antidepressant effects of sleep
      deprivation. In this context, biological rhythms have the capacity to temporally dissociate
      biochemical processes, and imposing a temporal coincidence on normally dissociated events can
      have striking and unexpected effects. Thus, it is our hypothesis that activating the normally
      quiescent noradrenergic system during REM sleep (i.e. when its postsynaptic target system
      displays its greatest sensitivity) will robustly upregulate CREB and BDNF, thereby bringing
      about a rapid antidepressant effect. We propose to activate the noradrenergic system during
      REM sleep by infusing an alpha(2) antagonist, yohimbine. Since it is our hypothesis that
      activating the noradrenergic system during REM sleep will bring about an antidepressant
      effect by a similar mechanism as sleep deprivation, we will "enrich" our sample with sleep
      deprivation responders in this pilot study.

      Patients, ages 18 to 65 with a diagnosis of major depressive disorder, currently depressed
      without psychotic features will be recruited into this study. This experimental
      proof-of-concept study has two Study Phases. Study Phase I consists of total sleep
      deprivation. Responders to total sleep deprivation who subsequently relapse will enter Study
      Phase II. Study Phase II is a double-blind crossover administration of either intravenous
      yohimbine or saline solution during REM sleep.

      The specific aim of this study is to assess the efficacy of a single dose of intravenous
      yohimbine hydrochloride (0.125 mg/kg given over 3 minutes) compared with placebo in improving
      overall depressive symptomatology when administered during REM sleep.

      Our primary hypothesis is that the intravenous use of an alpha(2) antagonist in patients with
      major depression during REM sleep will activate the LC and thus increase noradrenergic
      activity during a time when the LC is normally quiescent- namely REM sleep. If the hypothesis
      that it is the timing of the activation of the noradrenergic system that is crucial in the
      antidepressant effect of sleep deprivation is correct then an acute antidepressant effect
      should be observed in patients despite minimal to no disruption of sleep.

      Assuming that 10% will drop out of the study, then a minimum of 25 patients is necessary in
      order to obtain a minimum of 8 patients with major depression who will complete the
      double-blind crossover phase of the study.
    
  