
    
      During HIE free radicals are generated within mitochondria and also as byproducts in the
      synthesis of prostaglandins.These free radicals ignite a secondary phase of subsequent damage
      to the brain by attacking membranal fatty acids. Nitric oxide (NO) is involved in the cascade
      of metabolic events that contributes to HIE. It mediates, in part, the cytotoxic activity of
      macrophages, induces relaxation of blood vessels, and also acts as a neurotransmitter in the
      central and peripheral nervous system. Therefore, the therapeutic value of NO synthase
      inhibitors, among many other agents used to ameliorate the course of HIE, is currently under
      investigation in experimental animals.

      Erythropoietin (EPO) is a cytokine originally identified for its role in erythropoiesis and
      more recently shown to be produced in the central nervous system.Relative insufficiency of
      endogenous EPO during periods of ischemic stress may trigger neuronal apoptosis, whereas the
      provision of exogenous EPO has been shown to inhibit this process. The potential immediate
      protective effects of EPO include decreased NO production, activation of antioxidant enzymes,
      reduction of glutamate toxicity, inhibition of lipid peroxidation, and reduction of
      inflammation. Long-term protective effects of EPO include the generation of neuronal
      anti-apoptotic mechanisms, stimulation of angiogenesis, and modulation of neurogenesis.

      Preliminary data supports a protective role of exogenous EPO to neuronal cells. The presence
      of EPO rescues in vitro cultured neurons from NO-induced death. It specifically protects
      cultured neurons from N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated glutamate toxicity.
      Intercerebroventricular injection of EPO offered significant protection of neuronal tissue in
      animals with focal cerebral ischemia. EPO is able to cross the blood brain barrier, and its
      concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid in normal rats significantly increases within 30
      minutes following intravenous administration. EPO also offered neuronal protection when it
      was administered systemically to animals suffering from global and focal cerebral ischemia.
      In adult patients with stroke, the administration of EPO ameliorates the course of the
      disease. Therefore, EPO has recently received much attention and is speculated to have a role
      in the protection of HIE infants. However, despite the biological plausibility and the
      encouraging preliminary data from animals and adult humans, surprisingly EPO has never been
      tried in newborns with HIE even though it has already been used in neonates for other
      indications and is known to be safe.
    
  