
    
      Cognitive behavioral treatments tend to be the most highly efficacious treatments for PTSD.
      Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) is one such treatment that has garnered a significant
      amount of empirical support, with a recent metaanalysis showing it was the most effective
      treatment for PTSD, typically yielding a 50% or larger reduction in PTSD symptoms from pre-
      to posttreatment. Redutions in PTSD symptoms are similar in magnitude when CPT is delivered
      in a virtual or telehealth format as compared to face-to-face delivery. Long-term follow-up
      studies conducted in nonmilitary samples also suggest the beneficial effects of CPT endure
      for up to 10 years posttreatment. Clinical improvement and recovery rates tend to be higher
      among patients who complete CPT compared to those that drop out of treatment early. Data also
      suggest that PTSD outcomes are moderated by session frequency, such that CPT sessions spaced
      closer together yield better effects than CPT sessions that are spaced further apart.

      In addition to reducing PTSD symptoms, recent studies indicate CPT is also associated with
      significant short-term reduction in suicide ideation, potentially due to its effects on PTSD
      and depression symptom severity. In some studies, suicide ideation increased in severity
      again several months after the conclusion of therapy, however, suggesting a period of
      increased vulnerability for suicide. Enhancing CPT with procedures that have been shown to
      significantly reduce suicidal thoughts and behaviors could serve to further reduce suicide
      risk during and after treatment completion. One such procedure is the crisis response plan
      (CRP), a collaborative, patient-centered intervention that is typically handwritten on an
      index cards and focuses on several key components: (1) warning signs, (2) self-regulatory
      strategies, (3) reasons for living, (4) sources of social support, and (5) professional and
      crisis services. In a randomized clinical trial previously conducted by our team, acutely
      suicidal patients who received a CRP showed significantly faster declines in suicide ideation
      and were 76% less likely to attempt suicide during the 6-month follow-up as compared to
      patients who received mental health treatment as usual.

      In the present study, the investigators aim to determine if the addition of a CRP with CPT
      will lead to faster reductions in suicide ideation and prevent the recurrence of suicide
      ideation during follow-up as compared to the standard provision of CPT. To achieve this, this
      study includes a two-arm, double blind parallel randomized clinical trial. The investigators
      will enroll 150 military personnel and veterans who meet full diagnostic criteria for PTSD
      (i.e., having 4 of 4 symptom criteria at or above threshold levels) or subthreshold PTSD
      (i.e., having 3 of 4 symptom criteria at or above threshold levels). All participants will
      receive 10-12 sessions of CPT, administered on a daily basis for two consecutive weeks. The
      investigators will assess suicide ideation, suicide attempts, and psychological symptom
      severity for up to one year post-treatment. Our primary hypothesis is that the combination of
      CRP and CPT will result in larger reductions in suicide ideation than CPT alone.
    
  