
    
      [Study design and population] A randomized, controlled, split-body, non-inferiority trial was
      designed.

      After obtaining informed consent, 12 patients with stable symmetric vitiligo less than 5
      years' disease duration were enrolled.

      The patients taking systemic steroids or having enlarging lesions were excluded. The paired
      symmetric vitiliginous lesions were randomized to either the continuous or the cyclic excimer
      laser treatment.

      Total duration of study was 9 months.

      In cyclic excimer laser treatment, the cycle was arbitrarily determined that one cycle
      consists of a 2-month treatment period (on) and a consecutive 1-month intermission period
      (off) (total 3 cycles during the trial).

      [Treatment protocol]

      The lesions were treated twice a week. Initial irradiation dose was 50 mJ/cm2 on face and 100
      mJ/cm2 on trunk and extremities. If there had not been minimal asymptomatic erythema, energy
      level was escalated by 50 mJ/cm2. In cyclic treatment, the treatment resumed after
      intermission with the previously used irradiation dose.

      Topical tacrolimus 0.1% ointment was applied in both twice daily throughout whole length of
      the trial.

      [Assessment and primary outcome] Photographic documentation of lesions was conducted every
      month and the degree of repigmentation was assessed with a repigmentation rate (%) from the
      baseline by using an image analysis program (Digital Researcher for Vitiligo Area Evaluation,
      Dr. VAE, Korea).

      An intention-to-treat analysis was planned, and last observation carried forward method was
      applied to impute the missing value in the presence of dropouts.

      The primary outcome was mean difference of quantitative changes in repigmented area between
      continuous and cyclic on-off treatment. The non-inferiority margin was set at 10%. During
      intermission period in the cyclic treatment, the clinical changes such as loss of
      repigmentation or worsening of the vitiligo lesions were assessed.

      [Statistical analysis] All statistical analyses were conducted using R 3.2.4 (R Foundation
      for Statistical Computing, Austria) and a P value <0.05 was considered statistically
      significant.
    
  