
    
      In a phase 2 study of single-agent EC145 in heavily pretreated non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) patients (median of 3 prior chemotherapy regimens), the subgroup with all target
      lesions expressing the folate receptor [FR(++)] had a promising prolonged progression free
      survival of 7.1 months and overall survival of 10.9 months. Furthermore, in-vitro and in-vivo
      studies in KB models showed good synergism between EC145 and docetaxel.

      This study will clinically assess for the first time the combination of EC145+docetaxel (Arm
      B) in participants with NSCLC (Stage IIIB or IV). This is an international, multicenter,
      centrally randomized, open-label, phase 2 study comparing single-agent EC145, EC145+docetaxel
      combination therapy, and single-agent docetaxel in participants with NSCLC who have failed
      one prior chemotherapy and who have all target lesions expressing the folate receptor
      [FR(++)]. Eligible participants will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio into either Arm A
      (single-agent EC145), Arm B (EC145+docetaxel combination therapy), or Arm C (single-agent
      docetaxel) and will receive treatment until either disease progression or intolerable
      toxicity.

      This study is intended to investigate if there is a sufficiently strong efficacy signal in
      order to proceed with phase 3 testing with either EC145 single-agent and/or the combination
      of EC145+docetaxel against the standard-of-care docetaxel in second-line NSCLC.

      This study will clinically assess for the first time the combination of EC145+docetaxel (Arm
      B) in participants with NSCLC (Stage IIIB or IV). Therefore, an interim safety analysis will
      be done by the DSMB after 5 participants in Arm B have completed 1 cycle of therapy, and the
      second analysis after 15 participants in Arm B have completed 1 cycle of therapy.

      If the majority of the enrolled participants (more than 70%) require a dose reduction of one
      level (to 60 mg/m2), the dose will be reduced for the remainder of the study. If the majority
      of the participants (more than 70%) require 2 dose reductions (to 40 mg/m2), the sponsor will
      consider discontinuing the combination arm.
    
  