
    
      Cardiac arrest claims over 450,000 lives per year in the United States alone. There is a high
      incidence of neurological complications amongst survivors, and these represent the leading
      cause of morbidity.

      Over the past several years, the care of these patients has been improved via the
      introduction of new systemic as well as neurospecific therapies. Speed of institution of
      therapy appears to be an important factor affecting efficacy. Yet, in the crucial initial
      hours to days post-arrest, assessment of neurological status in these patients is essentially
      non-existent.

      Thus, there is a need for an objective validated tool to assess prognosis and to track
      neurological status in the early recovery period. In response to this need, we have developed
      an EEG based Cortical Health Index (CHI). This EEG-based index incorporates multiple weighted
      parameters derived from 2 channels (4 scalp electrodes + 1 ground electrode) which are
      related to neurologic functional recovery. The strength and uniqueness of this approach
      results from consideration of both the temporal as well as the spectral domains of EEG. Our
      Phase II results demonstrate that CHI measured within the first 6-hours post-arrest
      resuscitation is strongly correlated with clinical outcome at hospital discharge in a
      30-patient cardiac arrest study. Together with our industry collaborator, we now propose to
      pursue regulatory approval of the CHI Monitor. Our plan involves a prospective clinical trial
      involving 4 centers and 100 patients (64 Cardiac Arrest Patients and 36 patients undergoing
      ICD placement as controls). We will test the ability of CHI to: 1) provide early prediction
      of subsequent neurological functional outcome of cardiac arrest patients, and 2) provide
      real-time tracking of brain injury and response to therapy. Successful completion of this
      project is defined by FDA clearance of the CHI Monitor.

      It is our goal that the CHI Monitor will identify patients who could benefit from aggressive
      intervention, and then track the response to the therapy. Providing this information to the
      treating physician in the immediate post-resuscitation period represents a major change in
      care delivery for the cardiac arrest survivor.
    
  