
    
      A determination for hospital admittance by a consulting psychiatrist will be made prior to
      study participation. Only those persons being admitted to the psychiatric ward will be
      eligible to enroll in this study. After consenting to participate in the trial and meeting
      inclusion criteria for this study (to include a baseline BDI, BSS, and BHS), voluntarily
      presenting acutely depressed patients, with or without suicidal ideation, will be randomized
      into two groups and administered standard of care treatment with intravenous ketamine
      (0.2mg/kg over 1-2 minutes) or standard of care treatment with intravenous normal saline
      (equal volume to ketamine dose). All prepared study solutions will be mixed and administered
      by ED staff and/or nursing staff as per the existing NMCSD ED protocols. All subjects will be
      blinded to the treatment given, either an IV bolus dose of ketamine at 0.2-mg/kg over 1-2
      minutes or a placebo solution composed of an equal IV bolus dose (by overall volume) of 0.9
      normal saline solution will be administered. Thereafter, all patients will be evaluated
      clinically with a BSS, BHS, and BDI at 40, 80, 120, and 240 minutes. All study participants
      will be monitored medically in the ED for at least the full 240-minute protocol and once
      declared medically clear, in accordance with standard of care practices by the ED providers,
      will be transferred to the inpatient psychiatric ward for further monitoring for at least
      24-hours prior to discharge from the hospital. All enrolled patients will be administered
      another BSS, BHS, and BDI prior to discharge from the hospital. The length of hospital stay
      will also be recorded for further analysis, but will not be considered a secondary outcome
      measure for this study. Psychiatric determination for discharge from the hospital will be
      based on clinical assessment, presentation history, and hospital course and is not considered
      an outcome measure for this study. All patients included in this study will be re-assessed
      within 2 weeks with another BSS, BHS, and BDI for determination of sustainability of effects.
      Appropriate follow-up care with a psychiatrist will be afforded to all study participants
      after discharge from the hospital. Additionally, should any severe adverse side effects
      develop; the treatment administered to enrolled patients may be un-blinded by a third-party
      shift medical monitor (i.e. the Charge Nurse) on request from the emergency room provider.
      Additionally, given the potential psychotropic effects of ketamine and to assure that
      patients are sufficiently monitored and appropriately medically cleared, all participants in
      the study will be required to remain under clinical observation in the emergency room prior
      to transfer to the psychiatric ward for, at least, the full 4-hour treatment cycle or longer
      as clinically indicated. All participants in this study will only be allowed to enroll in
      this study and undergo this protocol's treatment once.
    
  