
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether proton therapy, compared to intensity-modulated radiation therapy
      (IMRT), preserves cognitive outcomes over time as measured by the Clinical Trial Battery
      Composite (CTB COMP) score (calculated from the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test Revised
      [HVLT-R]) Total Recall, HVLT-R Delayed Recall, HVLT-R Delayed Recognition, Controlled Oral
      Word Association (COWA) test, Trail Making Test (TMT) part A and part B.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether treatment with proton therapy preserves neurocognitive function as
      measured separately by each test, HVLT-R, TMT parts A & B, and COWA.

      II. To document and compare treatment related symptoms, overall symptom impact, and disease
      related factor groupings, utilizing the M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory Brain Tumor
      (MDASI-BT), for both treatment arms.

      III. To assess whether treatment with proton therapy, compared to IMRT, results in superior
      quality of life as measured by the Linear Analog Scale Assessment (LASA) scale.

      IV. To compare local control patterns of failure and overall and progression-free survival
      between the two treatment arms.

      V. To assess adverse events.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the impact of chemotherapy use on cognitive outcomes, symptom outcomes and
      quality of life.

      II. To assess dose-response relationships between neuro-anatomic dosimetry and cognitive
      outcomes within and between treatment arms.

      III. To evaluate the association between tumor molecular status and cognition at baseline and
      within and between treatment arms over time.

      IV. To assess patterns of failure and pseudo progression as a function of radiation delivery
      type and dose received.

      V. To assess local control, overall survival and, progression free survival in IDH mutant
      grade II and III tumors.

      VI. To collect blood samples for future studies seeking to correlate changes in peripheral
      blood biomarkers (genes, micro ribonucleic acid [RNA], proteins, lymphocyte count, melatonin,
      etc) and the study endpoints.

      VII. To document and compare the impact of low to intermediate gliomas and therapy on
      patients' work and activity participation (The Work Productivity and Activity Impairment
      [WPAI:GH] Questionnaire: General Health version 2.0) as well as the relationship between
      changes in patients' work and activity participation and neurocognitive function and patient
      reported symptoms and interference.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo photon-based IMRT once daily (QD), 5 days a week for 6 weeks for a
      total of 30 fractions. Beginning 4 weeks after completion of radiation therapy, patients
      receive standard of care temozolomide for 5 days. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to
      12 courses in the absence of disease progression of unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo proton beam radiation therapy QD, 5 days a week for 6 weeks for a
      total of 30 fractions. Beginning 4 weeks after completion of radiation therapy, patients
      receive standard of care temozolomide for 5 days. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to
      12 courses in the absence of disease progression of unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 and 12 months and then
      yearly for 10 years.
    
  