
    
      The Study Vitamin:

      In patients with PHPT and a Vitamin D deficiency, Vitamin D supplements are routinely given
      to bring Vitamin D blood levels up to a normal level before surgery on any abnormal
      parathyroid glands. When patients have Vitamin D deficiency, they do not absorb calcium very
      well, so the parathyroid glands have to work harder. This may cause the parathyroid glands to
      become larger.

      Baseline:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, as part of your routine standard
      of care, you will have a 4-dimensional computed tomography (4DCT) scan of the neck. This 4DCT
      will be used to find the size and location of your parathyroid glands to help the surgeon in
      planning the surgery.

      Vitamin D Administration:

      You will receive Vitamin D pills to take at home, by mouth. You should take the Vitamin D at
      the same time each day. If it causes an upset stomach, you should take it with food.

      You will be given a study diary to record the days that you take the Vitamin D pills. You
      will return the diary at the end of each cycle.

      Cycle 1:

      During Cycle 1 (about the first 3 weeks of the study, +/- 1 week), you will take 3 Vitamin D
      pills per week about every other day (for example, Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays).

      At the end of Cycle 1, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to check Vitamin D levels.

      If your Vitamin D level is not high enough at this first Cycle 1 study visit, you will repeat
      the Cycle 1 dosing schedule a second time. At the end of this second Cycle 1 dosing schedule,
      you will have another blood test (about 1 teaspoon) to check your Vitamin D levels. If your
      Vitamin D level is not high enough, you will be taken off study.

      If your Vitamin D level is high enough after either your first or second Cycle 1 dosing
      schedule, you will go to Cycle 2.

      Cycle 2:

      During Cycle 2, the dosing schedule for Vitamin D is 2 pills per week for 6 weeks (+/- 1
      week). You should try to take the pill on the same day of the week.

      At the end of Cycle 2, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to check Vitamin D levels.

      If your Vitamin D level is not high enough at this first Cycle 2 study visit, you will repeat
      the Cycle 2 dosing schedule a second time. At the end of this second Cycle 2 dosing schedule,
      you will have another blood test (about 1 teaspoon) to check your Vitamin D levels. If your
      Vitamin D level is not high enough, you will be taken off study.

      If your Vitamin D level is high enough after either your first or second Cycle 2 dosing
      schedule, you will go to Cycle 3.

      Cycle 3:

      During Cycle 3, the dosing schedule for Vitamin D is 2 pills per week for 6 weeks (+/- 1
      week).

      At the end of Cycle 3, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to check Vitamin D levels.

      If your Vitamin D level is high enough, you will have another 4DCT scan of your neck, for the
      purpose of this research study. This second scan will be used to see if your parathyroid
      glands have changed in size. Before this second scan, blood (about 1/2 teaspoon) will be
      drawn to check your kidney function.

      If your Vitamin D level is not high enough, you will be taken off study.

      Routine Surgical Treatment:

      Within 3 weeks after your second 4DCT scan, your routine surgery for PHPT will be performed.
      You will sign a separate consent form and its risks will be described in more detail at that
      time. Your removed parathyroid glands will examined.

      Length of Study:

      Your active participation in this study will be over after you have surgery. If the side
      effects of PHPT indicate that you may need to have parathyroid surgery earlier, you will be
      taken off study early and have the surgery as soon as possible.

      This is an investigational study. Vitamin D supplements are commercially available and FDA
      approved for use in patients with PHPT and a Vitamin D deficiency to bring the Vitamin D
      blood levels to normal before surgery. It is considered experimental to have a second 4DCT
      scan after your Vitamin D levels are high enough.

      Up to 22 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  