
    
      Hemorrhage remains the leading cause of direct pregnancy-related death in both the developing
      world and the developed world. Young, healthy patients compensate for hemorrhage via
      peripheral vasoconstriction, delaying the emergence of vital sign abnormalities until 15-30%
      of total blood volume has been lost (1-2L in a term pregnant patient). A significant drop in
      blood pressure and marked tachycardia (>120bpm) are not seen until 30-40% of blood volume has
      been lost. After 40% loss, however, patients may rapidly decompensate, leaving a narrow
      window between the emergence of vital sign abnormalities and rapid clinical decompensation.
      In facilities where obstetricians and anesthesiologists are not in-house at all times and
      blood product availability is limited, this narrow window may prove catastrophic.

      Furthermore, management of obstetrical blood loss presents many unique challenges. First,
      during delivery, when hemorrhage is expected and occurs acutely and visibly, blood is often
      mixed with amniotic fluid, making it difficult to establish actual blood loss. Second,
      laboratory measurement of hemoglobin concentrations can be falsely normal during an acute
      episode of bleeding, as the hemoglobin measured does not reflect actual hemoglobin
      concentration until several hours after the hemorrhage event, when equilibration occurs.
      Third, unlike other surgical patients, postpartum women are expected to experience ongoing
      vaginal bleeding after their delivery. Bleeding which is persistently slightly heavier than
      average can lead to significant blood loss over a period of several days, without either the
      patient or the staff caring for her recognizing the hemorrhage until the patient becomes
      symptomatic or vital sign instability occurs. The postpartum uterus can serve as a reservoir
      for retained blood and clot, allowing a patient to continue bleeding into her uterus after
      delivery without any external evidence of bleeding. In a thin patient this is frequently
      recognized on "fundal checks" where the size of the uterus is evaluated, but in obese
      patients the uterine fundus may be difficult to appreciate, and a significant volume of blood
      can accumulate in the uterus before it is recognized.

      Due to the high risk of mortality related to postpartum hemorrhage and the difficulties
      providers face quantifying blood loss accurately after delivery,, it is imperative to develop
      a tool that can detect and quantify hemorrhage before vital sign changes occur. This tool
      should be simple to use, allowing healthcare providers at all levels to identify hemorrhage
      early and to mobilize appropriate resources. This will facilitate earlier intervention to
      treat blood loss before clinical decompensation. As stated, vasoconstriction is the earliest
      physiologic responses to acute hypovolemia6 and, as such, would be an appropriate target for
      such a tool.

      The AccuFlow Sensor is a device that is based on Combined Heat-Flux and Temperature Sensor
      (CHFT+) technology developed in the heat transfer laboratory at Virginia Tech and produced by
      ThermanSENSE Corp (Roanoke, VA). The device, which consists of a heat flux sensor, a
      thin-film thermocouple, and a heater element, makes direct, quantitative measurements of
      perfusion occurring at the surface of exposed tissue in real-time. The sensor is less than
      1mm thick, covers one square inch of skin, and adheres to the patient's skin using a piece of
      medical-grade silicone adhesive tape. The heater applies a small amount of heat to the skin
      surface, raising its temperature to approximately 39 degrees C. The heat flux sensor measures
      the rate at which the heat dissipates into the tissue, and uses this to calculate perfusion
      using the Pennes Bio-Heat Transfer Equation, which was developed to describe patterns of heat
      distribution in the human forearm and which has been the standard tool to predict temperature
      distributions in living human tissue since the 1950s.10 The sensor measures both surface
      perfusion and deep perfusion (1-2cm below the skin surface).

      The primary theoretical source of patient injury or discomfort from the device is thermal
      injury from the heater element. Under typical circumstances, the device heats up to
      approximately 39 degrees Celsius (102 Fahrenheit, the temperature of a typical hot tub), and
      to prevent thermal injury, the device automatically shuts off should it reach a temperature
      of 45 C (113F, just above the typical hot-shower temperature of 110F). The device has been
      tested for comfort and tolerability on 20 healthy volunteers, who reported no discomfort
      while wearing the device or afterwards. Prior studies have shown no evidence of thermal
      injury in tissues exposed to a temperature of 39C for prolonged periods, and that exposure to
      temperatures of 45C causes mild thermal injury only after 150 minutes of constant exposure.11
      As this device only heats up while it is taking a measurement, and never higher than 45C, the
      risk of a thermal injury while wearing the device for the duration of a cesarean section as
      planned during this study is extremely low. However, should the sensor become uncomfortable
      to the patient, it can easily be removed. To date, the sensor has been used to evaluate
      viability of organs intended for transplantation, by measuring blood flow at the surface of
      the organ.7 Currently, the sensor is being used to evaluate differences in tissue perfusion
      between pediatric patients with sickle cell anemia and healthy controls in an ongoing
      research study at Virginia Tech. Of note, the device meets FDA criteria for a nonsignificant
      risk device, and has been determined to be a nonsignificant risk device by the Institutional
      Review Board at Virginia Tech/Carilion Clinic for use in adult and pediatric patients at
      Carilion Clinic facilities. As mentioned before, the patent-pending AccuFlow device is
      provided by ThermaSENSE Corp. (Roanoke, VA) and a number of sensors will be contributed for
      the purpose of this study. The device has not yet been studied for detection of obstetric
      hemorrhage.

      In order to determine whether the device is able to accurately detect obstetric hemorrhage,
      it must be tested on a number of patients who can be identified and enrolled in a research
      study prior to experiencing a significant volume of blood loss, and whose volume of blood
      loss can be retrospectively calculated with some degree of accuracy and compared to the
      device's measurements. Patients undergoing planned, scheduled cesarean delivery are an ideal
      study population, because they undergo routine measurements of height, weight, hemoglobin,
      and hematocrit before surgery, and a repeat hemoglobin and hematocrit the day after surgery,
      once physiologic equilibration has occurred. From these hematocrit measurements, the
      percentage and volume of blood loss can be calculated and compared to the measurements
      obtained from the Non-Invasive Blood Perfusion Sensor.

      The investigators propose to perform a pilot study consisting of 50 patients, with a planned
      interim analysis after 25 patients. These patients will be asked to wear the sensor during
      their planned cesarean delivery, and to complete a survey immediately after their surgery
      regarding their experience wearing the device. The device will be applied preoperatively and
      removed postoperatively, and a member of the study team will remain in the operating room to
      monitor the device and to note any significant events which occur during surgery, as well as
      any potential challenges with the use of the device which must be considered in planning
      future trials. Additional information will be gathered from the patients' charts including
      demographics, height, weight, hemoglobin and hematocrit before and after surgery. The
      investigators will review the sensor readings and the laboratory findings to determine which
      of a number of different methods of analyzing device readings should be used in a larger
      trial, as well as which of the measurement sites used by the sensors provides the most
      relevant data, in order to streamline the device design prior to a larger trial.
    
  