
    
      Preterm birth is the leading cause of perinatal morbidity and mortality in multiple
      pregnancies. The medical and educational expenditure and lost productivity associated with
      preterm birth is very high. The risk of preterm delivery in singleton pregnancy is 5-7%, and
      that in twin pregnancy is 7-8 fold higher than singleton pregnancy. Identification of
      pregnant women at risk of preterm birth could allow intervention to reduce their risk.
      Sonoelastography is a new ultrasound technology which has enabled the measurement of tissue
      stiffness and it has been widely applied in assessment of breast lump and liver cirrhosis.
      Sonoelastography is potentially useful for the objective assessment of cervical consistency
      which could be related to risk of preterm birth.

      Objective:

      To assess the cervical consistency by shear wave elastography in prediction of preterm birth
      in multiple pregnancies.

      This is a prospective non-interventional observational study at a university hospital.
      Chinese women carrying multiple pregnancies attending antenatal visit are invited to
      participate the study. After informed consent, demographic data and antenatal history of the
      subjects will be obtained. Transvaginal scan for the cervix will be performed for the
      assessment of cervical consistency, cervical length, posterior cervical angle and fetal
      viability. The measurements will be repeated during 5 antenatal visits or separate study
      visits at 11-15, 16-19, 20-23, 24-27 and 28-32 weeks of gestation. At the end of pregnancy,
      the delivery data and neonatal outcome will be collected.

      Sample Size:

      The risk of preterm birth <34 weeks in twin pregnancies is approximately 20%. A sample size
      of 120 was determined as being sufficient to test the diagnostic performance of cervical
      elasticity in mid trimester assuming that the risk of preterm delivery <34 weeks vs >34 weeks
      is 1:5 and that cervical elasticity area under curve (AUC) of the receiver operating
      characteristics (ROC) curve was 0.7, with 80% power and alpha of 5%.

      Data Analysis:

      Changes in the cervical elastography will be compared using the Student paired two-tailed t
      test, and in the case of unequal standard deviation (SD), using a Wilcoxon signed-rank paired
      two-tailed test. For comparison of frequencies, Chi-square test, or a two-sided Fisher exact
      test will be used where appropriate. Linear regression will be used to assess the
      correlations. The level of statistical significance is set at p<0.05 (two-sided).

      Implication of data:

      A significant improvement in the prediction of preterm delivery allows accurate
      differentiation of those women who would benefit from treatment for prevention of preterm
      birth in multiple pregnancies. This would avoid unnecessary intervention, reduce maternal and
      fetal complications, and has a potential to save medical cost.
    
  