
    
      Background: Hypovolemia is a frequent cause of circulatory failure in anesthetized and
      critically ill children. Fluid boluses are the first line of treatment aimed at optimizing
      stroke volume and ultimately improving oxygen delivery. A patient whose stroke volume
      significantly increases as a result of a fluid bolus is deemed 'fluid responsive'.
      Traditional parameters of circulatory status (e.g. blood pressure, heart rate, central venous
      pressure) have been shown to be ineffective at predicting fluid responsiveness. Dynamic
      parameters of fluid responsiveness, such as pulse pressure variation (PPV) and stroke volume
      variation (SVV), reflect hemodynamic changes secondary to intermittent positive pressure
      ventilation. These indices have proven to be superior to the traditional static measures of
      circulatory status in predicting fluid responsiveness. Furthermore, the use of these dynamic
      parameters in a goal-directed fashion has been shown to improve outcome in high risk, adult
      surgical patients. As such, there is increasing interest in using dynamic parameters to guide
      fluid resuscitation in mechanically ventilated infants and children. Unfortunately, there is
      a paucity of literature examining the validity of these dynamic parameters in children. The
      need for arterial vascular access, which is less common in small children, has also limited
      the ability to investigate these parameters. Recently, a non-invasive dynamic parameter has
      been developed examining the plethysmographic waveform from a pulse oximeter. The pleth
      variability index (PVI) represents the dynamic changes in hemodynamic performance that occur
      during the respiratory cycle. Studies of PVI in adults have shown it to be a reliable
      predictor of fluid responsiveness. However, conclusive data in children are lacking.

      Hypothesis: This study is designed to investigate the ability of PVI to non-invasively
      predict fluid responsiveness in mechanically ventilated children. The hypothesis is that a
      higher PVI will predict significant stroke volume increases in response to a fluid bolus in
      mechanically ventilated children.

      Methods: The study population will consist of 20 children undergoing cardiac catheterization
      who will have normal (non-shunted) physiology at the conclusion of the procedure, ages 1-12
      years. All subjects will receive a PVI measurement as well as a stroke volume measurement via
      transthoracic echocardiography. Subsequent volume expansion will be achieved with an
      intravenous bolus of 10 mL/kg of isotonic crystalloid (normal saline) administered over 10
      minutes. After completion of the bolus, an additional PVI measurement and stroke volume
      measurement will be obtained.

      Significance: Hypovolemia is a significant cause of harm in anesthetized and critically ill
      infants and children. In order to successfully resuscitate these patients, we must gain a
      better understanding of how to optimize cardiac output and oxygen delivery. A non-invasive
      monitor which indicates stroke volume responsiveness has the potential to better guide fluid
      resuscitation and improve outcomes.
    
  