
    
      Infant and young child feeding is critical for their health and survival. Based on
      well-established evidence, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations
      Children's fund (UNICEF) recommend that mothers put newborns to the breast within one hour of
      birth, breastfeed infants exclusively for the first six months and continue to breastfeed for
      two years and beyond, together with nutritionally adequate, safe, age-appropriate, responsive
      feeding of solid, semi-solid and soft food starting in the sixth month.

      For the first six months of life, breast milk alone is the ideal nourishment, providing all
      of the nutrients including minerals and fat soluble vitamins, an infant needs, meaning that
      no other liquid or food is needed.

      In addition to providing a generally adequate nutrient supply that support normal growth and
      development , breastfeeding has been linked to multiple other advantages including a reduced
      risk of infection and long-term benefits for the risk of obesity, type II diabetes mellitus,
      blood pressure and better performance in intelligence tests.

      The macro-nutrient composition of human milk varies within mothers according to nutritional
      status and across lactation. The mean macro-nutrient composition of mature, term milk is
      estimated to be approximately 0.9 to 1.2 gm/dl for proteins, 3.2 to 3.6 gm/dl for fats and
      6.7 to 7.8 gm/dl for lactose.

      There have been several systematic reviews supporting the positive effects of breastfeeding
      on cardiovascular risk factors, such as obesity and type 2 diabetes (DMII), hypertension.
      Breastfeeding also reduces plasma levels of total cholesterol (TC) and low density
      lipoprotein (LDL).

      Breast milk is a protective factor against obesity. This effect could be explained by
      existing differences in macro-nutrients. Moreover, there are physiological differences
      between breast milk and artificial formulas in terms of their nutrients and hormone contents.
      For instance, protein content of baby formulas is higher than that of breast milk, and leptin
      exists in breast milk, but not in artificial formulas. Due to their high fat and protein
      contents, baby formulas would lead to increased secretion of Insulin Growth Factor-type 1
      (IGF-1),and subsequently to stimulation of adipocytes, which eventually result in excess
      weight. Moreover, breastfeeding affects the intake of calorie and protein, insulin secretion,
      balancing fat reserves, and adipocyte size. The effect of breastfeeding is found to be
      independent from dietary patterns and physical activity in adulthood.

      Many studies have confirmed the protective role of breastfeeding against type II diabetes
      mellitus. This effect is considered to be because of the difference in composition of breast
      milk and the difference in hormones of insulin, motilin, introglucagon, neurotencin, and
      pancreatic polypeptide in breast milk and artificial formulas, which in turn would lead to
      lower subcutaneous fat deposition in breastfed infants.

      The effect of breastfeeding on hypertension has attracted much interest because of the
      differences between breast milk and artificial formulas, mainly in terms of their content of
      sodium and fatty acids. It is documented that breastfeeding can affect systolic and diastolic
      blood pressures in adulthood. The effect of breastfeeding on blood pressure in adulthood can
      be partly explained through the following mechanisms: (1) reduced sodium intake in infancy,
      (2) high content of long-chain unsaturated fatty acids in breast milk, which is an important
      component of the tissue membrane system, as coronary endothelial system, (3) protection
      against hyperinsulinemia in infancy, as well as prevention of insulin resistance in early
      life, adolescence, and adulthood.

      There is a relationship between the molecular composition (especially lipids, glycerides and
      sterols) of the maternal plasma, milk and her infant.

      There is paucity of studies comparing lipid profiles of exclusively breastfed and mixed fed
      infants and those correlating lipid profiles of breastfed infants and their mothers' lipid
      profiles.
    
  