
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma is a common disease caused by a complex interaction between genetic and environmental
      factors. Asthma afflicts 17 million Americans. In 1999, more than 5000 persons died from
      asthma. Given the significant mortality and morbidity associated with asthma, it is important
      to continue to develop new strategies for intervention. Leukotriene antagonists are thought
      to be the most innovative approach to asthma therapy in 20 years. Despite their demonstrated
      efficacy, safety and popularity, the leukotriene antagonists are associated with a
      significant degree of inter-patient variability in response, which can limit their safety,
      efficacy and cost-effectiveness. Several polymorphisms in leukotriene pathway genes can
      contribute to variability in response. The project will determine if polymorphisms in genes
      encoding 5-lipoxygenase, leukotriene A4hydrolase, LTC4 synthase, multi-drug resistance
      protein 1 (MRP1) and LT1 receptor proteins are determinants of response to montelukast
      treatment.

      The study is in response to an Request for Applications entitled Ancillary Studies in Heart,
      Lung, and Blood Disease Trials which was released by the NHLBI in June 2000 to conduct
      mechanistic studies in clinical trials related to heart, lung and blood diseases.
      Specifically, this initiative focuses on the utilization of patients and patient materials
      from such trials to study the mechanisms underlying the interventions, the mechanisms of
      disease pathogenesis, surrogate markers or biomarkers of disease activity and therapeutic
      effect and the mechanisms of human cardiopulmonary and hematologic function. Studies aimed at
      accelerating the development of new technologies within the context of the mechanistic
      investigations are also encouraged.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      DNA will be collected from patients participating in a parent clinical trial entitled:
      Effectiveness of Low Dose Theophylline as Add-On Therapy in the Treatment of Asthma (LoDo
      Trial). 627 patients from 19 Asthma Clinical Research Centers will be randomly assigned to
      receive placebo, or low dose theophylline (300 mg/day) or montelukast, 10 mg daily, for 6
      months. Stepwise Linear and Poisson regressions will be performed on outcomes including
      treatment and genetic covariates, and interaction terms between treatment arm and genetic
      makeup. Polymorphisms that are highly associated with response can lead to the development of
      genetic tests that will identify patients most likely to benefit from montelukast treatment.
      This information may lead to individualization of asthma medications based on the genetic
      make-up of the patient.
    
  