
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of combination chemotherapy comprising fluorouracil (5-FU) with
           leucovorin calcium (CF) and either irinotecan (CPT-11) or oxaliplatin vs standard
           sequential single-agent therapy comprising 5-FU with CF followed by CPT-11 in patients
           with unresectable metastatic colorectal cancer.

        -  Determine whether combination chemotherapy is best used as first-line therapy or
           reserved for second-line therapy after progression on first-line single-agent therapy in
           these patients.

        -  Compare the efficacy and toxicity of an irinotecan-containing regimen vs an
           oxaliplatin-containing regimen in these patients.

        -  Compare the overall survival, progression-free survival, and quality of life of patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the safety and toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to one
      of five treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (standard therapy): Patients receive first-line chemotherapy comprising leucovorin
           calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 followed by fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours
           on days 1-2 every 14 days. Patients with progressive disease then receive second-line
           therapy comprising irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on day 1 every 21 days.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive first-line chemotherapy as in arm I. Patients with progressive
           disease then receive second-line therapy comprising irinotecan IV over 30 minutes and
           leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46
           hours on days 1-2 every 14 days.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive first-line chemotherapy comprising irinotecan, leucovorin
           calcium, and fluorouracil as in second-line therapy of arm II.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive first-line chemotherapy as in arm I. Patients with progressive
           disease then receive second-line therapy comprising leucovorin calcium IV and
           oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 followed by fluorouracil IV continuously over 46
           hours on days 1-2 every 14 days.

        -  Arm V: Patients receive first-line chemotherapy comprising leucovorin calcium,
           oxaliplatin, and fluorouracil as in second-line therapy of arm IV.

      Treatment continues in all arms in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at weeks 6 and 12, and then every 12 weeks
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,100 patients (700 in arm I and 350 each in arms II-V) will be
      accrued for this study.
    
  