
    
      Justification of the study:

      Several non-bismuth quadruple clarithromycin-containing regimens have raised over the last
      decade aiming to substitute standard triple therapy (STT) for first-line H. pylori
      eradication therapy. Sequential therapy, introduced in Italy, involves a 5-day induction
      phase with dual therapy (a PPI every 12 hours and amoxicillin 1g every 12 hours), followed
      immediately by triple therapy for 5 days with a PPI every 12 hours, metronidazole 500 mg
      every 12 hours and clarithromycin 500 mg every 12 hours. 10-day sequential therapy proved
      more effectiveness than STT with excellent treatment compliance and minimal side effects.
      However, the efficacy of sequential therapy seems to be notably impaired by clarithromycin
      resistance and dual clarithromycin and metronidazole resistance, which is becoming a common
      scenario in developed countries.

      Other interesting and resurfaced therapeutic alternative is the non-bismuth quadruple therapy
      (NBQT), also called "concomitant" therapy, which includes a PPI, amoxicillin, clarithromycin
      and a nitroimidazole, all drugs given concurrently and twice daily. It has also demonstrated
      its superiority over STT and it could be potential replacement for STT as first-line regimen.
      However, NBQT might have several advantages over sequential therapy, namely, less complexity
      for both the patient and the physician, twice the duration of all prescribed antibiotics, a
      proper validation process worldwide and a higher efficacy over sequential therapy for both
      clarithromycin and dual-resistant H. pylori. Finally, another recent innovation is the 14-day
      quadruple clarithromycin-based regimen, so-called the sequential-concomitant "hybrid"
      therapy, which involves PPI and amoxicillin for 7 days plus a 7-day course of NBQT.
      Outstanding cure rates close to 100% have been recently reported using this scheme, thereby
      requiring further consideration.

      Therefore it is necessary to make a controlled clinical trial to directly compare NBQT
      "hybrid" versus "concomitant" therapy in settings with documented high clarithromycin
      resistance rates. In order to maximize the efficacy of eradication regimens, it would be
      necessary to extend duration to 14 days and using high-dose PPI (omeprazole 40 mg bid). The
      results of this study will conclude whether there is still room for clarithromycin-containing
      regimens in H. pylori eradication even in settings with high antibiotic resistance rates.
    
  