
    
      E-cigarette manufactures claim that e-cigarettes are safer than conventional cigarettes and
      that they may aid in smoking cessation. As a result, e-cigarettes are gaining popularity and
      use in the general public as a replacement for traditional cigarettes. However, little is
      known about the benefits and health risks of e-cigarette use. Although e-cigarettes have been
      shown to have negligible effect on carbon monoxide exposure and heart rate, they contain a
      variety of glycerols mixed with variable concentrations of nicotine. In addition, other
      substances are present in the refill solutions and/or resulting vapor, such as tobacco
      specific nitrosoamines, cotinine, aldehydes, metals, volatile organic compounds, tobacco
      alkaloids, and other pharmacologically active ingredients (although in concentrations much
      lower than in combustible traditional cigarettes). In addition, studies have shown that
      during the atomization process, there is a large range in the size of the particulate matter
      formed that is dependent upon both the device and refill solution used. It is well know that
      inhaled particulate matter may induce inflammation and may eventually lead to an increase in
      a variety of health risks including cardiovascular disease and emphysema. Although
      e-cigarettes are not currently regulated, studies have indicated that the e-liquid products
      should be regulated to ensure consistent nicotine delivery and to prohibit the use of
      ethylene glycol and other excipients that currently may be present at potentially harmful
      levels (high risk category). Additionally, only minimal valid data is available related to
      the biodistribution (deposition of nicotine and/or aerosol excipients) following inhalation.
      The evaluation of nicotine and aerosol deposition in the body will help to determine if the
      particulates formed during the atomization process may induce any serious health risks.
      Additionally, this data may be compared to traditional cigarette smoking to determine if
      e-cigarettes are truly a safer alternative to conventional cigarettes. In order to provide
      this data, quantitative methods need to be developed that allow for accurate in vivo
      biodistribution determination following inhalation.

      To determine eligibility, participants will sequentially complete two eligibility surveys
      that include questions related to their use of e-cigarettes, tobacco cigarettes, other
      tobacco products, and pharmaceuticals. The brochures and social media postings will include a
      link to Eligibility Survey 1. Survey 1 will collect sensitive, medical information, but will
      be completely anonymous. Medical information will be collected solely for the purposes of
      determining participant eligibility and will be unlinked from any identifying participant
      information as well as future collected study data. Once participants are determined eligible
      by Survey 1, they will be directed to complete Survey 2 to confirm their eligibility. Survey
      2 will ask participants questions about their vaping habits. If they are confirmed eligible
      from the survey, they will also be asked to provide their name and contact information
      (e-mail). Study personnel will then contact eligible participants to schedule a time for them
      to come to the WCIBMI for their initial visit. Responses from Survey 1 and Survey 2 will be
      completely unlinked to maintain anonymity about participants' medical information. Once the
      participant has been deemed eligible and indicated interest in participation, they will be
      invited to the WCIBMI to see the facilities, and the relevant consent form will be reviewed
      and signed. Participants will either participate solely in a dress rehearsal of the study, or
      they will participate in both a dress rehearsal and the full imaging study. During the dress
      rehearsal, participants will walk through the study process without the use of the
      11C-nicotine e-cigarette and without performing any imaging. The participant will first
      disrobe and change to hospital scrubs. The subject will also wear full-body disposable
      personal protective equipment (PPE) including a gown, hairnet, double latex gloves, and foot
      coverings. Then, the subject will lay on the bed of the PET/CT imaging system and practice
      puffing in the supine position, the proper posture for PET scanning, and exhaling into the
      gas traps. Participants who are only participating in the dress rehearsal will use their own,
      personal e-cigarette to vape in the system. For participants who are participating in the
      full study, the investigators will provide them with the e-cigarette that they will use in
      the full study. Urine will be collected from female participants of the full study to confirm
      that they are not pregnant. During the study, first, S-nicotine will be labeled with C11 and
      placed in the cartridge of an e-cigarette. The S-nicotine may be given in two different
      doses. The investigators will focus on the 3 mCi C11 (Dose Level A) in the e-cigarette at the
      time of initial inhalation previously purified by HPLC. If 3 mCi does not yield adequate
      image quality, the dosage will be increased to 9 mCi (Dose Level B) for subsequent
      participants. To determine the appropriate dose level, the imaging scans will be reviewed
      independently at a minimum by three experienced investigators (Michael V. Knopp, Chadwick
      Wright, and Jun Zhang). Once the C11 labeled e-cigarette enters the facility, it may be
      placed in the dose calibrator for secondary dose confirmation and then transported directly
      to the imaging room. The subject will then be instructed to start inhalation (maximum 10
      puffs at 30 second intervals) while positioned in the PET/CT system. Afterwards, the
      e-cigarette will be removed from the imaging system by a staff member, and the remaining
      activity of the E-liquid will be determined using a dose calibrator. PET/CT imaging will then
      be performed for a maximum of 60 minutes following inhalation. The subject will be placed in
      the PET camera as to generate axial slices in the following sectors: the brain, oral cavity,
      throat, and lungs. From the PET/CT images, quantitative radioactivity deposition will be
      determined, and the biodistribution and uptake/clearance will be evaluated. Acquired data
      will be used for listmode based simulation to determine the potentially lowest dose feasible
      using new digital PET/CT technology. After scanning, the subject will be removed from the
      imaging suite and will be asked to stay in the patient waiting/recovery area for up to 120
      minutes (2 hours). Prior to release, the subject will be surveyed to ensure that any
      exhaled/emitted air is at background levels with respect to radiation. Additionally, all
      subjects will be contacted within 12 to 48 hours after release from the study to ensure that
      they are feeling well and have not experienced any adverse reaction to the study. Any adverse
      reactions will be recorded and reported immediately to the PI.
    
  