
    
      There is compelling evidence that glaucomatous damage to the macula occurs even in early
      stages of the disease. The macula comprises about 30% of all retinal ganglion cells and its
      information corresponds to over 50% of the visual cortex. However, glaucomatous damage to the
      macula is often missed in clinical practice. Some of the reasons are:

        1. traditional glaucoma knowledge supports that glaucoma is fundamentally a peripheral
           disease;

        2. inherent limitations of conventional clinical tests to detect damage to the macula; and

        3. the paucity of large, prospective studies that describe the nature of glaucomatous
           damage to the macula.

      The investigators have published numerous papers in the past two years showing that macular
      damage is prevalent among patients with early glaucoma if one employs the appropriate tools
      to assess it, namely 10-2 visual fields and high-resolution optical coherence tomography
      (OCT). This information comes from a unique prospective cross- sectional database and
      techniques the investigators developed to produce objective metrics of structure and
      function.

      Now that the investigators understand the cross-sectional nature of macular damage, this
      proposal aims to:

        1. develop a longitudinal database including patients with early glaucoma and healthy
           controls,

        2. to test models that explain progression of macular damage, and

        3. to apply new statistical methods combining structural and functional tests which could
           improve the accuracy to detect progression and shorten the length of clinical trials.

      The main hypothesis is that incorporating 10-2 visual field testing and high-resolution OCT
      scans of the macula to the conventional repertoire of technologies used in clinical practice,
      in addition to translating recently described statistical methods into softwares that can be
      used in daily practice, enhances the performance and confidence to detect glaucoma
      progression.

      In Aim 1 the investigators plan to follow healthy subjects and glaucoma patients at regular
      intervals with 10-2, 24-2 visual fields, and swept source (ss) OCT tests and define metrics
      of short- and long-term test variability that are needed to differentiate true progression
      from 'noise'. To date, there is no such database combining these technologies.

      In Aim 2 the investigators plan to combine metrics of structure and function from this
      longitudinal database using two methods: a spatial approach, which will ultimately produce a
      joint structure-function index using 10-2 and ssOCT data; and a temporal approach, which will
      employ Bayesian statistics to measure rates of progression using trend analysis. By the end
      of the study, our contributions to the field should be:

        1. to make available a unique and pristine longitudinal database that could be used for
           other hypotheses testing,

        2. to translate techniques recently described in the literature into objective tools to be
           readily useful in clinical practice, and

        3. to mitigate the burdens of progressive loss of central vision in glaucoma.
    
  