
    
      Purpose Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFPEF) is common and is a real public
      health issue. Diagnosis, especially when there are no congestive signs, is difficult. It has
      been shown that many patients with suspected HFPEF had left ventricular (LV) filling
      pressures elevated only at exercise (normal at rest).

      Hypothesis Using stress echocardiography and taking into account left atrial (LA) remodeling
      at rest as a "memory" of chronic elevation of filling pressures. We believe that it is
      possible to improve the noninvasive diagnosis of exercise elevation of the LV end-diastolic
      pressure (LVEDP).

      Methods Prospective, monocentric and comparative study: catheterization versus
      echocardiography.

      60 patients referred for coronary angiography will be recruited consecutively during their
      hospitalization.

      Patients should perform a low intensity and short duration exercise, in both catheterization
      and echo labs (pedaling 3 minutes at 25Watts then, 3 minutes at 50W) The LVEDP will be
      measured invasively with a pigtail, at rest and at both levels of exercise.

      Echocardiography will be performed within 24 hours after catheterization, after a full
      examination at rest, an identical exercise (same intensity, same duration, same position of
      the patient) than made in catheterization lab will be done. Following parameters will be
      recorded at both stress levels: trans mitral flow, mitral annular pulsed tissue Doppler
      imaging (both lateral and septal) and tricuspid regurgitation flow.

      The doctor who will perform the echocardiographic acquisitions will not be informed of the
      results of catheterization. The acquisitions will be analyzed in a second time still blinded
      to the catheterization data.

      The following echocardiographic parameters will be collected and compared to the invasive
      measurement of LVEDP:

        -  Ratio between pulsed Doppler peak E velocity and peak Ea velocity obtained with tissue
           Doppler imaging (E/Ea ratio) at rest and exercise,

        -  maximal LA volume indexed to body area

        -  (maximal LA volume) to (maximal LV volume) ratio.

        -  LA distensibility defined by: (maximal LA volume - minimal LA volume) / (minimal LA
           volume)

        -  LA Global longitudinal strain Finally, it will be investigated whether the combined use
           of E/Ea ratio at exercise with LA remodeling indices (of morphology and/or function)
           improves the performance characteristics of diagnostic test, compared to a separate use
           of these parameters.
    
  