
    
      Many patients will require ongoing blood draws for laboratory testing while in the hospital
      and hospitals generally avoid using peripheral IVs for laboratory testing as it is associated
      with an increase in complications such as irritation and infiltration (where the IV
      medication or fluid will leak out of the vein and into the surrounding tissue). Therefore,
      patients are often required to have multiple needlesticks throughout their hospital stay
      which can lead to patient dissatisfaction and anxiety.

      Extended dwell catheters (EDC) offer an alternative to peripheral IVs especially during
      prolonged hospital stays. EDCs are generally placed using ultrasound for guidance and are
      commonly placed in any of 3 veins in the arm. They can be inserted above or below the
      antecubital fossa (the bend of the elbow). These catheters can be left for up to 30 days and
      don't fail as quickly when compared to peripheral IVs. While there is not a lot of evidence
      about how well these catheters will allow blood to be drawn, an EDC can be used to obtain
      blood for routine blood draws and potentially eliminiate the need for additional needle
      sticks.

      Eligible patients in this study will be randomized to two groups based on placement site:
      experimental group (forearm) or the control group (upper arm). If the patient is in the
      control group the research staff will direct the inserter to place the catheter into the
      upper arm vein at least 2 cm above the antecubital fossa. If the patient is randomized to the
      experimental group (lower arm), the research staff will direct the insert to place the
      catheter into the forearm at least 10 cm away from the antecubital fossa. The research team
      will capture images on the ultrasound machine that is used for initial assessment of sites
      per routine care. If the vein is appropriate for cannulation based on these assessments, the
      Advance Practice Provider (APP) will insert the catheter. If the APP on the Vascular Access
      Team (VAT) has no adequate target visualized in the randomly selected site, the inserter may
      evaluate another site that is more suitable for cannulation. Functionality will be confirmed
      with a blood sample of 5cc being drawn back into a syringe and then the catheter flushed with
      5cc of normal saline without resistance. The site of insertion will be recorded and pertinent
      information will be collected similar to other catheter placements. Securement of the placed
      IV will be standardized between groups. Daily assessment of functionality (patency of the
      catheter) will be performed by the research team for the life of the catheter while
      hospitalized (up to 30 days).
    
  