
    
      Background:

      Globally, COVID-19 has resulted in more than 3 million confirmed cases with a continuing rise
      in numbers. Following the first case detection in the United States on January 20, 2020,
      there has been a steady rise in the reported cases resulting in all 50 states being affected
      by the disease. As of April 28, 2020, two million deaths globally have been attributed to
      this disease. This is an ongoing pandemic, and our understanding of it is continually
      evolving.

      Measures such as social distancing and working remotely have been enforced worldwide to curb
      disease transmission. This has led to an increased number of people staying indoors and
      living a more sedentary lifestyle. Many clinicians and people in the community have raised
      concerns about maintaining good mental and emotional health along with physical health.

      Amidst concerns for maintenance of holistic health, yoga in its forms of guided breathing,
      meditation, and mindfulnessare interventions people are practicing rigorously in the current
      times of uncertainty. These interventions require no external infrastructure, promote a sense
      of calm and well-being, improve sleep quality, and reduce stress and anxiety.

      Need for the study:

      The study aims at collecting information on the prevalence of COVID 19 infection in seasoned
      yoga practitioners and comparing it with the prevalence of COVID-19 infection prevalence
      rates among age and gender matched control participants.

      The study hypothesizes that yoga practice promotes protection and enhances recovery from the
      COVID-19 infection. To prove the hypothesis, the study investigators intend to collect and
      compare responses from seasoned yoga practitioners and age and gender matched controls
      regarding their recovery from the COVID 19 infection. Based on validated questionnaires on
      perceived stress, anxiety, depression, well-being, mindfulness, joy disposition, and
      resilience in participants over the study duration, the study investigators also intend to
      collect information on participant's mental and emotional predispositions.

      Through this Randomized Controlled Trial, the following specific aims are to be accomplished:

      Specific Aim 1: To compare prevalence rates of diagnosed COVID-19 infection between the
      seasoned yoga practitioners and age and gender matched controls at baseline and at 6 and 12
      weeks.

      Specific Aim 2: To Compare Protection and Recovery from COVID 19 infection between seasoned
      yoga practitioners and controls as demonstrated by:

        1. Self-reported duration of fever and respiratory symptoms in COVID-19 positive
           participants

        2. Self-reported readiness to return to work (or a feeling of being physically and mentally
           fit) This is the key secondary outcome of the study.

      Specific aim 3: To quantitatively assess the effects of yoga practices between seasoned
      practitioners and the control groups on measures such as perceived stress, resilience, and
      overall wellbeing by use of validated scales.

      We also aim to do exploratory analysis by comparing the different yoga practices and their
      duration between the 3 study groups to establish a dose-response curve if possible.

      Note: The term "yoga" used throughout this document is defined as mindfulness practices which
      involve deep breathing exercises and meditation, and excludes strenuous physical exercise.
    
  