
    
      Stage I: Design A cross sectional research design.

      Study participants for stage I: A total of 400 teenagers with CP will be monitored in this
      stage. All partners of this project will obtain approval for experiments on human subjects
      from their local committees. Each subject (or parents/guardians for the participation of
      minor subjects) will be able to sign an informed voluntary consent form, consistent with the
      Helsinki Declaration, after reading a detailed explanation and having an oral Q/A session
      with the investigator.

      Recruitment: Prospective focused direct mailing or personal contacts will be initiated with
      the parents/guardians of children with CP who are ambulatory. Subsequent screening will be
      done by phone interview.

      Participants at each center/country. 100 teenagers with CP, age 14-20 yr (50 age 14-17 yr and
      50 age 18-20 yr). GMFCS levels II; III and IV.

      Measurements:

      Stage I:

      The ActivePal accelerometer is a research instrument for long-term assessment of ambulatory
      activity during day-to-day life. Baseline functional status will be measured before
      interventions, including a completion of a socio-economical questionnaire.

      Stage II: Randomized control trial of three training programs to improve the physical
      activity level and comparison between low and high costs interventions.

      Study participants for Stage II. Thirty teenagers with CP at each center (total number of 120
      at the four centers) will be matched according to age and GMFCS level (II and III) and
      randomly assign to one of three treatment programs. Subjects will be recruited from those in
      the first stage of the project. All partners of this project will obtain approval from their
      local committees. Each subject (or parents/guardians for the participation of a minor
      subject) will sign an informed voluntary consent form, consistent with the Helsinki
      Declaration, after reading a detailed explanation letter and having an oral Q/A session with
      the investigator.

      Measurements:

      2-Treadmill training measures will include total training time, step length, and with the
      split treadmill the velocity gap will also be recorded during each session 3-The gross motor
      function measure (GMFM) with dimensions D and E (standing, walking, running, jumping) will be
      used 4-Mechanical efficiency will be measured by the stair-climbing test.

      Statistical analysis:

      Repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to determine the effects and
      compare the three treatment methods. The repeated measures factor will be the pre-post
      measurements and the grouping factors will be the functional levels (GMFCS) and treatment
      methods. Differences between pre-post measurements among the three methods will also be
      tested by one-way ANOVA. A p-value of < 0.05 will be considered significant.
    
  