
    
      Research question: Is it feasible for first-time hearing aid users to use a personalised
      educational intervention delivered through mobile technologies in their everyday life?

      Objectives: To establish the feasibility of the intervention by evaluating delivery,
      accessibility, usability, acceptability, and adherence in first-time hearing aid users. To
      establish suitable outcome measures to evaluate the effectiveness of the intervention in a
      future randomised controlled trial.

      Study Design: Single centre, feasibility.

      Naïve first-time hearing aid users will try out the intervention away from the laboratory.
      Following 10-12 weeks of independent use, the investigators will assess how the participants
      used the intervention using a mixed-methods approach across two parallel stages:

      Stage 1. The investigators will assess the feasibility of the intervention in first-time
      hearing aid users, who will be invited to take part in semi-structured interviews. Using the
      COM-B model (Michie et al., 2014) as the framework underpinning the interviews, delivery,
      accessibility, usability, acceptability, and adherence of the intervention will be evaluated.
      Transcribed audio-recordings will be analysed using thematic analysis (Braun & Clarke, 2006).
      A total of 15 participants is typically sufficient to achieve data saturation (the point in
      data collection when no new information emerges) using this qualitative methodology (Guest et
      al., 2006). To allow for 18% attrition (Ferguson et al., 2016), 18 patients will be. To
      prevent potential confounding of the interviews, participants will not be required to
      complete quantitative outcome measures used in stage 2.

      Stage 2. The investigators will assess which outcome measures are suitable to assess the
      intervention in terms how well it supported users to make changes to their behaviour.
      First-time hearing aid users will complete outcome measures by interview. Outcomes were
      selected based on the World Health Organisation's International Classification of
      Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) (WHO, 2001), which provides a theoretical framework
      upon which to measure the success of amplification using hearing aids. At least 50
      participants are required to allow for sufficient between- and within-subject variability in
      order to calculate important change scores for each outcome measure. To allow for 18%
      attrition 59 patients will be recruited.
    
  