
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the negative predictive value of PET/CT imaging based upon pathologic sampling
           of the neck lymph nodes in patients with head and neck cancer planning to undergo N0
           neck surgery.

        -  Determine the potential of PET/CT imaging to change treatment.

      Secondary

        -  Estimate the sensitivity and diagnostic yield of PET/CT imaging for detecting occult
           metastasis in the clinical N0 neck (both by neck and lymph node regions) or other local
           sites.

        -  Determine the effect of other factors (e.g., tumor size, location, secondary primary
           tumors, or intensity of FDG uptake) that can lead to identification of subsets of
           patients that could potentially forego neck dissection or that can provide preliminary
           data for subsequent studies.

        -  Compare the cost-effectiveness of using PET/CT imaging for staging head and neck cancer
           vs current good clinical practices.

        -  Evaluate the incidence of occult distant body metastasis discovered by whole-body PET/CT
           imaging.

        -  Correlate PET/CT imaging findings with CT/MRI findings and biomarker results.

        -  Evaluate the quality of life of these patients, particularly of those patients whose
           management could have been altered by imaging results.

        -  Evaluate PET/CT imaging and biomarker data for complementary contributions to metastatic
           disease prediction.

        -  Compare baseline PET/CT imaging and biomarker data with 2-year follow up as an adjunct
           assessment of their prediction of recurrence, disease-free survival, and overall
           survival.

        -  Determine the proportion of neck dissections that are extended (i.e., additional levels
           that clinicians intend to dissect beyond the initial surgery plan) based on local-reader
           PET/CT imaging findings shared with the surgeon before dissection.

        -  Estimate the optimum cutoff value of standardized uptake values for diagnostic accuracy
           of PET/CT imaging.

        -  Evaluate the impact of PET/CT imaging on the N0 neck across different tumor subsites
           (defined by anatomic location).

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo fludeoxyglucose F 18-PET/CT imaging. Approximately 14 days later, patients
      undergo unilateral or bilateral neck dissection.

      Patients complete quality-of-life questionnaires at baseline and at 1, 12, and 24 months
      after surgery.

      Patients undergo blood and tissue sample collection periodically for biomarker analysis.

      Patients are followed up periodically for up to 2 years after surgery.
    
  