
    
      There is no universally accepted strategy to promote recovery of motor function after chronic
      stroke, the main cause of long-term disability among adults. It is desirable to develop
      strategies to accelerate motor learning in this patient group. Previous studies in healthy
      volunteers demonstrated that cortical stimulation in association with training leads to
      improvements of motor learning and use-dependent plasticity. The purpose of this protocol is
      to apply a painless stimulation technique to the motor cortex of the affected hemisphere of
      patients with subcortical stroke (transcranial DC stimulation, tDCS) to test the hypothesis
      that tDCS of the motor cortex of the affected hemisphere in association with motor training
      will improve motor learning of a finger sequence in the paretic hand.

      Furthermore, recent studies have demonstrated that the unaffected hemisphere exerts
      abnormally high inhibitory influence over the affected hemisphere. This abnormality might
      adversely influence motor recovery. Therefore a further purpose of the study is to apply tDCS
      to the unaffected hemisphere to test the hypothesis that reduction of the inhibitory
      influence of the unaffected hemisphere over the affected in association with motor training
      will improve motor learning.

      This technique has been so far applied in several hundred subjects worldwide in the absence
      of undesirable side effects reported to date.

      We plan to study patients with chronic strokes and healthy age- and gender matched normal
      volunteers. Primary outcome measure will be the number of correct keyboard piano sequences
      played in a specific time-period (30 seconds). Secondary outcome measures are speed of
      tapping with only one finger; simple reaction times; pinch force; and a functional measure of
      activities of daily life (ADL): Jebsen-Tailor-Test. To better understand the mechanisms
      underlying the proposed behavioral gains, we will use TMS to identify changes in corticomotor
      excitability.
    
  