
    
      The AF ablation procedure has evolved considerably and currently the most accepted technique
      involves creation of circumferential Radiofrequency Ablation lesions around PV ostia
      (encircling wide areas around the left and right sided veins). We have found that targeting
      areas outside the pulmonary veins that trigger atrial premature beats of AF is important for
      optimizing the success of AF ablation. The methodology of additional lesion creation remains
      non-uniform, lacks mechanistic insights, and there is paucity of prospective randomized
      comparison on the long term efficacy and safety of various lesion combinations in achieving
      AF control. Our group recently conducted randomized study (RASTA Trial) that compared PVI
      combined with ablation of documented non-PV triggers (standard AF ablation strategy) of AF to
      two other strategies i.e. 1. PVI combined with empiric ablation at common non-PV trigger
      sites of AF, 2. PVI combined with ablation of locations demonstrating complex fractionated
      electrograms. In this study comprising 156 subjects with persistent and/or long standing
      persistent AF, the investigators found that the standard AF ablation strategy was as
      efficacious as PVI combined with empiric ablation at common non-PV trigger sites of AF and
      both of these approaches were significantly better than PVI combined with ablation of
      locations demonstrating complex fractionated electrograms. Our study also showed that when
      compared to the standard AF ablation strategy (PVI combined with ablation of documented non
      PV AF triggers), PVI combined with empiric ablation at common locations of AF triggers in the
      left and right atria showed 22% higher odds of achieving freedom from atrial arrhythmias and
      33% higher odds of achieving arrhythmia control at one year. Although this difference may
      have been clinically meaningful, it did not reach statistical significance because this study
      was powered to test for a difference of ≥30% between groups. Thus, in the current proposal
      the investigators hope to show statistical difference in the outcomes between these two
      strategies by increasing the sample size which will provide adequate power to show a 20%
      difference in the primary outcome. Also, the investigators hope to enhance the outcome in the
      study arm (PVI combined with empiric ablation at common locations of AF triggers) by also
      targeting empirically locations in the left and right atria that have been shown in recent
      studies to be focal sources and rotors that maintain AF.
    
  