
    
      Survival rates for lung cancer are poor. One year survival rate in the United Kingdon for
      males is 27% and for females 30%, falling to less than 10% at five years. Prognosis for lung
      cancer is so poor because over two thirds of patients are diagnosed at a late stage when
      curative treatment is not possible. Early diagnosis and assessment of tolerance for curative
      treatment would make a significant difference to survival rates.

      Histologically, approximately 80% of lung cancer is nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The
      main curative treatment for NSCLC is surgery. Radical radiotherapy and chemoradiotherapy are
      other potentially curative treatments. These are suitable for patients who present with
      localized tumours that are surgically unresectable due to involvement of critical local
      structures or medically inoperable disease due to advanced age or comorbidities. Radiotherapy
      aims to deliver a high tumouricidal dose to the tumour without damaging the surrounding
      normal lung tissue. A high dose of radiotherapy improves local control but incurs a risk of
      inducing toxic effects in the normal lung tissue. If radiationinduced lung toxicity could be
      better predicted and monitored, radical radiotherapy could be tailored to the individual,
      which could also have the benefit of avoiding or reducing radiation dose to functional lung
      tissue.

      Currently assessment of patients for radiotherapy involves lung function measurements to
      provide a clinical indicator as to whether or not the patient would tolerate treatment and
      maintain sufficient functioning lung posttreatment to continue with activities of daily
      living without significant impairment. The current gold standard for assessment of lung
      function is spirometry and gas transfer. Spirometry and gas transfer measure global lung
      function but provides no information about the different regions of the lung or regarding the
      support 'framework' of the lung, the parenchyma.Changes in lung function as measured by
      spirometry or gas transfer do not coherently correlate with symptom severity or reflect a
      decline in patient health. This weak relationship is probably because the lung is a complex
      regional organ where localized disturbances of a variety of factors including gas flow
      (ventilation), blood flow (perfusion) and gas transfer all combine to impair respiratory
      function.

      To address these issues we aim to use hyperpolarized xenon gas (Xe129) magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI)and computed tomography (CT)to describe detailed regional and structural lung
      abnormality in patients with NSCLC. The investigators will correlate this technique with
      baseline spirometry and dyspnoea scores to determine if respiratory tolerance of radiotherapy
      is better predicted by hyperpolarized Xe129 MR imaging. The investigators will compare
      hyperpolarized Xe129 MRI with standard imaging(nuclear medicine scans). The investigators
      will also evaluate changes in hyperpolarized Xe129 MR imaging before, during and after
      radiotherapy to determine if it provides improved assessment of radiationinduced lung injury.
      MRI has advantage of being free from ionizing radiation making it safe and practical for
      diseases like lung cancer where repeated followup scans are necessary. MR imaging has an
      enhanced speed of image acquisition compared with CT and lung scintigraphy and offers the
      potential of dynamic assessment of lungs during respiration. In conventional MRI, the signal
      originates principally from the protons in water molecules of tissues. Therefore conventional
      MRI has limited use in respiratory disease because the lung has a very low density of
      protons, instead being largely composed of air spaces that do not generate MR signal.
      Hyperpolarised noble gases can resolve this problem. Xenon (Xe129) is an unreactive or inert
      noble gas. It has a nuclear spin of ½ enabling use in MR imaging to generate a signal. Xe129
      is hyperpolarized, that is to say that nuclear spin within the atoms is increased.
      Hyperpolarization increases the MR signal enabling the Xe129 gas to show up on the MR scan.
      In portions of the lung that have good airflow, the hyperpolarized Xe129 gas will show up
      more and be seen more quickly. In addition Xe129 readily dissolves in blood where it emits
      different MR signal characteristics. This property may be exploited to regionally quantify
      both ventilation and perfusion within the lung providing a comprehensive assessment of lung
      function. The need for improved functional imaging to identify preexisting lung disease and
      predict respiratory tolerance of patients with NSCLC for radiotherapy treatment is clear.
      Hyperpolarized Xe129 MR imaging has the potential to inform individual suitability for
      radiotherapy schedules better than the investigations used currently. In addition improved
      functional imaging is required to monitor treatment response and enable treatment regimes to
      be tailored to the individual. Hyperpolarized Xe129 MR imaging offers the potential of
      improved detection of radiationinduced lung injury, invaluable to treating patients with
      radiation induced injury. It may also provide information that would allow RT to be planned
      in such a way as to reduce the risk of patients developing radiationinduced lung toxicity
      (RILT).

      The need for improved functional imaging to identify preexisting lung disease and predict
      respiratory tolerance of patients with NSCLC for radiotherapy treatment is clear.
      Hyperpolarized Xe129 MR imaging has the potential to inform individual suitability for
      radiotherapy schedules better than the investigations used currently. In addition improved
      functional imaging is required to monitor treatment response and enable treatment regimes to
      be tailored to the individual. Hyperpolarized Xe129 MR imaging offers the potential of
      improved detection of radiationinduced lung injury, invaluable to treating patients with
      radiation induced injury. It may also provide information that would allow RT to be planned
      in such a way as to reduce the risk of patients developing radiationinduced lung toxicity
      (RILT).
    
  