
    
      This will be a double-blind study. To maintain the blinding of the study, none of the
      investigators who are assessing depression scores will be aware of the injection status of
      the patients. In addition, to maintain patient blinding, the patients will not be educated as
      to possible expected outcomes on facial expressions. Unless specifically informed, patients
      are generally unaware of the facial movement that is inhibited by Botulinum Toxin A. An
      unblinded physician will act as pharmacist for the study preparing the active drug and the
      placebo for the injections.

      Duration of Treatment: The study will be divided into three phases: screening and enrollment,
      treatment and follow-up. Patients who meet all criteria will be randomized at the screening
      visit. The treatment phase will last six (6) weeks after the investigational product is
      administered during which the patients will return to for a visit at week 3. Subjects will
      return to the office for a discontinuation visit at week six.

      General Design and Methodology: At screening, patients will sign consent and be diagnosed by
      means of the M.I.N.I. They will be assessed by a clinician who will perform the MADRS and
      CGI-S which are standardized ratings. They will complete the patient-rated BDI. Subjects will
      provide a urine sample for drug screening. WOCBP will be given a pregnancy test. Patients who
      meet all criteria will be randomly assigned to receive either the investigational product or
      placebo. The study medication or placebo will be injected into the procerus and corrugator
      supercilii frown muscles of each patient by a physician or physician's assistant. Each
      patient face will be photographed at this an all visits. Three weeks ± 7 days following the
      injection, each patient will return to the office where a clinician will administer the MADRS
      and the CGI-I. The patient will complete the BDI and adverse events (AEs) and concomitant
      medications will be collected.

      Six weeks ± 7 days following the injection, patients will return to the office where the
      clinician will administer the MADRS and CGI-I, collect AEs and concomitant medications. The
      patients will complete the BDI. All patients, whether on the active drug or the placebo, will
      be given a voucher which they may use for a free Botox injection at week 8, if , in the
      judgment of the investigator, it will be beneficial to the patient.

      Diagnosis and Criteria for Inclusion: Patients will be included in this study if they meet
      all of the following criteria:

        -  Written informed consent is obtained;

        -  They are a 18 to 65 years old;

        -  They meet DSM-IV criteria for MDD as diagnosed by the MINI at screening, and, their
           current episode must be at least one month in length;

        -  They have a MADRS score of ≥ 26 at screening;

        -  They have ≥ 4 on the CGI-S at screening

        -  Women of childbearing potential (WOCBP) are on an acceptable form of birth control and
           are not pregnant or lactating;

        -  They are judged by the investigator to have the capacity to understand the nature of the
           study;

        -  They are willing to comply with all the requirements of the study.

        -  They are considered by the investigator to be likely to adhere to the protocol.

      Criteria for Exclusion: Patients will be excluded from this study if they meet any of the
      following criteria:

        -  They have been treated with botulinum toxin A in the 12 months prior to screening;

        -  They have another Axis I disorder as a principal diagnosis in the 6 months prior to
           screening;

        -  They have a history of substance abuse or dependency in the 2 months prior to screening
           (recreational use of illicit drugs may be permissible, at the discretion of the
           investigator);

        -  They test positive for illicit drugs on urine drug screen, and this has not been
           adequately explained to the satisfaction of the investigator;

        -  They endorse MADRS item 10 (suicidal ideas) at a level of 5 or more or have attempted
           suicide in the six months prior to screening;

        -  They are considered to be at a significant risk of committing homicide;

        -  They have an unstable medical condition;

        -  Women of childbearing potential (WOCBP) who are pregnant or are considering becoming
           pregnant during the length of the study;

        -  They are regarded, for any reason by the principal investigator as being an unsuitable
           candidate for the protocol.

        -  There has been a change in their medication or psychotherapy treatment regimen in the
           month preceding screening;

        -  They have proved to be refractory to three or more adequate antidepressant treatments
           with methods that have different mechanisms of action.
    
  