
    
      This trial, funded by Action Medical Research, will involve 200 SCD patients recruited from
      haematology clinics and ENT (ear, nose and throat) surgery waiting lists or their local sleep
      laboratory at Evelina Children's hospital (Guy's & St Thomas), University College London
      hospital, North Middlesex hospital and Whittington Hospitals. Patients are eligible if they
      are between 3 and <8 years old w SCD, give informed consent, have any Sleep-Disordered
      Breathing, e.g. snoring, and/or any abnormality on overnight oximetry. After consenting, the
      PI/Coordinator will organise a simple app-based questionnaire and baseline testing of brain
      speed, with an optional brain scan, and randomisation to chewable Montelukast tablets or
      Placebo for 3 months after which the brain speed tests, questionnaires and MRI will be
      repeated.

      Purpose and design:

      This is designed as a phase 2/3 trial of Montelukast therapy to investigate whether this drug
      improves processing speed, which appears to underpin the difference in full scale IQ
      (intelligence quotient) United Kingdom.

      between children with sickle cell disease and their siblings.

      Recruitment:

      Patients will be recruited from the paediatric and adult sickle clinics at the involved
      hospitals. These clinics are attended by over 2000 patients with sickle cell disease.

      This is a paediatric trial in a group of children who mainly belong to an ethnic minority as
      it is this age group who are vulnerable to sleep-disordered breathing (90% of children with
      sickle cell disease in our previous study snored). The investigators have successfully run 4
      previous randomised controlled trials and 2 longitudinal studies in this group of children.
      The proposal has been developed by a multidisciplinary team of researchers/scientists, many
      of whom have lengthy clinical experience in this area. This team includes two patient
      representatives. Processing speed has been measured until recently using the Coding and
      Symbol search Wechsler subtests but investigators found that there was a practice effect in
      both arms of our pilot trial of continuous positive airways pressure, which was not seen for
      Cancellation, another test of processing speed and attention. The NIH toolbox processing
      speed is a new iPad test which has extensive normal data down to the age of 3 years, but a
      team member who has used it has found a practice effect. Investigators are therefore
      including 2 primary endpoints: Cancellation and the NIH toolbox processing speed It is
      possible that investigators will not recruit 200 patients across the 4 London sites so:

        1. Investigators have ensured that they will be adequately powered to detect an effect of
           Montelukast on adenoid: nasopharynx ratio on MRI if they recruit at least 3 willing to
           undergo MRI in each arm; this will allow exploration of the secondary brain MRI
           endpoints in addition to the primary endpoints.

        2. Investigators will extend to additional UK sites

        3. Investigators will apply for additional funds to extend the study outside the UK, e.g.
           by applying for $500,000 from the National Heart Lung and Blood Institutes (USA) to run
           the study in Cincinnati and New York.
    
  