
    
      Thirty females fulfilling the American College of Rheumatology criteria for knee
      osteoarthritis with bilateral valgus deformity greater than or equal to 8° were consecutively
      will be selected from the Rheumatology Outpatient Clinic of University of São Paulo.
      Radiographic grading of OA was defined according to Kellgren and Lawrence (KL) and analyzed
      blind by the same rheumatologist. Inclusion criteria were knee osteoarthritis with lateral
      compartment involvement detected on X-Ray (KL class II or more); absence or minimal (KL class
      0 or I) for medial compartment involvement; and pain on movement > 2 measured by Visual
      Analog Scale (VAS).

      Exclusion criteria were: body mass index (BMI) > 40, scoliosis, lower limbs length difference
      exceeding 1 cm, knee surgery, hallux rigidus, previous history of rheumatologic disease
      (rheumatoid arthritis, connective tissue disease, microcrystalline arthropathy, and
      soronegative arthropathy), soft tissue involvement (anserine, patellar, and calcaneal
      tendinopathy), and foot/lower leg symptoms.

      Corticosteroid and hyaluronic acid infiltrations were not allowed 3 and 6 months prior to
      entry, respectively. The use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory and analgesics or slow action
      drugs (DMARDs) were allowed if prescribed at least four weeks and eight weeks before entry
      and remained unchanged throughout the study.

      The study was approved by the local Ethical Committee and all patients signed informed
      consent.

      Study protocol:

      Patients will be randomly assigned into 2 groups: CASES with 16 patients and CONTROLS with
      fourteen patients. The CASES wore 8 mm high, medial-wedged insoles for the hind foot inserted
      into a new shoe for 8 weeks. The CONTROLS will use an insole resembling the former group,
      only without raised wedges (FIGURE 1-B) for 8 weeks. Patients of both groups will receive the
      same new shoe and were blind to the insole use.

      The ethylene-vinyl-acetate (EVA - density 50) insoles were provided by the AACD Institute
      (Handicapped Child Care Association). A commercial neoprene with elastic banding will be used
      for ankle support. Both groups will use similar standard shoes supplied by the hospital. Each
      participant will be instructed to use the splints (shoes and elastic banding) for 3 to 6
      hours daily. The correct use of the splints will be checked every two weeks. Undesirable
      side-effects will be recorded at the end of the study.

      Age, disease duration, weight, height, body mass index (BMI), and sedentarism (only daily
      activities) will be recorded for all patients at entry. In order to assess symptoms, Visual
      Analog Scale (VAS) will be used for night pain, pain at rest and on movement. Lequesne index
      score and the WOMAC questionnaire will be applied at baseline and after 8 weeks by a blinded
      examiner.

      Antero-posterior conventional X-ray of knees and ankles will be performed under monopodalic
      load with and without insoles in order to measure femorotibial, talocalcaneal, and talus tilt
      angles. Femorotibial angle is formed by the intersection of femur and tibia axes, obtained
      through lines drawn at distal one-third of the femur and proximal one-third of the tibia,
      both equidistant from external limits of the cortical bones. Talocalcaneal angle is formed by
      a first line connecting the midpoints between the trochanter talus to the lateral and medial
      malleoli, and a second line perpendicular to the floor identified by inferior border of
      X-ray. Tilt angle of talus is formed by a line parallel to floor and the tilt of the
      trochanter talus. All angles will be measured blind by the same rheumatologist.
    
  