
    
      The participants will be recruited from the undergraduate Ulster University student
      population. Those students who have been identified as potentially having visual stress will
      be invited to undergo screening tests to assess their eligibility to participate in the
      randomized controlled trial.

      Visit 1:

      Each consenting participant will undergo tests to assess their eligibility to participate in
      this study.

      Provided the participant meets the inclusion criteria then they will undergo some baseline
      tests and reading tests including the Wilkins Rate of Reading test (WRRT).

      The participant will then undergo colorimetry testing using the Intuitive colorimeter (Cerium
      TM) using the established procedure to individually measure the optimum chromaticity which
      alleviates visual stress symptoms for each participant. This will be the 'experimental'
      colour. A second colour will be measured at which visual stress symptoms will be present,
      this colour will not be aversive to the participant and will be as close to the
      'experimental' colour as possible to aid masking. This will be the 'control' colour and it
      will be individually measured for each participant.

      Visit 2 & 3:

      The participant will be invited to return to collect one pair of spectacle with coloured
      lenses. The participant will be asked to take the spectacles away and will be advised to wear
      the spectacles for concentrated tasks, including reading. The participant will keep the
      spectacles for a minimum of ten weeks, after this time they will be invited to return the
      spectacle.

      There will be a time lapse between visit 3 and visit 4 where the participant will have no
      coloured spectacles.

      Visit 4 & 5

      The participant will return to collect the other pair of spectacles. They will keep the
      spectacles for the same time period. They will be invited to return, at the end of visit 5
      the participant will be able to chose their preferred pair of coloured spectacles to take
      away with them to keep.

      Four months later the participant will be contacted to check if they are still wearing the
      coloured spectacles.
    
  