
    
      The study enrolled patients admitted to RICU and it lasted 18 months. Patients were enrolled
      when a CVC: 1) was placed during hospitalization in RICU; 2) had already been placed at
      admittance and patients didn't show signs of systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS)
      during first 48h from admission to RICU; 3) had already been placed at admittance without
      evidence of microbiologic contamination of blood cultures.

      Each patient gave written informed consent. Patients enrolled underwent blood cultures
      sampling whenever they showed SIRS signs.

      SIRS is defined as 2 or more of the following variables: 1) fever of more than 38°C (100.4°F)
      or less than 36°C (96.8°F), 2) heart rate of more than 90 beats per minute, 3) respiratory
      rate of more than 20 breaths per minute or arterial carbon dioxide tension (PaCO2) of less
      than 32mm Hg, 4) abnormal white blood cell count (>12,000/µL or < 4,000/µL or >10% immature
      [band] forms). Septic shock was defined as sepsis associated with organ dysfunction and
      persistent hypotension despite volume replacement.

      According to international guidelines, blood cultures were collected simultaneously from both
      central line and peripheral blood. So doing, five different mutually exclusive conditions
      were identified: 1) significant different time to positivization of blood cultures (at least
      2 hours) between central line sample and peripheral sample (sepsis related to CVC - CLABSIs);
      2) not significant different time to positivization of blood cultures (sepsis not related to
      CVC); 3) positive blood cultures from central line sample and negative from peripheral one
      (CVC colonization); 4) negative blood cultures from central line sample and positive from
      peripheral one (contaminated blood cultures); 5) negative blood cultures from both peripheral
      and central line samples (SIRS not sustained by sepsis). CVCs were removed when conditions 1
      and 3 occurred. Catheter tips were collected and prepared for subsequent microbiological
      analysis and identified microbial species have been reported.

      Each catheter was designated by type of vessel used (peripheral versus central); site of
      insertion (subclavian, femoral, internal jugular, peripheral, and Peripherally Inserted
      Central Catheter [PICC]).

      Moreover, for each patient, data concerning provenance, parenteral nutrition, presence of
      tracheostomy tube and mechanical ventilation were collected.

      Finally, in order to measure the severity of clinical condition of each patient, APACHE III
      score and Charlson's Comorbidity Index score were calculated.

      Microbiological methods The entire medical center is served by a central microbiology
      laboratory, which is open from 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM, Monday through Saturday.

      For adult patients with suspected BSIs, the center's standard of care requires the sequential
      collection at 30-min intervals of at least three sets of aerobic and anaerobic BCs (CLSI).
      For each set, a 20-mL blood sample is collected via a single venipuncture or intravascular
      line access. Skin or access ports are disinfected with alcohol and povidone iodine.

      The blood sample is used to inoculate one BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F and Anaerobic bottles (10 mL
      of blood each) (Becton Dickinson Instrument Systems, Sparks, Md). The bottles are brought to
      the laboratory and incubated up to five days in the BACTEC FX automated blood culture
      instrument (Cultures arriving when the laboratory is closed are stored at room temperature in
      accordance with manufacturers' instructions). When the growth index of a bottle was positive,
      broth aliquots were collected for standard identification studies, which entailed Gram
      staining (the results of which were immediately reported to the patient's physician), routine
      subculture, and matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass
      spectrometry (MALDI BioTyper, Bruker Daltonik GmbH, Leipzig, Germany) analysis of culture
      samples, supplemented when necessary with additional biochemical methods and/or 16S rRNA gene
      sequencing. Antibiotic susceptibility tests were performed using the Vitek 2 system
      (bioMérieux, Marcy l'Etoile, France). Confirmatory MIC testing for oxyimino-cephalosporins
      and carbapenems was carried out by Etest (bioMérieux). Results were interpreted according to
      the European Committee on Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) breakpoints (EUCAST
      table).

      Study design The study was divided in two periods of equal duration time (9 months): a
      preliminary prospective observational period (phase I) and a subsequent prospective
      interventional period (phase II).

      During phase II, two interventional strategies have been adopted:

        1. at the beginning of interventional study and then every 45 days, physicians and nurses
           of RICU have been trained and retrained to GAVECELT ("Long Term Venous Central Lines"
           Open Group - www.gavecelt.it) "bundle" recommendations concerning the management of CVC.
           The bundle includes: hand hygiene and precautions for protection and safety, adequate
           insertion site, echo-guided placement of central venous line, use of clorexidine 2% for
           skin disinfection of insertion site chosen and subsequent continuous or discontinuous
           disinfection of exit site, use of suture-less devices, use of transparent semi-permeable
           dressing whenever applicable and immediate removal of catheter when no longer needed.
           Moreover, in order to reduce the use of unnecessary catheters, the investigators
           regularly evaluated the need for CVCs for both patients admitted to RICU and patients
           moved out of the ICU and unnecessary catheters were promptly removed.

        2. After the first training meeting, the use of Curos® Disinfecting Port Protector for
           needleless valves port-protector (CUROS, 70% isopropyl alcohol-impregnated, Ivera
           Medical, San Diego, California, US) has been introduced.

      Patients ruled in during the interventional period have been randomized into two groups:

        1. patients with CVC managed by healthcare workers trained/retrained to GAVECELT
           recommendations.

        2. Patients with CVC managed by healthcare workers trained/retrained to GAVECELT
           recommendations with the aid of port protector devices.

      Curos® Disinfecting Port Protector is a passive disinfection device that luer-locks securely
      onto needleless IV ports to disinfect in 3 minutes. If not removed, ports stay clean and
      protected for 7 days. The Curos® is intended for use on swabbable luer access valves as a
      disinfecting cleaner prior to line access and to act as a physical barrier to contamination
      between line accesses. Curos disinfects the valve three minutes after application and acts as
      a physical barrier to contamination for up to seven days if not removed.
    
  