
    
      Intensive rehabilitation is recognized as an essential component to successful outcomes for
      post procedure recovery after a major cardio-thoracic procedure. The investigators propose a
      unique multi-modal rehabilitation program (MRP) that combines a step-up physical therapy
      protocol with neuromuscular electric stimulation (NMES), nutritional supplementation (NS),
      occupational therapy and pulmonary rehabilitation techniques to achieve improved functional
      outcomes for advanced lung disease patients requiring transplantation or ECMO-bridge to
      transplant. The investigators hypothesized that a progressive rehabilitation program,
      incorporating neuromuscular electric stimulation, strength and balance training, and
      nutritional supplementation with essential amino acids will reduce sarcopenia and loss of
      functional mobility in patients with advanced lung disease requiring transplantation or
      ECMO-bridge to transplant.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of a progressive rehabilitation
      program, which incorporates neuromuscular electric stimulation, strength and mobility
      training, and nutritional supplementation in ameliorating 1) the loss of muscle mass and
      strength, and lower extremity balance, strength and coordination, 2) time on the ventilator
      or ECMO, stay in the intense care unit and hospital, and 3) return home and quality of life
      compared to usual ICU care.

      The investigators propose a prospective, randomized interventional trial assessing the
      effectiveness of the program in decreasing adverse post-transplant outcomes compared to usual
      care. All advanced lung disease patients listed for transplantation or requiring ECMO
      cannulation will be screened for this study according to the inclusion and exclusion
      criterion. The patients will be randomized to either the treatment arm or usual care within
      72 hours after the procedure (transplant or ECMO cannulation if patient requires ECMO-bridge
      to transplant). All groups of patients will undergo an initial global assessment of
      functional capabilities after listing for lung transplantation and then again within 72 hours
      after cardio-thoracic procedure (transplant or ECMO cannulation). Patients in the treatment
      arm will receive additional physical therapy that include: arm and leg exercises, using light
      weight machines, hand weights, or rubber bands, exercise machines such as portable arm or
      seated bikes. The treatment group will receive exercise therapy plus therapy with an electric
      stimulator device. This device uses weak electric impulses to involuntarily exercise the
      muscles (one-two sessions a day, with each session starting off at 10 minutes, then
      increasing to a maximum of 30 minutes). Subjects receiving the intervention will receive
      daily treatment using the neuromuscular electric stimulation unit. Four muscle groups
      (quadriceps and dorsiflexors bilaterally) will be stimulated using 3x5 inch surface
      electrodes (quadriceps) and 2x4 inch (dorsiflexors). In addition, patients in the
      experimental group will receive nutrition supplementation with essential amino acids 3 times
      a day in their feeding to prevent muscle breakdown and promote positive nitrogen balance.
      Comprehensive re-assessments are repeated on a weekly basis and the therapy will be adjusted
      to the patient's clinical status.
    
  