
    
      Retrospective observational study of our prospectively collected database of 3000 consecutive
      hysteroscopies performed from may 2008 to october 2019 in our Office Hysteroscopy Unit (OHU).

      All the patients who attended an ambulatory hysteroscopy in our centre during the study
      period were included. There were not any exclusion criteria and all data were prospectively
      collected in a computer database.

      The primary endpoint was to determine the main results of the Outpatient Hysteroscopy Unit in
      terms of feasibility, effectiveness and safety. Feasibility was defined as the proportion of
      explorations that could be satisfactorily performed. Effectiveness was evaluated through the
      percentage of cases that were solved in our outpatient setting and did not require the
      operating room to complete their diagnosis or treatment. Safety was assessed as the
      percentage of complications registered.

      In addition, we registered the intensity of the pain perceived by the patient with a Verbal
      Numerical Rating Scale (VNRS) (from 0 to 10) during the procedure and ten minutes later.

      All the hysteroscopies were performed in our Office Hysteroscopy Unit by three experienced
      gynaecologists who performed the hysteroscopy assisted by a nurse.

      For pain and anxiety management, a painkiller (ibuprofen 600 mg) and an anxiolytic (diazepam
      5 mg) were orally dispensed to all patients 30 minutes before the procedure. Cervical
      preparation with Misoprostol (400 mcg, intravaginal administration 4-6 hours before the test)
      was administered only in cases of anticipated or previous failed cervical passage.
      Paracervical anaesthesia was administered in selected cases of several pain during the
      passage through the cervical canal. Premenopausal women were asked to take desogestrel 75 mg,
      at least 30 days prior to the procedure for endometrial preparation and if the patient was
      unwilling to take the medication, the procedure was preferably performed in the early
      follicular phase.

      Hysteroscopy was performed with the several diagnostic and therapeutic rigid devices
      available in our Office Hysteroscopy Unit in 5-6 mm diameter: mechanical instruments
      (scissors and forceps), bipolar electrode (Versapoint ®), bipolar Gubini resector (Colibrí®)
      and mechanical morcelators (Myosure® and Truclear®), They have been set up gradually in our
      Unit. Saline solution 0.9% was used as a distention media with an automated pressure delivery
      system and he vaginoscopic approach was performed.
    
  