
    
      Everolimus (RAD001) has been in clinical development since 1996 as an immunosuppressant in
      solid organ transplantation and has obtained marketing authorization (Certican®) for
      prophylaxis of rejection in renal and cardiac transplantation in a number of countries,
      including the majority of the European Union. Everolimus has been in development for patients
      with various malignancies since 2002. Everolimus 2.5mg, 5mg and 10mg tablets were approved
      under the trade name Afinitor® for patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) after
      failure of treatment with Sutent® (sunitinib) or Nexavar® (sorafenib) in the US, EU and
      several other countries and is undergoing registration in other regions worldwide. Afinitor®
      was also recently approved for the treatment of patients with subependymal giant cell
      astrocytoma (SEGA) associated with tuberous sclerosis (TS) who require therapeutic
      intervention but are not candidates for curative surgical resection. Everolimus is being
      investigated as an anticancer agent based on its potential to act: 1. Directly on the tumor
      cells by inhibiting tumor cell growth and proliferation; and 2. Indirectly by inhibiting
      angiogenesis leading to reduced tumor vascularity.

      For pediatric cancer patients, safety of RAD001 has been established in a phase 1 trial and
      the recommended phase II dose is 5 mg/m2 once daily. This existing pediatric data allows for
      inclusion of children in this phase 2 trial, which is an important consideration since some
      NF2 patients with the most aggressive clinical course present at school age.

      RAD001 was recently approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of
      children and adults with subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA), a benign brain tumor
      associated with tuberous sclerosis (TS). Although surgical resection is effective at tumor
      reduction, serious complications may follow a radical resection, such as permanent deafness
      and facial nerve damage. Most importantly, the tumors often recur after surgery. Radiation
      therapy (RT) has been proposed as an alternative. However, its safety and efficacy in the NF2
      population has not been established. A medical therapy option is desperately needed. This
      study is a single-center, 2-stage, phase II open-label study. All subjects will get RAD001
      taken continuously until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The primary objective
      of this study is to look at the objective response rate to RAD001 in patients with
      NF2-related tumors including cranial nerve schwannomas, meningiomas and ependymomas.
      Participation will consist of screening/baseline visit(s), Day 1, Weeks 1, 2, and 4; and up
      to 12 cycles and will include standard of care procedures such as medical history, vital
      signs, physical examinations, ECGs, MRIs, audiograms, and laboratory tests. Novartis will
      provide the RAD001 free of charge to eligible study subjects. The primary efficacy response
      for study purposes will be a greater than or equal to 15% reduction in tumor volume in any of
      the target tumors (partial response). Complete disappearance of any of the target tumors will
      constitute a complete response (CR).
    
  