
    
      AAs have twice the rate of DM as Whites, and worse glycemic control, less optimal medication
      regimens, and less trust in the medical system. These disparities contribute to why AAs with
      DM are more likely to go blind, lose limbs, require dialysis, develop dementia, and die than
      Whites. These disparities, in turn, reflect racial differences in education, income, health
      literacy, cultural beliefs, experiences of discrimination, and social adversity, which can
      lead to: 1) poor glycemic control; 2) suboptimal medication use; and 3) mistrust in medical
      care. DM I-TEAM addresses these 3 factors, which often precipitate ED and hospital care,
      using a culturally relevant, multidisciplinary team treatment approach to reduce the need for
      high acuity medical care, and equip underserved AAs with DM with the knowledge and skill to
      gain the benefits of high quality medical care that is otherwise available to everyone. Our
      approach applies currently available treatment elements in a culturally-relevant way to
      create a more equitable health landscape. Our immediate goal is to engage a high-risk
      population in treatment that can be trusted; that recognizes the realities of their lives
      (e.g., financial insecurity); that improves the quality of the medication they take, and that
      builds their self-efficacy to manage DM. The intermediate goal is to prevent untoward medical
      events that necessitate ED or hospital care. The long-term goal is to reverse the pernicious
      racial disparities that now characterize healthcare in the U.S. DM I-TEAM can achieve these
      goals by getting the right care to the right patient at the right time. DM I-TEAM is the
      right care because its leverages existing resources in a new way to improve health outcomes
      in AAs with DM. AAs with DM are the right patients because many have poorly controlled DM,
      take suboptimal medications, and face treatment barriers, often social in nature. Now is the
      right time, as the population becomes more racially diverse, healthcare costs increase, and
      demand for safety, quality, and value intensify. In these ways DM I-TEAM is right for
      American healthcare, bringing us closer to Healthy People 2020's twin goals of reducing the
      personal and societal costs of DM, and achieving health equity for all.

      DM I-TEAM takes a dynamic team approach to diabetes management whereby the primary care
      physician, the study pharmacist, the diabetes educator, and the CHW collaborate to build
      patient trust, encourage diabetes self-management, and optimize medication regimens. Each
      member of the team plays a pivotal role in identifying important information that prevents
      effective diabetes management, and then works together to provide multi-layered support to
      patients. The roles of each team member are as follows:

      CHW: The CHW extends clinic-based care into participants' homes to strengthen
      patient/provider relationships, customize diabetes education, and develop tailored treatment
      plans. The CHW facilitates telemedicine visits with the PCP and diabetes educator to build
      trust in the health care system by increasing participants' access to their care team. The
      quality and content of these visits is enhanced by CHW-provided information about the
      participant's life situation (e.g., family circumstances, barriers to optimal diabetes
      self-management, home environment), and current self-management practices and beliefs. There
      will be 6 90 minute in-home CHW sessions within 3 months of randomization (telemedicine
      sessions will occur during 3 of these visits). Booster sessions will occur 5, 7, and 11
      months after randomization. During these visits, the CHW will (1) reinforce the diabetes
      treatment plan articulated by the PCP, (2) gather information regarding barriers to diabetes
      self-management behaviors and communicate them to the team; (3) inform the team of the
      participant's health-related questions/issues; (4) provide culturally-relevant diabetes
      education using appropriate educational materials; (5) work with the participant to formulate
      and execute diabetes Action Plans using the principles of Behavioral Activation (BA); and (6)
      communicate the participant's progress with their Action Plans to the team. BA is a
      behavioral technique based on reinforcement theory that is used to help people overcome
      avoidant tendencies through goal setting, activity scheduling, and graded task assignment. BA
      was originally developed to treat depression. Our research has demonstrated that BA can
      successfully facilitate diabetes self-management. The DM I-TEAM treatment manual (which is
      already developed but will be refined during the study start-up phase) describes each session
      in detail, and includes scripts and didactics for the CHW interventionist. The manual is not
      included in this grant submission due to space limitations. At each session, the CHW educates
      participants to contact the ED (either by phone or by patient portal) prior to presenting for
      services. Participants are given "emergency kits" that contain glucometers and related
      supplies and glucose tablets. The ED physician may recommend that participant's test their
      glucose and treat hypoglycemia prior to or instead of reporting to the ED.

      PCP: The PCP provides diabetes care as per standard practice, but care is supplemented with
      input from the pharmacist and the CHW, and with telemedicine visits. The PCP optimizes
      medication regimens based on pharmacist recommendations. As the course of treatment
      progresses, the PCP reinforces Action Plans with the participant during clinic visits.

      Pharmacist: With information gathered by the CHW and from the participant's electronic
      medical records (EMR), the pharmacist performs a comprehensive evaluation of the
      participant's medications to identify medications that are contraindicated in older patients,
      are not being taken as prescribed, are being taken incorrectly, are improperly dosed, or may
      be causing undesirable side effects. Based on her assessment, the pharmacist may recommend
      that the PCP modify the current medication regimen.

      Diabetes Educator: The diabetes educator provides telemedicine visits to supplement diabetes
      education provided by the CHW, answer participants' questions, and reinforce medication
      adherence.
    
  