
    
      The objective of this study "Linking Infectious and Narcology Care (LINC)" is to improve upon
      the treat and retain dimensions of the "seek, test, treat, and retain" paradigm in Eastern
      Europe. We will implement and assess a behavioral and structural intervention in Russia
      designed to support and motivate HIV-infected narcology heroin dependent patients (i.e.,
      IDUs) to engage (i.e., initiate and retain) in HIV medical care and ultimately improve their
      HIV outcomes.

      LINC is a clinical model designed to coordinate narcology and HIV systems of care using
      elements shown to facilitate engagement in medical care: HIV case management and
      point-of-care CD4 testing. The central hypothesis is that an intervention that involves
      coordination between the narcology and HIV systems via HIV case management delivered by a
      peer to help motivate and reduce barriers to HIV care will lead to engagement in HIV care.

      Implementation research recognizes that effective interventions may not translate
      successfully across different contexts and systems. Hence, we will assess the organizational
      and operational issues that drive engagement in HIV care in Russia.

      The project will be undertaken by an international research team experienced in addressing
      HIV, substance use, and clinical interventions in Russia. This proposal's Specific Aims are
      to assess the effectiveness of the LINC intervention compared to standard of care on 4
      distinct outcomes: 1) initiation of HIV care (> 1 visit to HIV medical care) within 6 months
      of enrollment; 2) retention in HIV care (> 1 visit to medical care in 2 consecutive 6 month
      periods) within 12 months; 3) appropriate HIV care (prescribed ART if CD4 cell count is <350
      or having a second CD4 count if CD4 ≥350 within 12 months; and 4) improved HIV health
      outcomes (CD4 cell count at 12 months). The final Specific Aim is to establish the contextual
      factors that influence adoption and sustainability of the LINC intervention in Russia. If
      LINC can embed effectively within Eastern European medical systems, then it has the potential
      to be widely implemented in this region of the world and have a major impact on the HIV
      epidemic among IDUs.
    
  