
    
      Morphea, like systemic sclerosis (SSc), presents with sclerotic hardening of the skin.
      However, unlike SSc, morphea has no systemic involvement. While this skin-limited, chronic
      sclerosis, has no impact on mortality, it can have significant morbidity, as lesions can
      affect joint mobility, and be disfiguring, especially when involving the face. While some
      patients respond well to use of steroids, whether topical or intralesional, antimalarials
      such as plaquenil, or traditional immuno-suppressants there is a significant proportion of
      patients who remain non-responsive to these treatments, or require high dosages of these,
      oral steroids, or experimental therapies to suppress the condition. For this group of
      patients there is a high clinical need to find alternate therapies. In addition, as the
      disease creates permanent scarring, and traditional immuno-suppressants take several months
      to take effect there is a need for medications that can act more quickly to halt the
      progression of scarring.

      Although the pathways of inflammation are poorly understood, one cytokine of potential
      interest is IL (interleukin)-6. In the bleomycin mouse model of skin sclerosis targeting IL-6
      by both passive and active immunization strategies prevented the development of
      bleomycin-induced dermal fibrosis. Dysregulation of IL-6 has also been seen in the serum of
      patients suffering from SSc. As a result, preliminary clinical trials have been undertaken in
      SSc. While results did not reach statistical significance the skin thickening was better in
      the treatment group than in placebo and the lack of signal is likely due to the late stage of
      patients skin involvement, and the slow progression of thickening in SSc. In contrast morphea
      often progresses rapidly and as such is much more likely to give a clear clinical signal.

      Recently sarilumab, an anti-IL-6 monoclonal antibody, has been approved for use in severe
      rheumatoid arthritis (RA) after rapid and sustained results in clinical trials. Given its
      good safety profile, its impressive response in RA, and the immunohistochemical evidence that
      IL-6 may be important in creation of sclerosis in SSc, the investigators propose a pilot
      study to determine the safety and efficacy of sarilumab in morphea.
    
  