
    
      Human cytomegalovirus (hCMV) is the most common opportunistic pathogen in the first months
      after solid organ transplantation. Traditionally, hCMV infection in renal transplant patients
      is indirectly associated with an increased risk of acute rejection, chronic graft
      dysfunction, graft loss and even increased patient mortality.

      The susceptibility of developing hCMV infection is essentially determined by the immune
      status of the donor and the receptor with regards to the virus, whereby seronegative
      recipients (IgG) receiving a graft from a seropositive donor (IgG +) are the group of
      patients with a particularly high risk for developing hCMV infection and disease. In fact,
      without the administration of a preventative therapy for hCMV, 60 to 70% of this population
      at risk have an infection (presence of virus in the blood) and up to approximately 20% will
      develop associated systemic disease (viral invasion of tissues ). Interestingly, the
      incidence of hCMV infection in patients who are seropositive for the HIV virus and receive a
      graft is about 20%, increasing to 30% if given cell depletion therapies with polyclonal
      antibodies administered after transplantation.

      There are currently two treatment options to prevent infection by hCMV; One is prophylactic,
      whereby the antiviral therapy is administered orally for about 90 to 100 days after
      transplantation in all patients considered at risk (donor IgG+, recipient IgG-) and the
      second is pre-emptive therapy, in which the presence of virus in the peripheral blood is
      monitored periodically after transplantation until it appears (at present by polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR) detection of viral nucleic acids),thus triggering the need for intensive
      antiviral therapy. When compared with no pharmacological intervention, both therapeutic
      strategies have demonstrated a significant reduction in the development of hCMV and other
      herpes virus type diseases, and even a decrease in the incidence of acute graft rejection.
      However, there are few prospective randomized studies comparing the effectiveness of these
      two therapeutic alternatives. Recently, a German group prospectively compared the efficacy of
      prophylactic oral ganciclovir versus intravenous ganciclovir therapy in a group of 148
      patients receiving high serological risk renal transplants for hCMV. Interestingly, the group
      that received prophylactic oral therapy had a higher graft survival at 4 years of follow up
      (uncensored for death) than the group receiving ganciclovir, suggesting that, despite the
      administration of intensive intravenous therapy at the time of detection of the virus in the
      blood, the potential deleterious effect of the virus on the organs during the initial
      asymptomatic period could explain the benefits of prophylactic therapy from the beginning.

      These results have important implications, both clinical and socioeconomic, as they seem to
      imply the need for systemic prophylaxis to prevent the development of viral infection in all
      patients currently considered at risk (R -/D +). Moreover, another interesting study which
      compared primary prophylaxis with oral valganciclovir versus early therapy prevention
      (pre-emptive therapy) in a large group of kidney transplant recipients with different
      serologic donor / recipient combinations, showed significantly higher rates of viremia and
      CMV disease in patients receiving treatment with an incidence of serological CMV infection of
      up to 53% in serological R + / R + combinations. In this sense, the latest international
      consensus guidelines indicate that both types of therapy (early and prophylactic) are
      acceptable, with a degree of moderately high evidence, for groups of seropositive patients
      receiving a graft from a seropositive donor. The investigator unit has adopted a pre-emptive
      protocol for the last two years, systematically monitoring viral replication in R + / D +
      pairs, except in those patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy with Thymoglobulin to
      whom the investigator assigns a prophylactic treatment with oral valganciclovir for 3
      months.This change was introduced 2 years ago before which a prophylactic treatment was given
      to all R + / R + patients. This change has not led to improved results in terms of prevention
      of cytomegalic infection.

      All such discrepancies among study results examining the efficacy of various therapeutic
      strategies preventing hCMV could be explained by the poor diagnostic capabilities currently
      available to identify those patients truly at high risk of developing cytomegalic infection.
      This is illustrated by the fact that hCMV infection reappears in some patients (15-20%) after
      transplantation even though they are seropositive (R+) and that, while the majority of
      patients receiving prophylactic treatment never develop cytomegalic infection after its
      discontinuation, a small percentage (10-15%) still does, and that, even though 70-80% of
      seronegative (R-) patients receiving a seropositive graft (R+) will develop post-transplant
      hCMV infection unless they receive prophylactic treatment, approximately 20-30% never will.
      All of this leads to important therapeutic contradictions in this field such as that, even
      though the majority of seropositive recipients will not develop hCMV infection, all of them
      will still receive an intense and costly monitoring for viremia, and that, although a large
      majority of patients receiving prophylactic treatment will not develop infection upon
      treatment discontinuation, continuing such prophylactic antiviral treatment is being proposed
      across the clinical transplantation community, suggesting that immune surveillance of the
      risk of developing a post-transplant hCMV infection is currently very poor in clinical
      practice. It is well established that memory/effector T-cells play a pivotal role in
      controlling general viral replication and survival, particularly for hCMV. Even though it has
      been reported that cytotoxic CD8+ T-cells can be activated by a myriad of immunogenic hCMV
      viral proteins, the predominant and most robust response is directed at the immediate early
      antigen-1 (IE-1) and phosphoprotein 65 (pp65), which is thought to play a critical role in
      controlling hCMV replication. Recently published studies suggest that such cellular response
      is even important for the control and prevention of infection after transplantation.

      All such publications, however, refer to the post-transplantation period while patients are
      under the effects of chronic immunosuppressive therapy and evaluate the T-cell response using
      assays hardly applicable to routine clinical practice. Even though available, such assays are
      not used in routine clinical practice to evaluate the hCMV-specific immune response.

      One of the most precise functional assays to assess both memory cell and humoral responses
      under evaluation is the interferon-γ ELISPOT assay. This assay measures antigen-specific
      memory response frequency by individual cells as they become stimulated.

      Recent work in transplantation has established that the detection of highly alloreactive
      circulating donor-specific T-cells by ELISPOT offers prognostic value when assessing the risk
      of acute rejection or chronic post-transplant graft dysfunction. Likewise, ELISPOT has been
      shown to be able to detect highly reactive hCMV-specific T-cells associated with a lower risk
      of viral infection with both sensitivity and specificity.

      The investigator group has recently published that low frequency rates of specific hCMV
      (IE-1) T-cells before transplantation identify renal transplant recipients at a higher risk
      of post-transplant hCMV infection with precision, regardless of the therapeutic strategy
      adopted against hCMV. Remarkably, the same results were observed in patients receiving
      induction therapy with polyclonal antibodies (Thymoglobuline ®). The investigator thus
      believes that such an assay approach would allow to identify with precision those patients at
      risk of developing an infection regardless of their hCMV serology status.
    
  