
    
      Pulse rate self-examination can provide a fairly good assessment of the patient's condition
      and helps the physician with drug dosage adjustment in patients with cardiac problems.

      This study will be conducted in the Cardiology wards of Modarres and Loghman hospitals in
      Tehran. These are two educational general referral hospitals of Shahid Beheshti University of
      medical sciences covering northern and southern part of Tehran, the capital of Iran
      respectively.

      After obtaining a written consent the patients will randomly assign into two groups using
      random number table. One group will receive a 20-minute face-to-face training session by a
      nurse on how to calculate the pulse rate in a minute and detect irregularities in the pulse
      rhythm whereas a 10-minute tutorial film with the same content will be shown to the other
      group.

      Three practical test sessions are arranged for each patient, before the training session,
      right after the training session and at least 48 hours after the training session. The tests
      contain two parts and evaluate the patients' ability in calculating the exact pulse rate in a
      minute and detecting irregularities in the pulse rhythm.

      A special data-collecting questionnaire is designed for this study. This questionnaire
      contains background information such as sex, age, and literacy level as well as the practical
      test results. Data gathering process will be performed by nurses in these hospitals. Nurses,
      who participate in this study, will attend in briefing sessions on how to fill the
      data-collecting questionnaires.

      The sample size consists of 300 patients who admitted in Cardiology ward (200 in Modarres
      hospital and 100 in Loghman hospital). The data will be inserted to the computer and the
      variables will be compared within and between groups using SPSS software version 16.
    
  