
    
      PROJECT SUMMARY: As demonstrated by a growing number of studies, stress experienced during
      pregnancy can lead to significant long-term health problems for mothers and their infants.
      One biological mechanism that has been identified in heightening a woman's risk for
      developing stress-related health complications during pregnancy and the postpartum period is
      the stress hormone cortisol. However, the best methods for regulating cortisol, in order to
      optimize maternal and infant health outcomes, have received little attention. The objective
      of the proposed research is to conduct a two-arm, pilot randomized controlled study to test
      the efficacy of a prenatal cognitive behavioral stress management (CBSM) intervention in
      regulating cortisol and stress levels among low-income pregnant women. A total of 100 women
      will be randomized to either a group-based, 8-week prenatal CBSM arm (i.e., cognitive coping
      and relaxation skills training) or a standard-of-care comparison arm (i.e., usual pre- and
      postnatal care) to examine whether women receiving the CBSM intervention will have
      significantly lower cortisol output and stress levels, relative to women randomized to the
      standard-of-care comparison arm. This study will also examine whether these decreases in
      cortisol and stress levels are mediated through behavior change processes (e.g., increased
      self-efficacy and use of cognitive coping and relaxation skills). This hypothesis has been
      formulated on the basis of preliminary data collected by the principal investigator and study
      collaborators. Through formative research, this pilot work will develop and empirically test
      a prenatal CBSM stress management intervention among low-income pregnant women for use in
      local prenatal centers. The results of the proposed work have substantial public health
      implications and are expected to advance the investigator's understanding of how pregnant
      women effectively use these cognitive coping and relaxation skills to adopt healthy behaviors
      and produce change that can positively impact their health, as well as that of their infant.
      Further, the proposed research will yield a CBSM intervention that can be readily delivered
      in community settings, is scalable, and is relatively low cost. Finally, these results will
      help identify those subgroups of pregnant women that may do particularly well (or poorly)
      with these innovative approaches to stress management. This has important implications for
      the tailoring of CBSM programs to individual needs and preferences.
    
  