
    
      -  As part of the patients pre-treatment evaluation, a clip will be placed within the tumor
           bed so that the surgeon can find it at the time of surgery. Four biopsies of the tumor
           will be obtained at the time of the clip placement for further testing at a later date.

        -  Depending upon the patient's risk level (as assessed by the treating physician), they
           will be treated similarly to one of two regimens. The first 8 months of both regimens
           are the same consisting of 12 weeks of herceptin and navelbine, followed by surgery and
           then 4 cycles of adriamycin and cytoxan. The treatment following these 8 months will
           depend upon the health risk to the patient and will be determined by both the patient
           and treating physician.

        -  Group 1: Lower Risk Regimen: Patients in this group will receive 3 phases of treatment.
           In Phase A they will receive Navelbine and Herceptin intravenously every week for 12
           weeks. Upon completion of this therapy they will undergo surgery to remove the tumor.
           Following surgery there will be a 6 week recovery period where no treatment will be
           received. In Phase B, patients will receive adriamycin (doxorubicin) and cytoxan
           (cyclophosphamide) intravenously every 3 weeks for 12 weeks, for a total of 4 cycles.
           Patients then may or may not receive Phase C (depending upon physicians discretion),
           during which they will receive herceptin intravenously every 3 weeks for 40 weeks. If
           the physician decides that the patient needs radiation therapy, it will commence after
           the completion of adriamycin and cytoxan.

        -  Group 2: Higher Risk Regimen: Patients in this group will undergo four different phases
           of treatment. Phase A is identical to that of Group 1 (herceptin and navelbine for 12
           weeks followed by surgery) as is Phase B (adriamycin and cytoxan every 3 weeks for 12
           weeks for a total of 4 cycles). Phase C will consist of paclitaxel and herceptin weekly
           for a total of 12 weeks. If the physician decides that radiation therapy should be
           performed, it will commence within 6 weeks of the last dose of paclitaxel and herceptin.
           In Phase D, patients will receive herceptin intravenously every three weeks for 28
           weeks.

        -  The following procedures and tests will be performed during this study: During Phase A:
           Every week: blood work; Every 3 weeks: physical exam, tumor assessment and bloodwork.
           During Phase B: Every 3 weeks; physical exam and blood work. At the start of Phase B and
           C: physical exam, EKG, MUGA scan or echocardiogram and bloodwork. During Phase C: Every
           3 weeks for High risk patients and every 3 months for low risk patients; physical exam
           and blood work. End of Phase C: MUGA scan or echocardiogram. Phase C and D: every 3
           months; physical exam, EGK, MUGA scan or echocardiogram and bloodwork.

        -  At the end of the study patients will undergo a physical exam, EKG, MUGA scan or
           echocardiogram and bloodwork.
    
  