
    
      Introduction:

      Steroid induced glaucoma(SIG) is a form of open-angle glaucoma associated with various
      modalities of corticosteroid administration such as oral, intravenous, inhaled, ocular
      instilled, intravitreal, and periocular u.Some histologic studies have reported the
      accumulation of extracellular matrices including basement membrane-like material, fine
      fibrillar-like material or proteoglycans in the trabecular meshwork (TM) of SIG patients.
      These observations suggest that such accumulation could lead to an increased resistance to
      aqueous outflow in the TM of SIG patients.Surgical procedures for intraocular pressure (IOP)
      reduction in eyes with SIG include trabeculectomy, trabeculotomy,viscocanalostomy and laser
      trabeculoplasty. Although several case series have shown that these surgeries are effective
      for IOP reduction, surgical outcomes for SIG are not fully understood due to lack of large
      case-control studies aiming to investigate the success rates of trabeculotomy in SIG eyes.It
      has previously been reported that trabeculotomy more effectively reduces IOP in adult
      Japanese patients with exfoliative glaucoma than in primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG).This
      IOP lowering effect in eyes with exfoliative glaucoma is thought to be attributable to the
      relief of abnormally increased outflow resistance that was induced by the accumulation of
      exfoliative material within the TM. For the same reason, trabeculotomy has been the surgical
      procedure of choice for adult patients with SIG among Japanese surgeons.Honjo etal previously
      showed that trabeculotomy helped to reduce IOPs to 21 mm Hg or less in 14 Japanese patients
      with SIG. However, some questions still without answers for example, whether trabeculotomy
      with its modifications for SIG offers better IOP management than other surgeries such as
      trabeculectomy with mitomycin C (MMC), or which characteristics of patients with SIG show
      better prognosis after trabeculotomy. Therefore the purpose of this retrospective study was
      to compare the long term surgical outcomes of viscotrabeculectomy(VT) and trabeculectomy with
      mitomycin C (Trab-MMC) in patients with uncontrolled steroid induced glaucoma.

      Subjects and methods:

      A retrospective review of 86 eyes of 67 patients with medically uncontrolled SIG who
      underwent either viscotrabeculotomy (VT) or trabeculectomy with MMC (Trab-MMC) at Mansoura
      Ophthalmic Center (Mansoura, Egypt) between January 2008, and December 2017 was conducted.
      The research conformed to the provisions of the Declaration of Helsinki. The confidentiality
      of the data was ensured. The VT group included 45 eyes and the Trab-ologen group included 41
      eyes.

      Demographic and clinical data were retrieved from the records such as age at surgery, gender,
      best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA, LogMAR), intraocular pressure (IOP), gonioscopy, number
      of glaucoma medications, surgical details and postoperative complications. Steroid-induced
      glaucoma eyes were defined as open-angle eyes with an IOP elevation of 22 mm Hg or more after
      the administration of corticosteroid. Glaucoma surgery was performed when IOP was
      persistently elevated despite maximal tolerated IOP-lowering therapy with potential or actual
      compromise of optic nerve structure (progressive optic nerve cupping) and/or function
      (deterioration of visual field testing). All patients were required to sign informed consent
      forms before surgery.

      Viscotrabeculotomy (VT) performed in this study involved the creation of a partial thickness
      (about 50% thickness) quadrangular (4x4 mm) scleral flap, followed by localization of
      Schlemm's canal by radial incisions straddling the limbus. High viscosity sodium hyaluronate
      (Healon GV, Pfizer, NY, USA) was then slowly injected into both ends of Schlemm's canal.
      Trabeculotomy was completed using the standard metal Harm's trabeculotome (Geuder
      Instruments, Heidelberg, Germany). Rotation of these probes achieved 120-degree opening of
      the trabecular meshwork. Next, a small amount of sodium hyaluronate was injected through the
      open ends of the canal of Schlemm and along the trabeculotomy openings. The scleral flap was
      then secured tightly with interrupted 10/0 Nylon sutures and conjunctival closure ensued.

      Trabeculectomy technique involved a creation of a limbal-based conjunctival flap, followed by
      creation of a 3 x 4 rectangular half-thickness sclera flap. MMC was applied in a
      concentration of 0.03% for 3 minutes through soaked surgical sponge inserted underneath the
      conjunctival flap and spread of a large surface area posterior to the limbus and planned
      scleral flap site then thoroughly irrigated by 200mL of sterile normal saline. The procedure
      was completed in the usual manner with both sclera and conjunctiva closed by 10/0 nylon
      sutures. Postoperative treatment for both groups consisted of topical steroids
      (dexamethasone) and antibiotic (ofloxacin) five times a day with gradual taper over a period
      of 5 weeks.

      Surgical success was defined at the end of the 4 years of follow up as an IOP between 6 and
      21 mmHg and /or IOP reduction greater than 35 % of baseline throughout the entire follow-up
      period. Absolute success was defined as success being achieved without medications, and
      qualified success was defined as achieving success with adjunctive medications. Failure was
      defined as not meeting the above criteria, or any return to the operating theatre for
      glaucoma reoperation, or loss of vision to no light perception or hypotony (IOP <6 mmHg on 2
      occasions after 3 months from the operation). A minimum follow-up of 3 years was required for
      inclusion in the study.

      During the follow up period, eyes that were labelled as "Failure" at any follow up time point
      were excluded from the data analysis from that follow up time point to the end of the study
      period (48 months). Follow up was maintained to the patient as part of the patient care
      service routinely provided by the study setting. The patients' postoperative data was
      collected from records at day 1, week 1, month 1, month 3, month 6, month 12, month 18, month
      24, month 30, month 36 and month 48.
    
  