
    
      A group of 290 former young male offenders and young males at risk for perpetrating or
      becoming victims of crime (age 10-40) from Cape Town, recruited via a community based
      skill-training program has been interviewed in a first step. Participants with neurological
      or psychiatric disorders other than those resulting from exposure to traumatic stress, like
      chronic psychosis, were excluded from participation in the study but received referrals in
      the professional health care system, if necessary.

      We applied standardised clinical questionnaires in a semi-structured interview for the
      assessment of exposure to traumatic stress (Children Exposed to Community Violence (CEVC)),
      trauma symptomatology (PSS-I for diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder), aggression
      (Appetitive Aggression Scale (AAS); Buss & Perry Aggression Questionnaire), offense types
      checklist (from the AAS) and related drug abuse, psychosocial functioning (Work and Social
      Adjustment Scale, WSAS) and suicidality (M.I.N.I. 6.0.0., shortened version). Additionally,
      we used a questionnaire about social acknowledgement (Social Acknowledgement Questionnaire)
      and substance dependence (M.I.N.I. version 6.0.0).

      We set up a randomised clinical intervention trial for the treatment of former offenders that
      covers violence perpetration on the one hand and traumatization on the other. 90 participants
      were chosen by the highest aggression scale scores and a certain threshold of trauma
      symptoms. 17 participants received FORNET, while 14 matched participants received CBT and
      another 7 matched participants treatment as usual (Waiting List camp) in a camp. Matching
      took place according to the severity of trauma symptomatology, aggressive behavior and
      suicidality. 36 participants didn't receive intervention and weren't part of the camp
      (Waiting List no camp) but were included in the follow-ups. In order to compare the treatment
      effect with the two control groups and follow the long-term effects, post-treatment
      assessments with the initial survey were performed about 8, 18 and 25 months post-treatment.

      After the follow-ups, 17 FORNET participants and 11 CBT participants were included in the
      analysis. Two CBT clients had been excluded since they had not come to the follow-ups, one
      CBT client died a relatively sudden death due to a severe disease. The camp waiting list had
      been reduced to only six persons since one participant of the waiting list has been stabbed
      to death in a gang fight. Therefore a combined waiting list has been emerged from the two
      waiting lists ("camp" and "no camp"). 13 men from the "no camp"-waiting list were excluded
      since they have not been to the follow ups. From the residual 21 clients from this waiting
      list, 11 have been matched (together with the six participants from the "camp"-waiting list)
      with the participants from the FORNET and CBT group in terms of post traumatic stress symptom
      severity, level of appetitive aggression and suicidality. In the end 17 FORNET-, 11CBT- and
      17 waiting list-attendees have been included into the analysis, hence a total sample size of
      45 participants.

      The 2 subjects of the control group, that still fulfilled the criteria for the therapy study
      and were interested in it, received FORNET by trained ZA staff for ethical reasons and to
      examine whether it is possible to effectively disseminate FORNET.

      In addition to the subjective data, we will corroborate the results with the assessment of
      epigenetic consequences of appetitive aggression and trauma and investigate its significance
      and persistence in the long-term course of the study. We propose that specific DNA
      methylation patterns are important markers of environmentally driven mental health
      pathologies, such as chronic aggression/violence and traumatic stress in such a sample of
      perpetrators or young males at risk for perpetration. Further, we will test the stability of
      DNA methylation and its potential modification over a period of up to 25 months by
      behavioural intervention (FORNET).

      Saliva samples (2ml) were collected through a non-invasive method using Oragene-Discover
      (OGR- 500) Collection Kit (DNA genotek, Ontario, Canada). We will collect two DNA saliva
      samples and one RNA saliva sample. Methylation patterns will be assessed at the University of
      Stellenbosch (Prof. Soraya Seedat), focussing on markers of trauma and violence.
    
  