
    
      This study will examine the impact of empiric antibiotic therapy on patients who present to
      hospital with an acute lower respiratory illness and a diagnosis of COVID-19
      present-on-admission.

      The Premier Healthcare Database will be used as the data source for administrative data. In
      addition, the subset of hospitals reporting microbiology and laboratory data will be used for
      subset analyses and validation purposes. The primary population to be studied will be
      non-intubated patients diagnosed with COVID-19 on admission (identified by diagnosis coding
      and/or polymerase chain reaction result present-on-admission) who have diagnosis codes
      supportive of acute lung illness (e.g. pneumonia). Patients with extra-pulmonary infections
      present-on-admission for which antibiotics would be generally administered and/or those
      requiring vasopressors and/or mechanical ventilation on the day of admission or day after
      will be excluded.

      Patients will be analyzed according to their antibiotic treatment status, using an overlap
      weight matching strategy. Patients will be matched on age, gender, ethnicity, Elixhauser
      comorbidity index and month of admission as well as severity of acute illness (need for
      intensive care unit and acute organ failure score present-on-admission), performance of rapid
      diagnostic testing for bacterial respiratory pathogens, and receipt of concomitant putative
      COVID-19 directed therapy (remdesivir, tocilizumab, systemic corticosteroids,
      hydroxychloroquine) initiated on the day of or day after admission respectively. Logistic
      regression will be performed downstream to matching to mitigate the impact of residual
      confounding.The primary outcome and secondary outcomes are reported separately below.

      Effect modification of the relationship between empiric antibiotics and outcomes will be
      examined across clinically relevant subgroups based on antibiotic regimens (separately
      comparing community and hospital acquired type coverage to no empiric antibiotics
      respectively), and those with or without need for non-invasive ventilation on admission as
      well as quartiles of hospital's frequency of empiric antibiotic use and admission
      procalcitonin level (when available) respectively among patients admitted with COVID-19.

      Sensitivity analyses will be performed to examine outcomes with vs without coding for
      conditions that may or may not suggest a definite indication for antibiotic on admission
      (e.g. chronic obstructive lung disease exacerbation) and/or explicit diagnosis for "sepsis"
      (as it remains unclear in whom this code was indicated to represent confirmed viral sepsis).
      Sensitivity analyses will also be performed to include patients without diagnosis codes for
      acute lower respiratory illness present-on-admission to include patients with COVID-19
      pneumonia who may not have been coded for pneumonia per se.
    
  