
    
      Colorectal cancer growth may be affected by a protein in the body called "vascular
      endothelial growth factor" (VEGF). A drug that blocks VEGF may be an effective treatment for
      colorectal cancer. Bevacizumab is designed to block VEGF. Bevacizumab will be added to
      5-Fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin (LV), and irinotecan, a drug combination routinely used in
      the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer.

      Before you can start treatment on the study, you will have what are called "screening tests".
      These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the study. You
      will be asked questions about your medical history and about any medications you are
      currently taking or have taken in the past. You will have a complete physical exam and your
      heart rate, temperature, breathing rate, blood pressure, height, and weight will be measured.
      You will be asked about your ability to perform every day activities. You will have an
      electrocardiogram (ECG - a test that measures the electrical activity of the heart). You will
      have a chest x-ray and scans (either computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI)) of your abdomen and pelvis to evaluate the cancer. Scans of other parts of your body
      also may be taken if your doctor thinks they are needed to evaluate your cancer. Blood (about
      3 tablespoons) and urine samples will be collected for routine tests, including complete
      blood count, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) level (a marker for your cancer), and chemistry
      profile. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood or urine pregnancy
      test

      If the screening evaluations show you are eligible to take part in the study, you may begin
      treatment Study treatment is repeated every 2 weeks (14 days). Each 14-day period of
      treatment is called a "cycle" of therapy. You must receive study treatment at M. D. Anderson.

      All study drugs will be given through a needle into a vein. For your first treatment, you
      will receive bevacizumab alone first. The first dose of bevacizumab will be given over about
      90 minutes. If you do not have a reaction (such as fever/chills), the next dose will be given
      over about 60 minutes, and if again no reaction occurs, each dose after that will be given
      over about 30 minutes. If you experience a reaction to the bevacizumab infusion, you may be
      given acetaminophen (such as Tylenol) by mouth and/or an antihistamine by vein over 30
      minutes before each dose to help decrease the risk of further reactions.

      Fourteen (14) days later and for all future cycles, you will receive bevacizumab, LV, and
      irinotecan given on Day 1 of each cycle. 5-FU is given over 46 hours over Days 1-3.

      Bevacizumab will be given as described above. When the bevacizumab infusion ends, you will
      receive LV and irinotecan, starting at the same time. You will receive irinotecan over 90
      minutes and LV over 2 hours. When the LV infusion ends, 5-FU will be given over 2 to 4
      minutes. This is followed by more 5-FU given over 46 hours using a small portable pump (about
      the size of a standard paperback book).

      Before each new cycle of study treatment, you will be asked questions about any side effects
      you may have had and about any medications you are currently taking or have taken since you
      last saw the study doctor. You will have a complete physical exam, including measurements of
      blood pressure, pulse, temperature, and weight. You will be asked about your ability to
      perform every day tasks. About 3 tablespoons of blood will be taken for routine laboratory
      tests. These tests include a complete blood count and chemistry profile. A urine sample will
      be taken before every other cycle of treatment. During the first cycle of treatment, on Day
      8, you will have a sample of blood (about 3 teaspoons) drawn. This test may be done at a lab
      close to your home.

      You will also have either CT scans or MRI of the tumor(s) every 8 weeks and at the end of the
      study treatment. About 1 tablespoon of blood will be taken to check your CEA level at the
      same time scans are done. Additional tests may be done during the study if your doctor feels
      it is necessary for your care. Except for the weekly blood test, which may be done at a lab
      close to home, all testing and evaluations must be done at M. D. Anderson.

      If you experience severe side effects, treatment may be delayed, stopped, or you may receive
      smaller doses of the treatment. You may continue to receive study treatment unless the
      disease gets worse, you decide not to take part any longer, or your doctor decides it is in
      your best interest to stop treatment.

      When you stop study treatment, you will be asked to have some tests and evaluations done at
      an end of study visit. Urine and about 3 tablespoons of blood will be taken for routine
      laboratory tests, including complete blood count, CEA level, and chemistry profile. You will
      also have a physical exam. CT scan or MRI scan of your abdomen and pelvis will also be done
      to check the size and location of your disease.

      Once you stop receiving study treatment, the study doctor or nurse will continue to check how
      you are doing, either in the clinic or by telephone if you stop coming to M. D. Anderson,
      every 3 months for the rest of your life.

      This is an investigational study. The drugs used in this study are approved by the FDA for
      treatment of advanced colorectal cancer. Up to 43 patients will take part in this multicenter
      study. About 38 will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  