
    
      Several studies have identified fever as an independent predictor of poor outcome in patients
      with acute stroke. Experimental data and clinical studies indicate that therapeutic
      hypothermia has neuroprotective effects associated with better clinical outcome, probably
      through reduction of infarct volume and cerebral edema in patients with ischemic and
      hemorrhagic stroke, respectively. It is to be expected that the beneficiary effects of
      hypothermia will be more pronounced if initiated early after stroke onset, which underlines
      the rational that this technique ideally should be initiated in the prehospital phase of
      acute stroke management.

      Therapeutic hypothermia can be obtained by external or by endovascular cooling. Most methods
      aim to lower the body temperature to <33°C and therefore require patient sedation and
      intubation. In contrast to patients with cardiac arrest, sedation and intubation preferably
      are avoided and profound cooling of the entire body is not desired nor required in in stroke
      patients. EMCOOLS pads® have originally been developed by EMCOOLS Medical Cooling Systems AG
      (Austria) for profound external cooling of patients with cardiac arrest. The novel EMCOOLS
      Brain.Pad® was redesigned to mildly lower the brain temperature through noninvasive surface
      cooling of the cerebropetal arteries at the cervical level. Pilot studies in healthy
      volunteers demonstrated that a decrease of 0.5-1°C (tympanic measurement) can be safely
      obtained by application of EMCOOLS Brain.Pad® during 60 to 90 minutes. No relevant side
      effects were observed in these small studies, but possible effects on cerebrovascular blood
      flow were not evaluated.

      Early application of mild therapeutic hypothermia in acute stroke patients builds further on
      their research group's experience with hypothermia in animal models and stroke patients. The
      investigators propose a prospective clinical trial comparing current clinical practice with
      the induction of mild hypothermia using EMCOOLS Brain.Pads® in patients presenting with acute
      stroke. If safety, feasibility, patient acceptance and efficacy are confirmed in the
      inhospital setting, the next step will involve evaluation of this approach in prehospital
      acute stroke care.
    
  