
    
      Calcineurin inhibitors have significantly improved the one-year graft survival of renal
      allografts. However, chronic nephrotoxicity caused by calcineurin inhibitors contributes to
      the long-term decline in renal function in kidney transplant recipients. Approximately ninety
      percent of the protocol biopsies of renal allografts, performed at 18 months post
      transplantation, show histological lesions of chronic calcineurin nephrotoxicity . In recent
      years, two new non-nephrotoxic immunosuppressive drugs, i.e. mycophenolate mofetil and
      sirolimus, have become available for the prophylaxis of graft rejection in renal
      transplantation.

      Three randomized clinical trials, comparing cyclosporine with sirolimus in combination with
      mycophenolate mofetil, reported a superior graft function at one year in sirolimus treated
      renal allograft recipients. However, data on long-term graft survival and histological
      lesions of protocol biopsies in sirolimus-treated renal transplant recipients, are currently
      lacking.

      In analogy with previous observations in native kidney disease, Grimm et al. recently
      reported that interstitial fibrosis in protocol biopsies of renal allografts, at 6 months
      post transplantation, significantly inversely correlates with the subsequent graft survival
      One hundred recipients of a first renal allograft will be randomized to an immunosuppressive
      protocol based on cyclosporine (50 patients) or sirolimus (50 patients). Concommittant
      immunosuppression will be similar in both groups, and consists of Daclizumab as induction
      treatment (five iv gifts every two weeks), and mycophenolate mophetil and steroids as
      maintenance immunosuppression.

      Randomization will be performed by centre to avoid centre-related bias. All patients will
      complete a follow-up of 12 months. Two core biopsies of the graft will be obtained in each
      recipient, at implantation and at 6 months. Serum creatinine and the estimated creatinine
      clearance (by the Nankivell and the Jellife method) will be monthly recorded.
    
  