
    
      Paradoxically, the very success of our health care system causes the number of patients with
      multiple are on the rise. Studies of European populations above 75 years of age show
      LTC-prevalences of more than 70%, and rates of multimorbidity around 40-50%(8-10). Patients
      with LTC-conditions accounted for 3/4ths of health care spending in an early US report, and
      patients with 4 or more co-morbidities consumed 5 times as much health services as those with
      no LTC in a recent Irish report. The current care system is designed to deliver disease
      specific, urgent/ episodic care, and is poorly suited to the needs this growing patient group

      Best practice models for patients with Long Term conditions (LTCs) and complex needs have
      been developed. In medicine, the underlying models are often implicit, which can cause the
      misunderstanding that medical research is practical, factual and not theory driven. In
      complex interventions, underpinning theoretical models are considered essential for study
      design.. In the planning and design of this intervention, the investigators have chosen to
      use the Chronic Care Model (CCM). Other models of chronic care are either slightly
      overlapping or in alignment with the CCM, but none of them cover all the areas of the CCM. It
      is the only model with both a systems- a clinical- and a patient perspective. Furthermore it
      has a growing evidence base for its effects on both care-processes, health outcomes and
      cost-effectiveness. It continues to inspire care reform both in large international care
      organizations, and in our local northern Norwegian context. The CCM builds on two pillars:
      "The informed active patient" and "The pro-active prepared health care team", which are equal
      partners engaging in "productive interactions" for "health and functional outcomes". Evidence
      Based Medicine (EBM) is the basis for identification of appropriate actions. Integrated team
      care delivery is then tailored to the patients' needs, values and preferences. Both health
      management support and use of clinical information systems are included in the model as key
      supporting factors(33).

      A recent report documents that the health care delivery in Helse Nord is far from the ideal
      CCM-care. The main challenges were a lack of attention to the patient's personal context and
      priorities, and a fragmented care delivery. A large-scale CCM inspired project which answers
      these challenges, is under development at the university Hospital of North Norway (UNN). Its
      dual focus is coordination of care through two core components: 1) the proactive, prepared
      interdisciplinary teams with personnel from both hospitals and the municipalities to address
      the current fragmented care delivery and 2) the informed active patient approach to care
      planning. The initiative, which will be funded by redeploying existing staff to work in the
      teams. The team will facilitate patient centered and integrated care by conducting a
      structured person centered need assessments, develop individual evidence based care plans,
      and provide service integration across levels of care.

      Research questions, hypotheses and methods The CCM is currently established as best practice
      for LTC-care delivery. Yet, the evidence of effectiveness of the CCM in terms of health and
      functional outcomes in several systematic reviews remain inconsistent. All CCM interventions,
      must tailor the CCM to local historical, cultural and regulatory context. Thus the
      heterogeneity of CCM-interventions is large, which may explain the observed inconsistencies.
      In our review, the investigators noted that many CCM-interventions seemed to lose the link to
      the underlying theory in the operationalization process. Active two-way patient-provider
      dialogues and practical skills development in self-management are central for better
      outcomes. However "the informed active patient" and "self-management support" were often
      translated into passive one-way educational interventions. Furthermore, the content of many
      of the CCM-interventions was often inadequately described, making it difficult to ascertain
      their fidelity to the underlying theory.

      Our research questions are: What is the effect of a theory driven CCM-implementation on:

        -  Patient health and functional outcomes?

        -  System outcomes: Length of stay and emergency admissions in primary and/ or secondary
           care institutions?

      Material and methods:

      Design: The evaluation model for complex interventions is our guiding evaluation framework .
      This is a non-randomized, matched control, before after study(46). The investigators
      recognize that randomization is the most robust method of avoiding systematic bias between
      comparison groups. However, our intervention aims to change usual geriatric care, in terms of
      both structures and routines at the organizational level of two municipal-hospital dyads. A
      patient level randomization will require the organization to switch between old "usual care"
      and a new team-based pro-active routines on a patient-by-patient basis, is unlikely to be
      successful. As there are only four hospitals involved in the study, randomization at the
      organizational level would not really control for bias either. The chosen design improves
      comparability between the comparison groups by matching them on factors known to be important
      for outcomes (age, sex and number of chronic conditions), to adjust for baseline differences
      between the populations with a before-after design, and to adjust for known confounders by
      the propensity score method(47, 48). The design is approved by Cochrane to be included in
      systematic reviews of interventions (46).

      Setting: Trials are often performed on selected patients without comorbidities making studies
      suffer from limited external validity. Van Royen et al (2014) argue that there is a driving
      demand for real-word clinical practice data. In this project, the team members will develop
      the intervention as part of the daily activity at the hospitals including "normal" medical
      patients > 67, making the trial setting naturalistic. The real-world setting and normal
      patient caseload makes the design resemble usual care, thus increasing the generalizability
      from the trial to other patients in regular practice. A naturalistic setting is viewed to be
      the gold standard for economic evaluations, which is also an objective for the project.

      The intervention: PACT is a seamless and proactive health service model that aims to ensure
      safe early discharge and prevent hospital admissions for elderly frail patients. The four
      pivotal elements are all part of the CCM-model, and are supported both by theoretical and
      empirical underpinnings: 1) Inter-disciplinary comprehensive geriatric team: Frail elderly
      patients are often multi-morbid, and in need of multiple simultaneous competencies. The team
      will push for early discharge to minimize the deconditioning and iatrogenic risks associated
      with hospitalization(. The team will identify eligible patient's, make an integrated
      assessment of needs upon admission, marshal the necessary resources to resolve current
      clinical issues, and prepare for early discharge supported by home based services such as
      home -monitoring, and -care. The team will develop and use different intervention options
      such as case management, discharge- and follow-up protocols, an array of telehealth options
      (telephone support, telemedicine, telemonitoring and smart home solutions) combined with
      in-person home visits when needed. Patients will remain a team responsibility for a period of
      3-5 days after discharge 2) Involving patients in care and self-management: When the clinical
      situation is stable, the patient will be invited to make a systematic assessment of needs,
      values and preferences with a care-team member. The patient's wishes are then translated into
      realistic care goals in a shared decision making process. Most importantly, the team can
      avoid undesired care, which is especially important in a palliative phase. The teams should
      also provide opportunities for patient education, social- and physical adaptions, and/or
      skills training to improve self-management. Patient involvement and engagement in care has
      been shown to improve health and functional outcomes. 3) Pro-active care plan: CCM promotes a
      systematic early identification of functional decline. The team should discuss the most
      probable scenarios of clinical deterioration, and provide action plans for them, which are
      available to both patients and team. An example is to provide patients with Chronic
      Obstructive Pulmonary Disease with a drug kit, which the patient can use under guidance from
      care personnel. The pro-active care plan should also include a road map towards the health
      goals identified together with the patient. 4) One point of contact: To avoid unnecessary
      delays and prompt action to early signs of clinical problems, patients should not have to
      "hunt" down the right professional. A 24/ 7 call-center will be their one-point- of contact.
      The call center will have the resources to mobilize the necessary clinical responses,
      including single members of- or the completely comprehensive geriatric team.
    
  