
    
      In late December 2019, the new coronavirus (COVID-19) emerged in Wuhan, China and it has been
      confirmed as the cause of pneumonia in a large number of Chinese patients. The virus, also
      known as SARS-CoV-2, has since then spread to more than 200 countries worldwide.

      The most common symptoms of COVID-19 are fever, dry cough, shortness of breath and tiredness.
      In severe cases, the infection could cause pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome
      (ARDS) and sometimes leads to death. Pulmonary physiotherapy is a comprehensive, effective
      and safe treatment method which is aimed at improving patient's respiratory symptoms, train
      effective coughing, clear the airway secretion, eliminate exacerbation and so on. It seems
      that pulmonary physiotherapy interventions can effectively decrease hospitalization, reduce
      the risk of complications and improve the patient's medical condition.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the hold breathing technique, chest
      expansion exercise, postural drainage procedure and Cough techniques carried out during
      pulmonary physiotherapy sessions.

      The researchers will invite 40 hospitalized patients in Imam Khomeini Hospital Complex,
      Tehran, Iran. All patients will be enrolled after taking informed consent. All of the
      procedure will be performed with the coordination of the patient's physicians. Patients will
      be randomized to the intervention or control group. Primary outcome measurements will be
      evaluated immediately before and after the interventions (with three days period). Also,
      patient's condition (including process of disease progression, mortality, hospital stay
      duration and re-admission) will be followed until one month using medical records review and
      interviewing with the patient or his/her family. Patient's health related quality of life
      will be measured using short form-36 quality of life assessment tool one month after the end
      of interventions. Intention-to-treat analysis will be performed in the patients that dropped
      out of the study.
    
  