
    
      A vaccine to interrupt malaria transmission (VIMT) would be a valuable tool for local
      elimination or eradication of this disease, and may contain components that block
      transmission to mosquitoes (such as Pfs25 or Pfs230) or that prevent human infection (such as
      the vaccine RTS,S). Pfs25 and Pfs230, surface antigens of zygotes and ookinetes (and
      gametocytes for Pfs230) in the mosquito stage of P. falciparum, are the lead candidates for a
      malaria transmission blocking vaccine (TBV). Recombinant Pfs25M and recombinant Pfs230D1M
      have each been conjugated to P. aeruginosa ExoProtein A (EPA) and adjuvanted with AS01. Our
      ongoing experience with Pfs25M-EPA and Pfs230D1M-EPA in Malian adult trial participants, and
      the extensive experience with the AS01 adjuvants in African children and adults, justify
      conducting the first-in-human trial of Pfs25M-EPA and Pfs230D1M-EPA with AS01 in Malian
      adults. This dose-escalating phase 1 study will determine safety, immunogenicity, and
      functional activity of these vaccines in Malian adults. Pfs25M-EPA + Pfs230D1M-EPA in AS01
      will be assessed by mosquito feeding assays in Malian adults for evidence that they may
      reduce the number of malaria transmission events in study subjects.

      A total of 305 subjects will be enrolled at multiple sites in Mali, West Africa to receive
      escalating doses of a malaria transmission blocking vaccine (s): Pfs25M-EPA/AS01,
      Pfs230D1M-EPA/AS01, or simultaneous administration of Pfs25M-EPA/AS01 and Pfs230D1M-EPA/AS01;
      or a comparator vaccine (ENERGIX-B). Enrollment within each group will be staggered for
      additional safety and subjects will only be enrolled into the co-administration group once
      each individual dose has been administered. Subjects will be followed for at least 6 months
      after the last vaccination. Safety outcomes will be local and systemic adverse events and
      serious adverse events. Immunogenicity outcomes will be antibody responses as measured by
      ELISA against recombinant Pfs25, Pfs230, EPA, CSP, and B cell and T cell responses.
      Functional activity of the induced antibodies will be assessed in TBV arms by standard
      membrane feeding assays conducted at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
      Diseases, and activity that interrupts malaria transmission will be measured in all arms by
      direct skin feeding assays in Mali.

      Subjects in the open label safety cohorts (Arms 1a, 1b, 2a, 2b, 3a, 3b, 4a, 4b) will be
      offered reenrollment for follow-up laboratory assessment to explore the duration of
      immunogenicity and functional activity at approximately 9, 12 months post vaccination.
      Following scheduled, intentional unblinding, subjects enrolled in Arms 2c, 2d, and 4c will be
      provided the opportunity to re-enroll for a fourth vaccination (Arm 2c and 2d with 40
      microgram dose of Pfs230D1M-EPA/AS01; Arm 4c with Menatctra) approximately 1 year post
      vaccination #3. Subjects in these arms will also be eligible to re-enroll for follow up of
      duration of immunogenicity and functional activity at approximately 9, 12 months post
      vaccination if they choose not to enroll to recive the booster vaccination. Subjects will be
      followed similarly to the previous year for safety, immunogenicity, and functional activity.
    
  