
    
      Damage to tissues has been shown to provoke a magnified reaction to noxious stimuli,
      peripherally by diminishing the threshold of nociceptive afferent nerve terminals and
      centrally by augmenting the excitability of second-order sensory neurons in the spinal cord;
      later resulting in an amplification and extension of postoperative pain after surgery. Hence,
      much research has focused on procedures to avoid these central neuroplastic changes through
      the usage of preemptive analgesia.

      Experimental models have conducted to the idea of 'preemptive analgesia' . The decrement of
      afferent nociceptive inputs to the spinal cord using analgesic techniques started before the
      initial painful stimulus avoids or attenuates the formation of spinal hyperexcitabilty and
      avoids the transformed processing of afferent input, leading to less postoperative pain.
      Whether such experimental models are applicable to the noxious circumstances occurring during
      surgery is controversial.

      Although preemptive analgesia with different agents have been successful in experimental
      animals, conclusions from human studies remain in conflict. A diversity of agents have been
      analyzed for their conceivable preemptive analgesic effects: local anesthetics, non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), paracetamol, opioids, magnesium, cytokine synthesis
      inhibitors, ketamine, and tricyclic antidepressants.

      Scientific research enabling an understanding of the molecular mechanisms of nociception has
      disclosed a considerable function of cytokines and prostaglandins (PG). Hyperexcitability
      also appears peripherally in nerve endings at the location of surgical tissue damage and is
      mediated in part by prostaglandins. Evidence is accumulating that products of the
      cyclooxygenase pathway may be engaged in the elaboration of central sensitization. Drugs that
      block the formation of prostaglandins such as NSAIDs might therefore be assumed to avoid or
      minimize the formation of this peripheral and central hyperexcitability. Their central
      analgesic actions are effected by averting spinal prostaglandin synthesis and attenuating
      liberation of neurotransmitters from the primary afferent terminals and spinal interneurons.

      Sporadic studies have established some considerable preemptive benefit of NSAIDs. As a
      result, the objective of this study was to ascertain the impact of a NSAID, ketorolac, on
      pain severity and analgesic requirement, in the early postoperative period.

      Ketorolac is a nonselective NSAID that blocks cyclooxygenase 1 (COX-1) and cyclooxygenase 2
      (COX-2) enzymes and as a result blocks the formation of prostaglandins attenuating the
      sensitization procedures. The antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory action of NSAIDs may be
      associated to the suppression of nitric oxide synthase activation, decreased generation of
      proinflammatory cytokines, and lipoxine activation. Consequently, this multidirectional
      activity indicates that there may be the probability of adjusting the nociception process by
      the employment of these drugs perioperatively.

      To our knowledge, no prior controlled study has determined the effectiveness of preoperative
      intravenous ketorolac compared to placebo in patients who underwent abdominal hysterectomies.
      Thus, this clinical trial was conceived to explore the postoperative analgesic efficiency and
      opioid-sparing action of a single dose of intravenous ketorolac in contrast with placebo
      administered preoperatively.
    
  