
    
      Sepsis is an inflammatory syndrome with life threatening organ dysfunction resulting from a
      dysregulated host response to infection. The global burden is estimated to exceed 15 million
      cases annually. In the United States, the incidence is increasing and currently there are
      more 1,750,000 cases each year, with more than half requiring intensive care unit (ICU)
      admission. Further, sepsis cases account for 30%- 50% of all hospital deaths, making it the
      3rd leading cause of death in the United States, and is the most expensive reason for
      hospitalization with annual expenditures exceeding $20 billion. Notably, even among those
      that do survive, many endure significant reductions in physical, emotional and cognitive
      quality of life. New therapeutic approaches to reduce the high morbidity and mortality of
      sepsis are needed.

      Current management strategies focus on early aggressive fluid resuscitation, blood pressure
      support with vasopressors, early appropriate antibiotics, and the identification and control
      of infected sites. Though outcomes have improved with the bundled deployment of these
      strategies, mortality remains high at 20 - 30%. Despite over a hundred phase 2 and phase 3
      clinical trials of pharmacological agents with the potential to improve sepsis outcomes, only
      antibiotics have demonstrated reproducible benefits.

      The purpose of the current study is therefore to determine (or confirm) the efficacy of the
      combination therapy consisting of vitamin C, thiamine, and corticosteroids in the management
      of patients with circulatory and/or respiratory dysfunction resulting from sepsis. This
      subset of sepsis patients has been chosen because they are easily identified, have a high
      mortality, and consume significant critical care resources. As such, any improvements in
      outcomes attributed to effective therapies would be of great value to patients, as well as
      their care providers and healthcare systems. Further, because the promulgated therapies are
      composed of three inexpensive and readily available drugs, its efficacy would have important
      implications the management of sepsis in both well and poorly resourced settings worldwide.

      The VItamin C, Thiamine And Steroids in Sepsis (VICTAS) Study is a double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, adaptive randomized clinical trial designed to investigate the efficacy
      of the combined use of vitamin C, thiamine and corticosteroids (the Treatment Protocol)
      versus indistinguishable placebos (the Control Protocol) for patients with sepsis. The trial
      will enroll up to 2000 participant and employs a novel endpoint that approximates a patient's
      risk of death based on the time spent on vasopressors or receiving respiratory support. Time
      spent on vasopressors or receiving respiratory support captures a patient's speed of
      recovery. Mortality rate is a key secondary endpoint for the trial.

      Specific Aims

        1. To demonstrate the efficacy of combination therapy using vitamin C, thiamine and
           corticosteroids to reduce the duration of cardiovascular and respiratory organ
           dysfunction in critically ill patients with sepsis.

        2. To demonstrate the efficacy of combination therapy using vitamin C, thiamine and
           corticosteroids to reduce 30-day mortality in critically ill patients with sepsis.

      Explicit subject consent for participation in long term telephone follow-up will be sought
      for all patients at all sites. Participation in long term outcome assessments is not required
      for participation in other aspects of the VICTAS study, i.e., patients may individually opt
      out of this portion of the study. In these participants a diverse array of neurocognitive
      outcomes will be assessed approximately 6 months after patient discharge. Evaluations will be
      done using a specially-designed battery of tests that evaluates key aspects of functioning
      and behavior and will be administered via phone by the Vanderbilt Long-Term Outcomes team,
      which will serve as the coordinating center for these follow-up assessments. The battery,
      which takes about 40 minutes to complete, will assess cognition, mental health, quality of
      life, and employment - all of which have been shown to be adversely affected in between one
      third and two thirds of survivors of sepsis.
    
  