
    
      The aim of this project is to

        1. To determine if pre-operative, (short-term) NRT, 1 to 3 weeks before surgery, improves
           the long-term quit rates among smokers undergoing elective CABG surgery.

        2. To determine the effect of pre-operative NRT on perceived stress and symptoms of
           nicotine withdrawal at the time of surgery.

        3. To assess, retroactively, the impact of pre-operative cessation on peri-operative
           complications such as infection rates, respiratory failure, myocardial infarction,
           stroke, sepsis, shock and prolonged hospital stay.

      We therefore hypothesize that if NRT is given to smokers during the pre-admission period (1-3
      weeks prior to surgery), they are more likely to be biochemically abstinent from cigarette
      smoking 6 months after hospitalization and will experience fewer peri-operative complications

      To assess these measures, we have designed a single site, double-blinded randomized
      controlled trial at the University of Ottawa Heart Institute (UOHI). Patients who are
      identified as a smoker at their initial visit to the PAU will undergo a baseline assessment
      and be randomly assigned (1:1) to either active or placebo 21mg NRT patch. They will wear the
      patch from that baseline visit until the day of their surgery at UOHI. Following their
      surgery, they will receive a follow up phone call at 1 and 6 months post-discharge. They will
      complete a series of short questionnaires to assess their smoking status, stress levels and
      nicotine withdrawal symptoms. Those who identify themselves as being smoke-free will be asked
      to complete a carbon monoxide breathing test to chemically validate their smoking status. The
      study protocol will be reviewed by the Research Ethics board at UOHI and all participants
      will provide written informed consent prior to undertaking any study activities.
    
  