
    
      Presbyopia-correcting intraocular lenses (PC-IOLs) provide cataract and refractive surgeons
      with an effective treatment option for presbyopia, allowing patients increased spectacle
      independence post-cataract surgery. Different IOL designs have been developed based on
      differing optical principals, such as diffractive, refractive and extended depth of focus
      (EDOF) design. Most commercially available MFIOLs have two optical zones, one that provides
      distance vision, and the second that provides near vision (i.e. "bifocal IOLs"). Most
      recently, trifocal IOLs have been released, with the aim of providing a third (intermediate)
      focal point, and hence an extended range of vision in pseudophakic patients. While being able
      to provide patients with near, intermediate and distance vision, most MFIOL's carry the risk
      of increased visual disturbances, such as glare, starbursts, and halos, which for a small
      percentage of patients may become quite bothersome or even debilitating.

      Extended depth of focus (EDOF) IOLs aim to provide an extended range of vision from
      intermediate to distance, with a similar visual disturbance profile to their monofocal
      counterparts. Prior to recent FDA approval, there was only one other EDOF IOL on the market
      in the US, which, although provides an extended visual range, still had a significant
      incidence of starbursts and visual disturbances in some patients. FDA approved in February
      2020, the Vivity Extended Vision Lens has demonstrated the ability to provide patients with
      an extended range of vision, excellent contrast sensitivity and visual disturbance profile
      comparable to a monofocal IOL, as well as high rates of spectacle independence for most
      activities.

      The Vivity Extended Vision IOL (Alcon Laboratories, Fort Worth TX) is an EDOF IOL made of
      hydrophobic acrylic. This non-diffractive lens was designed to mitigate the effect of
      presbyopia by providing an extended depth of focus through patented Wavefront Shaping
      technology. In clinical trials, Vivity has demonstrated significantly better intermediate and
      near vision as compared to a monofocal IOL, as well as superior spectacle independence
      scores. Additionally, a validated questionnaire regarding visual disturbances showed the
      Vivity to have comparable rates of starburst, glare and halos to its monofocal counterpart.

      In an era where intermediate vision has become very important (e.g. using laptops, tablets,
      seeing the dashboard in a car), many patients express desire for visual correction at all
      possible focal points. Vivity appears to deliver this with minimal visual side effects-even
      less so as compared to other MFIOL's. This is a valuable aspect of Vivity; spectacle
      independence is an important factor for many patients-however if this is coupled with
      debilitating glare, haloes or other visual disturbances, dissatisfaction will ultimately
      result.

      Multiple studies have explored variables that may influence postoperative success of these
      MFIOLs, including the impact of dry eye, prior corneal refractive surgery, and proper
      preoperative consent/expectations.

      A study has yet to be performed evaluating not only preoperative factors, such as
      astigmatism, and prior corneal refractive surgery, but also perioperative and intraoperative
      factors that may also play a role in success of the Vivity IOL implant. In this prospective,
      nonrandomized "real-world" study, the impact of perioperative factors, such as IOL formulae
      used, use of femtosecond laser, use of intraoperative aberrometry, as well use of pupillary
      expansion devices on surgical success will be evaluated. Surgical success will be defined as
      uncorrected distance, intermediate and near visual acuity (UDVA, UIVA and UNVA, respectively)
      of 20/40 or better (both monocular and binocular) as well as high levels of patient
      satisfaction, which will be recorded with a Visual Disturbance Questionnaire, Spectacle
      Independence Questionnaire, and Visual Quality Questionnaire.

      Results will provide never-before-published data on important preoperative as well as
      perioperative factors that may influence success and patient satisfaction with Vivity IOL
      implantation
    
  