
    
      Acute and late side effects of TBI in combination with other chemotherapeutic are manifold to
      the growing organism and include severe organ dysfunction/failure due to toxicity. Although
      transplant associated mortality was reduced after HSCT in the last decade due to better HLA
      matching, infection prevention and control, the burden of late complications is still a
      matter of concern. Growth retardation, hormonal dysfunction, sterility and the risk of
      secondary cancer are the late consequences of TBI in children. However, so far no prospective
      study has demonstrated similar outcomes in paediatric ALL using chemo-conditioning regimen
      before HSCT. The reason for that is manifold: only a minority of children with ALL qualifies
      for allogeneic HSCT as most patients are cured with sole modern chemotherapy approaches.
      Those with dismal prognosis are treated in HSCT centres offering a care to patients with
      different diseases. Therefore it is nearly impossible to answer the complex outcome questions
      in single centres or even in single countries. International cooperation is essential to
      allow prospective investigation within comparable patient cohorts.

      This study aimed to explore the efficacy and efficiency of two different chemo-conditioning
      regimens (Flu/Thio with Treo or ivBu) in comparison to the standard conditioning regimen
      (TBI/VP16). All patients with an indication for HSCT, age > 4 years and a matched donor (MD)
      or matched sibling donor (MSD) underwent a randomisation between these two conditioning
      regimens. The decision if the irradiation free conditioning is Flu/Thio/Treo or Flu/Thio/ivBu
      was stratified by country. Patients with age < 4 years received the irradiation free
      conditioning. Patients with a mismatched donor were stratified according to the donor's stem
      cell source (cordblood, haploidentical tx or bone marrow/peripheral blood stem cells).

      After an interim analysis of the randomized FORUM-trial in December 2018, which showed
      superior OS for TBI/Etoposide with equal outcomes for Bu or Treo-containing regimen, the
      randomization was suspended. The reason was less relapse incidence whereas 1-year TRM was
      comparable in all 3 arms. The randomization was closed in March 2019 based on the results of
      additional analyses confirming the superiority of TBI/VP16 over chemo-conditioning.
      Consequently, the TBI conditioning has remained a standard for the patients older than 4
      years with a MSD/MD. Use of a conditioning other than TBI/VP16 in this age group is made at
      the center level based on the assessment of each individual patient.
    
  