
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the most common cause of mortality in the United States. In
      1988, Reaven, et al. published findings that indicate a majority of individuals who developed
      CVD had multiple concurrent risk factors including dyslipidemia, hypertension, and
      hyperglycemia. Reaven, et al., defined this cluster of risk factors as Syndrome X and
      hypothesized that insulin resistance was the underlying factor in its development. Over time,
      metabolic syndrome has been used as a more meaningful term and additional risk factors have
      been associated with its diagnosis (Grundy, et al. 2004). Metabolic syndrome is an
      increasingly prevalent problem in the United States and other westernized nations. It is
      estimated that approximately 50 million Americans have metabolic syndrome. The risk factors
      linked to metabolic syndrome include:

        -  Abdominal obesity

        -  Atherogenic dyslipidemia (high triglycerides, low HDL cholesterol and high LDL
           cholesterol)

        -  Elevated blood pressure

        -  Insulin resistance with or without glucose intolerance

        -  Pro-thrombotic state (e.g., high fibrinogen or plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in the
           blood)

        -  Pro-inflammatory state [e.g. elevated C-reactive protein (CRP)in the blood]

      The management goals for metabolic syndrome include reducing the risk for developing CVD and
      type 2 diabetes. Therefore, therapy is directed at reducing LDL cholesterol, blood pressure
      and glucose as well as increasing HDL cholesterol levels. Additional interventions to control
      blood pressure and lipids provide the next line of treatment for patients with metabolic
      syndrome.

      ProAlgaZyme, a novel fermentation product of a freshwater algae ecosystem, will be evaluated
      in this trial for its effects on circulating lipids. According to the sponsor, ProAlgaZyme is
      expected to increase the circulating levels of HDL cholesterol while lowering total
      cholesterol and CRP. ProAlgaZyme was previously tested in a double blind, placebo controlled,
      pilot trial in 60 subjects with metabolic syndrome (30 subjects per arm), conducted at the
      University of Yaoundé, Cameroon. Statistically significant (p < 0.05 or better) improvements
      were seen in total cholesterol, HDL-C and C-reactive protein when compared to placebo. (In
      Press - Lipids in Health and Disease)

      The present study will evaluate the effect of ProAlgaZyme versus placebo on blood lipids and
      hsCRP in subjects who meet the criteria for Metabolic Syndrome.
    
  