
    
      The aorta is the main artery of the body. An aortic abdominal aneurysm (AAA) is defined as an
      abnormal dilatation of the aorta, based on a diameter of 3 cm or more, due to a weakness of
      the aortic wall that is prone to rupture, leading to a lifethreatening condition.

      Once AAA diagnosed, a CTscan is required to assess the anatomy and if indicate an
      endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) is performed. This mini invasive procedure allows the
      exclusion of the AAA by positioning an endograft inside the aorta through a femoral access
      under live Xrays (fluoroscopy) guidance.

      The Xrays are good at showing bones and radioopaque endovascular tools, but they do not show
      soft tissues like the aorta, and they produce flat (2D) images that superimpose all the 3D
      anatomical features. In order to see the aorta, physicians have to inject iodinated contrast
      during high quality imaging recording. One way to improve clinicians' perception of
      peroperative 3D vascular anatomy is to accurately overlay selected information from the
      preoperative CT scan (a 3D vascular mask) onto the live Xray image creating a '3D roadmap'.
      This advanced imaging application is currently available only in the latest expensive hybrid
      rooms. This trial will examine the clinical benefits of the first advanced imaging
      application allowing automated 3D overlay guidance during EVAR in any theatre. The software,
      combined with secure and certified cloud high performance computing, deduces the patient
      position from comparing the bony anatomy visible on the Xray to that on the patient's CT
      scan, enabling it to produce and update accurate and reliable overlays of the diagnostic CT
      3D vascular mask throughout the operation (www.cydar.co.uk). Expected benefits include
      reducing the total Xray exposure of the patients and staff, reduced use of iodinated contrast
      (a major cause of kidney failure) and shortening procedure duration.
    
  