
    
      Participants will be recruited via breast clinics in two oncology centres. Patients will be
      provided with a study pack containing information about the study. If in clinic, the patient
      can complete an expression of interest form and a saliva/blood sample will be stored until
      consent to the study is received. The consent form and saliva sample can be completed at home
      and sent to the study team.

      On receipt of a signed study consent form, the local site will confirm the patient's
      eligibility and enter details required for study conduct onto the BRCA-DIRECT databases.

      After 24 hours, the participant will be sent a link to the BRCA-DIRECT study platform
      interface. This link enables the participant to progress through the study or withdraw if
      they have changed their mind.

      Participants will be randomised 1:1 to receive either:

        1. Telephone consultation with a genetic counsellor (standard of care) The telephone
           consultations will be as per standard practice of the qualified genetic counsellor
           delivering the pre-test information.

        2. Digital delivery of pre-test information via BRCA-DIRECT platform (intervention)

      Participants will receive a link to the digital pre-test information. This will consist of
      text covering:

        -  Genetics and cancer risk

        -  Genetics testing

        -  What will happen if your test is positive

        -  What will happen if your test is negative

        -  Implications for insurance

      All participants will have access to a Genetic Counsellor hotline at all stages of the
      process.

      For both arms, if a participant decides to proceed with the genetic test they will sign a
      digital 'BRCA-test consent' form, which will be formatted to BSGM (British Society of Genomic
      Medicine) standards. All participants will receive a copy of their signed BRCA-test consent
      form via secure email/post. The participant will have two days following test-consent to
      reverse the decision to proceed with the BRCA-test. Beyond those two days, the test will
      proceed.

      The laboratory testing is a standard UK NHS (National Health Service) genetic test. This is
      delivered for both the intervention arm and the standard-of-care arm.

      Participants with a negative (normal) genetic test result will be randomised to receive
      results either digitally, or via telephone consultation with the Genetic Counsellor. Any
      individuals with a positive result will receive their result by telephone. Following delivery
      of results, a results letter and copy of the pathology report will be sent to the participant
      and their medical team.

      The participants will be invited to complete Quality of Life questionnaires, a knowledge test
      and satisfaction survey at various time points throughout the study via the BRCA-DIRECT
      platform.
    
  