
    
      Scientific Rationale for Study / Scientific Study Objectives:

      Neurocognitive disorders are still highly prevalent in the HAART era; despite a dramatic
      reduction in dementia cases, 15-50% of patients may develop mild or asymptomatic
      neurocognitive disorders (HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders, HAND). It should be
      highlighted that patients presenting no abnormalities in everyday living activities
      (asymptomatic neurocognitive disorders, ANI) are at higher risk of worse results in
      performance-based tests, adherence-based measures and they show a significant risk of
      progressing to more severe forms of impairment. Excluding significantly confounding
      comorbidities, several factors have been associated with this neurocognitive decline
      including a low nadir CD4+ T-lymphocyte count, a high HIV DNA, a lower compartmental viral
      control, a lower concentration/penetration effectiveness score, a lower efficacy in
      macrophage-derived cells and antiretroviral-generated neuronal toxicity. However several data
      point out that vascular abnormalities, very common in HIV-positive patients, may deeply
      influence neurocognitive disorders development and severity: of note, intima media thickness,
      a well recognized proxy of systemic atherosclerosis, was associated with HAND.

      In case of HAND diagnosis, the only recommended approach is to optimize treatment according
      to plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) resistance tests; no strategy is currently suggested
      in case of suppressed plasma and CSF HIV RNA or in case of low level CSF HIV RNA (without
      evidence of genotypic resistance). It has been postulated that antiretrovirals may have
      neurotoxic effects through different mechanisms and such effects might become evident once
      the beneficial effect of HIV RNA suppression vanishes. Available data suggest that, in vitro,
      the drugs associated with the least neurotoxic effect were emtricitabine, tenofovir,
      darunavir and maraviroc. Furthermore, several pieces of evidence and a small randomized trial
      suggest that maraviroc, in HAART-treated subjects may have beneficial effects in terms of
      improved neurocognitive function, reduced CSF inflammatory biomarkers and improved MRI
      markers of neuronal integrity.

      No study has so far investigated the effect of using drugs with a low neurotoxic profile in
      HAART-treated patients with HAND.

      Primary objective of the study is the variation in neurocognitive tests (global deficit
      score), 6 months after treatment switch while secondary objectives include the improvement in
      other biomarkers of neuronal and vascular integrity.

      Methods:

      Study Design: Randomized, controlled, pilot study. HIV-positive patients that fulfill the
      inclusion criteria and that sign the informed consent will be enrolled. Patients will be
      randomized 1:1 (block randomization) to either continue their treatment or to switch to
      once-daily emtricitabine (200 mg) plus darunavir/cobicistat (800/150 mg) plus maraviroc (300
      mg). A lumbar puncture will be performed 6 months after treatment switch.

      Number of Patients: 76 (38 per arm)
    
  