
    
      Our long-term objective is to reduce the incidence of HIV risk behavior for SMI by developing
      an intervention that can be easily translated and adapted to "real world" settings. Our
      proposed project is designed to augment previously-developed research on HIV risk reduction
      interventions for SMI. The innovations the investigators have developed include: 1) SB-MI
      intervention design that can be utilized with diverse participants with SM in contrast to
      other research which has focused on either primary or secondary prevention with a fairly
      discrete population, such as women of color, patients in a drug recovery program etc. The
      investigators will examine treatment response as a function of diverse participant
      characteristics; 2) SB-MI intervention is delivered in an individual format to provides a
      flexible structure for tailoring strategies and techniques for each participant's complex
      cognitive and psychosexual functioning, as well as his/her needs and values in contrast to
      research on HIV prevention in SMI which generally occurs in group and does not allow for
      individualized tailoring. In addition, our experience with group interventions is they do not
      easily allow for discussions of risk related to complex sexual and physical abuse histories,
      sex trading and other stigmatized activities characteristic of SMI. Our individualized
      approach affords maximum flexibility and privacy in selecting topics of intervention, which
      the investigators also believe to be essential to the spirit of Motivational Interviewing; 3)
      Previous interventions have typically been either very brief (e.g. one half-hour session) or
      time-intensive. In contrast, our intervention (3 sessions + 1 or 2 Booster(s)) is long enough
      to allow participants to form a working alliance with providers, but not so lengthy as to be
      burdensome or non-translatable for the real-world settings in which patients routinely seek
      care such as urban safety net Medical Center's; 4) a review of the literature suggests that
      many health behavior changes fade within a fairly short period of time; our inclusion of
      booster session and a sub-study examining the effect of a 2nd booster after the 6 month
      follow-up is a novel way of strengthening the effects of our intervention. The investigators
      will also be extending our follow-up period to 12 months, to allow us to further assess
      long-term change; and 5) No study to date has examined HIV counseling and testing as an
      outcome for this population (Senn & Carey, 2009). The investigators believe this represents a
      significant deficit in attending to the needs of SMI, given that testing and access to
      life-extending treatment should be an essential component to prevention interventions for
      SMI. Both our SB-MI and CAU conditions will include referrals for HIV testing where
      indicated, although the SB-MI intervention systematically supports motivation for
      participants seeking HIV counseling and testing services, whereas CAU provides information
      and general support for testing. The investigators hope to see that the attention paid to
      this issue in SB-MI yields greater access to HIV testing services.
    
  