
    
      In the near future, a pandemic caused by a newly emerging influenza A virus has been
      predicted by the WHO. In order to prevent the high mortality due to the pandemic, antiviral
      drugs are seen as essential requirements for control of initial influenza outbreaks.

      Zanamivir (GSK) and Oseltamivir (Roche) are stockpiled by the French government in the
      setting of pre-pandemic plan. In France, Zanamivir and Oseltamivir are both registered for
      the prophylactic and therapeutic use against influenza A.

      Previous studies have shown that neuraminidase inhibitors (oseltamivir and zanamivir, based
      treatment) are associated with shorter illness duration and resulted in significant decrease
      of viral load in the nasal secretions.

      In Winter season 2007-2008 the presence of oseltamivir-resistant viruses circulating in the
      community in several European countries is in marked contrast to the previous winter seasons,
      when oseltamivir resistance was detected in <1% of circulating strains from . Patients
      infected by viruses with neuraminidases carrying these mutations, didn't present unusual
      disease syndromes.

      Although zanamivir and oseltamivir are both issued from the same class ,a combination of
      these two neuraminidase inhibitors could reduce the duration and severity of acute influenza
      and the incidence of secondary complications, reduce the spread of influenza, and the
      frequency of neuraminidase inhibitors mutations. An evaluation of the combination of
      oseltamivir and zanamivir versus zanamivir with placebo versus oseltamivir associated with
      placebo in the treatment of a virologically suspected influenza in primary care will be
      investigated in a randomised double blind placebo controlled trial study in France during the
      winter season 2008-2009.

      Primary outcome measure:

      Evaluate viral efficacy after 2 days of biotherapy oseltamivir and zanamivir versus zanamivir
      with placebo versus oseltamivir associated with placebo.

      Patients and methods:

      Randomised double blind, placebo controlled multicenter trial conducted during the influenza
      season 2008-2009 Arm 1: oral oseltamivir 75mg twice daily + zanamivir 10 mg inhaled by mouth
      twice daily during 5 days Arm 2: oral oseltamivir 75mg twice daily+ placebo inhaled by mouth
      twice daily during 5 days Arm 3: oral placebo twice daily + zanamivir 10 mg inhaled by mouth
      twice daily during 5 days.

      Schedule:

      D0: rapid test diagnostic for influenza A urine pregnancy test for women inclusion
      /randomisation initiation of treatment D2:nasal sample for influenza RNA RTPCR D5:End of
      treatment D7:medical evaluation (follow up evaluation) D14:nurse call (clinical evaluation)
    
  