
    
      A mixed-method study was performed in four rehabilitation centres in Belgium. An homogenous
      convenience sample was recruited among persons with central nervous system disorders.

      Participants received 3 x 45 minutes of training with the i-ACT system during six weeks,
      additional to conventional care. The Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM) was
      used to collect and evaluate patients' individual goals towards rehabilitation. These goals
      were discussed with the therapists before implementing movements and exercises for each
      patient in the i-ACT system.

      The following demographic data were obtained from the medical files: age, gender, and
      diagnosis. Outcomes measures were collected at baseline (T0), after 2 (T1), 4 (T2) and 6 (T3)
      weeks of training and at 9 weeks follow-up (T4).

      The primary outcome measures were the Intrinsic Motivation Inventory (IMI), the System
      Usability Scale (SUS), Credibility/Expectancy Questionnaire (CEQ), the Canadian Occupational
      Performance Measure (COPM), and Wolf Motor Function Test (WMFT). The secondary measures were
      the Manual Ability Measure-36 (MAM-36), Modified Fatigue Impact Scale (MFIS), Trunk
      Impairment Scale (TIS), and Active Range of Motion (AROM).

      After final training with i-ACT, a semi-structured interview was performed to gather more
      information about the participants' perception towards i-ACT.

      For quantitative data, within-group differences of all the assessments were analysed using
      Friedman's ANOVA and Wilcoxon signed-rank test. Alpha was set at 0.05; No Bonferroni
      correction was applied as it is not compulsory in an exploratory study and furthermore,
      results are regarded as hypothesis for further investigations.

      The qualitative data was collected and recorded with a voice recorder. No specific analysis
      was used as the interview collected data to support or oppose the findings of the
      quantitative data.
    
  