
    
      Sarcopenia is a geriatric syndrome characterised by the progressive loss of skeletal muscle
      mass and function with a risk of adverse outcomes. In Hong Kong, the prevalence of sarcopenia
      in community-dwelling older people was 9%. According to a meta-analysis on the effect of
      sarcopenia on health outcomes in older people, sarcopenia significantly increased hazard
      ratios of falling by 3.23×, functional decline by 3.03× and fracture risk by up to 3.75×,
      thus making sarcopenia a major risk factor for fragility fracture.

      A recent study reported a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of 3-month intervention of
      elastic-band exercise alone has shown significant enhancement in skeletal muscle mass by a
      0.7 kg gain and a better performance demonstrated by 0.14 m/s faster gait speed. This project
      targets to investigate the application of elastic-band exercise for older people to carry out
      at home for sarcopenia intervention.

      Low-magnitude high-frequency vibration (LMHFV) has previously shown to be effective in
      enhancing muscle strength, balancing ability and reducing fall risk in a RCT involving 710
      subjects. Community-dwelling older people treated at 35 Hz, 0.3 g and 20 minutes per day for
      18-months showed reduced hazard ratio for fall or fracture (HR=0.56, 95% CI at 0.40-0.78,
      p=0.001), 2.46 kg increase in quadriceps strength (95% CI at 1.70-3.22, p<0.001) and overall
      statistically significant improvements in balancing ability.

      HMB supplementation is advantageous due to its simplicity in administration compared to
      various other schemes. In a RCT on the efficacy of HMB supplementation on 10-day bed-rested
      older adults aged 60-76, 3.0-g/day was found to be effective in maintaining total lean mass,
      appendicular lean mass, leg and arm lean masses with significant differences.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of elastic-band exercise or
      vibration treatment in combination with HMB supplementation on the control of sarcopenia by a
      single-blinded randomized controlled study.

      Community-dwelling older people failing the sarcopenia screening according to the Asian
      Working Group on Sarcopenia (AWGS) will be recruited and randomized to (1) control, (2)
      Exercise + HMB or (3) LMHFV + HMB group by envelope drawing of computer-generated random
      numbers. Control group will be given promotional materials of sarcopenia and will not receive
      any intervention. The Exercise + HMB group will be instructed to take a thirty minute
      home-based elastic band exercise practiced for 30 mins per day, 3 times per week for 3
      months. The LMHFV + HMB group will be assigned to participating community centres and receive
      the vibration treatment at 35Hz, 0.3g (peak to peak magnitude), displacement of <0.1mm, for
      20 min/day, at least 3 days/week for 3 months. Both HMB treatment groups will given 3.0 g/day
      for 3 months. Outcome assessments will be performed at baseline and end-point of 3 months.
      Outcome assessor and statistician will be blinded to group allocation.

      Muscle strength in the lower extremity will be the primary outcome. Muscle strength in the
      upper extremity, gait speed, muscle mass (based on AWGS definition), functional performance
      in terms of balancing ability and time-up-and-go test, quality of life by short-form 36 will
      be taken as secondary outcomes.
    
  