
    
      Transbronchial lung cryobiopsy (TBLC) is a less invasive procedure than surgical lung biopsy
      (SLB) to establish the diagnosis of interstitial lung disease (ILD) and as an endoscopic
      intervention can be done as an outpatient procedure. This technology has also being used for
      cryoadhesion to remove tissue from the airway. The freeze lung tissue provides bigger samples
      than the conventional transbronchial lung biopsy (TBB), less crush artifacts with more
      alveolar structures which gives better quality specimens and diagnostic yield for ILDs that
      usually has a complex morphologic pattern like unusual interstitial pneumonia and nonspecific
      interstitial pneumonia compared by TBB forceps biopsy. A recent trial showed that the
      histological diagnosis was obtained in only 34.1% of patients who had a TBB and the
      diagnostic yield of this technique was 29.1%. Lung cryobiopsy is associated with higher
      diagnostic yield (up to 83%) than TBBs and because of this, TBB is not recommended for ILD
      diagnosis in the current guidelines.

      The diagnostic algorithm for ILD etiology definition is complex and has been born out of the
      necessity for diagnosis in patients where gold standard lung biopsy is associated with
      significant risk and therefore is typically saved as a last resort. Currently, SLB is
      indicated in only about 4 to 5% of the new cases suspected to have ILD. If TBLC is shown to
      be associated with lower complication rates, the investigator may be able to obtain
      definitive histological diagnoses in a great majority of cases and forego complex,
      inefficient and inaccurate methods of disease diagnosis. However, in order to replace SLB,
      TBLC should provide a similar diagnostic yield and better safety profile. Compared to SLB,
      retrospective data has shown that TBLC is associated with fewer complications, lower
      mortality, and better patient tolerance and recently one multicentric prospective trial
      (COLDICE) was designed to compare both techniques and guide the diagnostic accuracy for TBLC,
      not yet known. Several groups have published retrospective series of TBLC in ILD with
      promising results and diagnostic yields, however, the different technical components for
      performing a TBLC are very heterogeneous among the published series. Probe size, freezing
      time and distance from the probe to pleura are all parameters that may influence the size and
      quality of the samples.

      As a technique recently applied to obtain adequate lung tissue for ILD differential
      diagnosis, its use was first described in 2009, there is no standard way to perform TBLC, and
      very limited data on how these parameters can influence biopsy quality. It is not clear which
      settings or parameters could affect the results. A few animal studies documented positive
      correlation between freezing time and biopsy size in TBLC. Published series on humans have
      used 4 and 6 seconds with a mini-cryoprobe probe and between 1 to 2 cm from the visceral
      pleura.

      One of the limitations from the previous studies was that the lung specimens were obtained
      from healthy animal lungs. The lungs from patients undergoing transplant are affected by
      diffuse parenchymal pathologies and should offer a good predictor of how to obtain the best
      specimens for highest diagnostic yield in human lungs. The ex-vivo human model also has the
      advantage of performing multiple lung biopsies without any risks related with the procedure
      in in-vivo patients.
    
  