
    
      1. Study Objectives Aim 1: To evaluate the impact of the mobile, transitional MAT
           intervention on its ability to engage participants in targeted, existing MAT treatment
           slots at 1- and 6-month post-enrollment.

           Aim 2: To evaluate the impact of the mobile intervention on subsequent drug use and
           overdoses at 6-month post-enrollment.

           Aim 3: To assess the acceptability and costs of the intervention. The program and
           patient costs of delivering and participating in the intervention will be documented.

           Study participants who will receive buprenorphine/naloxone will be provided with
           information, counseling, and support for selection of ongoing treatment options
           including methadone maintenance (MMT), extended-release naltrexone (XR-NTX), or
           continued treatment with buprenorphine/naloxone.

        2. Study design Duration of Study Participation The duration of study participation
           including screening/baseline assessments to follow-up will be 6 months.

           Total Number of Subjects A total of 250 participants will be engaged in the research at
           the time they seek treatment: 125 individuals will be enrolled as they engage with the
           mobile, rapid induction team and 125 individuals will be enrolled as they seek treatment
           from the BAC/CRC (treatment as usual).

           Subject Recruitment The recruitment of participants for this study will be accomplished
           using a community awareness campaign involving street outreach, targeted social media,
           and local advertisement. This campaign will begin one month before activation of the
           rapid induction intervention. During this time, the mobile assessment team will begin to
           be present in the designated location where the Mobile Clinical Trials Unit (MCTU) will
           be parked.

           Participant Education and the Informed Consent Process Potential participants who
           express interest in initiating treatment will be engaged in a structured approach to
           education about the study and its procedures. The information delivered at this point
           will be supportive and motivational and describe study participation as an opportunity
           to consider options for treatment. It will also be explained that their participation
           can contribute to a better understanding of the most effective ways to assist
           individuals who want to begin treatment. Staff will make it clear that even if they do
           not become engaged in treatment, their experiences are important and their contributions
           to the research will be valuable. This discussion will offer potential participants a
           chance to ask questions and receive prepared materials explaining the study and the
           requirements for participation.

           Those who appear to be eligible and express interest will begin the informed consent
           process to allow for screening. The informed consent process will give the participant
           an accurate understanding of the research procedures and make it clear that
           participation is voluntary. The informed consent document will be read and reviewed with
           the participant. The consent form includes clear language with special attention to the
           provision of permissions to contact the participant and individuals they identify as
           acceptable contacts if the research assistants are unable to make direct contact with
           the participant for the 1- and 6-month assessments.

           Screening assessments For those who remain interested following discussions and appear
           to meet eligibility criteria, the consent form will be signed and the screening visit
           will be conducted. This visit will include completion of assessments to confirm
           inclusion and exclusion criteria. The Nurse Practitioner will complete a medical
           history, a physical exam, a rapid blood test for HIV, a pregnancy test for women, and
           collect 10ml of blood for liver function tests. Research staff will complete baseline
           assessments. Those who are not eligible will receive a listing of treatment providers
           and encouraged to make contact for help with their substance use problems. For those who
           appear eligible following the screening visit, an appointment for initiating the
           intervention will be scheduled within 1 or 2 days.

           Study Measures All interviews will be administered by experienced research assistants
           trained in the administration of the proposed assessments. Following confirmation of
           eligibility, the mobile research assistants will complete the baseline assessment
           (described below). The participant assessments in this research will be sharply focused
           on the valid and reliable measurement of its primary endpoints i.e. ongoing treatment
           engagement will be the primary endpoint on which the study is powered. The two groups
           will be compared with respect to the rate of continued opioid use and subsequent
           overdoses. All assessments will be completed by trained research staff (not clinicians)
           at baseline, and again at 1- and 6-month post-enrollment. A follow-up rates of 95% and
           90% at Month 1 and 6, respectively is anticipated. The assessments will take
           approximately 45 minutes to complete.

             -  Physical history and examination including a blood test to evaluate the liver
                function.

             -  Locator Data Collection: A detailed contact sheet (Locator Form) will be completed
                for all subjects as part of the baseline assessment. The form will be updated at
                each scheduled assessment visit.

             -  DSM-5 Substance Use Disorder Checklist: This form is a listing of the eleven DSM-5
                criteria for substance use disorder. Opioids, cocaine, and alcohol use disorders
                will be screened for confirmation of inclusion and exclusion criteria. A score of
                4-6 is considered moderate severity and from 7-11 is considered severe substance
                use disorder. An opioid use disorder score of 4 or greater will be required for
                study eligibility. Alcohol use disorder and benzodiazepine scores of 4 or greater
                will be exclusionary.

             -  A study specific questionnaire that gathers socio-demographic information (e.g.
                age, gender, race and ethnic identity, marital status, sexual orientation,
                educational level, employment status, income and income sources) and descriptive
                information about the subject's living situation and housing stability, history of
                involvement with the criminal justice system, drug use, and drug treatment history.

                o Addiction Severity Index (ASI) sections for Drugs and Alcohol and Medical Status:
                The ASI is a structured interview developed to assess the range of problems seen in
                drug users. The ASI produces severity ratings and composite scores in each of seven
                areas, and each type score has been assessed with regard to validity and
                reliability. Severity ratings and composite scores have demonstrated high levels of
                inter-rater, test-retest, and concurrent reliability (Cacciola et al., 2008;
                McLellan, Cacciola, Alterman, Rikoon, & Carise, 2006; McLellan et al., 1992). The
                Medical and the Drug and Alcohol sections will be administered at baseline, 1- and
                6-month follow-ups.

             -  Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9): Given the important role of depression in
                accessing and adhering to treatments for substance use disorder and other chronic
                medical problems (Mahajan, Avasthi, Grover, & Chawla, 2014; Tavakkoli, Ferrando,
                Rabkin, Marks, & Talal, 2013), the severity of depression using the 9-item Patient
                Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) will be assessed. This brief assessment asks
                participants to indicate the frequency of occurrence of each of the nine DSM-IV
                diagnostic criteria for depression during the previous two weeks. This instrument
                has been widely used in clinical research and has strong psychometric properties.
                The PHQ-9 will be completed at baseline and month-1 and -6.

             -  Urine drug screen using the CLIA waived® ACON Dip-and-Read 8-panel test for THC,
                cocaine, opiates, amphetamines, PCP, methamphetamine, benzodiazepines,
                barbiturates, and buprenorphine. The urine sample will be provided using standard
                procedures with temperature monitoring to preclude tampering and dilution.

             -  HIV testing: Chembio SURE CHECK HIV 1/2® rapid-HIV test kits will be used to detect
                antibodies. These FDA approved and CLIA Waived kits produce results in 15 minutes
                from a blood drop. For those who test antibody positive, additional blood will be
                drawn for confirmatory testing via RNA viral load assay. Approximately 10% of
                participants will test positive for HIV.

             -  Economic evaluation: The cost-effectiveness of the intervention will be performed
                using data collected with questionnaires widely used for cost-effectiveness
                analyses, the Drug Abuse Treatment Cost Analysis Program (DATCAP) and Non-Medical
                and Other Services Form (NSMOS). The DATCAP is a reliable instrument widely used by
                substance abuse treatment programs for the collection and organization of
                programmatic costs (French et al. 1997). The NSMOS is a questionnaire adapted from
                the Treatment Services Review (McLellan et al., 1992; Cacciola et al., 2008 ) for
                individuals receiving substance abuse treatment.

           Overview of Interventions Rapid Induction Intervention (RI) The rapid induction
           intervention will be delivered by the project's mobile team led by a nurse practitioner
           supported by a certified peer recovery specialist (CPRS), and a case manager (CM). Team
           members will work closely with each other and coordinate screening and treatment
           initiation, medication adherence monitoring, and assessment and linkage to ongoing MAT.
           Two half-time research assistants (RA) will participate as team members but will have
           intervention responsibilities. The RAs will assist with the community awareness campaign
           and recruitment and will conduct all assessments for the project. The mobile team will
           be based at Prevention Point Philadelphia and will receive clinical supervision from the
           mobile team's buprenorphine physician.

           Induction: Once eligibility has been determined, the NP will begin preparing the
           participant for induction, following the buprenorphine/naloxone induction protocol used
           by D'Onofrio et al., 2015.

           Medication Assisted Treatment (MAT) engagement during the month of intervention will be
           facilitated by the Peer Recovery Specialist (PRS). The purpose of a PRS is to support
           the participant in their recovery process. In addition, the project will provide
           intensive training and ongoing consultation on MAT. The PRS hired for this study will
           also receive intensive training focused on addiction as a chronic medical condition,
           motivational enhancement strategies and facilitating short-term behavioral contracts.
           The PRS will meet with the participant a minimum of 3 times per week and be available
           for telephone counseling and support throughout the one-month intervention period.

           The mobile team's Case Management (CM) function will be performed by a master's level
           social worker. The CM will have primary responsibility for identifying the treatment
           program that best meets the needs of the participant. The CM effort will be sharply
           focused on identifying and removing barriers to MAT treatment engagement. This will
           include completing medication authorization forms and insurance enrollment if necessary,
           and then making referrals to additional supports, including mental health treatment,
           housing, medical, legal support, and peer-based recovery supports in the community. The
           CM will work collaboratively with participants to remove barriers to care and to enhance
           program outcomes and to provide psychosocial support.

           The mobile team will insure that there is a clear plan for rapid engagement with ongoing
           treatment as soon as possible. Buprenorphine/naloxone will be provided during the time
           of transition to their long-term provider for up to 1 month. Telephone support will be
           available should participants have questions or need assistance and the mobile team will
           also have daily contact with participants until they complete contact with their ongoing
           provider.

           Comparison group - Treatment as usual During the same period of time, participants will
           also be recruited at the City of Philadelphia Behavioral Health System Behavioral
           Assessment Centers (BAC) and Crisis Response Centers (CRC) located at Episcopal Hospital
           serving Kensington area and Hall Mercer BAC/CRC (a University of Pennsylvania program)
           serving South Philadelphia area. Two research assistants from the TRI-PHMC will enroll
           and follow-up 125 participants at BAC/ CRC. The participants will complete the same
           assessments at baseline, 1- and 6-month follow-up. Authorization for the Philadelphia
           Department of Public Health to look shared information about their subsequent use of
           health department services (CARES database,
           http://www.phila.gov/hhs/data/Pages/Cares.aspx) will also be requested in the consent
           form. Research staff will only conduct assessments. Treatment engagement services will
           be provided by the staff of the BAC/CRC as usual.

           Subject Withdrawal Participants may choose to withdraw from the study at any time. They
           do this by providing verbal or written communication to this effect. Withdrawal from the
           study will not impact access to care. The Principal Investigator may withdraw subjects
           for reasons related to safety or for administrative reasons. It will be documented
           whether or not each subject completes the study. Subjects who do not complete the
           intervention will continue to be contacted to complete follow-up visits (Month 1 and 6)
           to collect final evaluations and to assess adverse events.

        3. Statistical Plan 3.1. Data Quality Trained staff will review all forms prior to the
           completion of the study visit in an effort to minimize problems associated with missing
           values and incorrect skip patterns. All assessments will be recorded on final version of
           the electronic Case Reporting Forms (eCRFs). eCRFs will also be developed to capture the
           results of all biological assessments. All eCRFs will be completed using only
           participant identifying numbers and will not include names, addresses, or other data
           that could possibly be used to disclose the identity of the participant. Research staff
           will be responsible for entering all data into the secure web-based developed on REDCap
           (Research Electronic Data Capture). REDCap is designed to comply with HIPAA regulations.
           Data will be input with secure web authentication, data logging, and Secure Sockets
           Layer (SSL) encryption. REDCap allows multisite access. It allows real-time data entry
           validation (e.g. for data types and range checks), audit trails, and the ability to set
           up a calendar to schedule and track critical study events such as participant visits.

           The data quality control process associated with data processing will consist of the
           following stages: potential subject pre-screening for eligibility, registration, subject
           eligibility confirmation, first data entry, second data entry in the form of 100%
           interactive verification, data validation, and data auditing. A random 5% of the
           questionnaires in each wave of data collection (i.e., baseline, 1- and 6-month) will be
           subjected to database auditing throughout the trial. This data quality control process
           ensures that all stages of the data handling process will be subjected to data quality
           control.

           3.2. Data analyses Propensity score model to account for non-randomized allocation: The
           participants are not randomly assigned to the mobile rapid induction intervention and
           BAC/CRC groups, so it is possible that there will be confounding of the group effect
           with the effects of characteristics of the participants. Propensity score approach
           (Rosenbaum 2002, Rothman, Greenland et al. 2008) will be used to account for this. A
           broad range of baseline variables will be entered as covariates in a logistic regression
           model predicting treatment group, including age, race/ethnicity, gender, number of
           previous overdoses, number of previous treatments for opiate use disorder, type of
           opioid used, and depression. The model will yield predicted probabilities of BAC/CRC
           group for all participants (the propensity score), and a five-level ordinal variable
           based on the quintiles of the propensity score will be created. This ordinal variable
           will be included as a stratum variable in our models.

           Analyses for the primary aim: i.e. to evaluate the impact of the mobile, transitional
           MAT intervention on its ability to engage participants in targeted, existing MAT
           treatment slots at 1- and 6-month post-enrollment. For each of the 1- and 6-month time
           points, the participants will be classified as being engaged/not-engaged (where
           non-engaged will include dropped out or missing). The groups will be compared on
           engagement rates at the two time points using a repeated measures logistic regression
           model, incorporating the propensity score as described above (Diggle, Heagerty et al.
           2002). The fixed effects will be binary indicators of treatment group and time point;
           test for a group by time interaction to assess whether the group effect differs at month
           1 and month 6. As there are only two time points, the use an unstructured covariance
           matrix to accommodate within-participant covariance.

           Analyses for Aim 2: Repeated measures model will be run to compare the groups on the ASI
           (addiction severity index) drug composite score at month-1 and 6. The model will be
           similar to that described for the engagement analyses of Aim 1, but with a beta
           distribution assumed for the response, to accommodate the bounded range (zero to one) of
           the ASI composite scores. The groups will be compared on the number of overdoses per
           participants using repeated measures Poisson regression models, if there is sufficient
           variability in the number of overdoses reported. If a low rate of overdoses causes
           convergence issues for the Poisson model, participants will be classified as having no
           overdose versus at least one, and compare the groups using repeated measures logistic
           regression models.

           Missing data. For the longitudinal analyses described above, premature discontinuation
           from treatment and occasional missing daily use indicators will lead to incomplete data.
           The repeated measures models described above can make use of all available data provided
           by subjects, but the inferences drawn from them will be unaffected by the missing data
           only if the missing data can be regarded as ignorable, essentially meaning that
           missingness can be predicted/explained from the baseline data and from responses
           obtained prior to drop-out. The sensitivity of our main analyses to the presence of
           missing data will be assessed by performing a sensitivity analysis, in which estimates
           of the group effect will be obtained under various non-ignorability assumptions.
           Selection models will be used to examine the effects of missing data (Robins, Rotnitzky
           et al. 1995), in which the probability of premature discontinuation at a time point as a
           function of baseline characteristics and responses at previous time points will be
           modeled using logistic regression models, and incorporate the predicted probabilities
           into a weighted analysis of the main hypotheses.

           Analyses for Aim 3: The total costs and per-participant costs of rapid initiation of MAT
           for opioid treatment engagement will be estimated using a cost-offsets approach to
           determine the economic value of this novel strategy. A cost-offsets approach requires a
           comparison of the total cost of the intervention (proposed enhanced procedure or
           treatment as usual) to the future costs of healthcare utilization avoided (i.e.,
           benefits) due to the intervention. Healthcare utilization and medical costs will be
           estimated before and after participants receive either rapid initiation of MAT for
           opioid treatment engagement or treatment as usual. Information on healthcare utilization
           will be collected from participants at each assessment when study-staff administer the
           Non-Medical and Other Services Form (NSMOS; detailed description in Instruments
           section). Medical costs associated with these treatments/services will be estimated
           using Medicaid data.

        4. Safety and Adverse Events 4.1. Data Safety Monitoring Plan (DSMP) For this study, the
           University of Pennsylvania established procedures and infrastructure for data and safety
           monitoring will be used. During the course of the study, safety and data quality
           monitoring will be performed on an ongoing basis by the Principal Investigators and the
           study staff. Study staff members are responsible for collecting and recording all
           clinical data using the established MOP. This includes ensuring that all source
           documents exist for the data on the Case Report Forms, ensuring all fields are completed
           appropriately, and ensuring that all corrections are done according to Good Clinical
           Practice (GCP). Any inconsistencies/deviations will be documented. The study Key
           Personnel will review data on an ongoing basis and will document reviews by initialing
           and dating reports. Study staff members conduct 100% quality assurance on data.

      Staff training will consist of an explanation of the protocol and review of the e-Case Report
      Forms. In addition, the duties of each staff person will be outlined and all applicable
      regulations will be reviewed. Senior personnel will supervise junior staff and provide
      re-training in the study protocol as needed.

      The Independent Monitor for this study is the University of Pennsylvania Center for Studies
      on Addiction DSMB. The DSMB will review the study every 6 months for all the duration of the
      study. The DSMB form could be find in Appendix at the end of this document. The PI will
      provide a summary of the status of the project that occurs during the reporting period. These
      data will also be reported to CDC on an annual basis as part of the progress report. The DSMB
      report will include the participants' socio-demographic characteristics, expected versus
      actual recruitment rates, treatment retention rates, any quality assurance or regulatory
      issues that occurred during the past year, summary of SAEs, and any actions or changes with
      respect to the protocol.

      4.2. Adverse Events Adverse events that occur at any point in the trial will be identified,
      managed, and documented in accordance with reporting requirements of the the City IRB (the
      IRB of record) and the sponsor (the CDC). Adverse events are defined as negative biologic
      events and/or social harms that occur during the course of the trial. When needed, referrals
      to medical treatment or specialists will be made. All patients will have comprehensive
      psychiatric and medical screening prior to randomization and at each counseling and
      assessment where evaluations for AEs will be routine. A member of the research team will be
      available at all times to answer questions and assess possible AEs. Participants will be
      withdrawn from the study if they show severe deterioration or if determined clinically
      necessary for other reasons.

      4.3 Internal Monitoring and Auditing

      Oversight and Monitoring: The City of Philadelphia IRB will monitor the protection of human
      subjects and the safe and secure collection and storage of data. This committee assesses all
      studies before study initiation and then reviews protocols annually. The committee ensures
      the scientific, technical, and statistical soundness of the research and guarantees that
      methods for the ethical and safe treatment of human subjects are in place. The committee
      scrutinizes the scientific and ethical aspects of protocols and provides for an objective and
      ongoing assessment of the study's scientific and ethical integrity.

      Protocol monitoring will ensure that the research protocol specified is being followed
      without unauthorized deviations. Weekly meetings will be held to monitor the progress of the
      trial. These meetings will involve the Principal Investigators, Co-Investigators, Project
      Director, Site coordinator and other study staff. This will help to ensure standardized
      application of the protocol and will serve as an ongoing mechanism by which project staff and
      investigators will communicate in order to maintain a consistently high quality of study
      conduct. Concerns identified will be addressed through training and retraining of personnel.

      Database Auditing: Project director and RAs will review data entered into the database versus
      that recorded on the CRFs. All accrued cases will be subjected to database auditing
      throughout the duration of the trial. Depending on the data management findings, re-training
      will be provided, should problems such as increased errors be detected.

      Data Auditing: Project director and staff RAs will review safety data recorded on the CRF
      versus that contained on the actual source document (client chart, EHR). All accrued cases
      will be subjected to auditing throughout the duration of the trial. A Regulatory Binder
      Review by OHR will include the following essential documents: IRB Protocol, Consent Form and
      Amendment Approvals, IRB Closure Letter, List of Authorized Signatures, Laboratory
      Certifications, Protocol and Amendment Signature Pages, Financial Disclosure Questionnaires,
      and Monitoring Log. Additional monitoring by OHR may include: source documentation
      verification; adverse event documentation; and facility assessment.

      Data Security: Using network firewall technologies, the database will prevent the three major
      sources of data security problems: unauthorized internal access to data, external access to
      data, and malicious intent to destroy data and systems. Controlled user access will ensure
      that only appropriate and authorized personnel are able to view, access, and modify trial
      data. All modifications to data will document user access and data associated with the
      modification, as well as values prior to modification.

      Evidence of Training in Human Subject Research: All personnel working on this project will be
      required to review the protocol, complete training in the protection of human subjects and
      undergo training.

      Confidentiality Since self-report and medical data will be collected and stored as part of
      this study, it is possible that subject privacy or confidentiality can be threatened. To
      address this concern, the Data Management System has set up several safeguards to prevent
      unauthorized access to study data. An automatically generated index number is assigned to a
      subject's study identification number (unique for personnel and clients). A linked subject
      identification table is created for the storing of subject name, address and telephone
      contact information. This table uses the automatically generated index number rather than the
      study identification number. The master subject map and subject identification information
      tables are maintained in a separate database. Using this method, no identifying subject
      information is directly linked to medical information or other study data. The present
      research team has not experienced the unauthorized use of study data. A web-based data
      collection procedure will minimize the possibility of loss of privacy or confidentiality. The
      risk of a potential breach of confidentiality is addressed in the informed consent documents.

      Computers and Databases Trained staff will review all forms prior to the completion of the
      study visit in an effort to minimize problems associated with missing values and incorrect
      skip patterns. All assessments will be recorded on final version of the electronic Case
      Reporting Forms (eCRFs). eCRFs will also be developed to capture the results of all
      biological assessments. All eCRFs will be completed using only participant identifying
      numbers and will not include names, addresses, or other data that could possibly be used to
      disclose the identity of the participant. Research staff will be responsible for entering all
      data into the secure web-based developed on REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture). REDCap
      is designed to comply with HIPAA regulations. Data will be input with secure web
      authentication, data logging, and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) encryption. REDCap allows
      multisite access. It allows real-time data entry validation (e.g. for data types and range
      checks), audit trails, and the ability to set up a calendar to schedule and track critical
      study events such as participant visits.
    
  