
    
      Process Evaluation: The process evaluation will assess: 1) the training and technical
      assistance provided to sites; 2) the implementation of the models in the communities; and 3)
      characteristics of the service delivery systems.

      Technical Assistance Providers will document the training and technical assistance (TTA) they
      provide to the sites.

      Sites will be asked to identify key stakeholders to participate in interviews before the
      implementation begins and then two additional times during the demonstration phase. Key
      informant interviews will assess: recipient's perception of the training and technical
      assistance; model fidelity; model implementation (including model penetration, barriers and
      facilitators to implementation); and, perceptions of model impact. In addition to key
      informant interviews administrative data will be gathered to assess aspects of model
      implementation and systematic observations of law enforcement initiated screens will be
      conducted by a member of the evaluation team who will join patrol officers for "ride-alongs".

      Impact Evaluation: The impact evaluation will assess changes in: 1) collaboration among
      service sectors; 2) supervision and sanctions for offenders; 3) recidivism and
      re-victimization; 4) victim reported feelings of safety; 5) utilization of resources; and 6)
      nature of safety planning.

      System Collaboration will be assessed through a web-based survey completed at three time
      points by key stakeholders representing all potential partners in the community. Social
      network analysis will provide a visual depiction of how the network changes over time.

      Victim Interviews will be conducted to determine the impact of involvement in the model
      program on their safety and wellbeing. Victims will be interviewed at three time points and
      will be asked about: prior and recent contact with law enforcement, domestic violence service
      providers or other providers; awareness of resources to address IPV; their safety and fear of
      their partner; coping strategies utilized; social support; financial resources; willingness
      to utilize criminal justice system and domestic violence service providers; both their and
      offenders behavior, beliefs and attitudes; self-reported mental health and substance abuse;
      their report of offenders substance abuse; and demographic information.

      Administrative Data will be utilized to examine the breadth of the model implementation; the
      impact of the model programs on criminal justice processes; and whether there is a connection
      between the extent of post-risk assessment sanctions and services and the pattern of newly
      recorded incidents between the victim and offender. The evaluation will compare processing
      and outcomes across cases that are in many ways similar except that some cases were
      determined to be high risk and a risk assessment was completed and others where a risk
      assessment was not conducted. To facilitate these comparisons, the evaluation team will build
      a comprehensive database that will depict the "life-history" of each victim and offender
      dyad.
    
  