
    
      Prediabetes affects up to 35% of the population. It is defined as an intermediate metabolic
      state of glucose dysregulation between normoglycaemia and type 2 diabetes (T2D). Prediabetic
      individuals have 3-12 times higher annual incidence of type 2 diabetes than the general
      population. Further, these individuals have a considerable increased risk of cardiovascular
      disease (CVD), (myocardial infarction, stroke, CV death) and even in the absence of coronary
      artery disease, an increased risk of heart failure. Individuals with prediabetes manifest the
      same clustering of cardiovascular risk factors (dysglycaemia, dyslipidaemia, hypertension,
      obesity, physical inactivity, insulin resistance, pro-coagulant state, endothelial
      dysfunction, inflammation) that confer the high risk for macrovascular complications in type
      2 diabetes. For example, 37% and 51% of individuals with prediabetes have hypertension and
      dyslipidaemia.

      Results of large randomised control trials focusing on diabetes management have shown
      improvements in cardiovascular and renal outcomes and treatments for patients with
      established type 2 diabetes. Studies examining cardiovascular and renal burdens in patients
      with prediabetes have demonstrated that the same therapeutic benefits have not been observed
      in adults with prediabetes. This study focuses on a younger age group considering the
      aggressive phenotype of young-onset type 2 diabetes as it provides the opportunity to address
      and effectively manage the associated cardio-metabolic risk factors, prevent progression from
      prediabetes to type 2 diabetes and reduce the burden of cardiovascular disease, heart failure
      and liver-related burden.

      Liver fat predicts both cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes independent of obesity.
      NAFLD is a growing clinical problem which has become the most prevalent chronic liver disease
      in Western society. It can be associated with isolated hepatic triglyceride accumulation
      (steatosis), through steatosis plus hepatocellular damage with inflammation and fibrosis
      (non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), which may ultimately progress to liver
      fibrosis/cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma.

      Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) is considered the hepatic manifestation of the
      metabolic syndrome and is commonly associated with insulin-resistant states including
      obesity, a higher prevalence of prediabetes and type 2 diabetes (T2D).

      NAFLD has a bi-directional relationship with prediabetes and T2D being a risk factor for
      Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease but conversely, individuals with prediabetes and type 2
      diabetes have significantly increased liver fat versus non-diabetic control subjects with a
      higher risk of NAFLD than Body Mass Index (BMI) -matched non-diabetic controls.

      NAFLD is associated with a metabolic phenotype similar to that observed in T2D: hepatic and
      peripheral insulin resistance with reduced skeletal muscle glucose uptake and increased
      non-esterified fatty acid (NEFA) release from adipose tissue lipolysis. Once liver fat
      accumulates in the liver, insulin is unable to inhibit glucose and very-low-density
      lipoprotein (VLDL) production resulting in overproduction of glucose and very-low-density
      lipoprotein (VLDL) particles leading to hypertriglyceridaemia and low high-density
      lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol concentrations.

      NAFLD is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease with CVD now
      representing the leading cause of death in NAFLD. While it remains contentious whether the
      increased risk of CVD in NAFLD is explained by the combination of common risk factors shared
      by both NAFLD and CVD, most epidemiological studies evaluating CVD risk in NAFLD suggest the
      risk occurs independently of associated risk factors. These studies have relied upon
      biochemical and imaging surrogate markers of NAFLD (e.g. serum liver enzymes, abdominal
      ultrasound). Using more detailed assessment of NAFLD e.g. assessment of fibrosis with
      fibrosis panels, with Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) or even biopsy-based.

      Clinical studies have shown that sustained moderate weight loss of around 5-10%, achieved
      through lifestyle intervention lowers blood pressure, improves glucose control, prevents
      diabetes, and improves dyslipidaemia, as well as improving haemostatic and fibrinolytic
      factors. The effects of weight reduction on progression to T2D has been studied in
      pre-diabetes in the Diabetes Prevention Programme study (US) study. A 1 kg of weight loss is
      associated with a 16% reduction in the progression of pre-diabetes to T2D.

      Metabolic surgery is associated with remission of T2D. There is overwhelming evidence that
      LCDs have a useful role in T2D resulting in substantial weight loss (mean difference in
      weight vs. controls after 3 months was 7.38 kg (CI: 16.2, 1.5) with high levels of adherence.
      They can potentially cause profound weight loss of 15-20% of body weight in severe and
      medically complicated obesity. The weight loss is associated with significant reductions in
      hepatic and pancreatic fat with associated improvements in insulin sensitivity and pancreatic
      ß-cell function resulting in remission of T2D in many cases. This dramatic dietary
      intervention, initially believed to be unmanageable and difficult to maintain, has been
      demonstrated to be implementable and highly efficacious even when delivered through primary
      care settings.

      In one primary care study, using LCD in T2D patients recorded a weight loss of 15kg or more
      in 24% of patients after 12 months. It is unsurprising that 46% of the participants achieved
      remission of their T2D. LCD produces bariatric type weight loss and improves glycaemic
      control in diabetes and results in remission of T2D in the majority of patients, however the
      impact on complications, remains to be determined particularly in obese people without
      diabetes. One non-pharmacological strategy to improve cardio-metabolic health in obesity,
      pre-diabetes and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) includes the application of a low-calorie
      diet (LCD), utilising reduced daily energy intake (<800kcal).

      To this extent, the purpose of this study is to examine the impact of intensive weight
      management on metabolic, liver and cardiac health, measures on neuropathy and on appetite
      regulation. The investigators will study younger (<55y) obese people with pre-diabetes and/or
      metabolic syndrome who exhibit early or pre-clinical evidence of metabolic and cardiovascular
      complications. The investigators will investigate the effects of a low-calorie diet (LCD) as
      one of the most effective and least invasive mechanism by which these various factors can be
      improved.
    
  