
    
      There are a lack of studies evaluating the spatiotemporal parameters of gait, fear of
      falling, and physicial activity after a Pilates intervention. The inclusion criteria were
      healthy older adults (≥ 65 years). Demographic details: age, gender, height, weight, Body
      Mass Index, health status, 2 question of fear and previous falls (one year). Screening test:
      The Montreal cognitive MOCA test. Participants were assessed using the following
      fall-predictor measures. Primary outcomes: the 16-item Falls Efficacy Scale-International
      (FES-16), and the Footwork Pro pressure plate system. Secondary outcomes: the Timed Up and Go
      (TUG), the GAITRite system, the International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ), the
      Functional Reach Test (FRT). The randomised controlled trial, eligible n=61 participants and
      randomise allocated into control group (no exercise) and Pilates group. The Pilates
      intervention took place at the Aras Moyola building, NUI Galway.The instructor is fully
      qualified to carry out the Pilates programme. The instructor is a qualified physiotherapist
      and has undertaken courses clinical Pilates in Valeria Figueireido International and Body
      Control Pilates for older adults. The video and booklet were built by the PI. The booklet
      contains pictures demonstrated by the instructor. Participants also had access to the
      home-based Pilates exercise video via a Dropbox link sent to their email by PI. The
      instructor demonstrated, explained and showed the exercises through the video to the
      participants during the first supervised Pilates class which participants also performed the
      home-based exercises. Feedback notes and comments were also taken from the participants. The
      participants were asked to give feedback on the same day as the assessments (Post-test).
      Questionnaire of Pilates exercises applied for the participants after Pilates 24 sessions
      supervised completed and a diary calendar of falls during the period of the intervention of
      12 weeks, phone calls and e-mails were provided by the PI.
    
  