
    
      Colostomy formation has been a standard surgical procedure for more than 100 years. Initially
      the quality of life for stoma patients was all but good, as the appliances to collect the
      feces were cumbersome, smelly and did not ensure non-leakage. As late as in the 60-ies
      bandages were still primitive(1). Gradually these problems have decreased as techniques for
      bandages have improved. A well functioning colostomy may in itself not negatively affect the
      patient's Quality of Life (QoL)(2), although thorough information and support from stoma care
      nurses is of utmost importance (3). However, this can only be said if the stoma is well
      functioning and if the complications are kept to a minimum. The complication rate after stoma
      formation is still considerable, with figures of 21-70% (4, 5) and studies have shown that
      adequate height; type of stoma, BMI, emergency surgery and gender may be of importance in
      reducing the risk of complications both in the short and long-term (6-8).

      The surgical technique of stoma formation is only partly evidence based. There are few
      studies directed at technical details about stoma construction and their future impact on
      stoma function, apart from the importance of the stoma height (6). One study has tested to
      standardize the skin incision to 2/3rds of the width of the bowel (9), although the actual
      impact of this on the functional outcome of the stoma was not presented.. In the surgical
      literature a cruciate incision in the fascia and extraction of the bowel through a hole
      sufficient in size is a short description of the surgical technique (10). In clinical
      practice sufficient size of the hole has often been equal to "two fingers-width", is commonly
      used, which refers to the width of the surgeon's fingers, a fairly inexact measurement. A
      pilot study from Sahlgrenska University Hospital has found that this clinical practice for
      the most part results in a skin incision diameter of 50% of the bowel width.

      There have been discussions regarding the placement of the stoma and effects on hernia
      incidence, whether in the obliquous muscle or the rectus abdominis (11) or if the bowel
      should take an extraperitoneal route (ad modum Goligher) or not (12). No studies have been
      sufficient in design or size to thoroughly answer the question.

      Parastomal hernia is a long-term complication that is common, in the literature figures up to
      almost 50% have been reported (13, 14). Attempts to reduce the rates of parastomal hernias
      have been made in the last few years with a placement of a mesh, at the construction of the
      stoma, (15-19). This practice has not been universally accepted, in part due to a hesitance
      in the surgical society because of the risk of infections with foreign body material, and
      partly due to that most studies are underpowered for their main outcome variable. Another
      suggestion for the basic construction of the stoma has been to make a circular incision in
      the fascia instead of a cruciate, but this has not been documented in any studies. It has
      been described in conjunction with use of circular stapling devices in the skin, no hernias
      were found, however the patient numbers were small (20). It is apparent that further studies
      are most welcome.

      The evaluation of parastomal hernias has been discussed. Janes et al. used clinical
      examination in their studies (16, 17), and confirmed in a later study that the concurrence
      with a CT-verified parastomal hernia was (21) sufficient if performed in a prone position.
      Another recent study found that results from a CT-scan was not correlated with patient
      symptoms (22). Other studies have evaluated the use of ultrasound and found it feasible (23).
      The conclusion must be that evaluation of parastomal hernias may be difficult and must be
      standardized in a study.

      The hypothesis to be tested in this study is that a circular incision or mesh enforced
      cruciate incision in the abdominal wall fascia with a diameter of 50% of the width of the
      patients left colon results carries less risk of parastomal herniation than a cruciate
      incision where the each of the arms measure 1/2 of the diameter of the patients left colon.

      The aim of this trial is to compare the parastomal hernia formation within 12 months after
      stoma surgery between circular, mesh enforced cruciate and cruciate incision.
    
  