
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Previous work demonstrates that functional limitations associated with peripheral arterial
      disease (PAD) are diverse and include slower walking speed, poorer walking endurance, and
      impaired balance as compared to persons without PAD. Although treadmill-walking exercise
      improves treadmill performance in patients with intermittent claudication (IC), treadmill
      performance does not correlate well with community walking ability in older men and women. In
      older patient populations without PAD, resistance training improves functioning and walking
      endurance, but this mode of exercise has not been sufficiently studied in PAD. Furthermore,
      although 65% to 70% of men and women with PAD are either asymptomatic or have exertional leg
      symptoms other than IC, no prior studies have assessed the effects of exercise interventions
      in PAD patients who do not have IC.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The randomized, control study will determine whether a 6-month supervised treadmill exercise
      program and a supervised lower extremity progressive resistance training program,
      respectively, improve lower extremity functioning compared to a nutrition control group among
      150 PAD patients with and without IC. The investigators hypothesize that participants in the
      treadmill walking exercise program and participants in the progressive resistance training
      program, respectively, will experience greater improvement in functional outcomes than
      participants in the nutrition control group. The primary functional outcome measures in
      descending order of importance are 6-minute walk distance and the summary performance score.
      The summary performance score is a composite measure of lower extremity functioning (usual
      walking speed, standing balance, and time required for five repeated chair rises) measured on
      a 0-12 scale that predicts future risk of nursing home placement, mobility loss, and
      mortality. The study will also identify mechanisms by which the exercise interventions
      improve functioning in PAD. Mechanisms to be studied include changes in blood viscosity, calf
      blood flow, brachial artery endothelial reactivity, and inflammatory cytokine levels. By
      identifying the optimal exercise program for improving functioning in PAD patients with and
      without IC, the findings will have substantial clinical and public health implications for
      millions of patients with PAD.
    
  