
    
      Worldwide, 44% of pregnancies are unplanned; in the UK 45% of pregnancies and one third of
      births are unplanned. If a woman wants 2 children, she will spend, on average, 5 years trying
      to conceive or being pregnant, and 30 years trying to prevent pregnancy.

      Women with diabetes are known to have 'high-risk' pregnancies. Complications for the mother
      include worsening diabetic control, particularly with increased hypoglycaemia in the 1st
      trimester; deterioration in retinopathy and nephropathy; pre-eclampsia; birth trauma due to
      fetal macrosomia. For the fetus, there are increased risks of congenital abnormalities;
      macrosomia with resultant birth trauma including shoulder dystocia; intrauterine growth
      restriction; miscarriage; still birth; neonatal unit admission and neonatal death.

      NICE guidance (NG3) contains a number of recommendations to prepare women with diabetes for a
      healthy pregnancy, and recommendations to avoid a pregnancy in poorly controlled diabetes; it
      also has recommendations about contraception. However, the National Diabetes in Pregnancy
      Audit 2019 shows that seven out of eight women are not adequately prepared pre-pregnancy, and
      there are still increased numbers of neonatal deaths, stillbirths, congenital anomalies,
      large and small for gestational age babies and neonatal unit admissions, compared to
      pregnancies in women without diabetes.

      The cause for these poor outcomes, despite the NICE guidance, needs to be understood to
      enable pregnancy outcomes to improve. One likely factor is poor patient knowledge about the
      complications associated with pregnancy. One study, undertaken in 2009, showed that only 35%
      of women with diabetes of reproductive age recalled having any discussion about pregnancy,
      and only 25% were aware of any of the risks associated with pregnancy. Another study in women
      with diabetes seen in an antenatal clinic showed that even if a woman was aware of the risks
      associated with diabetes in pregnancy, she often did not attend for pre-conception
      counselling and preparation. The reasons for this were multifactorial, including falling
      pregnant faster than expected, and pervious poor interactions with healthcare professionals.
    
  