
    
      Background:

      Motor imagery (MI) is a novel technique in neurorehabilitation. Current evidence supports the
      ability of people diagnosed with Parkinson's disease (PD) to carry out this technique.
      However, the trials that assess its effectiveness in this pathology are scarce. In some
      physical rehabilitation programs, MI is introduced to conventional treatment or, MI can be
      combined with observation of images or neurofeedback. At present, the effect of this
      technique has been studied in highly heterogeneous variables, including both motor and
      cognitive abilities or performance of activities of daily living. The evidence seems to
      indicate that the introduction of MI to conventional treatment, with an adequate dose, may
      induce greater benefits over people with PD in early stages (I-III on the Hoehn and Yahr
      scale), especially in daily actions and movements functional such as gait, regardless of
      medication. However, the small sample size of the trials and the use of non-validated scales
      and non-objective tests, make it necessary that the results be viewed with caution. On the
      other hand, the cost-benefit ratio of the therapy, its benefits and its easy application are
      significant factors to take into account when adding MI to physiotherapy treatment in people
      with PD.

      General objective: To determine whether gait training combined with MI exercises has a
      superior effect on the biomechanics of gait, functionality in activities of daily living,
      motor capacity, and the perception of the quality of life in people with PD, which gait
      training without MI.

      Specific objectives:

        1. To study the validity of the instrumental technique available for the evaluation of gait
           and the intra- and inter-rater reliability with the same tool in healthy subjects.

        2. To check the effect, in the short and medium-term, of gait training program combined
           with MI in people diagnosed with PD.

        3. To compare the effects of the gait and MI training program with the effects obtained
           through a gait rehabilitation program without MI exercises.

        4. To contrast the gait pattern of people with PD before and after undergoing a
           rehabilitation program with MI, with that of healthy older people of the same age, sex,
           and height.

        5. To observe the differences in the biomechanics of gait between the hemibody most
           affected by the signs of PD and the hemibody with less clinical alteration, before and
           after performing a gait training program combined with MI exercises.

      Materials and Method:

      The evaluation session will be carried out three times: before the treatment, at the end of
      the intervention, and 3 months after the intervention has finished. In each evaluation
      session, a clinical part and a biomechanical part will be carried out. The biomechanical
      evaluation will be done using 7 inertial sensors in a 10-meter walk corridor. The inertial
      sensor or inertial measurement unit (IMU) is made up of three different sensors: gyroscope,
      accelerometer, and magnetometer, capable of collecting information on the turns, linear
      acceleration, and magnetic north with respect to the earth's magnetic field. The part of the
      clinical evaluation includes the evaluation of the functionality in the activities of daily
      living, the motor capacity, and the perception of the quality of life through different
      questionnaires and assessment scales.

      Intervention:

      Both the experimental and control groups of this study will perform an identical gait
      physiotherapy program, however, motor imagery exercises will be included in the experimental
      group.

      The gait exercises are aimed at improving specific gait characteristics, so they will
      include:

        -  Exercises for length stride : walk with visual cues on the ground to reach a certain
           stride length, walk with horizontal poles at a height of 2 cm, walk over steps,
           treadmill walk.

        -  Exercises for Cadence training using a metronome.

        -  Exercises for gait velocity training by combining the visual and auditory feedback
           provided in previous exercises and on the treadmill

        -  Exercises for the training of kinematic milestones during the stance and oscillation
           phase of gait through the mobility of the ankle, knee, and hip joints.

      The motor imagery exercises within a session will be performed in a sitting position prior to
      each gait exercise. The instructions will be administered through a voice recording. The
      subject with closed eyes imagines himself performing the gait task while the general
      guidelines that guide the cognitive process are given. The instructions describe how the
      subject is from the starting position and the different body movements that he must pay
      attention to during the imagining process. Through the instructions, the participant creates
      an image of himself and perceives the kinesthesia while performing the exercise. The duration
      of each motor imagery exercise is 8 minutes.
    
  