
    
      History and current related studies With the increase of human social activities, spinal
      degenerative disease is increasing year by year. Due to the special anatomical structures and
      biomechanical characteristics, lumbar vertebrae easily suffer from lumbar spinal stenosis.
      Lumbar spinal stenosis is a medical condition in which the spinal canal narrows and
      compresses the spinal cord and nerves at the level of the lumbar vertebra. Vertebral
      spondylolisthesis, facet joint hyperplasia, bony spur posterior extension, intervertebral
      disc prolapse/protrusion, and ligamentum flavum hypertrophy are common causes for
      degenerative lumbar spinal stenosis, and ligamentum flavum hypertrophy is one of the
      important causes for spinal stenosis. When conservative treatment is ineffective, the
      occurrence of muscle paralysis or bladder symptoms caused by nerve compression requires
      surgical treatment. Commonly used surgical methods include pedicle screw fixation,
      flavectomy, laminectomy and facetectomy. Therefore, important anatomical structures will be
      involved in the operation, such as pedicle, ligamentum flavum, lamina, and articular process.

      Many previous studies concern pedicle morphology, lumbar ligamentum flavum, lamina and
      articular process, and important reference data are listed in Table 1. Safak et al. verified
      that ligamenta flavum thickness was not associated with sex; ligamenta flavum was remarkably
      thicker on the left side of segments L4/5 and L5/S1 than that on the right side; ligamenta
      flavum thickness was not positively correlated with age. Few studies address whether
      ligamenta flavum thickness was associated with nationality, sex and obesity.

      Data collection, management, analysis and open-access

        1. Written and electronic data were collected. The electronic data were stored in a
           specialized computer, and locked by the data manager. The written data were stored and
           locked in a reference room. The key was kept by the data manager and laboratory manager.

        2. The locked database was not altered and was preserved, along with the original records.
           The database was statistically analyzed by a professional statistician.

        3. Prior to any analysis of the data, the analysis plan outlined in this section would be
           reviewed, and detailed statistical analysis plans would be prepared and approved. All
           data regarding this trial were preserved by the Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Xinjiang
           Medical University, China.

        4. Anonymized trial data would be published at www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis

        1. All data were analyzed using SPSS 21.0 software (IBM, Armonk, NY, USA).

        2. All measurement data were normally distributed and expressed as mean ± standard
           deviation.

        3. Ligamentum flavum thickness was compared among groups using two-sample t-test or one-way
           analysis of variance. Paired comparison between groups was conducted using
           Student-Newman-Keuls test. Correlation of nationality, sex, height, age and weight with
           ligamentum flavum thickness was analyzed using Pearson's correlation coefficient. Risk
           factors for ligamentum flavum hypertrophy were analyzed using multiple linear regression
           analysis. Odd ratio and 95% confidence interval were calculated.

        4. The significance level was α = 0.05.
    
  