
    
      Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with stenting may induce endothelial
      damage/dysfunction and inflammatory reactions, which in turn delay healing and
      endothelialization and may lead to restenosis and atherosclerosis within the stented
      segments.

      Drugs and polymers are considered the protagonists of these pathophysiologic processes
      whereas the role of stent platforms remains poorly defined.

      Due to advances in stent technology, stent platforms have evolved from the cobalt-chromium
      (CoCr) to the platinum-chromium (PtCr) stent series. At present, the PROMUS Element stent
      (which uses the PtCr platform) employs an identical polymer, drug, drug formulation and dose
      density to the CoCr XIENCE V stent.

      The PLATINUM WH trial is the only randomized trial comparing the PROMUS Element stent with
      the XIENCE V stent in a total of 1,530 patients. The study met its primary end-point
      demonstrating that the PROMUS Element stent is non-inferior to the XIENCE V stent. The
      12-month rare of target lesion failure was 3.4% in the PROMUS Element stent and 2.9% in the
      XIENCE V stent.

      Pre-clinical animal studies, however, suggest that the PtCr platform might have important
      advantages over the CrCo platform, as improved vascular compatibility and early and late
      healing for PtCr devices compared with CoCr stents have been demonstrated.

      In a rabbit denudation model, it was shown that at 14 days the luminal surface area is
      incompletely endothelialised with the CrCo stents but nearly complete for the PtCr stents.
      Similarly, another experimental study has shown that overall strut coverage, including
      endothelial cell coverage plus non-endothelial cell coverage (focal platelet and fibrin
      aggregates inter-mixed with red blood cells and inflammatory cells), is significantly lower
      at 14 days with the CoCr stent than with the PtCr OMEGA stent. Additionally, a recent
      investigation has shown that the thinner-strut PtCr stent is associated with reduced fibrin
      deposition and more rapid fibrin clearance in porcine coronary arteries compared with CrCo
      stent, thus suggesting that the PtCr stent platform may induce less injury compared with
      previous-generation platforms.

      The primary objective of this study is to perform a randomized comparison of the biohumoral
      effects of platinum chromium everolimus-eluting stent (PtCr EES) vs. cobalt chromium
      everolimus-eluting stent (CoCr EES), i.e. stents with different platforms but identical drug
      and polymer.
    
  