
    
      This protocol corresponds to a multicenter, phase II, open, non randomized, designed to
      determine the efficacy of clofarabine and low-dose cytarabine combination in AML patients
      older than or equal to 60 years.

      The trial is divided into pre-treatment and treatment (cycle / s of induction and
      consolidation) periods.The induction cycle consist of clofarabine at 20 mg/m2/day
      intravenously for 5 consecutive days plus cytarabine subcutaneously at 20 mg/m2/day for 14
      consecutive days. If patients do not achieve CR they will receive a second course of
      induction with the same pattern. Consolidation cycles consist of clofarabine intravenously at
      15 mg/m2/day for 5 consecutive days plus cytarabine at 20 mg/m2/day subcutaneously for 7
      consecutive days. Patients will receive a maximum of 12 cycles of clofarabine and LDAC. The
      monitoring phase of survival is made by clinical practice and will continue until all
      patients have either died or survived two years after the end of treatment visit.

      There will be 75 patients older than or equal to 60 years. Patients will be evaluated over
      the following periods: Pre-treatment and treatment (induction and consolidation).

      Pre-treatment phase: includes enrolment visit in which the patient completes the written
      informed consent to participate in the study.

      There will be a selection of patients who have given their written informed consent to join
      the clinical trial. They must meet all the inclusion criteria and no exclusion.

      Treatment phase: Patients should begin treatment within 14 days after signing the informed
      consent form (ICF). Selection period begins when the ICF is signed and the inclusion period
      begins when the patient first receives the study drug (ie Day 1 of the induction cycle).

      Safety will be evaluated by monitoring all adverse events haematological and not
      haematological related with the drug's study.

      The final visit of treatment will take place at least 45 days after the last dose of study
      drug administration.

      Patients who leave the study prematurely, should have the end of treatment visit within 2
      weeks after the decision not to continue to administer the study drug. The final visit should
      take place within 2 weeks after the visit of the last cycle of treatment.

      Off protocol, after making the final visit of, all patients receiving at least one dose of
      study drug will be subject to monitoring by normal clinical practice, for a minimum of two
      years from the final visit or until his death

      Follow up phase:

      The maximum follow-up for all patients is 2 years from the final visit of the last patient
      included and be conducted on a monthly basis during the first year and quarterly during the
      second at least, notwithstanding that there may be more visits at discretion of each centre
      or depending on the clinical features.
    
  