
    
      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind study in arms I and II. Patients are
      randomized to receive either fortified pasteurized donor human milk (arm I) or preterm
      formula (arm II) as a supplement to mother's milk, if needed. Patients are stratified
      according to gestational age (less than 26 weeks vs 27-29 weeks) and prior antenatal steroids
      (yes vs no). Patients are also assigned to groups receiving fortified mother's milk (arm III)
      and preterm formula only (arm IV).

      Milk samples are obtained from the patient's mother for analyses of functional antibody
      against Staphylococcus epidermidis and Staphylococcus aureus; bacterial culture and
      sensitivity; bacterial colony count; and immunoglobulin and nutrient composition (i.e.,
      energy, protein). Maternal blood samples to measure functional antibody are obtained every 2
      weeks throughout hospitalization as long as infant is receiving own mother's milk. Cord blood
      is obtained at delivery.

      Patients are studied at 40 week postmenstrual age, and then every 6 months for 3 years.
      Records of health (e.g., number of doctor, clinic, and emergency room visits;
      hospitalizations; and illnesses), dietary intake, and growth are collected. Urine is
      collected every 2 weeks to monitor infection. Neurodevelopment is assessed at 3 years using
      the McCarthy Scales of Infant Development.

      Mothers who plan to nurse their infants after hospital discharge complete the STAI "trait"
      form at beginning of study. Mothers are assessed weekly for 6 weeks postpartum, and every
      other week thereafter as long as they are expressing milk by mechanical means only. Following
      a session of skin to skin contact, the number of milk expressions, the duration of each
      pumping, and a 24 hour milk collection is obtained. Mothers also complete the Spielberger
      State Trait Anxiety Inventory, STAI, Beck Depression Inventory, Norbeck Social Support
      questionnaire, Parental Stressor Scale, and the Neonatal Perception Inventory during each 24
      hour milk collection.
    
  