
    
      Main Research Question: Does community-based specialist oncology nursing case management
      improve continuity of cancer care and lead to fewer unmet cancer patient needs?

      Why this research is important: This research proposal addresses the issue of gaps in
      continuity of supportive care for cancer patients during the early phases of the disease
      trajectory that result in unmet needs and unnecessary morbidity, prior to entry into a
      formalized cancer care system (e.g., a regional cancer centre or hospital with a cancer
      treatment program). This initial diagnostic period of cancer is associated with significant
      stress, anxiety and uncertainty that can impact upon overall quality of life for all types of
      cancer. These problems are further exacerbated by waiting times of up to 16 weeks between
      diagnosis and attendance in a formalized cancer treatment system. During this time patients
      will face a fragmented supportive care service system resulting in a substantial number of
      patients reporting unmet needs and distress. These care gaps have significant implications
      considering that 38% of women and 41% of men will develop cancer during their lifetime and
      that cancer incidence continues to rise with an estimated 139,000 new cases in Canada (over
      54,000 of these in Ontario) in 2003. There has been growing interest in nursing models to
      address these gaps in supportive cancer care but at this time there is not sufficient high
      quality evidence upon which to base policy decisions to support the widespread introduction
      of this type of model. The results of this study will be very important for policy
      development for community cancer care in Ontario and in other provinces in Canada.

      What is being studied: We will study the impact of a specialized nursing intervention
      (Interlink) on patient outcomes early in the disease trajectory. Impact will be assessed
      directly using validated measures in a randomized controlled trial design. These measures
      will include: continuity of care, unmet needs, psychological distress, uncertainty in
      illness, and quality of life.
    
  