
    
      Investigators at National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) are actively
      developing the infrastructure and capability for identifying the cause of heterogeneous
      immune-mediated disorders through whole exome and whole genome sequencing (WES/WGS). This
      effort received additional support through the establishment of the NIAID Clinical Genomics
      Program (CGP), a Division of Intramural Research (DIR)-supported cross-lab collaboration to
      increase the effectiveness of NIAID s basic and applied genomic research. The disorders under
      investigation include primary immunodeficiencies, immune homeostasis disorders, autoimmune
      conditions, and allergic diseases for which the hypothesized causative genetic mutations(s)
      have not yet been identified. Given recent discoveries of the genetic bases of many
      immunological disorders, we are also expanding the disorders studied to include those with
      prominent extra-immune manifestations in which a strong inherited immunological pathogenic
      basis has been identified; such as the Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders
      associated with Streptococcal infections (PANDAS) or Sydenham s chorea. Despite the breadth
      of clinical presentations under investigation, these immune-mediated disorders share
      significant overlap in underlying molecular pathophysiology and thus represent a coherent
      study target.

      This protocol will facilitate the discovery of genes contributing to selected immune-mediated
      disorders as well as generating experience with genetic secondary finding disclosure and will
      further assess participant s perceptions and preference for WES and future secondary finding
      procedures. Ultimately, a better understanding of the genetic contribution to immune
      dysregulation will not only provide valuable diagnostic and, potentially, prognostic
      information to affected families, but also has the potential to lead to the development of
      novel therapeutic targets. Further, developing experience-tested and evidenced-based
      procedures for secondary finding management is beneficial for NIAID CGP researchers and
      participants.

      This protocol is specific for genetic testing. Probands, or the affected person serving as
      the starting point for the genetic study of family, will be required to be enrolled on a
      primary protocol, which will execute the clinical and research evaluations. Unaffected
      relatives may be enrolled on this protocol only. Participants unable to travel to National
      Institutes of Health (NIH) Clinical Center (NIHCC) may be evaluated through mailin blood
      samples, although evaluation at the NIHCC is strongly preferred, particularly for affected
      participants. This study aims to enroll 200 participants for exome sequencing, including both
      patients and relatives with heterogeneous immune-mediate disorders; all participants
      receiving exome sequencing plus those who decline will be offered participation in the survey
      (i.e., up to the accrual ceiling of 200).
    
  