
    
      Study design and setting This is a multi-centre superiority randomised parallel group, 1:1
      allocation study. Patients will be recruited at three departments of neonatology and
      intensive care units: Department of Neonatology and Neonatal Intensive Care, Division of
      Neonatal Intensive Care (Medical University of Warsaw), and the Institute of Mother and
      Child. Follow up will be carried out at the Department of Paediatrics.

      The study is lead by the Department of Neonatology and Neonatal Intensive Care (KAROWA) with
      approximately 3000 (100 ≤ 32 weeks of gestation) deliveries per year and 12 intensive care
      and 40 high dependency neonatal beds.

      Recruitment Recruitment will take place between June 2019 and December 2020. Parents of
      infants born at less than 32 weeks of gestation will be approached within the first week of
      life.

      Randomisation After reaching 80 ml/kg/day of enteral feeding, patients will be randomised to
      receive standard fortification (SF) or targeted fortification (TF) (proteins, lipids,
      carbohydrates). Allocation will be performed electronically.

      Interventions Human milk fortification procedure Milk fortification will be done twice a day
      (8 am and 8 pm) for each following 12 hour nursing shift (Appendix 1).

      A 10 mL aliquot from each batch of native breast milk will be used for macronutrient analysis
      using a human milk analyser Miris® as per protocol. The remaining batch will first be
      fortified with the standard fortifier. Macronutrient analysis will determine how much extra
      fat, protein, and/or carbohydrate is needed to obtain target fortified breast milk.

      An experienced laboratory technician will perform milk analysis in the neonatal intensive
      care unit (NICU) research laboratory at KAROWA thrice per week at 10:00 am
      (Monday/Wednesday/Friday) from batches collected from the two previous days. Milk samples
      from other sites will be delivered by medical transport in secure freezing containers at 8:00
      am.

      The mean of three measurements per batch (3 x 2-3ml) will be used to calculate the required
      amount of extra fat, protein, and carbohydrate for the following 3 days of fortification
      using a predefined Excel spread sheet (Microsoft Inc, Redmond, Washington). Milk analysis
      will be performed in both treatment arms; however only the intervention group will receive
      TF. Results, together with required amounts of macronutrients, will be emailed to the
      participating centres before noon the same day.

      The defined macronutrient concentration in breast milk is 4.4 g/100 mL of fat, 3 g/100 mL of
      protein, and 8.8 g/ 100 mL of carbohydrate to meet the European Society for Paediatric
      Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition (ESPGHAN) guidelines (6.6 g/kg/d of fat, 4.5
      g/kg/d of protein, and 13.2 g/kg/d of carbohydrate) assuming an intake of 150 mL/kg/d.

      Target fortification will be done in 3 steps:

        1. Determination of macronutrients concentration in own mothers´s milk (OMM)/human donor
           milk (HDM).

        2. Standard fortification (SF) (human milk fortifier - HMF).

        3. Targeted fortification (TF): adding fat, protein, and/or carbohydrate to achieve target
           levels of macronutrients.

      In cases where a macronutrient component after SF will exceed the target value, only the
      other deficient macronutrient components will be adjusted.

      Safety Osmolality of unfortified and fortified breast milk samples will be measured. Bedside
      nurses will be then informed whether osmolality of fortified milk is within the acceptable
      target range (400-480 mOsmol/kg). Osmolality lower or higher than the defined target range
      will be considered as error on the fortification, and a new batch will be prepared.
      Prescription of TF will be completed before noon. Bedside nurses will prepare batches of
      fortified breast milk including the additives for TF.

      Data from breast milk analyses, fortification, and enteral intake will be documented daily.
      Acid base status, blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and glucose will be determined weekly as part of
      the NICU routine.

      The intervention will continue until 37 weeks of post-conception age, or hospital discharge.
      Parents and outcome assessors will be blinded to the intervention.

      Randomization A study number together with the allocated treatment will be assigned by the
      platform. Patient's data along with the result of the allocation will be sent to statistical
      team. The randomisation list will remain with the statistical team for the whole duration of
      the study. Randomisation will be conducted without any influence of the principal
      investigators, clinicians, recruitment or follow up staff.

      Blinding The decision to start fortification will be made by the attending physician blinded
      to the intervention allocated. An employee outside the research team will feed data into the
      computer in separate datasets so that the researchers can analyse data without having access
      to information about the allocation.

      Sample size The sample size required to compare two means in two-sided equality test was
      estimated based on results from a prior double blind, randomised clinical trial,
      investigating the effect of target fortification vs standard fortification of breast milk on
      the changes of anthropometric parameters and body composition in preterm children. It was
      determined, that a mean difference of weight gain 1.9 g/kg/day between groups would be
      clinically important and feasible during intervention. between the study groups with a power
      of 80% and α=0.05, a sample of 91 infants is needed in each study group. Allowing for 10% of
      loss to follow-up, the target number of 200 premature infants will be recruited.
    
  