
    
      [INTRODUCTION]

      The success of combination HIV prevention efforts, including HIV treatment as prevention,
      hinges on universal, routine HIV testing with linkage to care and antiretroviral treatment
      initiation after HIV diagnosis. The proposed study will evaluate the comparative
      effectiveness and sustainability of innovative incentive strategies, informed directly by
      behavioral economics and decision psychology, to promote HIV testing among men and HIV and
      treatment among HIV-infected adults in rural Uganda.

      [OBJECTIVES]

      AIM 1: Adult men living in the study communities in rural Uganda (N=3,000) will be randomized
      to one of three (fixed, loss aversion, and lottery) incentive approaches and different
      incentive amounts that encourage HIV testing. The hypothesis is that lottery and loss
      aversion incentives will result in significantly higher testing uptake than fixed incentives.
      The investigators also hypothesize that the proportion of testers in each arm who are
      HIV-infected (secondary outcome) will be highest with lottery-based incentives. In
      sub-samples of men who do and do not test, the investigators will conduct in-depth interviews
      to assess perceptions, attitudes and preferences related to incentives that may affect how
      incentives influence testing.

      AIM 2: Adult men and women living in the study communities (N=400) who obtained an
      HIV-positive result at a community health campaign will be randomized into one of two
      incentive approaches that encourage HIV treatment adherence. The investigators hypothesize
      that a financial incentive will be more effective than no incentive in promoting HIV
      virologic suppression (a measure of success in ART adherence and navigation of the HIV
      treatment cascade) as incentives capitalize on present bias by drawing attention to a
      salient, immediate benefit of initiating and/or maintaining treatment, and leverage loss
      aversion by generating implicit loss as a result of delaying the decision to initiate ART.

      AIM 3 - Pilot: In order to assess the feasibility of leveraging loss aversion to increase
      repeat HIV testing, HIV-negative adults who are at high risk of HIV acquisition and have just
      tested for HIV will be randomized into one of several different incentive strategies that
      encourage repeat HIV testing. The incentive arms will either: a) leverage loss-aversion by
      requesting participants to make an initial voluntary deposit that they will lose if they do
      not test for HIV at a later date; or b) use a standard gain-framed incentive strategy, in
      which participants are told they will receive an incentive for testing again for HIV at a
      later date. We will compare these two types of incentive strategies to a no incentive arm as
      well. Results from this pilot study will also be used to inform how best to implement loss
      aversion-based incentives in a larger trial, and provide preliminary data to guide sample
      size estimates for a larger trial comparing loss aversion vs. gain-framed incentive-based
      strategies vs. no incentive, on the outcome of repeat HIV testing. We hypothesize that loss
      aversion incentives will be feasible (i.e. ≥50% of eligible adults will be willing to
      participate), and will result in significantly higher testing uptake than either gain-framed
      incentives or no incentives.

      Aim 3 - Trial. Assess the comparative effectiveness of deposit contracts (a form of
      incentives that leverages loss aversion) vs. gain-framed incentives, compared to no
      incentives (control), to promote repeat HIV testing among high-risk HIV-uninfected adults. In
      our Aim 3 pilot trial, we assessed the feasibility and acceptability of deposit contracts: a
      loss aversion-based strategy to incentivize retesting for HIV. As deposit contracts were
      found to be highly acceptable and feasible in our Aim 3 pilot in August-December 2017 (>90%
      of participants in the deposit contract group made deposits into the study contracts), we
      will now proceed with a larger trial of sufficient sample size to compare the effectiveness
      of loss aversion and gain-framed incentive approaches vs. no incentives, on the outcome of
      repeat HIV testing. We hypothesize that deposit contracts (loss aversion-based incentives)
      will result in significantly higher HIV retesting uptake 3- and 6-months after enrollment
      than either gain-framed incentives or no incentives.
    
  