
    
      Neonatal congenital malformation is one of the most frequent cause of infant death in the
      western world and major cities of China. There are many different types of congenital
      malformations, and some of these can be caused by changes in gene mutation. Next generation
      sequencing (NGS) is a high-throughput parallel sequencing that can provide genetic
      information with high accuracy. It is a faster and cost-effective method to detect gene
      mutations compared to Sanger sequencing. We hope to couple genomic techniques with more
      traditional methods involved in genetic discovery in order to investigate a broad range of
      conditions for which there is strong evidence that genetic factors are involved. So In this
      study, we evaluated the clinical role of NGS testing for neonatal genetic disease in newborns
      compared to Sanger sequencing to observe whether this new technology can significantly
      shorten the time of examination, improve the diagnosis rate, guide the intervention
      treatments and promote prognosis.

      These neonates who have an undiagnosed illness, and partial families, will be eligible to
      participate in the study. The study population will be recruited from Children's Hospital of
      Fudan University inpatient population, primarily the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU),
      with a subpopulation presenting to other hospitals in China. All affected study participants
      will receive a genetic screening according to their clinical symptom. All subjects will have
      blood drawn for DNA isolation and genomic sequencing at the time of enrollment in the study.
      All blood sample volumes will adhere to the Fudan procedure on maximum blood in pediatric
      patients. In addition, cerebrospinal fluid and tissue samples may be collected and stored in
      the bank of biosamples. DNA will be isolated and prepared for NGS or Sanger with Fudan
      protocols at the Translational Medicine Center of Children's Hospital of Fudan University.
      Partial familial samples will also be obtained, and nucleic acids will also be sequenced, as
      indicated, to assist in diagnosis of the genetic disease in the newborn. All sequencing data
      will be stored in the Genome Center Biorepository. In the case of positive study findings
      that may be diagnostic, our investigator will perform confirmatory clinical diagnostic
      testing and, if confirmed, a standard clinical diagnostic report will be placed in the
      patient's medical record. Follow up with the patient's family will be guided by the clinical
      care team. Both molecular diagnoses results and duration to diagnosis will be recorded as
      primary outcomes.

      In addition, this information will help alleviate anxiety on the part of the family, and also
      provides a mechanism for patient crossover into the rapid NGS arm if the patient is
      clinically deteriorating, and at the clinical care team's request. Each time a study
      participant is enrolled, the clinician and parents will be asked to fill out a survey prior
      to NGS testing and after return of results. We will also review the patient's medical record
      and collect clinical variables including laboratory testing, radiology results, medications
      and other treatments received to further analyze the effect NGS has on clinical care. So the
      ultimate goal is individualized or personalized therapy. We plan to follow up with families
      annually up to 18 months post enrollment and record clinical outcomes related to this study.
    
  