
    
      The study was approved by the regional scientific ethical committee, and was registered in
      ClinicalTrial.gov NTC no………...

      Patients were selected consecutively with acute and chronic leukemia and lymphoma, Hodg-kin's
      lymphoma, and Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in treatment with chemotherapy.

      Eligible patients were aged >18 years, and only patients who were able to com-municate and
      understand written and oral information and receive food orally were included. The special
      diets were developed at the Central Kitchen at Rigshospitalet Initially, two single blinded
      pilot studies of five patients were performed, with the same inclusion and exclusion criteria
      as the main study. In the first study patients tested 17 dishes with a taste-mix of
      dominating umami, a little sweet, sour and salt, and no bitter. In the second round six
      dishes were selected based on the results from the first round. All dishes had a high
      energy-density, with a protein content of at least 5 g/100 g. Every dish was tested both
      before and after chemotherapy. Patients rated acceptability on 9-point scales.

      The clinical controlled cross-over design with two periods of four weeks, intervention and
      control, tested four dishes selected after the second pilot study. 32 patients were included
      in that trial, and they started with their habitual diet as control and then switched to
      recommendation of introduction of the four dishes selected.

      The patients registered their weight every time they were at the hospital. During the
      intervention period the patients received a recipe booklet with the four dishes and a noted
      every time they ingested one of these. Compliance measurements were based on this
      registration. Patients had access to the dishes when in-patients, but they did their own
      cooking at home. It was possible to buy the similar dishes as pre-prepared meals in the
      supermarkets. The dishes in the final study were: Chili con Carne, Chicken in Curry, Curry
      Soup and Pasta Carbonara with added curry.

      Data were analyzed with R (version 2.15.3). In histograms used to show the degree of
      acceptability for the dishes in the pilot studies, answers above 5 were graded as high grade
      of acceptance. To present descriptive statistics, the results were expressed as mean ±
      standard deviation (SD), median (interquartile range (IQR)) and range. As the data did not
      show a normal distribution, Wilcoxon rang-sum tests (paired and unpaired) were used. Analyses
      were carried out both according to intention-to- treat (ITT) and per-protocol (PP)
      principles. As many of the data sampled, especially the subjective ones, sensitivity analysis
      (± 10% correction of the results) were performed.
    
  