
    
      We are currently witnessing the advent of new diagnostic tools and therapies for heart
      diseases, but,without serious scientific consensus on fundamental questions about normal and
      diseased heart structure and function. During the last decade, three successive,
      international, multidisciplinary symposia were organized in order to setup fundamental
      research principles, which would allow us to make a significant step forward in understanding
      heart structure and function. (Kocica MJ et al., 2006) Helical ventricular myocardial band
      (HVMB, Figure 2-1) of Torrent-Guasp is the revolutionary new concept in understanding global,
      three-dimensional, functional architecture of the ventricular myocardium. This concept
      defines the principal, cumulative vectors, integrating the tissue architecture (i.e. form)
      and net forces developed (i.e. function) within the ventricular mass. Helical ventricular
      myocardial band of Torrent-Guasp may also, hopefully, allow overcoming some difficulties
      encountered in contemporary efforts to create a comprehensive mathematical model of the
      heart.

      Within the ventricular mass, size, shape, connections and orientation in a three-dimensional
      space of every single constituent determine its functional behavior. This kind of spatial
      dependence allows the ventricular myocardial mass to be considered as the source of
      interdependent vectorial forces (i.e.

      electrical and mechanical), being generated on different length and time scales. The ultimate
      net result of these vectorial forces is to translate uniaxial sarcomere shortening into
      efficient three-dimensional deformation of the ventricular cavity. The complex architecture
      of the ventricular mass creates multiple inhomogeneities of electrical and mechanical loads
      at the cellular and the microscopic tissue level, that cause cardiac function to be
      'stochastic in nature'. However, at macroscopic (i.e. organ) level, these stochastic events
      become average and appear consistent with a continuous medium. This dialectic coexistence of
      complexity and simplicity, discreetness and continuity suggests the existence of certain
      rule-based assignment, which 'may be applied equally well to all the ventricular myocardial
      fibers', enabling the ventricular myocardial mass to assemble abundant, dynamic, stochastic
      vectorial forces and produce apparently smooth, averaged, continuous, global response.
    
  