
    
      This evaluation will test the effectiveness of a family-focused intervention, Communities for
      Healthy Living (CHL), implemented through Head Start. Over 20% of preschool-aged children in
      the US experience overweight or obese. Because obesity prevention depends heavily on the
      adoption of healthy lifestyle behaviors early in life, preventive efforts offer a higher
      promise for success if they are family-centered. Effective family-centered interventions for
      obesity prevention in preschool-aged children, however, remain elusive. While a number of
      interventions have shown positive effects on child Body Mass Index (BMI), results are
      inconsistent and short term effects are not maintained. What is more, because families at
      greatest risk of childhood obesity - including low-income, single-parent, and ethnic minority
      families - are the most difficult to recruit and retain, results are often limited in their
      applicability to high risk populations.

      In response, the researchers have partnered with Head Start to develop and test a new
      approach to family-centered childhood obesity prevention that addresses family engagement
      upfront. The CHL program will be refined and rigorously tested for efficacy in collaboration
      with Head Start programs in the greater Boston area, which collectively serve over 2000
      low-income children each year. Building on a previous pilot study, the investigators will
      broaden the parent-centered Community Based Participatory Research approach and include Head
      Start staff in the decision making and implementation process, refine intervention
      components, and expand technical assistance protocols to support Head Start ownership of CHL
      while ensuring implementation fidelity. In addition, consistent with the overarching
      theoretical framework (Family Ecological Model), neighborhood-level socioeconomic, food and
      physical activity environments around family homes and examine their impact on intervention
      outcomes will be measured to inform future scale up efforts.
    
  