
    
      Once enrolled, subjects will have a standardized anesthetic on the day of surgery:

        1. Pre-medication with oral midazolam (0.5mg/kg to maximum dose of 20mg) given 15-20
           minutes before induction

        2. Inhalation induction with sevoflurane and a mixture of N20/02

        3. Propofol 1-1.5 mg/kg to facilitate endotracheal intubation

        4. Morphine 0.1 mg/kg given prior to intubation

        5. Maintenance anesthesia with isoflurane, titrated to 0.8-1 Minimal Anesthetic
           Concentration (MAC) with a mixture of Air/02

        6. Acetaminophen IV (15 mg/kg) vs. saline placebo infused intraoperatively (randomized by
           pharmacy)

        7. Ondansetron (0.15 mg/kg, maximum dose of 4 mg) and dexamethasone (0.25 mg/kg, maximum
           dose of 20 mg) for postoperative nausea prophylaxis.

      Following surgery and extubation, baseline vitals will be obtained and pain scores will be
      assessed in the post anesthesia care unit (PACU) via Faces, Legs, Activity, Cry,
      Consolability Scale (FLACC).The presence of emergence delirium will be assessed via Pediatric
      Agitation and Emergence Delirium scale (PAED). Those subjects whose pain score is assessed at
      < 4 will receive standard postoperative care and no analgesics. Assessed pain scores > 4 will
      receive 0.5mcg/kg fentanyl q10 minutes as needed. Variables such as time to extubation in the
      PACU, time to first analgesic delivery, pain scores, # times/total dose of opioids given,
      presence of sedation, nausea/vomiting, duration of oxygen requirement in PACU, whether or not
      patient was discharged to floor on oxygen and total PACU time will be recorded during the
      duration of the patient's PACU stay. Subjects will be discharged to the inpatient floor from
      the PACU once standard discharge criteria have been met.

      Following discharge from the PACU, standardized analgesics will be given for breakthrough
      pain (oral oxycodone 0.1mg/kg q4hrs pro re nata (PRN) pain). Enrolled patients will be
      followed during the duration of their inpatient stay. Duration of oxygen requirement on the
      floor, pain scores and number of administered oxycodone doses on the floor will be monitored
      and recorded.
    
  