
    
      Study design and setting A cross-sectional study was carried out in both male and female
      campuses of King Khalid University (KKU) during the academic year 2018-2019. The University
      is located in Aseer region in the southwestern part of Saudi Arabia. The area of Aseer region
      is about 80.000 square kilometers occupied with more than 1.6 million people. The university
      comprise 5 health colleges and 24 non-health colleges with a total number of 60.312 male and
      female students in the academic year 2014-2015.

      Target population Students in Health and non-health care colleges in KKU were the target
      population.

      Sample size and sampling method Sample size was estimated by using Epi info program version
      7.2 with the anticipated prevalence of GERD symptoms among college students 23.8% [6], 95%
      confidence level and acceptable margin of error of 2.5%. The calculated cluster size was 1113
      students. To account for the possibility of non-response, 1200 students were targeted from
      each of health and non-health care colleges.

      All health care colleges were included in the study. They were colleges of medicine,
      pharmacy, dentistry, nursing and applied medical science. Five non- health care colleges were
      selected by random method. They were colleges of education, science, humanities,
      administrative and financial sciences, and languages and translation. Participants were
      selected through stratified cluster sampling technique. Within each college, students were
      stratified by academic level. Within each level a cluster (section or study group) was
      selected. When possible, all registered students within each cluster were included.

      Study tool and data collection A self-reported questionnaire was distributed personally by
      medical students-during their training in community medicine course- between the
      participants. The questionnaire includes the following sections: a) personal data such as,
      age sex, marital status, smoking status and family income; b) academic data which include,
      name of college, academic level and Grade point average (GPA); c) Arabic version of GERD
      questionnaire (GerdQ)[10]; d) Arabic version of Cohen's Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) [8].

      All incomplete questionnaires were excluded. Arabic version of GERD questionnaire (GerdQ)
      GerdQ is a valid questionnaire used to explore the probaility of GERD. It is consisted of 6
      questions as follow: four positive questions to assess GERD symptoms (heartburn,
      regurgitation, sleep disturbance related to heartburn and regurgitation and use of
      medications) and two negative questions (epigastric pain and nausea). Each item rated from 0
      to 3 depending on the rate of symptoms over the previous week. GERD was detected with a total
      score value of 8 or more [10]. Score value of 8 or more plus total score value of 3 or more
      for the impact questions (sleep disturbance and use of medications) indicted GERD with impact
      on daily life. The Arabic version of GerdQ was developed and validated for use among Arabic
      speakers [11].

      Data analysis The gained data were entered, revised, and analyzed using SPSS, version 22
      software package. Grading of PSS into low, moderate and high was according to Cohen's et al
      [12]. Crude odds ratio (cOR) and adjusted odds ratio (aOR) were calculated using univariate
      and multivariable logistic regression analysis respectively. Their 95% confidence intervals
      (95% CIs) were used to identify significant factors associated with GERD among students.
    
  