
    
      MYKKE is a long-term prospective registry providing a core platform for clinical research
      studies, which can be attached in a modular fashion. After a six-month pilot phase including
      8 centers, the basic registry was opened in June 2014 to all hospitals in Germany treating
      patients with paediatric heart disease. While the scientific lead is with two study
      coordinators and a study group consisting of principal investigators from the collaborating
      centres ("MYKKE Investigators"), MYKKE is hosted and technically administered by the
      Competence Network for Congenital Heart Defects, which was initiated in 2003 by the Federal
      Ministry of Education and Research of the German government and is now part of the German
      Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK). Ethical approval was first obtained at the
      initiating centre (Deutsches Herzzentrum Berlin) and subsequently confirmed by local
      authorities of all collaborating centres.

      The treating physicians enter basic data from patients enrolled at the study site via an
      online web interface to a central study database. For each patient, a specific patient
      identification number (PID) is generated based on name, first name and date of birth in order
      to store data in a pseudonymized fashion. As the PIDs are generated by a specific algorithm,
      data from the same patient are always linked to the same dataset even when data from
      different visits are entered by different institutions.

      The web interface provides two different forms for each patient. The first form ("general
      sheet") is filled-in only at first presentation and consists of 12 items regarding disease
      and patient history, and initial symptoms of the disease. The second type of sheet ("current
      visit") can be generated once for each new patient visit and includes 52 items on
      characteristics of the current visit, current symptoms, diagnostic tests performed,
      confidence of the treating physician in the diagnosis on a subjective scale, left-ventricular
      function, therapy, complications, and follow-up care provider after discharge. Items
      primarily require yes/no responses via ticking respective boxes, allowing for completing each
      data sheet in <5 minutes when all data are available.
    
  