
    
      The National Overactive Bladder Evaluation (NOBLE) Program estimated the prevalence of OAB in
      the US is nearly 17% affecting approximately 30 million adults. Sixty-one percent of adults
      with OAB also have urge urinary incontinence (UUI. Urinary urgency is a key symptom of OAB.
      Urgency may be more bothersome to patients than urinary frequency, although urinary frequency
      is often the primary focus of study in the field of OAB. This may be partially due to
      controversy surrounding how to define the term 'urinary urgency'. As currently defined,
      urgency is meant to describe an abnormal sensation that is distinguishable from the normal
      feeling of "urge to void," which occurs during a normal bladder-filling cycle. Attempts to
      measure urgency are confounded by difficulties in understanding this definition in the
      context of a normal "urge" to void. This controversy probably arises because of the overlap
      of the English words 'urge' and 'urgency' during clinical conversation, and apparently does
      not give rise to confusion in other languages. Recently a new validated questionnaire for the
      measurement of urgency symptoms was validated[5, 6]. The USIQ consists of two parts with an
      initial filter question, designated for self-administration. The first 5 items, known as
      USIQ- severity (USIQ-S), inquires about urgency symptoms and severity, while the second part
      USIQ- quality of life (USIQ-QOL) consists of 8 questions which inquire about bother and
      condition specific QOL such as: cooping behaviors, work, commuting and travel, sleep,
      physical activities, social activities, psychological well-being, relationships and sexual
      function. Items for each scale are summed and transformed to a score ranging from 0-100.
      Higher symptom bother scores indicate increasing symptom bother, and higher USIQ-QOL scores
      indicate worse health related quality of life. The main objective of this current study is to
      compare the effect of two different anticholinergic medications on symptoms of urinary
      urgency using a validated, subjective instruments designed specifically for this purpose.
    
  