
    
      At this time, choice of medications for the treatment of headaches in the ED is still based
      on personal and patient preferences because no properly constructed trials have been carried
      out that would allow identification of a superior agent. Metoclopramide (Reglan) is a common
      agent used for relief of headaches in the ED. Uncontrolled studies have shown successful
      relief of migraine with metoclopramide of 75%. Further studies have reported success rate of
      67% with IV metoclopramide. In this study the investigators seek to explore another option
      for treatment of headaches in the ED, one that may be more efficacious and efficient.
      Haloperidol (Haldol), a butyrophenone class of medication, is thought to act by affecting the
      dopamine 2 receptor in the brain. These receptors are relatively abundant in the brainstem
      nuclei and sympathetic ganglia and nerves, through which they may regulate autonomic
      visceral, gastrointestinal, and hemodynamic responses frequently associated with migraine.
      One study, demonstrated that 4 out of 5 patients felt significant relief in pain intensity
      with the use of haloperidol, even when other medications had failed. Relapses were rare, and
      several patients reported that haloperidol interrupted the prolonged, intractable migraine
      spiral they had suffered for days. Furthermore, a case series of six cases of migraine
      treated with 5mg of haloperidol IV after a 500 to 1000ml bolus of IV fluids reported complete
      or substantial relief within 25 to 65 minutes and side effects were reported as minimal.

      The investigators hypothesize that Haloperidol is more efficacious than metoclopramide in the
      treatment of an acute headache or migraine in the ED in regard to a self-reported pain rating
      scale (Numeric Pain Intensity Scale), need for additional medication, emergency department
      return rates, and resolution of symptoms.
    
  