
    
      Occult gastrointestinal bleeding is defined as iron deficiency or fecal occult blood test
      (FOBT) positivity with or without anemia. Colonoscopy can detect significant pathology such
      as colon cancer, significant precancerous polyps, or angiodysplasia. EGD can detect pathology
      such as esophageal or gastric cancer, peptic ulcer disease, or vascular lesions. Here at the
      VA, uncomplicated referrals for occult bleeding with anemia are directly schedule for EGD and
      colonoscopy on the same day without prior clinic visit. Cases of FOBT positivity without
      anemia or upper GI symptoms usually receive only colonoscopy. Both procedures are standard of
      care for occult bleeding and have well established safety. The diagnostic yield of
      bidirectional endoscopy for occult bleeding has previously been studied with mixed results
      due to the variability in study design, inclusion/exclusion criteria, etc. It is unclear if
      presentation (iron deficiency vs fobt positivity), severity (level of iron deficiency, hct,
      transfusion needed), medical history (renal failure, need for Aspirin or NSAIDs etc), or
      symptoms (upper vs lower GI) are predictive of endoscopic findings. Of particular uncertainty
      is the utility of upper endoscopy in patients with isolated FOBT positivity (no iron
      deficiency, anemia, or upper GI symptoms). In a large retrospective study of asymptomatic
      patients who underwent EGD following a negative colonoscopy performed for FOBT positivity
      without iron deficiency (with or without anemia) showed that anemia was predictive of
      significant positive findings (29% vs. 8%). In a prospective study, patients with FOBT
      positivity without iron deficiency had same bidirectional endoscopy performed. Significant
      upper gi lesions were more prevalent than colonic lesions (28.6% vs. 21.8%) with a low
      sensitivity for predicting findings based on symptoms.

      Our primary purpose is to determine if anemia or upper GI symptoms can accurately predict the
      presence of significant upper GI findings in patients with fobt positivity and a
      non-diagnostic colonoscopy. We will use this information to justify or change our current
      endoscopic approach to such patients.

      Methods:

      Study size: 200 consecutive patients

      Inclusion criteria:

      Outpatients referred for occult bleeding (iron deficiency or fobt positivity)

      Exclusion criteria:

      Overt bleeding (melena, hematochezia) Abnormal luminal imaging Prior EGD or colonoscopy
      within 1 year

      Study flow:

        1. Review all outpatient referrals for occult bleeding (iron def, fobt positive).

        2. All potential patients will be contacted by phone and their enrollment/participation
           will be discussed. If interested we will proceed.

        3. We will confirm/obtain fobtx3, full iron panel (iron, tibc, ferritin), cell count
           (including mcv), coags, and creatinine within 1 month of procedure (if not already done
           within that time).

        4. We will complete a standard questionnaire as outlined below. Date will come from direct
           questioning and review of CPRS. This will be done by phone. Questioning will take about
           15 minutes. See attached.

        5. Once labs and questionnaire are obtained, pts will then be scheduled for same day
           colon/egd (with duodenal biopsy regardless of appearance) within 30 days performed by Dr
           Baichi or Dr Mehboob. Colonoscopy will be performed first. Egd will be cancelled only if
           colon has obvious malignancy. Other positive findings will not eliminate need for egd.

        6. Patient study involvement ends after completion of procedures

      Results/analysis:

      EGD and colonoscopy findings will be recorded and lesions will be categorized as potential
      bleeding source (PBS) based on criteria outlined by others.

      The data will be analyzed for diagnostic yield and statistical tests will be applied as
      needed to assess for predictors of positive findings.
    
  