
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of 1 course of ginger vs placebo when administered in regimens
           containing a 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonist antiemetic and
           dexamethasone (or the equivalent dose of IV methylprednisolone) in controlling
           chemotherapy-related nausea at course 2 of chemotherapy in patients with cancer.

        -  Compare the efficacy of 3 different doses of ginger in controlling chemotherapy-related
           nausea in these patients.

        -  Determine the adverse effects of ginger when given 3 days before chemotherapy
           administration in these patients.

        -  Determine the adverse effects of these antiemetic regimens during the 4 days after
           chemotherapy.

        -  Compare the chemotherapy-related anticipatory nausea in patients treated with these
           antiemetic regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life during the 4 days after chemotherapy in patients treated
           with these antiemetic regimens.

        -  Compare the chemotherapy-related nausea at course 3 of chemotherapy in these patients
           after 2 courses of ginger vs placebo.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment
      arms. Day 1 of each course is defined as the day of chemotherapy administration.

        -  Placebo: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily on days -3 to 3 of chemotherapy
           courses 2 and 3.

        -  0.5g Ginger: Patients receive oral low-dose ginger and oral placebo twice daily on days
           -3 to 3 of chemotherapy courses 2 and 3.

        -  1.0g Ginger: Patients receive oral intermediate-dose ginger and oral placebo twice daily
           on days -3 to 3 of chemotherapy courses 2 and 3.

        -  1.5g Ginger: Patients receive oral high-dose ginger twice daily on days -3 to 3 of
           chemotherapy courses 2 and 3.

      Patients in each arm also continue receiving their scheduled antiemetic regimen comprising a
      5-hydroxytryptamine type-3 (5-HT3) receptor antagonist (ondansetron, granisetron,
      tropisetron, and dolasetron mesylate) and dexamethasone (DM) (or the equivalent dose of IV
      methylprednisolone (MePRDL)) on day 1 of courses 2 and 3.

      Symptoms are assessed on day -3 to day 1 of courses 2 and 3 and on days 1-4 of courses 1-3.

      Quality of life is assessed on day 4 of courses 1-3.

      Nausea and vomiting are assessed 4 times daily on days 1-4 of courses 1-3.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 706 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  