
    
      Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a chronic myeloproliferative neoplasm signified by the
      presence of Philadephia chromosome, which is the derivative of chromosome 22 after
      translocation between chromosome 9 and 22. The Philadephia chromosome will produce the
      mutated tyrosine kinase (BCR-ABL1), which will initiate the pathogenesis of the disease.

      Imatinib is the first tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), which has changed the treatment
      paradigm of CML since its approval from U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2001 for the
      treatment of CML. It signifies a new era of oncological treatment using targeted therapy.
      Subsequent generation TKIs have been marketed as a more potent therapy for CML. Tyrosine
      kinase inhibitor is conventionally thought not able to cure CML and it has to be taken for
      life. It is able to induce a very deep molecular response (MR) in about 10% of CML patients
      as evidenced by persistent undetectable or ≤0.0032% (International Scale IS) BCR-ABL1
      transcript in quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test on current molecular assays,
      which is labelled as MR4.5 or more. However these patients have to continue taking their TKIs
      as per recommendations from the European Leukaemia Net and this is the current practice in
      our institution and in Malaysia. Long term treatment is cumbersome, there is a concern of
      chronic side effects with long term tyrosine kinase inhibition and it is a financial burden
      on most countries' health budget as these drugs are very expensive.

      Current available data showed that 40% of CML patients with prior stable MR4.5 for 2 years or
      more will be able to stay imatinib-free for at least 2 years. About 13% of patients without
      confirmed molecular relapse by the study criteria have low persistent BCR-ABL1 but remain
      imatinib-free for median follow-up of 22 months (range 6 - 35). A few patients with confirmed
      molecular relapse by study criteria remained drug free on follow-up. This postulates a
      component of immunity suppressing the leukemic clone.

      Interferon is the standard treatment of CML before the era of TKI. As a single agent, it
      induces complete cytogenetic response (CCR) in about 20%, and non-sustainable deep MR in
      about 10% of patients in early chronic phase. These are much smaller figures compared to TKI.
      Imatinib at the dose of 400mg daily induces CCR in about 70% and deep MR in about 10% of
      patient in chronic phase after one year of treatment. However, interferon-responded patients
      may indeed retain the response once interferon was withdrawn via interferon-induced immunity
      towards the leukemic clone, which leads to longer drug free period compared to TKI. Hence, it
      is logical to postulate the use of interferon after TKI was stopped when patients have
      attained deep MR for more than two years will increase the percentage of patients remain
      TKI-free on follow-up. Unfortunately, there are not many studies concerning this matter.
      Carella et al described a case series of five patients with deep MR ranging from 12 to 41
      months, were put on interferon with follow-up ranging from three to 16 months. Recently,
      there was a study from Japan, nine out of 12 analyzable patients including 3 patients with
      previous treatment of interferon, who stopped TKI, was put on interferon remained in deep MR
      after median follow-up of 23 months (6-27 months). In regards to peginterferon, there is a
      small studies by Hardan I et al describing 11 CML patients with various responses after
      imatinib (from complete cytogenetic response N=3, major molecular response N=6, deep MR N=2)
      were put on peginterferon-α-2a for nine months together with imatinib, then imatinib was
      stopped and continued with peginterferon-α-2a for another three months. It is difficult to
      draw any conclusion from this paper because of the small number of subjects, only two
      subjects have achieved deep MR (with unknown duration) before study entry, and
      peginterferon-α-2a was combined with imatinib for nine months which will cloud the true
      effect of peginterferon-α-2a after imatinib was stopped.

      So far, there is no randomized study comparing interferon administered for fix duration after
      TKI was stopped versus observation to see whether the percentage and duration of CML patient
      who remains TKI-free can be increased and prolonged with interferon, respectively. It will be
      of interest to see how long the group which was given interferon remains TKI-free. If they
      remain TKI-free for a long duration, it not only suggests the interferon-induced immunity,
      but also suggests the interferon-induced immunity can be induced when only a very low level
      of leukemic cells present. Economical wise, TKI-free certainly give a big relief on the
      limited health budget of the on-growing CML population.
    
  