
    
      Ever since its introduction, one of the major limitations of endovascular therapy is the
      occurrence of restenosis after treatment. Factors contributing to loss of primary patency
      after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) due to balloon injury are negative arterial
      remodeling, excessive neointimal proliferation and elastic recoil. In order to increase
      sustained vessel patency, systemic medication administration and brachytherapy have been
      proposed, but have not led to any success. With the introduction of stents, patency rates
      have been optimized also on longer term. However, neointimal hyperplasia after endovascular
      stent placement in infra-inguinal arteries remains a major limiting issue. Stents themselves
      contribute to this excessive intimal formation because of the vascular response to the
      metallic prosthesis. In order to find a solution to overcome this limitation, the
      possibilities of drug-eluting technologies are being examined.

      Current concepts include drug-eluting stents (DES), which provide sustained release of
      anti-proliferative medication into the vessel wall. The application of a drug coating on a
      stent surface inhibits the inflammatory response and smooth muscle cell proliferation in the
      vessel wall during a certain period and delays the process of intimal hyperplasia. Thus, DES
      technology was developed to prevent early restenosis and late luminal loss to potentially
      improve long-term patency rates. Because DES with active stent coatings have shown to be
      beneficial in the treatment of coronary artery disease, the technique of active stent
      coatings (sirolimus or paclitaxel) as commonly used in coronary interventions was transferred
      to the infrainguinal vascular bed. However, an active stent coating (sirolimus or paclitaxel)
      only inhibits the inflammatory response and smooth muscle cell proliferation in the vessel
      wall for a certain period; in fact, it merely delays the process of intimal hyperplasia as
      demonstrated by the 2-year results of the SIROCCO study.

      Another novel way of inhibiting restenosis after PTA is the use of drug-coated balloons
      (DCB), which inhibit restenosis by an immediate local release of medication during the
      intervention. The rationale behind the use of DCBs is based on the finding that sustained
      drug elution is not a necessary to obtain a sustained inhibition of restenosis. The concept
      of using a balloon with medication to treat vascular disease was introduced in 2003 by
      Scheller et al.

      One of the most commonly used drugs for arterial applications is the anti-proliferative
      paclitaxel (Taxol), which impedes cell division in the cell cycle. Paclitaxel has certain
      characteristics which make it a promising candidate for treatment of peripheral arterial
      disease. Because it is hydrophobic, paclitaxel does not require the use of a polymer to
      prevent wash-off during tracking or implantation. Adequate drug delivery to the vessel wall
      is possible because of its lipophilic characteristic, which enables paclitaxel to interact
      with the high concentrations of lipids present in the vessel wall and avoids the need for a
      polymer. Results of preclinical and clinical studies have shown that short-term exposure to
      Paclitaxel may suffice to obtain a sustained reduction in late lumen loss and avoid
      restenosis in both coronary and peripheral arteries: in contrast to stents, DCBs do not leave
      any residual material in the artery lumen that could trigger neointimal proliferation, thus
      making DCBs an attractive alternative to stents, especially in challenging arterial
      anatomies. Further investigation is warranted in order to obtain conclusive data.
      Furthermore, the benefit of treating in-stent restenosis (ISR) in the peripheral arteries
      with DCBs has yet to be investigated, although limited data is already available to date.

      The clinical value of these drug-eluting technologies has been proven repeatedly in the
      coronary arteries, and evidence of therapeutic applications to peripheral artery disease is
      starting to build. It is the intent of this prospective study to evaluate the treatment of a
      drug-coated balloon followed by stent implant and comparing this to the results of the 4EVER
      trial and results in the literature.
    
  