
    
      We propose to address existing evidence gaps and develop the requested data on the range of
      clinical outcomes that may be experienced by stroke survivors. To achieve these goals, we
      will link the nation's largest stroke registry, the American Heart Association (AHA) Get With
      The Guidelines-Stroke program and nationwide Medicare claims data, coupled with telephone
      interviews for longitudinal treatment and downstream patient-reported outcomes.

      Design & Procedures:

      Retrospective: Using GWTG-Stroke database and its associated 1900 hospitals, we will conduct
      several comparative research protocols prioritized by stroke survivor focus groups and
      surveys. GWTG-Stroke registry clinical data linked with Medicare claims will be used for
      analysis of effectiveness and safety of post-stroke therapies on long-term clinical outcomes
      (n= 450,000). Outcomes of interest include:

      "Home-time" (days alive and at home) Death Stroke/TIA readmission All-cause readmission
      Cardiovascular readmission Bleeding readmission

      Prospective:

      We will use the existing AVAIL registry combined with an additional 2000 stroke survivors for
      a combined cohort of over 5000 patients to obtain detailed information on patient-reported
      outcomes. The AVAIL Registry (IRB # Pro00012243) collected data from 3000 stroke survivors
      between 2006 and 2008. We plan to use these data to supplement our prospective PROSPER study.
      The PROSPER study will enroll a minimum of 2,000 subjects to augment the data collected from
      the AVAIL study. Consented patients from at least 75 sites will complete interviews at 3 and
      6 months after discharge. We anticipate that the PROSPER questionnaire will include the
      following tools: Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS), Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ8), modified
      Rankin scale (mRS), Barthel Index, EuroQOL (EQ-5D), Stroke-specific quality of life
      (SSQOL-12) and Lawton Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL). Sites will consent
      interested patients and have them complete a patient contact information form which includes,
      name, address, phone numbers, email address, etc. Outcomes of interest include: : Post-stroke
      fatigue, Depression, Chronic pain, Medication intolerance, Modified Rankin scale (mRS),
      EuroQOL and Stroke-specific quality of life.
    
  