
    
      Prostate cancer (PC) is the most common cancer among men. The incidence of PC has increased
      dramatically in Finland since 1980´s and lately approximately 4.500 new PC cases have been
      diagnosed annually in Finland.

      About one quarter of diagnosed PC are metastatic at the time of diagnosis. Accurate staging
      is extremely important, as the stage is single most important factor when treatment decisions
      are made and stage is the single most important prognostic factor. Localized PC is treated
      with active surveillance (low risk cases), or with treatment modalities with curative intent
      (radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy).Although recently radical treatments have been
      suggested to play a role in low volume metastatic disease, the standard treatment of
      metastatic disease is castration therapy.

      In PC staging the most important anatomic locations to be imaged are i) bone, ii) lymph nodes
      (especially pelvic lymph nodes), and iii) extranodal soft tissues.

      Detection of tumor bone metastases is commonly performed by BS. However, the results of
      recent studies have raised many doubts whether BS is as effective for confirming or excluding
      metastatic bone disease. Moreover, the sensitivity for 99mTc-methylene diphosphonate bone
      scintigraphy (99mTc-MDP BS) is only 50-70%. The detection of bone metastases in patients with
      high-risk PC is significantly improved by SPECT compared to planar BS. Other imaging
      modalities with potentially improved accuracy to detect bone metastases in PC include
      PET-scan and whole body MRI.

      The value of positron emission tomography (PET) imaging depends on the suitability of used
      isotope tracer to identify lesions of the imaged tumor type. When bone is imaged with PET,
      18F-fluoride has been the most commonly used tracer. Other commonly used PET tracers in PC
      include 18F-FDG, and 18F/11C-choline, but both have been late more or less replaced by
      PSMA-PET. Prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) is a trans-membrane protein with an
      increased expression on cell membranes of PC cells. 68Ga-PSMA HBED-CC (Glu-NH-CO-NH-Lys-
      (Ahx)-[68Ga(HBED-CC)]) was designed as an extracellular PSMA inhibitor for PET imaging and
      has been shown to demonstrate high specificity for PSMA-expressing tumor cell. PSMA-PET
      results have been reported in several studies, but only in three prospective, one including
      20-30 patients. Of those studies only study by Fendler and coworkers investigated overall
      staging, the other two studies by van Leeuwen focused on intraprostatic tumor detection or
      nodal metastases. Nevertheless, PSMA-PET/CT is a promising imaging modality both for soft
      tissues and bone. Recently 68Ga-PSMA was reported to outperform 99mTc-DPD-SPECT in detection
      of bone metastases in PC.

      Recently, the novel PET tracer 18F-PSMA-1007 has been developed as a promising PSMA ligand to
      even outperform 68Ga-PSMA-PET in overall staging. 18F-PSMA-1007 have advantages in comparison
      to 68Ga-PSMA-PET including primary elimination of 18F-PSMA-1007 via the hepatobiliary
      excretion route leading to less isotope activity in urinary tract. Consequently,
      18F-PSMA-1007 might lead to better local staging because of its favorable pharmacokinetics
      and tumor-specific uptake. 18F-PSMA-1007-PET combined with CT or even MRI could truly offer a
      1-stop solution for both metastatic screening and local staging, but more prospective studies
      are needed to confirm this hypothesis.

      Whole-body T1-weighted MRI is an effective method for bone imaging and is superior when
      compared to 99mTc-MDP BS. If combined with soft tissue imaging, bone and nodal imaging may be
      performed in single imaging session. Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) as a part of routine
      MRI examination is a promising tool for detection of an early intramedullary malignant lesion
      before cortical destruction or reactive processes due to bone marrow metastasis. DWI performs
      high contrast resolution between tumor and normal tissue. Individual variability of the mean
      apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values, as the result of DWI, may decrease the
      diagnostic accuracy of DWI. Diagnostic accuracy of DWI for detection of malignant lesion is
      better than 18-fluoro-deoxy-glucose (FDG) and for detection of bone metastasis is comparable
      to 11C-choline. However, it is unclear if it is superior compared to the standard T1-weighted
      imaging or STIR fat suppression technique. Currently there is not sufficient data comparing
      MRI and PSMA-PET/CT accuracy on bone imaging in PC.

      In addition to bone, the possible tumor spread to soft tissues, especially pelvic lymph node
      is common in PC staging. Traditionally contrast enhanced abdomen and pelvic CT or MRI are
      used but the sensitivity of these imaging modalities is very limited. Diffusion-weighted MRI
      may improve the diagnostic accuracy when normal sized lymph nodes are evaluated. Still,
      different PET-tracers and recently especially 68Ga-PSMA and novel 18F-PSMA have both been
      considered as the most promising modalities for pelvic lymph node metastasis detection in PC
      and preliminary results suggest superior diagnostic accuracy of PSMA-PET compared to other
      modalities.

      The investigators have previously investigated different imaging modalities for detection of
      bone metastases in prospective setting (Skeleta-trial). According to that study, 18F-NaF
      PET-CT and whole-body MRI are superior when compared to 99mTc-MDP SPECT-CT or 99mTc-MDP
      planar bone scan. Nevertheless, that study needs validation and further investigations as it
      was limited by low number (n=27) of PC patients, and PSMA-PET was not included in the study.

      Clinicians face challenges when choosing optimal imaging modality/modalities for individual
      patient. Guidelines do not support any imaging in low risk cases. For some intermediate risk
      cases, and also for high-risk cases, if local treatment is planned, accurate staging of
      pelvic lymph node is important. In contrary, in very high-risk cases the knowledge of distant
      metastases is the single most important staging data. Optimally for clinicians most
      appropriate imaging technique would be chosen based on patient related risk factors or a
      single imaging modality would offer all aspects of needed staging information. The rationale
      for the present study is to find the most appropriate staging modality in high-risk PC at the
      time of initial staging.
    
  