
    
      Variables and Measures

      We will assess health literacy with the Short Test of Functional Health Literacy in Adults
      (STOFHLA). The STOFHLA is a brief version of the widely used instrument, the Test of
      Functional Health Literacy in Adults (TOFHLA) that measures patients' ability to comprehend
      situations often encountered in the health care setting; e.g., reading registration forms and
      instructions for diagnostic tests. It is a 36-item reading comprehension test written in
      14-point font that requires 7 minutes to complete.

      Primary Outcome The primary outcome is readmission or death from any cause within 90 days of
      discharge. This outcome will be ascertained by: 1) reviewing electronic and written medical
      records to identify patients re-admitted to Griffin Hospital; 2) monitoring obituaries; and
      3) conducting three-month post-discharge follow-up phone calls to determine if the patient
      was admitted elsewhere since discharge from Griffin.

      Secondary outcomes

        -  Change in knowledge of CHF from study enrollment to two weeks post-discharge will be
           measured by the Knowledge of CHF Questionnaire.

        -  Patient satisfaction with hospital care will be examined two weeks post-discharge with
           the 27-item Hospital Consumer Assessment of Health Plans Survey (HCAHPS) Telephone
           Survey Instrument.

        -  Feedback on educational materials will be obtained in narrative from patients.

      Other variables of interest Through review of electronic and written medical records, we will
      ascertain subject characteristics including demographics and socioeconomic factors and
      disease-related variables

      Procedures Following IRB review and approval, Dr. Dorothea Wild, a study co-investigator,
      will review and screen new admissions to identify potentially eligible patients. Within 24
      hours of admission, she will contact the attending of record to request permission to enroll
      the patient in the study; if permission is granted, Dr. Wild will approach the patient to
      describe the study and obtain consent to participate.

      Obtaining consent Dr. Wild will obtain written informed consent from each patient who agrees
      to participate. She will inform patients that they will: 1) receive either the standard
      educational material provided by the Hospital for CHF patients or a more intensive
      educational intervention developed for this study; 2) have a 50% chance of being assigned to
      each group; and 3) not know whether they are receiving standard or intensive education.

      Randomization, allocation concealment, and blinding Dr. Haq Nawaz will use software developed
      by the Johns Hopkins Division of Oncology Biostatistics to randomize patients to the usual
      care and educational intervention groups. Dr. Nawaz will keep group assignments in
      consecutively numbered opaque envelops and will reveal the assignment only to the nurse
      patient educator when the intervention is assigned. All other study personnel who collect and
      manage data will remain blind to study assignment. Patients will also be blind to group
      assignment throughout the trial.

      Each patient in the group receiving the educational intervention will:

        -  view the HFSA videotape;

        -  receive a copy of "Managing Your Health with Heart Failure" to review in hospital and to
           take home;

        -  receive pre-printed charts on which to record daily weigh, evidence of swelling, and
           whether or not s/he took prescribed diuretics, with instructions on when to inform the
           doctor about weight or swelling problems;

        -  receive a copy of "Following a Low-Salt Diet" to review and take home;

        -  participate in a 45 - 60 minute one-on-one session with a nurse patient educator that
           reviews the above information using as a framework the 6-step strategy recommended by
           the AMA; and

        -  be encouraged to take written/pictorial notes to augment the above materials.

      The nurse educator will elicit feedback from patients on the quality and accessibility of the
      written materials.

      Each patient in the educational intervention and usual care groups will receive and review
      with a staff nurse:

        -  written information on diagnosis and treatment of CHF that is not designed for low
           literacy patients; and

        -  a pre-printed discharge instruction sheet that explains the patient's medications and
           dietary instructions, identifies symptoms that should be reported to the primary care
           physicians, and provides a physician follow-up appointment.

      Post-discharge assessments The data manager will administer the Knowledge of CHF
      Questionnaire and the measure of patient satisfaction by telephone two weeks post-discharge.
      She will also regularly review obituaries and place a follow-up phone call three months
      post-discharge to ask about any subsequent hospitalizations, including to facilities other
      than Griffin.

      Data safety and monitoring Because the proposed study involves an educational intervention,
      potential risks of participation are minimal. Nonetheless, the PI, Dr. Calvocoressi, and one
      co-investigator, Dr. Nawaz, will conduct monthly data and safety reviews to assess risk and
      monitor adverse events. An additional review will be conducted following the report of any
      adverse event. We will also assess whether the event can be attributed to the research (i.e.,
      definite, possible, unrelated). Any adverse events graded 2 or higher will immediately be
      reported to the Griffin Hospital IRB and to the funding agency.

      Data Analysis Plan The analysis plan will include univariate, bivariate, and multivariate
      analyses conducted with SAS software. We will conduct all analyses according to the
      intent-to-treat principle and will use a 0.05 (two-tailed) level of significance.

      Assessing subject characteristics and the adequacy of the randomization procedure We will
      examine whether the control and intervention groups significantly differ on subject
      characteristics (e.g., socio-demographic factors, features of the disease, involvement of
      caregivers) that may impact the relationship between treatment group and study outcomes. For
      categorical variables, we will use the Chi square test for this purpose; for continuous
      variables, we will use the Student's t-test.

      Primary outcome We will use the t-test for proportions to examine the difference in the
      proportions of patients in the educational and usual care groups who are re-hospitalized or
      die within 90 days of discharge. In addition, we will employ logistic regression to examine
      whether the educational and usual care groups differ on re-hospitalization/death (yes/no) at
      90 days adjusted for pertinent covariates. We will conduct a secondary analysis to test the
      robustness of these findings. That analysis will examine whether time to
      re-hospitalization/death differs between the educational and usual care groups using the log
      rank test and the proportional hazard (Cox) model.

      We will examine the interaction between treatment group (educational versus usual care) and
      health literacy (i.e., low versus adequate) in relation to readmission/death at 90 days
      post-discharge to assess whether the impact of the educational intervention differed by
      health literacy level.

      Secondary outcomes We will examine the difference between the educational and usual care
      groups in knowledge of CHF at study enrollment and following discharge by calculating a
      continuous change score based on the two administrations of the knowledge of CHF
      questionnaire. We will use the paired t-test for the bivariate analysis. To control for
      covariates, including knowledge score at the time of enrollment, we will conduct a linear
      regression analysis.

      The difference between the educational and usual care groups in satisfaction with treatment,
      measured post-discharge on a continuous scale, will be examined using the t-test and linear
      regression to adjust for covariates.

      Power and Sample Size Calculations We have based these calculations on our primary outcome,
      the proportions of CHF patients in the educational and usual care groups who either die or
      are re-admitted to the hospital for any cause within 90 days of discharge.

      A review of the Griffin Hospital database over the past three years indicates that 33.5% of
      CHF patients meeting our inclusion criteria were re-admitted to Griffin Hospital within 90
      days. Though the patient population is quite stable and most CHF patients needing readmission
      probably return to this facility, we assume that an additional 5% were admitted elsewhere
      during the 90 days following discharge from Griffin Hospital. In addition, based on
      previously conducted studies of educational interventions in CHF (19), we expect that an
      additional 6% will die within this period. Thus, we base our calculations on 45% of the usual
      care group experiencing all-cause readmission or death within 90 days of discharge. For the
      educational group we based our calculations on a 25% absolute decrease in these events during
      the same time period (i.e., 20% will be re-admitted or die). This is a clinically meaningful
      decrease and is consistent with the difference in readmissions/deaths between control and
      educational intervention groups in a recent CHF outpatient study.

      We used the following formula for our calculations:

      n = {[p1(q1) + p2(q2)]/ (p2-p1)}(f(alpha,beta))

      where n = number of subjects needed in each group p1 = percentage of patients in the control
      group who were not re-hospitalized q1 = percentage of patients in the control group who were
      re-hospitalized p2 = percentage of patients in the intervention group who were not
      re-hospitalized q2 = percentage of patients in the control group who were re-hospitalized
      f(alpha,beta) = 7.9 when alpha = .05 (two-sided) and beta = .20

      The number of patients per group needed to detect a 25% decrease in 90 day all-cause
      readmission/death is 52; the total sample needed for this study is 104. Assuming that 10% of
      patients will refuse to participate or will be lost to follow-up, we will need to enroll 116
      eligible patients.

      Over the past three years, there were, on average 174 patients admitted to Griffin annually
      with a primary diagnosis of CHF. Seventy-three of these patients per annum would have been
      excluded from participation (e.g., discharged to a skilled nursing facility, too ill to
      participate), leaving an average of 101 patients per year meeting inclusion criteria. We
      should, therefore, be able to recruit the 116 subjects need for this study in approximately
      14 months.
    
  