
    
      Objective: The purpose of this study is to study the circulating levels of irisin in response
      to acute high-intensity resistance training in a group of healthy young adults.

      Sample: The sample will be comprised of adult men and women unpaid volunteers between the
      ages of 18 and 30. We will recruit 44 participants.

      Pre- screening assessments: Informed consent, PAR-Q, Medical History and Exercise History
      will be used to determine health status and prior exercise experience. Menstrual cycle log
      will be required for female participants.

      Pre-Intervention assessments (baseline):

        -  Anthropometric measurements and Body Composition: Height, triceps, thigh and calf
           skinfolds, biceps, thigh, hip, waist, and calf circumferences will be measured.
           Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) will be performed to obtain body composition.

        -  Blood-related variables. Baseline glucose, lactate and hematocrit will be obtained from
           all participants prior to intervention. Lactate and Hematocrit will be obtained
           pre-intervention and post-intervention, and within 1 min post workout.

      Irisin will be obtained from blood samples at baseline, during and after the training
      session. Irisin will be measured via a commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

        -  Cardiopulmonary and Strength Fitness Testing. Cardiopulmonary fitness will be determined
           via maximum oxygen consumption testing. One maximum repetition (1-RM) will be used to
           assess the muscular fitness.

        -  Dietary Controls. Each participant will complete the Food Preference Questionnaire. In
           addition, the Automated Self-Administered 24-hour Recall (ASA24) will be collected for
           the day prior to the session.

        -  Familiarization. Participant will be instructed on the muscle conditioning techniques
           used for strength training so that the techniques can be mastered. The rate of perceived
           exertion (RPE) scale will also be used for familiarization during these sessions.

        -  Spontaneous Physical Activity: Daily activity level for 7 days will be collected.

      Intervention: Resistance training will consist on a circuit training of 3 sets of 7 exercises
      focused on major muscle groups. Ten repetitions on each circuit at 70% of the maximum
      capacity will be performed. Acute intervention will consist of one session. Blood will be
      collected pre-session, at 45 min during the session, and immediately after the acute
      intervention exposure (post-session).
    
  