
    
      Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive and fatal neurologic disorder caused by an
      expanded CAG repeat in the gene coding for a protein of unknown function that has been named
      huntingtin. The exact cause of neuronal death in HD is unknown, however, the leading
      hypothesis is that of excitotoxicity and apoptosis induced by a defect in energy metabolism
      that may be caused by oxidative stress. We previously demonstrated that mitochondrial
      inhibitors produce striatal lesions closely mimicking the phenotype of HD. We have also shown
      that oxidative injury is involved in these models and may be in human HD. Because of this
      research, there has been increasing interest in the HD field in exploring complementary
      agents that might prevent oxidative injury, Creatine is a widely used dietary supplement
      principally taken to enhance athletic performance. It is a very strong candidate
      neuroprotective agent for HD and other neurodegenerative disorders because of its ability to
      ameliorate toxin-based animal models and because of our preliminary evidence in transgenic HD
      mice. However, there is only limited animal experience with creatine and there has not yet
      been any trials in humans with neurodegenerative disorders. There are several potential
      mechanisms by which creatine could be an effective treatment for HD. First, there is evidence
      that it can be neuroprotective by relieving oxidative stress. Second, it could directly
      inhibit apoptotic neuronal death through its inhibitory action on the mitochondrial
      transition pore. Third, we have preliminary evidence that creatine treatment may be
      associated with reduced huntingtin aggregation, a potentially toxic process. Finally it could
      act peripherally to help reverse the weakness and muscle mass loss that is a major clinical
      problem in HD. We have preliminary evidence that creatine can extend survival in transgenic
      models of HD and that it can reduce brain markers of metabolic stress in humans with HD. We
      propose to test whether creatine can ameliorate the behavioral and neuropathologic phenotypes
      occurring in transgenic models of HD, examine the potential mechanisms of creatine
      neuroprotection, test its safety and tolerability in HD patients, and collect pilot clinical
      data examining how creatine impacts HD symptoms and progression. These studies are intended
      to provide the basis of a subsequent phase III trial of creatine in HD.
    
  