
    
      As part of the study, 35 mL or 2 1/2 tablespoons of blood will be drawn from your arm at each
      study visit.

      This study has 2 visits. Visit 1 will take about 1 hour. Visit 2 is a follow up visit at 6
      months taking about 1 hour.

      Visit 1- Screening and Blood Collection:

      The following procedures will be done at the clinical research facility:

        -  The study doctor and/or study staff will explain the study and all the study procedures.

        -  You will be asked to review, sign and date this informed consent before any procedures
           are done.

        -  The study doctor and/or study staff will ask you questions about your health status and
           medical history and record this information.

        -  35 mL or 2 ½ tablespoons of blood will be collected from your arm.

        -  The samples will not be labeled with your name but a unique identification code, which
           means they will be given a number which can be linked to you.

      Visit 2 - Follow up:

      If you have been diagnosed with cancer between visit 1 and visit 2, you will not be required
      to complete visit 2. If you have been diagnosed with LCIS or DCIS, you will be requested to
      return for visit 2. Otherwise you will return to the center for visit 2.

      The following procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a follow-up breast evaluation performed. Your follow-up breast evaluation
           may occur prior to Visit 2 if you have it performed at a different facility or it may be
           performed during this study visit.

        -  The study doctor and/or study staff will assess your health and medical history.

        -  35 mL or 2 1/2 tablespoons of blood will be collected from your arm.

        -  The samples will not be labeled with your name but a unique identification code, which
           means they will be given a number which can be linked to you.

      Your blood sample will be sent to the study Sponsor, Provista Diagnostics, Inc. for testing.

      The test results will not be reported back to the study doctor and will not be used to
      determine or change your treatment. This testing will be done in addition to any routine
      testing that your study doctor performs. You will not receive the results of these tests.

      Up to 350 subjects will take part in this study. Patients will be enrolled at one of seven
      sites.
    
  