
    
      Your ophthalmologist will determine your suitability for this study through a screening
      protocol. You will have measurements of your visual acuity and will undergo a series of
      imaging tests as described in the next paragraph to show presence of blood vessel growth in
      the back of your eye (the choroid). You cannot be included in this study if you have another
      significant eye disease that affects your vision, if you have blood vessel growth in the back
      of your eye (choroid) for reasons other than AMD, if you have medically uncontrolled
      glaucoma, if you have been treated for AMD in that past, if you have had intra-ocular surgery
      in the study eye in the past 3 months, if you have had any past retinal or vitreous surgery,
      or if you have physical or mental disabilities that would prevent accurate vision testing.

      At the beginning of the study, we will take a sample of cells from the inside of your cheek,
      using a small swab. The sample will be sent to a genetic laboratory for analysis and storage.
      This information will be kept masked for the duration of the study, meaning that you, the
      study ophthalmologist and the data analyzer will not know the results of the genetic test
      until the study is completed.

      You will be asked to come in for an initial assessment to determine your starting visual
      abilities and medical history. On your next appointment, you will receive your first
      treatment of intra-vitreal injections of Ranibizumab (Lucentis). You will be asked to come
      into the clinic every month for six (6) months total for treatment injections and testing. At
      each appointment, we will take 3-D images of your retina (the back of your eye) using an
      Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) imaging device, test your eye pressure and determine if
      there are any signs of infection or inflammation from the injections. On months 1, 3, and 6
      we will also test your vision, your contrast sensitivity using a standard contrast
      sensitivity chart (The Pelli-Robson chart) and take images of the blood vessel growth using a
      coloured dye (fluorescein) to help us see your vessels. Before every treatment, anesthetic
      eye drops (proparacaine) will be applied to your eye so you will not feel the injections. You
      will be given antibiotic eye drops (Zymar®) that you will be asked to use 4 times a day for a
      few days after the injection to prevent infection.
    
  