
    
      Vitiligo is an acquired depigmentation disorder of great cosmetic importance, affecting 1-4%
      of the world's population. Vitiligo does not cause physical symptoms but because of its
      unsightly appearance, particularly on dark or tanned skin it can have considerable impact
      both psychologically and socially. Many ways of restoring normal colour to the skin have been
      tried but improvement is usually short-lived. The causes of vitiligo are not yet clearly
      understood, so many treatments have been developed on the basis of limited scientific
      evidence. There is no cure, and no way of limiting the spread of the disease has so far been
      found.

      The pathogenetic basis of the disease is melanocyte disappearance from achromic patches and
      experimental evidence has shown that three possible mechanisms enable this to occur: an
      apoptotic process, a necrotic event, and melanocythoragy following trauma due to impaired
      function of cell-cell or cell-matrix adhesion.

      Prostaglandins (PGs) are biologically active derivatives of 20 carbon atom polyunsaturated
      essential fatty acids released from cell membrane phospholipids. PGE2 and PGF2 are primary
      PGs. PGE2 is synthesized in skin and affects keratinocytes, Langerhans cells and melanocytes
      and regulates melanocyte proliferation. Epidermal melanocytes synthesize melanin in response
      to ultraviolet radiation (UVR). The mechanisms mediating the UVR-induced activation of
      melanogenesis are unknown but, as UVR induces the turnover of membrane phospholipids
      generating prostaglandins (PGs) and other products, it is possible that one of these might
      provide the activating signal. 1 In an in vitro study by Tomita et al .,2 normal human
      epidermal melanocytes became swollen and more dendritic when they were cultured with
      prostaglandin E 2 (PGE 2), but not with PGE 1. In another study by Nordlund et al ., 3 PGE2
      applied topically to mice skin caused an increase in melanocyte density.

      Histologic studies indicate that PGE 2 also enhances melanogenesis. Recently, there have been
      many reports of iris darkening, hyperpigmentation of the eyelashes, and periocular
      hyperpigmentation induced by latanoprost . (prostaglandin F 2 α , used for the treatment of
      glaucoma). 4,5 Although the exact mechanism of this pigmentation is not clear, different
      mechanisms of the induction of hyperpigmentation by prostaglandins have been suggested,
      including: (i) influencing the responsiveness of melanocytes to neuronal stimuli; (ii)
      causing melanocyte proliferation; and (iii) a direct or second messenger mediated interaction
      with melanocytes via the stimulation of tyrosinase activity.

      Phototherapy and topical agents such as corticosteroids, calcineurin inhibitors, and
      vitamin-D derivatives are basic treatment modalities have been used in vitiligo but there is
      still no effective and safe treatment for this disease. Resistance to therapy, treatment
      complications and recurrence after treatment are the major problems of the current
      treatments.

      There are no clinical studies of use of Bimatoprost 0.03% in treatment of vitiligo, as it is
      supposed to cause more hyperpigmentation and hypertrichosis as compared to other topical
      prostaglandin analogues, hence, we decided to use it in treatment of localized vitiligo.

      Aim:

      In this study, twenty patients with vitiligo will be treated with topical Bimatoprost o.o3%
      ophthalmic solution for 4 months to elucidate its efficacy and tolerability in stable
      vitiligo.

      Patients and methods In this prospective, interventional, non-randomised, single blind,
      controlled study, twenty patients with stable vitiligo will be enrolled from the Dermatology
      out patient department of Gian Sagar Medical College and Hospital. The protocol will follow
      the Declaration of Helsinki and prior approval of Institutional Review Board will be
      obtained. Informed consent will be obtained from all patients. Detailed history and physical
      examination will be obtained. The age, sex, previous treatments, family history, type of
      vitiligo, durations of disease (in month), areas of involvement, Koebner phenomenon,
      leukotrichia will be recorded in special data sheet. The diagnosis of vitiligo will be made
      clinically. No concomitant treatment will be allowed and a washout period of at least 1 month
      will be given in patients using other therapies.

      Patients will be instructed to apply a Bimatoprost 0.03% solution twice daily to the
      depigmented skin taking care of no spillage to surrounding skin. The dimensions of the
      treated lesions will be measured in transverse and longitudinal axes at the time of
      enrollment, subsequently every month till 4 months.

      The measurement of the lesions will be performed by an independent observer who is blind to
      the treatment options. Photography will be done using a digital camera (Sony Digital Still
      Camera Cyber-shot ModelNO DSCF 717, Tokyo, Japan) at the baseline and at every follow up
      visit. Patients will be evaluated by the same observer who was blind to the treatment
      options.

      Primary Outcome Measures:

      The percentage of repigmentation in the previously depigmented patch, in form of color or
      size changes and folliculocentric repigmentation, of the treated and the control patches.6

      Depending on the extent of repigmentation, the response to the treatment will be graded as:

        -  no and minimal (<25%),

        -  moderate (25-49%),

        -  marked (50-74%),

        -  excellent (75-99%), and

        -  complete (100%) response. Response without reduction of the surface and only with
           perifollicular hyperpigmentation will be categorized as perifollicular pigmentation.
           Responding lesions will be defined as patches that achieved more than 50% repigmentation
           as compared with the baseline. Treatment will be discontinued if patients did not show
           any improvement or worsening at 2 months.
    
  