
    
      A Randomized Controlled Crossover Trial was designed to examine the usability and
      effectiveness of serious games and wearable haptic interfaces in rehabilitation of children
      with neuromotor impairments. The ethics board of Tuscany Region and the Italian Ministry of
      Health approved this study. All parents freely accepted the participation of their children
      in the study and provided written informed consent.

      The investigators recruited eight patients, both male and female, 3 children with Cerebral
      Palsy (CP) and 5 children with Developmental Dyspraxia (DD) (mean age = 10,30±2,88 years),
      who were currently receiving conventional therapy at Unit of Developmental
      Neurorehabilitation, Maternal and Child Department, Pisa University Hospital, and eight
      Typically Developing children (TD, mean age = 9,60±2,61 years). All the patients were
      right-handed and they did not have previous experiences with Virtual Reality (VR) and/or
      haptic devices, while TD children have previously experienced with commercial video games.

      Following recruitment, screening and consent and baseline assessments, participants are
      randomized to an order of VR-assisted rehabilitation (ISG-Group, Immediate Serious Games, or
      DSG-Group, Delayed Serious Games). Participants were setup in their first condition and were
      assessed at the end of the 4 week intervention. Participants were then set up in their second
      period for 4 weeks, again with assessment occurring at the end of the intervention. Among the
      two interventions, a wash out period of 4 weeks was inserted and children followed only
      cognitive therapy with no physical sessions.

      The study protocol consisted of a total of 16 sessions with both VR-assisted and conventional
      rehabilitation (2 sessions per week for 4 weeks for 2 periods) and involved a familiarization
      and a training phase. The investigators adopted different established clinical scales for
      children with CP and DD in order to assess patients' abilities during the assessments. The
      investigators also selected metrics obtained from end-point (hand) kinematic data, including
      movement speed and accuracy, in order to have quantitative measurements of patients' motor
      abilities.
    
  