
    
      Approximately 40% of HIV-infected infants in the United States in 2000 were born to women not
      diagnosed with their HIV prior to delivery. (1) There are now effective medical therapies to
      prevent perinatal transmission, including anti-retroviral therapy, but this requires
      diagnoses of maternal HIV prior to delivery. Both the Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention (CDC) and Institute of Medicine (IOM) have published strong recommendations for
      universal HIV-antibody testing of pregnant women.

      This will be a randomized controlled, non-inferiority trial comparing two HIV testing
      strategies among English and Spanish-speaking patients presenting for prenatal care at SFGH
      WHC over the course of approximately one year. Eligible participants will be randomized by
      study personnel to either standard HIV counseling and testing (control arm) or abbreviated
      counseling and testing (study arm). Participants will receive a standard prenatal HIV testing
      brochure, undergo one of two HIV counseling/testing strategies, submit blood for an HIV-1
      antibody test, and will follow-up with their medical provider for HIV test results. Upon
      completion of counseling, participants will undergo a short, structured (Pre-test)
      questionnaire administered by study staff. Following testing and receipt of results,
      participants will complete a second (Post-test) structured questionnaire administered by
      study staff.

      Eligible women presenting to SFGH physician or midwife prenatal clinics will be recruited,
      consented and randomized by study staff to either the standard or abbreviated testing
      strategy. The outcomes studied will be patient satisfaction and the proportion of study
      participants who undergo HIV testing. Potential confounder variables to be measured will
      include demographic characteristics, prior HIV testing history, knowledge about HIV/AIDS,
      attitudes towards HIV testing, HIV test result, and type of provider (physician versus
      midwife).
    
  