
    
      We have previously demonstrated that high-frequency ultrasound and spectroscopy, and recently
      conventional-frequency ultrasound and spectroscopy may be used to detect cell death in vitro,
      in situ and in vivo. The method can detect different forms of cell death and has been
      demonstrated to be sensitive to apoptotic, necrotic and mitotic cell death. The objectives of
      this study are to evaluate the use of ultrasound imaging and spectroscopy as a predictive
      marker of advanced tumour response to combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Since
      neoadjuvant treatments may also act on tumour vasculature to "normalize" it we will also
      evaluate blood-vessel imaging by standard Doppler-imaging and with standard higher-resolution
      imaging using clinically approved microbubble contrast agents.

      The main goal, as described above, is to select the best ultrasound spectroscopy parameter to
      use as an early predictor of pathological complete response.

      Specifically, we will as a primary endpoint correlate changes in ultrasound backscatter
      parameters obtained throughout the course of treatment with pathological complete, partial,
      or complete and partial response. We ultimately hope to be able to generate a
      Receiver-Operator-Curve for each parameter beyond this pilot investigation. The
      ultrasound-spectroscopy parameters to be examined include mid-band fit, spectral-slope and
      histogram-distribution-fit parameters related to scatterer size and concentration. From these
      various receiver-operator curves the best ultrasound parameter for predicting response will
      be selected and will aid to define the clinical specificity and sensitivity of the technique.

      The secondary endpoint in this study will include examining the change in size of the tumour,
      which will also be measured using conventional gold-standard B-scan ultrasound imaging
      (length by width by height in addition to volume) and correlating that to the spectroscopic
      ultrasound changes determined at different times during patient treatment.

      Other secondary endpoints will include measuring changes in blood vessel distribution by
      standard Doppler-imaging and standard microbubble contrast agent imaging. As another
      secondary endpoint we will also correlate our ultrasound changes with 2 and 5-year long-term
      clinical outcome.
    
  