
    
      Advances in diagnostic techniques and cancer treatments have yielded remarkable increases in
      the overall survival rates of children with cancer. Inevitably, however, cancer and its
      treatments may also have long-term effects on the physical and psychological well-being of
      children with cancer,

      Previous studies revealed that parents play a pivotal role in encouraging their child with
      cancer to engage in healthy behaviours. It was shown that Chinese parental psychological
      behaviour and control may influence the psychological well-being of their children.
      Therefore, a thorough understanding the needs and concerns of Chinese parents, including
      their perceptions, behaviour, attitudes, and experiences related to the illness of their
      child is essential to facilitate them to empower their child to fight at every step of the
      long and difficult cancer journey.

      On the other hand, the diagnosis of cancer not only undermines children themselves in
      physical and psychological, but also it brings overwhelming psychological distress for these
      children's parents. An increasing number of studies have examined patients' resilience in
      adaptation to cancer. Assessing resilience in parents of children with cancer is crucial for
      a thorough understanding of their responses to stress and adversity, which is an essential
      prerequisite for the design of an appropriate psychological intervention to enhance their
      resilience and foster the development of their coping mechanisms and positive psychological
      well-being. Nevertheless, the resilience levels and its influencing factors among parents of
      children with cancer in Hong Kong have never been studied.. Further qualitative and
      quantitative analyses are necessary to thoroughly explore the relationships between
      resilience and its influencing factors from a culturally specific perspective, with the goal
      of developing interventions to promote resilience that are applicable to the Hong Kong
      Chinese population.

      A sequential mixed methods design will be used with a quantitative study (Phase I) will be
      first conducted and followed by a qualitative study (Phase II). The reason for that the
      quantitative findings will provide a general understanding of the psychosocial well-being and
      quality of life of Hong Kong Chinese parents of children with cancer. The qualitative
      findings and the analysis will help to explain the quantitative findings by exploring the
      perceptions, behaviour, attitudes, and experiences related to cancer and its treatment of
      their child.
    
  