
    
      Although exercise interventions for IwD seem to be feasible and well tolerated, resulting in
      positive effects on ADL functionality for people at mild-to-moderate stages [1, 2], the
      therapeutic role of physical activity, particularly exercise, after dementia diagnosis still
      needs further evidence [3-5], - especially when considering community-based contexts and
      caregivers as participants on exercise sessions [6]. It also matters to highlight that the
      dose-dependent relationship remains unclear [1, 7, 8]. Therefore, research is needed to
      identify the triad: stage/type of dementia, FITT variables (frequency, intensity, type, and
      time) of exercise intervention, and target outcome [7, 9]. Regarding exercise modality,
      Multicomponent Training (MT) [10] - combining aerobics, strength and balance exercises -
      seems to be effective at improving functional and cognitive performances in older adults with
      neurodegenerative disorders, particularly dementia [11-13]. Exercise programs previously
      developed by our group confirmed that a 6-month MT intervention can positively impact the
      physical and cognitive function of institutionalized older adults with AD [14, 15] and can be
      beneficial in physical fitness and ADL functionality performance among community-dwelling
      patients [9, 16]. However, the extent to which IwD can retain these improvements after the
      cessation of MT intervention still need to be elucidated [17] in order to understand how
      detraining affects functionality and cognition following the cessation of MT stimulus.

      This study is a quasi-experimental controlled trial using a parallel-group design. The study
      sample consists of community-dwelling individuals aged ≥ 60 years who are clinically
      diagnosed with dementia or major neurocognitive disorder. Participants will be either
      allocated into the intervention group or the control group. The intervention group will
      participate in MT biweekly exercise sessions, whereas the control group will receive monthly
      sessions regarding physical activity and health-related topics for 6 months. The main
      outcomes will be physical function as measured by the Short Physical Performance Battery
      (SPPB) and cognitive function evaluated using the Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale -
      Cognitive (ADAS-Cog) at baseline, after 6-months and 3-months after the end of intervention.
      Secondary outcomes will be body composition, physical fitness, daily functionality, quality
      of life, neuropsychiatric symptoms and caregiver's burden. Cardiovascular, inflammatory and
      neurotrophic blood-based biomarkers, and arterial stiffness will also be evaluated in
      subsamples.
    
  