
    
      1. Abstract The feasibility, toxicity and efficacy of Partial Brest Irradiation (PBI) are
      currently being studied by major cooperative groups such as the NSABP, and RTOG as well as by
      several major academic institutions. PBI entails definitive radiation to the lumpectomy site
      while minimizing radiation to the remaining breast tissue. The success of PBI is dependent in
      no small part to proper target localization. In radiation therapy, to treat an internal
      structure, external landmarks must be used to calculate the position of the internal target.
      These external landmarks can easily change in a non-rigid structure (e.g. breast), which
      would nullify their use as a reference. To address this problem, there have been recent
      advances in the application of ultrasound (US) technology in target localization especially
      with respect to the prostate. Transcutaneous tracked US emerged as the most suitable
      non-invasive daily prostate localization tool. In this procedure an US probe is tracked and
      spatially registered with respect to the treatment machine, linear accelerator. Thus if one
      localizes the target anatomy in the US images, then the position of the target is
      automatically known with respect to the linear accelerator, so that the accelerator can be
      correctly aimed.

      Unfortunately, contemporary US imaging is not sufficiently sensitive to delineate the
      lumpectomy bed for PBI. We propose to supplant B-mode imaging with a novel US elasticity
      imaging (USEI) method to delineate the subtle and complex boundaries of the lumpectomy
      cavity. Our preliminary studies suggest that USEI may be superior to B-mode imaging (see
      statistical section and Ref. 6-7). However our work was only done in ex-vivo tissue models.
      In the literature, there are many studies showing the superior sensitivity and specificity of
      strain imaging compared to regular B-mode imaging7.

      The benefit of developing a way to use ultrasound for target localization is clear.
      Identification of the target would no longer be dependent on unreliable external landmarks
      but now on direct internal information. As a consequence, targeting errors, most commonly
      associated with patient positioning, could be significantly reduced or practically
      eliminated. Thus, we propose to study the ability of USEI to detect and characterize the
      lumpectomy bed in-vivo using CT data as ground truth. We will pursue our work in two specific
      aims:

      Aim 1: Describe the concordance between the lumpectomy bed's center-of-mass (COM) as
      determined by USEI and CT.

      Aim 2: Describe the concordance between the lumpectomy bed volume as measured by USEI and CT.
    
  