
    
      Introduction: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic condition that results in
      debilitating symptoms. Although effective treatments exist, inadequate monitoring of symptoms
      and side effects, nonadherence, and poor patient knowledge are barriers to success.
      Telemedicine has been used in other chronic diseases to improve outcomes; pilot testing of
      telemedicine demonstrated that it is feasible and accepted in IBD. Our preliminary results
      from a randomized trial in participants with ulcerative colitis showed significant
      improvements in quality of life from baseline to one year in the telemanagement group.

      Study Design: Telemedicine for Patients with Inflammatory Bowel Disease (Tele-IBD) is a
      12-month, multicenter, randomized, controlled trial to assess the impact of Tele-IBD compared
      to standard care in participants with IBD. The aims of the study are to: (1) assess disease
      activity in participants with IBD using Tele-IBD compared to participants using standard
      care, (2) assess quality of life in participants with IBD using Tele-IBD compared to
      participants using standard care, and (3) estimate differences of person-level rates of
      utilization of health care resources in participants with IBD using Tele-IBD compared to
      participants using standard care.

      Methods: Tele-IBD consists of a web-portal and a weight scale. Participants answer questions
      about IBD symptoms, side effects and adherence using their home PC or a laptop with wireless
      Internet access provided to them for the study. A series of educational topics is
      administered via video messaging every 2-3 weeks. Tele-IBD participants complete self-testing
      weekly or every other week; the results are immediately available on the web-portal for
      review. Based on the responses, alerts and action plans are created for each participant. A
      nurse care coordinator consults the participant's medical provider for management changes if
      necessary. IBD patients evaluated at the University of Maryland, Baltimore, University of
      Pittsburgh, and Vanderbilt University will be invited to participate. Interested patients
      will be randomized in a 1:1:1 fashion to receive Tele-IBD weekly, Tele-IBD every other week,
      or standard care. Disease activity, quality of life, medical adherence, and utilization of
      health care resources will be assessed every 6 months for one year. In addition, provider
      interactions with patients in all three arms will be monitored and recorded.

      Expected Findings: Tele-IBD will decrease disease activity and improve quality of life
      through improved adherence and monitoring of symptoms, earlier and more effective
      implementation of therapy, more frequent patient-provider interactions, and improved patient
      self-management. Better control of IBD will result in decreased utilization of health care
      resources.

      Significance: If Tele-IBD improves outcomes, it is likely to be used to improve IBD care, to
      contain health care costs, to increase access to care, and to improve adherence with
      physician performance measures.
    
  