
    
      The use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has resulted in a significant
      reduction in AIDS-related deaths and complications among adults and adolescents. However, the
      medical management of HIV infected children remains challenging. Access to HIV treatment is
      limited and early treatment initiation can cause serious complications. Since there is
      currently no cure for HIV, a balance between treating the disease and maintaining quality of
      life must be weighed carefully. An evaluation to determine the appropriate time to initiate
      HAART is necessary to improve both quality of life and survival for HIV infected children.

      This study will last 144 weeks. All participants will have a CD4 percentage (CD4%) between
      15% and 24% and will be randomly assigned to either receive immediate or delayed HAART. The
      HAART regimen will consist of two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, zidovudine and
      lamivudine. In addition, participants will also receive either one non-nucleoside reverse
      transcriptase inhibitor, nevirapine or efavirenz, or one protease inhibitor,
      ritonavir-boosted lopinavir or nelfinavir. Abacavir will replace zidovudine or lamivudine if
      participants experience toxicity to the regimen. Participants in the immediate treatment arm
      will receive HAART on Day 1 of the study regardless of their CD4%. Participants in the
      delayed treatment arm will receive HAART if their CD4% falls below 15 or if they develop a
      CDC Category C illness.

      Study visits will occur every 4 weeks for the first 12 weeks and then every 12 weeks until
      the end of the study. Blood collection, physical exams, and medical and medication history
      reviews will occur at all visits. Adherence, quality of life, and lipodystrophy assessments
      will occur every 12 weeks for participants on HAART. Participants will be encouraged to
      enroll in a related substudy to examine the neurodevelopment of HIV infected children.
    
  