
    
      Drug-eluting stents (DES) have improved angiographic and clinical outcomes in patients with
      the complex coronary lesions and high risks by markedly reducing the neointimal hyperplasia
      following stent implantation in comparison to bare-metal stents (BMS). Although the concerns
      about long-term safety and the occurrence of stent thrombosis following DES implantation had
      been raised, the recent DES-registry studies have reported that DES did not increase the risk
      of death or stent thrombosis during follow-up, as compared with BMS. However, currently, the
      fatal events related with stent thrombosis still occur and are the major limitation of the
      use of DES. Especially, late or very late thrombosis after DES implantation is an uncommon
      but life-threatening fatal complication presented with sudden death or myocardial infarction
      (MI).

      The most powerful predictor for stent thrombosis is the discontinuation of clopidogrel. Then,
      under these circumstances, the prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy is now recommended,
      irrespective of each precise consideration according to the types of DES, lesion complexity,
      or clinical characteristics. Although the prolonged antiplatelet therapy can prevent stent
      thrombosis, it might cause other problems such as combined bleeding complications, high cost
      due to prolonged use, and unnecessary maintenance of medication. The stratified strategies
      regarding antiplatelet therapy according to the lesion complexity or high risks such as
      diabetes or acute coronary syndrome, which were regarded as the most prominent predictors for
      stent thrombosis, should be required. Another difficult problem of DES in real world practice
      is how we can manage the cases in which clopidogrel should be discontinued due to unexpected
      minor and major operations or invasive procedures. Because there have been no available
      substitutes as a bridging therapy of clopidogrel until operation, many advisory groups
      recommend to hold on off elective non-cardiac surgery 12 months after DES implantation. If
      not, BMS implantation is strongly recommended for patients with high risk of bleeding or
      scheduled unavoidable surgery within the next 12 months. Especially in the elderly, premature
      discontinuation of DAPT within 12 months after PCI may occur due to combined co-morbid
      disease requiring surgical intervention, decreased drug compliance, or occurrence of
      gastrointestinal bleeding.

      Recently, many attempts to elucidate the mechanism of stent thrombosis have been performed.
      Finn AV et al. have reported from the human autopsies of DES that the most powerful
      histological predictor of stent thrombosis was endothelial coverage and suggested stent strut
      coverage as a marker of endothelialization. After then, the more concerns have been focused
      on the healthy healing after DES implantation, in spite of relatively higher late lumen loss.
      As a result, when antiplatelet therapy should be discontinued, DES with a healthy healing
      might be more preferred, instead of efficient DES with a lower late lumen loss.

      In the view of these points, in spite of actual higher late lumen loss, Endothelial
      Progenitor Cell (EPC) Capture Stent (GENOUS™ Bio-engineered R stent™, OrbusNeich) could be
      more beneficial and safer than DES because of its low risk for stent thrombosis due to more
      rapid endothelialization and its resulting short-term use of dual antiplatelet. EPC capture
      stent has antibodies immobilized on the stent surface to capture circulating endothelial
      progenitor cells leading to accelerated natural healing. Theoretically, the EPC capture stent
      has two benefits. It establish functional endothelium, therefore no longer term anti-platelet
      therapy is required. Second, EPC capture stent may minimizes restenosis, because it
      establishes healthy endothelium which expresses vasoactive compounds, such as nitric oxide,
      which modulates neo-intimal hyperplasia and thus restenosis.

      Thanks to rapid reendothelialization derived from the pro-healing property of the EPC capture
      stent, 1-month dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) is recommended after EPC capture stent
      implantation. Shorter maintenance of dual antiplatelet therapy might minimize the risk for
      stent thrombosis in cases of discontinuation of antiplatelet regimen and prevent wasteful
      medications and bleeding complications related with dual antiplatelet therapy. Thus, the EPC
      capture stent might be valuable for the elderly because they are vulnerable to premature
      discontinuation of DAPT.

      On the other hand, statin upstream therapy has gained popularity because it seems to reduce
      periprocedural myocardial injury especially in ACS through its pleiotrophic effect like
      plaque stabilization. However, the benefit of pretreatment of statin in patients with stable
      angina remains controversial. It is reported that statin administration could increase EPC
      level by accelerated differentiation towards the endothelial progenitor lineage.

      We hypothesize that the EPC capture stent with 1-month dual antiplatelet therapy is
      non-inferior to DES in the elderly subjects with stable coronary artery disease. To test this
      hypothesis, we will perform a multi-center, randomized, prospective trial aimed at
      demonstrating the efficacy and safety of the EPC capture stent with 1-month DATP versus EES
      with standard 12-month DAPT in elderly patients with stable coronary occlusive disease in
      real world practice.
    
  