
    
      Hemiplegia is a syndrome characterized by disorders of motor and sensory functions, speech
      and mental abilities. Hemiplegia is a common neurological problem in the world and is the
      third most common cause of death.

      In addition to motor loss in patients after stroke, sensory problems are accompanied and
      close to 60% of stroke patients experience sensory problems. In a limited number of studies
      in the literature, it is stated that sensory impairment in the lower extremity negatively
      affects standing, walking speed, balance during ambulation and symmetrical gait. At the same
      time, it has been proven that the sole of the foot sense plays an important role in the
      balance of sitting, standing up and performing independent daily living activities. After a
      stroke, sensory training increases functionality, patients with sensory training recover
      faster, mobility, balance and daily life activities become better, and daily life improvement
      is expressed. The purpose of sensory training is to maximize the patient's learning through
      the connection between environment and repetitive activities.

      The aim of this study is to compare the effects of neurodevelopmental physiotherapy program
      combined with sensory training or electrical stimulation on the sole of the foot
      proprioceptive and cortical senses in individuals diagnosed with hemiplegia.

      There is no study on how proprioceptive and cortical sensations will be affected in acute
      hemiplegic patients if sensory training and electrical stimulation are added to the classical
      treatment program. By finding and comparing the effects of active (sensory training) and
      passive treatment (electric stimulation) with this study, it was planned to propose an
      effective treatment protocol for developing the sole of the foot senses to the experts
      working in this field.

      As a result, purpose of the study is to prevent inadequate sensory input in hemiplegic
      patients from adversely affecting quality of life.
    
  