
    
      There is growing recognition that acute hospitalization contributes to marked functional
      decline in older adults. Nearly 20% of all hospitalized older adults are discharged to a
      skilled nursing facility (SNF) to address these functional deficits. However, rehabilitation
      in SNFs may not adequately restore physical function, which potentially contributes to poor
      community discharge rates. Strikingly, only 37% of all patients admitted to SNFs are
      discharged to a community setting, which suggests a paradigm shift is required to optimize
      rehabilitation within SNFs. Currently, usual care rehabilitation in SNFs consists of
      low-intensity rehabilitation interventions, which are physiologically inadequate to induce
      meaningful changes in skeletal muscle strength and physical function. Therefore, the
      investigators propose a novel "IntenSive Therapeutic Rehabilitation for Older skilled NursinG
      HomE Residents" (I-STRONGER) program, which integrates principles of physiologic tissue
      overload into combined strengthening and functional interventions for greater gains in
      physical function. The overall goals of this investigation are to 1) demonstrate feasibility
      of I-STRONGER in SNF settings and 2) determine the effectiveness of I-STRONGER in improving
      physical function. A comparison of usual care (UC) with I-STRONGER will occur using a staged,
      2 group design (independent cohorts), with a single SNF serving as its own control. The first
      cohort of SNF patients will participate in UC (Stage 1) and after therapist training on
      ISTRONGER is completed, a second cohort of patients entering the same facility will
      participate in I-STRONGER (Stage 2). The feasibility of I-STRONGER will be evaluated by
      patient acceptability and therapist compliance measures. Sample size estimates (using
      patients with mobility deficits in home health settings) suggest at least 86 participants are
      necessary to be adequately powered. Heterogeneity of the sample will be re-evaluated during
      the study period using SNF data and sample size estimates may be adjusted as appropriate.
    
  