
    
      Before possible study participants can receive treatment with imatinib mesylate and
      paclitaxel, their tumor tissue that was previously collected (at the surgery to diagnose your
      tumor) will be tested for the following three biomarkers: c-Kit, PDGFR-B, and Abl. Those
      participants who have at least one positive biomarker will be eligible for treatment on this
      study.

      Paclitaxel is a chemotherapy drug used in the treatment of ovarian cancer. Imatinib mesylate
      is a medication that blocks several proteins that are important in the development of cancer.

      Before treatment starts, you will have a complete physical exam, routine blood tests (about
      2-3 teaspoons), an electrocardiogram (ECG--a test to measure the electrical activity of the
      heart). You will have an echocardiogram (an ultrasound test used to visualize the structures
      of the heart), a chest x-ray, and a CT scan or MRI of the abdomen and pelvis. Women who are
      able to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

      Routine blood tests (about 2 teaspoons) will be done weekly during treatment, and before each
      course of therapy, which is every 3 weeks. A complete checkup including evaluation of side
      effects, will also be done before each course of therapy and at the end of therapy (3 weeks
      after treatment ends).

      There are two phases to this study, Phase I and Phase II. If you are assigned to Phase 1, you
      will receive treatment with imatinib mesylate and paclitaxel. Phase 1 will study 3 different
      doses of imatinib mesylate in combination with a fixed dose of paclitaxel. The Phase I part
      of the study will help researchers learn the most effective dose of imatinib mesylate to be
      used in combination with paclitaxel. All participants in Phase 1 will receive one of three
      doses of imatinib mesylate to be given with a standard dose of paclitaxel. You will be
      assigned to a specific dose level based on the number of participants treated at the time of
      your enrollment.

      The Phase II portion of the study will begin only after the most effective dose of imatinib
      mesylate has been determined.

      If you are assigned to Phase II, you will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to
      one of two treatment groups. Participants in one group will receive treatment with paclitaxel
      only (every 21 days). Participants in the second group will receive treatment with paclitaxel
      (every 21 days) along with imatinib mesylate (every day). The dose level of imatinib mesylate
      that you receive will be the same as the dose used during Phase I. The computer-generated
      assignment will favor the treatment group which is more effective. For example, if the
      combination of paclitaxel and imatinib mesylate is more effective than paclitaxel alone, then
      more patients will be selected to receive the combination therapy.

      You will receive paclitaxel by vein over 3 hours every 21 days. Those participants who are
      assigned treatment with both paclitaxel and imatinib mesylate will begin taking imatinib
      mesylate the day after the first dose of paclitaxel. A single dose of imatinib mesylate will
      be taken by mouth every day.

      Evaluation of tumor response (for participants who already have the disease) will be
      determined by CT scan or MRI and chest x-ray (patients with chest disease). These scans will
      be taken after Courses 2 and 4 , then after every 3 courses until the therapy is finished,
      and once more at the end of therapy. Patients who show no signs of the disease will be given
      a total of up to 6 courses. Patients who have the disease may continue treatment until the
      disease gets worse. You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side
      effects occur. If you are removed from the study, you will be asked to have a follow-up CT
      scan or MRI and chest x-ray to evaluate the tumor.

      THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY. Paclitaxel is commercially available and approved for use
      in the treatment of ovarian cancer. Gleevec® is also commercially available and approved for
      use in the treatment of certain types of adult leukemias and stomach cancers. The combination
      of paclitaxel and imatinib mesylate is still investigational and has been approved for use in
      research only.

      At least 51 and as many as 65 participants will take part in this study. All participants
      will be enrolled and treated at M. D. Anderson.
    
  