
    
      In this study the investigators want to look at the activity of kinases when a particular
      experimental drug called GSK1120212 is administered. GSK1120212 blocks a kinase called MEK.
      GSK1120212 is not yet approved by the FDA for use in breast cancer patients. The
      investigators want to give subjects GSK1120212 for a short period of time (one week) to see
      how MEK and the other kinases function in cancer cells both before and after the study drug
      is given. The investigators are giving this drug for research purposes only. The length of
      time it is being given is not intended to treat cancer.

      Research into treatments for breast cancer relies more and more on an understanding of how
      the cells of tumor tissue act when they are exposed to a new or different drug. To find these
      new or different drugs to treat cancer, researchers are looking at proteins that help cancer
      cells grow, such as a group of proteins called Kinases. This is important because many of the
      newest cancer drugs are designed to block kinases causing the cancer cells to die and the
      tumors to shrink. However, blocking only one of the kinases at a time is often less effective
      than the investigators expected because when you block one kinase another can take its place.
      For this reason, the investigators may need to treat breast cancer with more than one
      kinase-blocking drug at a time. However, the investigators don't yet know what the best
      combination of drugs should be, because it is hard to measure all the possible kinases.
      Previous studies have only been able to identify less than 10% of the hundreds of kinases in
      cancer cells.

      Recently researchers here at UNC have developed a process that can identify may (more than
      half) of these kinases. This can tell us which kinases need to be blocked at the same time to
      make tumors shrink so that the investigators can design the best combinations of kinase
      blocking drugs for triple negative breast cancer. This is especially important for
      individuals with triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) because there are fewer drugs available
      that can block molecules that affect tumor growth. The investigators believe that
      kinase-blocking drugs have the potential to be a more effective treatment for people with
      TNBC.
    
  