
    
      Background: A high prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and unknown diabetes
      mellitus (DM) in patients with cardiovascular disease has been shown. European guidelines
      recommend screening of patients with AMI for DM and IGT by performing an oral glucose
      tolerance test (OGTT). The prevalence of IGT and DM in a Norwegian population of patients
      with AMI is unknown. Evidence are lacking regarding the reliability of an OGTT performed
      early after an AMI. The present study was designed to detect unknown IGT and DM in patients
      with AMI and the main challenge of the study was timing and reproducibility of the OGTT. In
      addition, mechanisms (inflammation, haemostasis) involved in impaired glucose regulation will
      be studied. Design: The study is designed as an observational cohort study prospectively
      including 200 patients with a primary PCI treated acute STEMI admitted to the coronary care
      unit at Ullevål university hospital. An OGTT is performed in-hospital and repeated after 3
      months and a glucometabolic classification was performed according to the results. The
      patients will be followed for a minimum of two-years with regards to clinical endpoints.

      Aims of the study:

        1. Study the prevalence of IGT and DM in a Norwegian population with acute STEMI.

        2. Validate the results of an OGTT performed early after myocardial infarction, by
           repeating the test after three months.

        3. Elucidate possible interactions between biomarkers of inflammation and coagulation, and
           the glucometabolic status.

        4. Study the relationship between impaired glucose tolerance and prognosis after STEMI.

        5. Contribute to an increased focus on undiagnosed DM and IGT in patients with coronary
           heart disease in Norway and the results may lead to an increased use of routine OGTT in
           the follow-up of patients with myocardial infarction. Investigate how patients with
           myocardial infarction and known glucometabolic state are followed up "in real-life" by
           their physicians.

      Clinical implications: The study may detect a large proportion of undetected DM and IGT in
      patients with AMI and change present guidelines on the follow-up of patients after AMI with
      increased focus on impaired glucose tolerance. The study will provide new insights about the
      association between inflammation, haemostasis and impaired glucose tolerance in patients with
      acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction.
    
  