
    
      Ovarian cancer is a common and lethal disease for which early detection and treatment in high
      volume centers and by specialized clinicians is known to improve survival. Hence, accurate
      methods to preoperatively characterize the nature of an ovarian tumor are pivotal.

      The best ultrasound method for discrimination between benign and malignant adnexal masses is
      subjective assessment, i.e. subjective evaluation of ultrasound findings. Subjective
      assessment, however, requires a very experienced ultrasound examiner. More objective methods
      may be preferred by less experienced examiners who are not confident with using subjective
      assessment. The Risk of Malignancy Index (RMI) is one such method. There are also more
      recently developed methods. The International Ovarian Tumor Analysis (IOTA) group have
      created logistic regression models (LR1, LR2, and the ADNEX model) including clinical and
      ultrasound information to calculate the likelihood of malignancy in adnexal masses.

      The IOTA group has also suggested simple ultrasound rules that can be used to classify
      adnexal masses as benign or malignant.

      The ability of different methods to discriminate between benign and malignant adnexal masses
      has been compared in a meta-analysis showing that the IOTA Simple Rules and the IOTA logistic
      regression model LR2 were superior to RMI and to all other methods for predicting malignancy
      in an adnexal mass included in the meta-analysis. However, a fair comparison of methods
      requires them to be applied on the same tumor population.

      The general objective of this study is to prospectively validate the Simple Rules, ADNEX, the
      Simple Rules risk model, LR2, and RMI on a large multicenter dataset to allow direct
      comparison of these tools. The patients will be examined by operators of varying levels of
      experience, such that the investigators can study how experience might affect diagnostic
      performance.

      IOTA7 is an international multicenter prospective observational study including different
      types of ultrasound centers and examiners with different levels of ultrasound experience. In
      total, about 1700 adnexal masses with histological outcome will be included in IOTA 7.

      Patients with a known or suspected adnexal mass examined with transvaginal (or transrectal if
      vaginal is not possible) ultrasound by an IOTA certified ultrasound examiner and confirmed to
      have an adnexal mass judged not to be physiological but likely to undergo surgery (primarily
      planned for surgical management based on subjective assessment by the ultrasound
      investigator) will be recruited consecutively Upon inclusion in the study, an oral or written
      (depending on the requirements of the local Ethics Committee) informed consent is obtained
      from the patient.

      Data collection is done through the web-based clinical data miner (CDM) software. Data are
      stored on a secure server.

      First, clinical information about the patient is entered into CDM. Second, the ultrasound
      examiner provides a diagnosis based on subjective assessment, and notes the suggested
      management. Third, detailed ultrasound information needed for the different models to be
      validated is entered. When these data have been frozen (so they can no longer be changed) the
      examiner gets access to the results of the Simple Rules and ADNEX. The ultrasound examiner
      then records whether these results make him/her change the management suggested on the basis
      of subjective assessment. If so the new management is specified.

      Gold standard for validation of discriminative ability and calibration is the histology of
      the adnexal mass within 180 days after the ultrasound examination following surgical removal
      by laparotomy or laparoscopy as considered appropriate by the surgeon. In case of malignancy,
      the stage of the malignant tumors using the classification of the International Federation of
      Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) is noted.
    
  