
    
      Purpose and Design

      Back Pain is a common cause of pain and disability. The National Institute for Clinical
      Excellent [NICE] (2016) identify back pain as affecting 1 in 10 people and causing more
      disability than any other condition. In most people back pain resolves within a number of
      weeks without any healthcare input. For those whose pain does not improve physical and
      psychological treatments are recommended. These are provided by specialist services and are
      not available in Emergency Departments or via Ambulance Services (collectively referred to as
      Emergency Medical Services [EMS]). Thus, arguably only a very small minority of patients with
      back pain, where a severe medical pathology is indicated (e.g. cauda equina syndrome) should
      need to access EMS. However, anecdotally many people with back pain self-refer to EMS. The
      prevalence of people self-referring and their characteristics are currently unknown as these
      figures are not routinely reported although the information exists within the data collected
      by many trusts.

      This study aims to analyse anonymised data from the Darlington Memorial Hospital (DMH)
      Emergency Department (ED) to establish the prevalence of those attending with back pain. The
      characteristics of people presenting over a 12-month period with back pain, along with
      characteristics of their contact (e.g.

      administration of analgesia and the use of diagnostic imaging) will be described and compared
      to the general characteristics of those attending ED.

      These characteristics may help to inform healthcare service design, both EMS and non-EMS, to
      better meet the needs of this patient group.

      Research Methods

      This study will be a secondary analysis of an existing NHS database. The study will request
      anonymised data from DMH ED. The data will cover all adults who have accessed their services
      in a 12-month period. The information requested will include data related to the attendance,
      patient demographics/characteristics, geographical location and clinical data.

      Recruitment

      The data being used for this study is from a currently existing Trust database and therefore
      there will be no recruitment of participants.

      Inclusion/exclusion All individuals over the age of 16 will be included. Those aged under 16
      will be excluded as they are not included in clinical guidelines.

      Risks, Burdens and Benefits

      The data has been collected for clinical care and not for research purposes. Therefore
      patients will not have explicitly consented for their information to be used for research.
      The Information Governance Officer at DMH has confirmed that the data will be in
      non-personally identifiable form when it is released to the research team and is compliant
      with Section 33 of the Data Protection Act 1998.

      The main risk to patients is that their clinical data is being used for research purposes.
      However identifiable data will only be available to the usual clinical team. Anonymised
      information will be extracted by a DMH member of staff before it is securely transferred to
      the team at Teesside University where it will be analysed. Names and addresses will be
      completely removed from the database before it leaves the NHS.

      Some publications require raw data to be supplied. This would be supplied but it will be a
      non-personally identifiable dataset.

      Confidentiality

      The Caldicott Principles will be followed:

        1. Justify the purpose(s) of obtaining the information

        2. Don't use person-identifiable information unless it is absolutely necessary

        3. Use the minimum necessary person-identifiable information

        4. Access to person-identifiable information should be on a strict need-to-know basis

        5. Everyone with access to person-identifiable information should be aware of their
           responsibilities

        6. Understand and comply with the law

      Problems arising from the processing of identifiable data and how they will be handled

      The database contains socioeconomic data in the form of patients' postcodes. This
      socioeconomic data is important as it has been linked to emergency medical service use. A
      postcode is identifiable data. To overcome this DMH will supply only the first four digits
      which covers a sufficiently large geographical area that this will no longer be identifiable
      data. The first four digits will be sufficient to identify a Lower Layer Super Output Area
      code (LSOA code) which is the equivalent index of socioeconomic status.

      As the dataset will include all adults attending ED it will inevitably include members of
      vulnerable groups or others who would usually require additional ethical approval for
      inclusion in research (for example offenders) however this will not be known to the research
      team or be apparent in the non-personally identifiable data requested.
    
  