
    
      Persons with serious mental illnesses are overrepresented in jails. Criminal justice (CJ)
      involvement, including jail detention, is common among those with first-episode psychosis
      (FEP) and frequently precedes psychiatric treatment engagement. Yet, no documented
      interventions currently exist specifically to identify/engage such individuals while in jail
      and connect them to Coordinated Specialty Care (CSC) in the community upon release. Expansion
      of CSC programs across the U.S. provides an opportunity for partnership with the CJ
      system-one that has the potential to reduce the duration of untreated psychosis (DUP) and
      thus improve outcomes.

      To detect FEP and reduce DUP among detainees in a large, urban jail, the investigators
      propose to implement: (1) a "Targeted Educational Campaign" (TEC), and (2) a Specialized
      Early Engagement Team (SEET) in 3 jails on Rikers Island in New York City (NYC): Anna M.
      Kross Center (AMKC), Rose M. Singer Center (RMSC) and Robert N. Davoren Complex (RNDC).

      The investigators expect the multimedia TEC to generate referrals to the Correctional Health
      Services (CHS), and to reduce our DUP-1 (psychosis onset to antipsychotic initiation). Then,
      the jail-based SEET (a Social Worker and Peer Specialist) will link those identified to
      community-based CSC (primarily OnTrackNY sites in NYC), thus reducing DUP-2 (psychosis onset
      to CSC enrollment).

      The investigators will examine a set of hypothesized targets/mediators (the "how's"). These
      are key ingredients that underpin the intervention's ability to reduce DUP.

      The multi-media TEC will generate referrals to the CHS, by improving the behavioral
      capabilities, expectations, and self-efficacy (constructs from Social Cognitive Theory) of
      the Correction Officers trained. The SEET will then link detainees with FEP, using tenets of
      person-centered treatment and shared decision-making, and the Critical Time Intervention
      model, to community-based CSC. This will occur through engagement of detainees while in jail,
      and telephonically (when possible) after release. The investigators will assess feasibility
      and acceptability to lay the groundwork for a multi-site, definitive effectiveness trial.
    
  