
    
      Idiopathic pulmonary artery hypertension (IPAH) is a rare but progressive disease in children
      and adults with a very high mortality from right heart failure. Platelet derived growth
      factor (PDGF) has been implicated in the pulmonary artery remodeling and vascular
      proliferation that is a pathologic hallmark of IPAH. Animal and clinical data support the
      hypothesis that activation of the PDGF receptor is critical in the development of IPAH, and
      inhibition of the PDGF signaling pathways may be a potential therapeutic target. Gleevec is a
      tyrosine kinase inhibitor developed for treatment of certain cancers and inhibits the PDGF
      receptor. Animal and preliminary clinical data suggest that Gleevec can reverse vascular
      remodeling and improve right heart failure. A small clinical trial for adults with IPAH is
      ongoing in Europe, but there are no trials in children where the disease has a worse
      prognosis. This project is a phase II, single dose pilot study to generate the hypothesis
      that activation of the PDGF receptor is critical in the development of IPAH, and inhibition
      of the PDGF signaling pathways is a potential therapeutic target. Five patients between the
      ages of 8 yr to 18 yr with severe IPAH will be recruited nationally, for a 6 month trial of
      Imatinib. The Specific Aim of this study is to collect preliminary data on the safety and
      efficacy of Gleevec in children with IPAH. Results from this study are needed to develop a
      larger, multi-center trial to determine the efficacy and therapeutic impact of Gleevec in
      children with IPAH. The long term goal of this work is to develop novel therapeutic
      strategies for treatment of IPAH in children. This translational study of the inhibition of
      the PDGF receptor in children with IPAH could provide insights into the etiology of IPAH and
      have a major impact on the development of new treatment strategies for both children and
      adults with pulmonary artery hypertension from multiple origins.
    
  