
    
      Deceased organ donors and recipients of kidneys, livers and pancreata from the study donors
      comprise the study subjects.

      I. DONORS

      I. A. Inclusion Criteria All deceased organ donors aged > 5 years in acute care hospitals in
      the donor service area of the New Jersey Organ and Tissue Sharing Network (NJTO).

      I.B. Exclusion criteria

        1. Tissue only donors

        2. Age < 5 years

        3. When it is known before organ recovery that both kidneys will be leaving New
           JerseyIntervention: RIPC will be induced by inflation of a tourniquet around the upper
           thigh to 200 mm of Hg for a period of 10 minutes. After tourniquet deflation on one
           side, a similar procedure will be followed immediately on the opposite side. Thus, a
           total period of 20 minutes of lower extremity vascular occlusion will be utilized to
           induce RIPC. In instances of severe trauma to one lower extremity precluding tourniquet
           use, we will employ two cycles of 10 minutes of tourniquet occlusion in the
           non-traumatized lower extremity with 10 min of reperfusion in between. RIPC will be
           induced after commencement of procurement surgery but completed 30-45 min before
           circulatory arrest and initiation of organ perfusion.

           Additionally, liver biopsies (a wedge measuring 0.75 x 0.75 cm and a Tru-cut needle
           biopsy from the right lobe) are performed in as soon as the abdomen is opened. A wedge
           (1 x 0.3 cm) kidney biopsy is performed in all donors after kidney recovery but before
           packing the organs. All biopsies except kidney biopsies in donors aged < 50 years, are
           as per standard of care. The remainder of organ recovery, organ packaging and
           preservation are as per standard of practice. All kidneys recovered from donors
           classified as Extended Criteria Donors (donor age > 60 years or age 50-59 years with two
           of the following three criteria- cerebrovascular cause of death, a history of
           hypertension, terminal serum creatinine > 1.5 mg/dL) are routinely perfused ex-vivo in a
           pulsatile hypothermic perfusion apparatus until transplantation.

           . This may happen in a few instances either because of excellent tissue match with
           recipients outside New Jersey or in high risk behavior donors where all NJ kidney
           transplant centers have declined donor kidneys before organ recovery

        4. Deceased donors in whom a decision is made not to recover both kidneys (severe kidney
           disease, renal failure, etc)

        5. Severe trauma to both lower extremities precluding induction of RIPC
    
  