
    
      The investigators are inviting all universities and university colleges in Norway to take
      part. All students at institutions that agree to participate will receive an SMS
      (alternatively an e-mail) inviting them to take part in the study. The invitation includes a
      link that directs participants to a web-based informed consent-form and questionnaire. The
      investigators will use the University of Oslo's solutions for online consent form, web-based
      survey (Nettskjema), and secure storage of research data (TSD).

      The investigators will ask the participants if the participants have been tested for
      COVID-19, the results of such a test, how much in-person instruction the students have been
      offered, and how much online instruction the students have been offered. The investigators
      will also inquire about other risk factors for COVID-19 and background variables that may be
      included as potential adjustment factors (confounders) in the analyses (see Attachment 1 -
      Questionnaire).

      The investigators will survey the students every two weeks by new invitations by SMS or
      e-mail. The study period will last as long as the universities maintain their arrangement
      with in-person instruction for only select groups of students. The investigators plan for a
      study period that lasts for the remainder of 2020. The investigators will ask for the
      participants consent to link the survey results to information on study programme, basis for
      admission, study status, academic results, sex and age from the Common Student System.

      The investigators will run multivariate regressions to test whether there is an association
      between in-person instruction and the outcomes.

      In-person instruction is a continuous variable, defined as

      (Number of days offered in-person instruction) / (Number of days offered in-person
      instruction + Number of days offered online instruction)

      The investigators will control for potentially confounding variables, including year of study
      program, field of study, age, and gender. The investigators plan for separate analyses for
      each participating university/university college, and a pooled analysis across institutions.
    
  