
    
      Children older than 5 years of age diagnosed with cancer and treated at the Pediatric
      Hematology/Oncology unit, Hadassah Medical Center will be eligible to the study. The study is
      designed as a cross-over study, wherein each patient serves as his or her own control, thus
      all included children should be scheduled to receive at least two identical curses of
      doxorubicin-containing chemotherapy in which the dose of doxorubicin is at least 60mg/m2 per
      course. The patients will be assigned to randomly receive curcumin or placebo in the 1st
      course, with the other regimen administered at the 2nd course. Curcumin will be given as
      fluid extract (1:1) at a dose of 10 drops, three times a day. Adolescents and young adults
      will receive the adult recommend dose, i.e. 30 drops, three times a day. Placebo will be
      given at the same dose. The patients will be taught to rinse the mouth with the medicine and
      than spit out. The therapy will be given from a day prior to the first day of the cycle for
      two weeks. A diary kept by the family will record each given dose. Possible side effects
      associated with the study drug, such as vomiting, nausea, rash, etc., will be recorded. No
      other adjunctive topical treatment will be used during the study. Adherence will be assessed
      through subject reports as well as by review of returned medications every cycle collected
      during the objective assessment site visits. Given the intent-to-treat analysis, all
      participants will be included irrespective of how much of the study medication was taken.The
      measurements of study outcome, i.e. OMAS score, WHO mucositis scale and visual analogue pain
      scale will be done on day 1,7,10,14,21 ± 1 of each chemotherapy cycle. The following data
      will be recorded in all cycles: duration of neutropenia, the need and length of
      hospitalization, use and dosage of opioid analgesia, need for total potential nutrition,
      blood culture positive infection and other mucositis related complications.
    
  