
    
      More than 1 million Americans suffer a heart attack each year, resulting in about a 38%
      mortality rate. Although current treatments are able to stabilize the condition of the heart,
      none is able to restore heart function as it was prior to the heart attack. The permanent
      damage to the heart can lead to more severe problems, such as heart failure and irregular
      heartbeat, making the discovery of treatments to improve heart function after a heart attack
      important. Adult stem cells, which are immature cells that can become many different types of
      cells, may offer a potential means of reversing or preventing permanent damage caused by a
      heart attack. These specialized cells may have the ability to promote blood vessel growth,
      prevent cell death, and transform themselves into a number of tissues, including muscle.
      Recent studies have shown promise in using adult stem cells from bone marrow to reverse
      damage to the heart muscle caused by a heart attack, but more research is needed to assess
      the safety and effectiveness of stem cell use and to discover the best time to administer
      treatment. This study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of placing adult stem cells
      into injured heart muscle for improving heart function in people who have had a recent heart
      attack and a PCI. Additionally, this study will help determine the best time to insert stem
      cells after a heart attack.

      Participation in this study will last 24 months. All participants will first undergo baseline
      assessments that will include a medical history, a physical exam, an electrocardiogram (ECG),
      blood draws, an echocardiogram, and a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) test. Participants
      will then be assigned randomly to receive stem cells or placebo either 3 or 7 days after
      their heart attack. The morning of the stem cell or placebo infusion, participants will
      undergo a blood draw and a bone marrow aspiration procedure of the hip bone to collect the
      stem cells. Later the same day, either stem cells or placebo will be infused through a
      catheter and into the damaged area of the heart.

      For the first 24 hours following the infusion, participants will be asked to wear a small ECG
      machine called a Holter monitor. Participants will also be asked to record their temperature
      twice a day for a month after the infusion. Participants will return for follow-up visits at
      Months 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24 and will repeat many of the baseline assessments.
    
  