
    
      Recent improvements in transplantation techniques, organ matching systems, and modern
      immunosuppressive regiments have made kidney transplantation a routine operation with
      acceptable mortality and morbidity rates. Post-kidney transplantation morbidities include
      vascular and urological complications, and postoperative fluid collections. Perirenal fluid
      collections, such as urinomas, hematomas, and lymphoceles, are some of most frequent
      complications following Kidney transplantation, among which post-Kidney transplantation
      lymphatic collections, are most challenging complications.

      The incidence of post-kidney transplantation lymphatic complications is up to 50% and the
      peak incidence of lymphocele is during the 6th postoperative week (range: 2 weeks to 6
      months).

      Lymphoceles are usually asymptomatic and identified incidentally by routine ultrasound
      examination. However lymphoceles may result in morbidities such as abdominal discomfort,
      impaired wound healing, and thrombosis. Post-kidney transplantation lymphatic complications
      may also affect graft function by putting pressure on the kidney, or by compressing the
      ureter or transplant vasculature. The frequency and consequences of post-transplantation
      lymphoceles make preventive measures highly desirable.

      Various preventive methods have been proposed in the literature. Lymphoceles usually
      originate from unligated lymphatic vessels, therefore precise ligation of donor and recipient
      lymphatic vessels can reduce lymphocele formation. Compression therapy of the lower limb
      after kidney transplantation and appropriate immunosuppressive therapy may also reduce
      lymphocele formation. Some authors have used polymeric sealants/hemostatic biomaterials or
      povidone-iodine to prevent lymphocele formation. However, the effectiveness and
      cost-efficiency of these methods has not been conclusively proven. Use of drains in
      lymphocele prevention has also been previously suggested, but this method remains
      controversial. Peritoneal fenestration at the time of kidney transplantation is a simple
      method to prevent lymphocele formation. This method has been widely studied in treatment and
      prevention of lymphoceles following kidney transplantation. However, to the best of our
      knowledge, only one randomized controlled trial has been performed to investigate the impact
      of preventive fenestration in prevention of post kidney transplantation lymphatic
      complications. This study showed that the prevalence of fluid collections in the fifth
      postoperative week was significantly higher in the standard group compared to fenestration
      group. Also, 15.5% of patients in the standard group developed symptomatic lymphoceles
      requiring treatment during the first postoperative year, versus 3.0% in the fenestration
      group.

      Recent studies have evaluated the effectiveness of extensive clipping using metallic clips
      following fenestration on lymphocele formation and lymph leakage after prostate cancer
      surgery and laparoscopic retroperitoneal lymph node dissection. Some surgeons have declared
      concerns that larger fenestrations increase the risk of hernia. However, risk of closure of
      the peritoneal fenestration is higher for smaller Windows in the peritoneal cavity. Recently
      clipping of the edges of peritoneal fenestration was performed in the surgical clinic of the
      Heidelberg University Hospital to reduce risk of closure of the fenestration after kidney
      transplantation. However, whether fenestration and clipping prevents lymphocele formation
      after kidney transplantation has not been investigated.

      This clinical Trial is designed to investige the rate of post-kidney transplantation
      lymphocele and lymphorrhea in two groups of kidney transplantation patients: one with only
      fenestration and one with fenestration and clipping of the edges. Additionally, graft
      function and incidence rate of other morbidities will be investigated and analyzed after
      transplantation.
    
  