
    
      Fetal growth abnormalities, such as macrosomia and intrauterine growth retardation, are an
      important cause for increased perinatal mortality in the United States. Toward this end,
      accurate fetal weight determinations are very important for guiding prenatal care.
      Three-dimensional ultrasound is a recent technology that provides a new way to evaluate the
      fetus. This technique allows one to arbitrarily scan through a digital ultrasound volume
      dataset, visualize organs from different perspectives, and render anatomical features through
      computer processing. It also allows the retrospective measurement of distances and volumes
      even in the physical absence of the patient.

      This protocol consists of two study arms and emphasizes the ability of 3D ultrasound to
      reliably measure fetal soft tissue as an index of generalized nutritional status. The
      longitudinal arm will enroll 400 pregnancies to allow the use of 2D and 3D ultrasonography
      for characterizing serial growth patterns of sonographic parameters throughout pregnancy.
      This approach compares ultrasound measurements or birth characteristics to individual growth
      standards specified by Rossavik prediction models. After delivery, a maximum of 329 newborn
      infants, resulting from the same pregnancies, will have correlative photographs and
      measurements of their head, abdomen, thigh, skin folds, weight, and crown-heel length taken
      to classify growth outcome. Noninvasive air displacement plethymography will be used to
      measure neonatal percent body fat and lean body mass after delivery. Infant body composition
      data will allow the precise classification of neonatal growth outcome for subsequent
      correlation to prenatal sonographic studies. The cross-sectional arm of this protocol will
      allow sonographic studies of 2,577 fetuses with similar correlative neonatal evaluation of
      1,212 infants for a total of 3,789 subjects. The results will be used to develop a new fetal
      weight estimation models that combine 2D and 3D sonographic parameters to improve accuracy
      and precision of these predictions. A maximum of 50 newborns from this cross-sectional arm
      will also be re-evaluated for infant body composition at 1 and 2 weeks following delivery to
      document changes in percent body fat and fat-free mass. Therefore, the subject recruitment
      ceiling would be (2,577 mothers + 1,212 infants) + (400 mothers + 329 infants) or 4,518 total
      subjects for this Protocol.
    
  