
    
      The study will be completed in four phases.

      Phase 1 (Preparation): First, a sample of women with SUDs (n=5) will be recruited through a
      separate MAT program in the UPMC system to pre-test the surveys for patient participants to
      ensure clarity and understandability of these assessments. A sample of substance use
      treatment providers (n=3) will also be recruited to pre-test the surveys for provider
      participants. To ensure that participants who want contraceptive services can receive them,
      the investigators will create a referral pathway that can be used to link participants
      interested in receiving reproductive health services to an appropriate provider. Through the
      electronic medical record system of UPMC, providers at NATP will be able to place referrals
      for reproductive health services for interested participants. Additionally, given the recent
      increase in use of telemedicine during the COVID-19 pandemic, participants will have the
      option of attending a telemedicine video visit with a family planning provider through UPMC
      Magee-Womens Hospital's Family Planning clinic. These various options will allow participants
      to choose the route that is easiest for them and therefore will further decrease barriers to
      care.

      Phase 2 (Usual Care): Thirty three women with SUDs will be recruited from the NATP to
      evaluate baseline family planning discussions and referrals to women's health providers in
      SUD treatment settings. To establish usual care practice patterns, MyPath will not be
      administered to this group of participants. Participants will first complete a pre-visit
      survey. This will include demographics, substance use history, and current reproductive
      health goals, as well as questions about knowledge, self-efficacy, and decision conflict. The
      participants will then attend their scheduled visit with the substance use treatment
      provider, whether virtual or in-person. Following the provider visit, they will complete the
      post-visit survey, which will include the same knowledge, efficacy, and decision conflict
      survey questions as the pre-visit survey. Occurrence of reproductive health discussions,
      prescriptions or referrals, and satisfaction with reproductive health services will be
      measured following the visit as well. All surveys will be administered online through REDCap.
      Patient participants will be compensated for their time with a gift card after they complete
      the post-visit survey.

      Phase 3 (MyPath Pilot): Following completion of the usual care arm, a second group of 33
      women with SUDs will be recruited from the NATP to participate in the MyPath intervention
      arm. Participants will complete the same pre-visit survey as the usual care group. In
      addition, they will be provided a website link to navigate through the online MyPath tool.
      Following completion of MyPath, participants will receive a summary page (see Appendix A for
      a sample summary) that they will be encouraged to share with their substance use treatment
      provider at their next scheduled visit, whether virtual or in-person. After the visit, they
      will complete the post-visit survey. In addition to satisfaction with reproductive health
      services, the intervention group will be asked specific questions about their perception of
      the MyPath tool. All surveys will be administered online through REDCap. Patient participants
      will be compensated for their time with a gift card after they complete the post-visit
      survey.

      Phase 4 (Provider Assessment): Following study completion for patient participants, provider
      participants will be asked to complete an exit survey to assess feasibility of incorporating
      MyPath into their clinical work flow and their comfort with reproductive counseling and
      referring. This will be an anonymous survey administered online and will be sent to all
      providers identified as engaging with at least one patient participant during the MyPath
      intervention.

      Phase 5 (Follow-up): Three months following study completion, a chart review will be
      performed for each patient participant through UPMC's electronic medical record. This will
      allow for the collection of information for completion of placed referrals and receipt of
      desired reproductive services.
    
  