
    
      Environmental enteric dysfunction (EED) is an intestinal disorder common among people living
      in low-resource settings (LRS), which in children has been associated with increased risk of
      growth stunting, reduced cognitive development, and reduced oral vaccine responsiveness. An
      effective EED therapeutic would offer an opportunity to improve child growth and development
      in LRS. One promising intervention, enterade® (an amino acid-based oral rehydration solution
      [AA-ORS]), is a medical food product already sold in the United States. It consists of oral
      rehydration salts and a proprietary blend of amino acids designed to restore gut function,
      improve nutrient and electrolyte absorption, and improve barrier integrity. There is evidence
      that this AA-ORS reduces inflammation and promotes healing of damaged intestinal epithelium
      in murine models of intestinal damage (irradiated gut), and it may provide benefit to
      pediatric EED patients. Supplementation of amino acids may lessen or improve intestinal
      injury related to enteric illnesses commonly experienced in settings of poor hygiene and
      sanitation infrastructure. The results from this exploratory mixed-methods study could have
      broad implications for possible future studies among pediatric patients with intestinal
      injury resulting from EED and future product development and program strategies for EED
      interventions.

      The study was terminated prematurely after study product was found on site that did not meet
      product specifications. Enrollment and all study product dosing was halted; previously
      enrolled participants were followed through planned study visits and assessments. An
      additional 6-week safety follow-up period was added to study procedures. No study-related
      adverse events were reported during per-protocol activities or from the additional 6-week
      follow-up.
    
  