
    
      Study design

      This cohort study was conducted prospectively and approved by the ethics committee of Far
      Eastern Memorial Hospital (IRB No. FEMH-105023-F). Consecutive patients who received IT
      between November 2016 and September 2017 were enrolled. The inclusion criteria were as
      followings: post-IT patients older than 7-year-old, and with informed consent for endoscopy
      and biopsy. Those with bleeding tendency (platelet count <80k/ul, or prothrombin time
      international normalized ratio >1.5), without informed consent, or leukopenia (absolute
      neutrophil count <1,500/ul) were excluded.

      Endoscopic and histological grading for allograft rejection Endoscopic surveillance was
      carried out after IT twice a week during the first month, once a week in the second month and
      then once per month until ileostomy closed. IEE examinations were performed with magnifying
      endoscopy (ME) which has powerful 80 times optical magnification under narrow-band imaging
      (NBI) system (Evis Lucera CLV-260NBI, GIF-H260Z endoscopy, Olympus Medical Systems Corp,
      Tokyo, Japan).14 ME was intubated through chimney ileostomy to anastomosis site to evaluate
      the changes of superficial mucosal surface and vascular architecture. Biopsy samples were
      taken from endoscopically suspicious rejection areas for histological examination. All the
      endoscopic procedures were done by one experienced endoscopist (C.S-C.) who was blinded to
      the histological reports.

      All the histological reports were carried out by one experienced pathologist (C.C.-T.). The
      severity of histological rejection was graded according to followings:11 1) Indeterminate:

      minimal histological changes including localized inflammatory infiltrate, crypt epithelial
      injury, increased crypt epithelial apoptosis but less than 6 apoptotic bodies/10crypts, no to
      minimal architectural distortion, no mucosal ulceration, or changes insufficient for the
      diagnosis of mild rejection; 2) Mild: mild localized inflammatory infiltrate with activated
      lymphocytes, mild crypt epithelial injury, increased crypt epithelial apoptosis > 6 apoptotic
      bodies/10crypts, mild architectural distortion but no mucosal ulceration; 3) Moderate: widely
      dispersed inflammatory infiltrate in lamina propria, diffuse crypt epithelial injury,
      increased crypt apoptosis with focal confluent apoptosis, more prominent architectural
      distortion, possible mild to moderate intimal arteritis, no mucosal ulceration; 4) Severe:
      features of moderate ACR, possible ulceration and denudation of mucosa, severe intimal
      arteritis or transmural arteritis may be seen. We classified those with apoptotic
      body≦1/10crypts and without other findings associated with indeterminate, mild, moderate to
      severe rejection as no rejection.

      We used a novel endoscopic scoring system to record the architectural changes of microsurface
      and microvascularity of mucosa (Table 1). The observed endoscopic findings were recorded by
      the following five components ("V-E-N-C-H") graded 0 to 2 (Figure 1): 1) "V" (villi
      appearance): string-like (V-0), tongue-like (V-1), dome-like (V-2); 2) "E" (erythema of
      mucosa): no redness (E-0), sporadic (E-1), diffuse (E-2); 3) "N" (network of capillary):
      normal capillary loops (N-0), meandering caliber of capillary loops and loss of capillary
      loops in <50% villi under one maximal ME view (N-1), loss of capillary loops >50% villi under
      one maximal

      ME view (N-2); 4) "C" (crypt widening): narrow (C-0), slightly widened within a width of one
      villi (C-1), markedly widened beyond a width of one villi (C-2); 5) "H" (heterogeneity of
      mucosal change): minimal (H-0), patch (H-1), diffuse (H-2).

      Statistical analysis The continuous variables were expressed as mean ± standard deviation,
      whereas categorical variables were summarized as count (%). Pearson's correlation coefficient
      was used to analyze the severity of rejection between endoscopic scoring system and
      histological grading system. The significance levels were defined as p value <0.05 and the
      statistical analysis was performed using STATA software (version 11.0; Stata Corp, College
      Station, TX, USA).
    
  