
    
      Following institutional review board approval for this study and after informed consent from
      patients is obtained, men referred to our institution for treatment of clinically localized
      prostate cancer will be interviewed at baseline following diagnosis but prior to making a
      treatment decision, by a research study coordinator whom we will train in utility assessment.
      At that initial interview, the patient's utilities will be assessed, in a private
      consultation room, for each important post-treatment health state that he potentially may
      enter. The states we would assess include living with untreated prostate cancer, impotence,
      urinary dysfunction, bowel dysfunction, rising PSA following definitive local therapy, and
      metastatic prostate cancer. We will also record characteristics of the patient's disease
      (pretreatment serum PSA, clinical stage, biopsy Gleason grade), demographics (age, race,
      level of education, employment, marital status) and comorbidity. Patient-reported urinary,
      bowel, and sexual function/bother will be assessed at baseline using a short form version of
      a 48-item validated HRQOL instrument for localized prostate cancer. All patient information
      will be entered into a secure, HIPAA-compliant database accessible only to the principal
      investigator, research study coordinator(s), data manager, and biostatistician. All patient
      identifying information will be removed prior to data analysis and will not be included in
      any publication or presentation that results from this study. For all patients, the
      quality-adjusted disease-free survival for each treatment modality will be calculated using
      the decision analysis model. For the decision analysis arm of the trial, this information
      will be conveyed to the patient and the physician prior to treatment decision. These patients
      will also receive standard treatment counseling. For the control arm, both patients and
      physicians will be unaware of the decision analysis recommendation and the patients will
      receive standard treatment counseling alone. After the patient has made a treatment decision
      he will be given a short questionnaire to assess decisional conflict. If after one month no
      treatment decision information is available, a letter and form requesting treatment
      information along with the decisional conflict questionnaire will be sent to patients. At 6,
      12, and 24 months following the treatment decision, the patient will be sent a brief
      validated questionnaire which will measure his regret of treatment choice, treatment
      satisfaction, decisional conflict and current health state utility using validated
      instruments. A short form version of a 48-item validated questionnaire will also assess his
      HRQOL for urinary, bowel and sexual function/bother domains at these time intervals.
      Approximately two weeks after receiving each follow-up questionnaire and/or letter, a member
      of the study group will contact the patient by telephone if we have not received the
      completed questionnaire. S/he will inquire about any difficulties with the questionnaire and
      will remind the patient about sending it back.

      The primary endpoint of this study (decisional regret) and secondary endpoints (treatment
      satisfaction, decisional conflict, and current health state utility) will be assessed by
      means of a patient-reported questionnaire using validated instruments assessed at 6, 12 and
      24 months after randomization. A decision analysis model will be developed using a Markov
      modeling approach. Using Treeage Data® pro suite, the model will incorporate cancer outcomes,
      treatment-related morbidity probabilities derived from nomograms, and patient-specific
      utilities to estimate the quality-adjusted disease-free survival for each treatment option.
      In the model, all patients will begin with localized prostate cancer with no evidence of
      metastases. A 6-month transition cycle will be used for the Markov model. Bootstrap
      simulation with replacement will be utilized to derive mean utilities and 95% confidence
      intervals. Sensitivity analyses will be performed by varying the disease progression rates
      and utilities within their 95% confidence intervals. To investigate if the decision analytic
      model, compared to standard interactions alone, will influence treatment choice and lead to
      higher quality treatment decisions that are congruent with a patient's values, an
      intent-to-treat analysis will be conducted on patients who did and did not receive the
      decision analysis recommendation with decisional regret as the primary endpoint. In a planned
      secondary analysis, we will analyze both arms of our trial and test the hypothesis that a
      patients who chooses a treatment strategy that did not appear to maximize his
      quality-adjusted disease-free survival (i.e. not the one the decision analysis would have
      yielded) will be at increased risk of regret. This will be conducted by identifying patients
      in both arms who choose the treatment that is also recommended by the decision model. The
      probability of selecting the decision analytic treatment strategy (which is also the
      probability of selecting the highest quality treatment decision congruent with a patient's
      values) will be investigated using a logistic regression model with covariates that include
      treatment arm, an indicator variable to define patients whose baseline treatment choice
      matched the decision analysis model, an interaction between the treatment arm and this
      indicator variable, as well as other clinically relevant baseline covariates and two way
      interactions. Testing for an interaction between treatment arm and the indicator variable
      will allow us to test if the effect that knowledge of the decision analytic model has on the
      probability of selecting the highest quality treatment decision is different for patients
      whose baseline treatment choice matched the decision analysis model compared to patients
      whose baseline treatment choice did not match the decision analysis model. Each patient will
      also have the following outcomes measured at 6 months, 12 months, and 24 months following
      their treatment: decisional regret, decisional conflict, treatment satisfaction, health state
      utility score, and HRQOL for urinary, bowel, and sexual function domain scores. All scores
      will be standardized such that each patient's score is between 0 and 100. Baseline decisional
      regret scores, informed decision scores, and treatment satisfaction scores will be set at
      100, indicating no decisional regret, a high degree of feeling as though an informed decision
      was made, and high treatment satisfaction. Scores for health state utility and HRQOL domains
      will also be obtained at baseline. Based on each patient's final treatment choice, we will
      also calculate the difference between the number of quality adjusted life years based on the
      decision analysis model and the final treatment choice.

      For each response, separate linear mixed models that include both fixed and random effects
      will be applied. To meet the distributional assumptions of this model, responses may be
      transformed prior to model fitting. Fixed effects that will be included in the model are
      clinically relevant baseline and time dependent covariates and two way interactions as well
      as linear or quadratic time trends. In particular, a covariate for treatment arm, an
      indicator variable to define patients who chose the decision analytic model based treatment
      choice, and an interaction between these two variables will be included. In this case, the
      interaction will allow us to test if the effect that knowledge of the decision analytic model
      has on various responses is different for patients who chose the decision analytic model
      treatment choice compared to patients who did not chose the decision analytic model treatment
      choice. A covariate for the difference between the number of quality adjusted life years
      based on the decision analysis model and the final treatment choice and an interaction
      between this variable and the treatment arm indicator variable will also be included in the
      model to examine if the effect that knowledge of the decision analytic model has on various
      responses is effected by the theoretical degree of mistake. To fully account for the
      variation in subject specific trajectories over time, a random intercept will be included in
      this model although linear and quadratic random effects will also be considered if
      appropriate. In addition, the residual covariance structure for each model will also be
      investigated to avoid misspecification and invalid inferences. In particular, correct
      specification of the covariance structure will be investigated using different ways to model
      the measurement error (due to variation in the measurement of the response) and serial
      correlation (due to decreasing correlation between measurements over time). For instance,
      structures for serial correlation will be investigated using a semi-variogram. Although the
      problem of a misspecified covariance structure can and will be avoided by using a robust
      variance estimator when making inferences about the fixed effects of interest based on the
      marginal model, misspecification also leads to an inability to properly account for the
      effect of missing data, a common occurrence in longitudinal studies. Note that once an
      appropriate model is fit to each response of interest, inference regarding the fixed
      treatment and covariate effects on the response will be based on marginal models using the
      robust variance estimator to protect against model misspecification of the covariance
      structure. Statistical significance of fixed effects will be based on a 0.05 significance
      level. As this study is exploratory, no attempt will be made to account for multiple
      comparisons.

      As discussed previously, missing data is a common problem in longitudinal studies. Typically,
      patients who drop out of the study are not comparable to patients who remain in the study at
      all times. Consequently, the likelihood of dropout is correlated with the underlying
      unobserved data. To account for this problem, pattern mixture models will also be fit in
      addition to the previous models that ignore the effect of missing data on resulting
      estimates. Pattern mixture models are based on fitting separate linear mixed model to each of
      the seven dropout patterns that can occur in the data such that a separate time trend is
      estimated for each pattern. The marginal treatment effect is then calculated by a weighted
      average of the pattern-specific treatment effects, with weights given by the probability of
      occurrence of the various patterns. Because the estimated marginal treatment effects rely on
      the extrapolation of fitted average profiles to time points where data is not observed,
      sensitivity analyses will also be performed to examine the robustness of the results to
      alternative assumptions. For instance, rather than estimating a separate time trend for each
      pattern, the model could be simplified so that drop-out pattern is used as a covariate in the
      model. In this case, the time trend within a pattern is unstructured but parallel across
      patterns. If estimated marginal treatment effects agree among the different models that are
      investigated, this will suggest that the results are not artifacts of the particular model
      used to account for dropout.
    
  