
    
      The therapeutic hypothesis for the use of losmapimod in COVID-19 disease is that increased
      disease severity and consequent increased mortality is caused by p38 mitogen-activated
      protein kinase (MAPK)-mediated exaggerated acute inflammatory response resulting from
      SARS-CoV-2 infection.

      It is anticipated that the early initiation of p38α/β inhibitor therapy in patients with
      moderate COVID-19 will prevent further clinical deterioration and reduce the need for both
      increased respiratory support as well as mortality. This is the main hypothesis for this
      study.

      To address this hypothesis, Fulcrum Therapeutics is conducting a Phase 3, multicenter,
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that will evaluate the safety and efficacy
      of losmapimod versus placebo in subjects with COVID-19 disease.

      Losmapimod is currently in Phase 2 clinical trials for the treatment of facioscapulohumeral
      dystrophy (FSHD) and has previously been administered to more than 3600 adult healthy
      volunteers and subjects including participants in a large Phase 3 trial which looked at
      clinical outcomes and safety after major cardiovascular events.

      Patients will participate in this study for approximately 34 days. The total treatment
      duration will be 14 days. Subjects will be evaluated during a 3 day pre-treatment period
      (Screening and Baseline Visits) to establish pre-treatment baseline assessments and
      eligibility. Subjects will then be randomized to treatment with losmapimod or placebo for 14
      days and assessed frequently for changes from pre-treatment in various clinical outcome
      assessments. Patients must have a confirmed diagnosis of COVID-19 by viral PCR prior to
      randomization and first dosing. Patients will receive 15 mg of losmapimod, or placebo twice
      daily given as two 7.5 mg tablets per dose by mouth: for a total of 4 pills or 30 mg daily
      for 14 consecutive days. All study visits during the first week of treatment are anticipated
      to be conducted in the inpatient setting while later visits are anticipated to be conducted
      as outpatient.

      The primary endpoint of the study is to assess the efficacy of losmapimod tablets compared
      with placebo for the treatment of COVID-19 when administered concurrently with the local
      standard of care. Secondary endpoints include evaluating the effect of losmapimod compared
      with placebo on clinical outcomes, clinical status, effect on survival, safety, and
      tolerability and to characterize changes in the levels of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
    
  