
    
      The Gulf Long-term Follow-up Study (GuLF STUDY) will investigate potential short- and
      long-term health effects associated with the clean-up activities following the Deepwater
      Horizon disaster in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010. Crude oil, burning oil, and the
      dispersants used during clean-up efforts contain a range of known and suspected toxins. Over
      100,000 persons have completed safety training in preparation for participation in clean-up
      activities related to the spill. While many of these individuals participated in active
      clean-up efforts, others did not. Exposures among persons involved in clean-up range from
      negligible to potentially significant, especially for workers involved in tasks associated
      with direct exposure to crude or burning oil, or to chemical dispersants. However, prediction
      of adverse health effects is not possible because the long-term human health consequences of
      oil spills are largely unknown due to the dearth of research in this area. The potential
      health effects associated with the levels of exposure experienced by clean-up workers are
      largely unstudied. Heat and stress experienced by these workers may also have adverse
      long-term health effects. In addition to the oil itself, the widespread economic and
      lifestyle disruption caused by the oil spill may contribute to mental health problems among
      this population.

      The over-arching hypotheses of this study are:

        1. Exposure to constituents of oil, dispersants, and oil-dispersant mixtures, and to
           spill-related stress by workers engaged in clean-up of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill
           are associated with adverse health effects, particularly respiratory, neurological,
           hematologic, and psychological or mental health.

        2. There are exposure-response relationships between the above exposures and health
           effects.

        3. Biomarkers of potentially adverse biologic effects are associated with the above
           exposures.

      Based on what is known about individuals involved in clean-up efforts, the cohort will
      consist primarily of English-, Spanish-, or Vietnamese-speaking adults who performed
      oil-spill clean-up-related work ( exposed ) and similar persons who did not engage in
      clean-up-related work ( unexposed controls). Accommodations for enrolling participants
      speaking other languages will be developed through community collaborations as appropriate.
      Workers will be sampled from across job/potential exposure groups. A total of approximately
      55,000 persons are expected to be enrolled into the cohort. A random sample of the full
      cohort, stratified by category of job/potential exposure (including N~6,000 with no oil-spill
      work to serve as controls) and oversampled for workers with higher potential exposures, will
      be enrolled into an Active Follow-up Sub-cohort (N~20,000). A random sample of the Active
      Follow-up Sub-cohort, also stratified by category of job/potential exposure and oversampled
      for workers with higher potential exposures, will be enrolled into a Biomedical Surveillance
      Sub-cohort (N~5,000). Participants will be interviewed about their clean-up-related tasks,
      demographic and socioeconomic factors, occupational and health histories, psychosocial
      factors, and physical and mental health. Members of the Active Follow-up Sub-cohort will also
      be asked to provide biological samples (blood, urine, hair, toenail clippings, and possibly
      saliva) and environmental samples (house dust) and will have basic clinical measurements
      (height, weight, waist and hip circumference, blood pressure, urinary glucose levels, FEV1
      and FVC as a measure of pulmonary function) taken during home visits at baseline. The
      Biomedical Surveillance Sub-cohort will participate in a more comprehensive clinical
      assessment after the initial home visit, including more comprehensive pulmonary function
      testing, neurological testing, and collection of additional biological and environmental
      samples. The specific tests to be performed and clinical protocols will be developed in
      collaboration with extramural investigators selected through a request for proposals (RFP).
      When developed, the protocol for this portion of the study will be submitted separately to
      the Institutional Review Board as a study amendment.

      Exposures will be estimated using detailed job-exposure matrices developed from data from
      monitoring performed by different agencies and organizations during the crisis, as well as
      information on recommended or actual use of personal protection, information obtained by
      interview, and the available scientific literature. It should be noted that, in the absence
      of individual or group monitoring data for most workers, estimates of exposure, whether based
      on job activities or on more refined job-exposure matrices, will indicate the degree of
      potential exposure (i.e., exposure opportunity) rather than known exposure. We will
      investigate acute health effects via self-report from the enrollment interview among all
      cohort members and also via clinical measures and biological samples from Active Follow-up
      Sub-cohort members. All cohort members will be followed for development of a range of health
      outcomes through record linkage (cancer, mortality) and if feasible, through linkage with
      electronic medical records that may become available during the course of follow-up. Health
      outcomes among the Active Follow-up Sub-cohort will also be identified through self-report
      via periodic follow-up interviews. Additional outcome information will be obtained on the
      Biomedical Surveillance Sub-cohort from periodic follow-up clinical evaluations (e.g.,
      spirometry, neurological testing) and analysis of follow-up biospecimens (e.g., immunologic
      parameters, liver function, renal function, DNA damage). Follow-up of the entire cohort is
      initially planned for 10 years, with extended follow-up possible depending upon scientific
      and public health needs and the availability of funds.

      Recruitment of subjects should begin in March 2011, with the telephone interviews expected to
      be completed within 12-24 months and the baseline home visits within 18-26 months. For the
      home visits, we will initially target workers residing in the four most affected Gulf States
      (LA, MS, AL, and FL), although we may expand to other states if further information about the
      geographic distribution of workers and their potential exposures warrants additional
      follow-up in these states. We will work closely with a Community Advisory Board to develop
      community support for this study and appropriate communications and study materials.
    
  