
    
      Military deployment is associated with exposure to novel particulate matter (PM), such as
      from burn pits, aeroallergens, and increased cigarette consumption. War fighters exposed to
      these inhalational exposures exhibit immediate and chronic respiratory morbidity. For
      example, military service personnel surveyed in both the Republic of Korea (ROK) and Kabul,
      Afghanistan reported a general increase in respiratory morbidity, including asthma and
      chronic bronchitis, associated with their deployment. Air contaminants in the ROK were
      characterized by elevated levels of both PM 0.5-2.5 and PM 2.5-10. Similarly, exposures in
      Kabul were characterized by multiple airborne PM exposures, including those from burn pits.
      Burn pit PM includes metals, bioaerosols, organic by-products, and biomass combustion
      particles. These findings indicate that inhaled PM is a likely cause of respiratory morbidity
      in the field.

      Inflammation is a key initial response to inhaled particulates. Wood smoke particles (WSP)
      serve as a model agent to study PM-induced bronchitis. WSP inhalation generates reactive
      oxidant (and nitrosative) species which cause local injury of airway epithelial cells and
      release of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) that activate toll-like receptors
      (TLR) and Interleukin (IL)-1-mediated innate immune responses by resident airway macrophages.
      Contamination of PM with bioaerosols, which contain lipopolysaccharide (LPS), also activates
      innate immune responses through toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) activation of resident airway
      macrophages. These complementary processes result in recruitment of neutrophils (PMN), which
      mediate luminal airway inflammation with release of toxic mediators such as neutrophil
      elastase and myeloperoxidase that promote acute and chronic bronchitis.

      Therefore, mitigation of PM-induced airway neutrophilic inflammation should be a key focus in
      order to reduce the respiratory morbidity of military personnel. The researchers have studied
      a number of pro-inflammatory inhaled agents, such as nebulized LPS, ozone (O3), and WSP, as
      models of acute neutrophilic bronchitis against which to test a number of therapeutic agents.
      To this effect, the researchers have reported that inhaled fluticasone inhibits O3-induced
      and LPS-induced neutrophilic inflammation, and that parenteral anakinra and oral
      gamma-tocopherol inhibit neutrophilic responses to inhaled LPS. In this study, the
      researchers will evaluate the efficacy of oral prednisone, a readily available
      anti-inflammatory medication commonly used in airway inflammatory diseases, in mitigating
      WSP-induced airway inflammation.
    
  