
    
      Chronic hemodialysis (HD) has been associated with changes not only in T cell immunity but
      also in lipid profile. Apart from their immune function, circulating T cells may participate
      actively in atherogenesis, and treatments that aim to reduce T cell activation and apoptosis
      in patients with ESRD reduce the risk for development of cardiovascular disease.

      Evidence exists that HD patients are exposed to enhanced oxidative stress that is initiated
      by the generation of oxygen free radicals, mainly in tissue and probably in the circulation.
      The most potent O2-generating proteins are oxidatively modified lipoproteins, mainly oxidized
      (oxLDL). OxLDL have been shown to trigger apoptosis of endothelial cells, macrophages, and
      lymphocytes. However, the pathophysiological relevance of oxLDL-induced CD4+ T cell apoptosis
      in HD patients remains uncertain.

      Previous findings including ours have suggested that in chronic HD patients, a significantly
      high percentage of activated CD4+ T cells ultimately do not proliferate but become apoptotic.
      The induction of activated CD4+ T cell apoptosis from HD patients was dependent on Fas/FasL
      expression, which leads to a cell contact form of circulating CD4+ T cell self-injury.
      Furthermore, the investigators showed that activated CD4+ T cells from these patients fail to
      respond adequately to exogenous IL-2. This is due to the downmodulation of surface IL-2
      receptor (IL-2R) beta and gamma subunit expression, impaired IL-2 signal transduction in CD4+
      T cells, and/or increased serum levels of soluble IL-2R (sIL-2R). Moreover, in vivo
      sensitization to IL-2 or low synthesis of endogenous IL-2, themselves potentially may lead to
      enhanced sensitivity to T cell apoptosis. Decreased proliferative capacity of CD69+/CD4+ T
      cells that were from individuals with normal renal function and incubated with serum from
      chronic HD patients and its restoration by normal serum strongly suggest that mediators that
      are induced by HD affect transduction mechanisms in the IL-2/IL-2R pathway. Finally, IL-2
      seems to inhibit the apoptotic process at many stages by interacting with various proteins.
      Therefore, the investigators postulated that, in HD patients, oxidative stress that is
      induced by oxLDL may increase CD4+ T cell sensitivity to Fas-mediated apoptosis, in part as a
      consequence of an HD patient's specific dysregulation of IL-2 expression. To test this
      hypothesis, the investigators assessed the role of Fas and IL-2 in mediating the
      oxLDL-induced CD4+ T cell dysfunction in patients with ESRD.

      Recently, Meier et al. have shown that HD patients exhibited a reduction in the number of
      peripheral Tregs, which showed a reduced suppressor function. Considering the oxLDL effects,
      the relative percentage of Tregs of the total CD4 population was significantly reduced by
      incubation with oxLDL compared with a nonsignificant depleting effect on CD4+/CD25- T cells.
      The authors suggest that oxLDL have a specific role on Tregs. More interestingly, Tregs from
      HD patients exhibited early cell-cycle arrest and became apoptotic. These phenomena were the
      consequence of the oxLDL-inhibited proteasome proteolytic activity of p27Kip1 and Bax
      proteins, both of which accumulated in PHA-stimulated Tregs in vitro. Thus, plasma oxLDL in
      uremic patients might be the trigger of Tregs cycle arrest and apoptosis through proteasome
      alteration. Furthermore, they found that both uremic serum from HD patients and oxLDL
      triggered a time- and concentration-dependent down-regulatory effect on the expression of
      FOXP3. This means that circulating Tregs in HD patients, in addition to being reduced in
      number, also expressed low levels of FOXP3 per cell, and thus failed to suppress the
      proliferation of effector cells.

      In our study, the investigators want to use gene and protein expression profiling and
      functional assays of human (ESKD patients on chronic HD or naive uremic patients not yet on
      HD) CD4+ TCM to identify the mechanisms underlying their maintenance or dysfunction. Our
      results will provide a molecular basis for the capacity of CD4+ TCM to resist apoptosis and
      to persist in a stable manner in the host, thereby conferring long-term protective immunity
      against reinfection. To test this hypothesis, it will be important to determine whether TCM
      producing cytokines represent a distinct subset of memory cells expressing a specific
      differentiation phenotype. To the other part the investigators will analyse the role played
      by Tregs in uremic patients using a new membrane, namely HCO 1100.
    
  