
    
      Mounier-Kuhn syndrome (MKS), or congenital tracheobronchiomegaly, is an entity characterized
      by dilation of the trachea and bronchi, associated with respiratory infections. The
      prevalence among patients with respiratory symptoms is 0.4 to 1.6%. Its histological features
      include the atrophy or absence of longitudinal elastic fibers and smooth muscle cells of the
      airways, responsible for the structural alterations found, such as tracheobronchiomegaly, the
      presence of inter cartilaginous diverticula, bulging and dilation of the walls of the trachea
      and bronchi. The main signs and symptoms are cough, bulging and purulent expectoration,
      digital clubbing, dyspnoea, and wheezing and wheezing accompanied by recurrent respiratory
      infection. There may be association with other comorbidities such as gastroesophageal reflux
      disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, bronchiectasis and obstructive sleep apnea /
      hypopnea syndrome (OSAS). Some of these symptoms are believed to be due to the
      tracheobronchial disease present in some patients, defined by excessive collapse of the
      intrathoracic trachea and bronchi resulting in airways obstruction of more than 50%. The main
      clinical impact is obstruction to expiratory airflow, with consequent air entrapment,
      reduction of cough and bronchial hygiene effectiveness, facilitating recurrent respiratory
      infections. Because it is a rare morbidity and little studied, the specific therapy is not
      consensual, and the main interventions are extrapolated from other pathologies. The use of
      non invasive mechanical ventilation (NIMV) with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is
      reported as an option for treatment, however, there are no randomized studies proving its
      efficacy. The purpose of this study is to identify and reduce tracheal collapse and bronchi
      of SMK carriers with the use of positive pressure (CPAP-NIV) and to analyse their
      repercussion in the small airways.
    
  