
    
      Mechanical ventilation (MV) is a widely used practice among Pediatric Intensive Care Units
      (PICUs) throughout the world. Data from multicenter studies reveal rates ranging from 20% to
      64% use, lasting about 5 to 6 days.

      The practice of using artificial methods to provide respiratory care is considered a
      revolution in the care of critically ill patients, reducing their morbidity and mortality. On
      the other hand, it is widely known that these tools bring with it a myriad of possible
      complications, such as Health Care-Associated Pneumonia, upper and lower airway injuries,
      risks related to sedation, and cardiovascular instability. Therefore, it is indispensable to
      interrupt the MV as soon as possible.

      When is spent a lot of time recognizing that the MV is no longer essential, is increased the
      risks and costs (up to $ 2,000 a day), and is failed the good medical practice. Currently,
      the duration of weaning consumes about 40% of the total MV time. This depends on many
      factors, such as fluid balance, positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP), sedation, pulmonary
      hypertension and diaphragm function, among others.

      Studies have shown that the implementation of a weaning protocol reduces its duration and,
      consequently, ventilation in children. There are numerous known weaning techniques, however,
      the most commonly used approach is the progressive reduction of ventilatory support already
      in use, maintaining the same modes and reducing the parameters. Some professionals choose
      synchronized intermittent mandatory ventilation (SIMV), reducing respiratory rate, with or
      without Supplementary Pressure (PS) association. Others prefer to perform daily extubation
      readiness tests (ERT) or to switch spontaneous breathing methods with full-support
      ventilation for respiratory muscle training, this practice is more common in adult ICUs.
      Exhorted by recommendations for mechanical ventilation of critically ill children at the 2017
      pediatric mechanical ventilation consensus conference (PEMVECC), who concluded with strong
      agreement that there is insufficient data to recommend the method for weaning the
      investigators decided to study the assertive.
    
  