
    
      Constipation is a common condition, which impacts one in four Canadians Maintaining regular
      bowel movements is important in the peritoneal dialysis (PD) population because constipation
      can negatively impact the quality of dialysate flow and can result in impaired dialysis
      adequacy. Unfortunately, treating constipation is challenging in PD patients because of the
      diet and fluid restrictions required in this population, as well as the need for constipating
      calcium based phosphate binders.

      Constipation treatment can be administered orally or rectally. Although patients often prefer
      oral therapy, there are occasions when rectal therapy is preferred (ie. rectal suppositories
      and enemas). Oral laxatives include bulk, osmotic, stimulant, and lubricants.

      In the Nova Scotia (NS) PD Program, patients are counseled to maintain a type 3-4 stool on
      the Bristol Stool Chart (BSC). An ideal stool is a type 4, which appears like a sausage or
      snake and is smooth and soft in consistency. To maintain a type 3-4 stool, current therapy
      includes senna 8.6-17.2 g twice daily with the addition of lactulose 30-60 mL twice daily, as
      needed. Rescue therapy in the Current Bowel Protocol is lactulose 30-60 mL every hour until
      bowel movement.

      There is limited evidence to guide the ideal bowel regimen in PD patients. Reasons to
      consider PEG therapy include the evidence promoting PEG in the general population with
      constipation, the positive outcomes found in a small population of PD patients (Mimidis
      2005), as well as positive feedback from other provinces who currently recommend PEG in PD
      patients. The investigators postulate the PEG protocol would be as effective and safe as the
      Current Bowel Protocol, and thus will evaluate PEG in the PD population, the investigators
      will conduct a prospective, interventional, randomized, open label, pilot study.

      All patients with recent laxative use will be approached for inclusion. Patients will be
      randomly assigned to the Current Bowel Protocol (senna/lactulose) or the PEG Bowel Protocol
      (PEG/lactulose) for 8 weeks.

      The primary objective is to compare the efficacy of the PEG Bowel Protocol in preventing
      constipation to the Current Bowel Protocol. We will review the safety of the regimens by
      monitoring for adverse events from all laxatives and explore the impact of constipation in
      patients who experience PD treatment failure.
    
  