
    
      This study looks to investigate whether patients with schizophrenia for 2 years or less may
      benefit from omega-3 supplements. The main hypothesis to be tested in this study is that
      white matter integrity assessed with diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and erythrocyte membrane
      omega-3 concentration may provide the means for identifying patients most likely to derive
      clinical benefit from omega-3 supplementation.

      To test this hypothesis the investigators will enroll 58 patients with recent-onset
      schizophrenia into a 16-week long randomized double blind placebo-controlled study of
      risperidone versus risperidone plus omega-3 supplementation. Study assessments after consent
      will include a baseline MRI and an MRI at the final visit, blood-work, clinical interviews to
      assess symptoms, and medical assessments for side effects. DTI exams and peripheral omega-3
      concentration will be obtained prior to the initiation of treatment and the primary outcome
      measure will be the total Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale Score.

      Specific aims are:

        -  To examine the efficacy of omega-3 fatty acids as an adjuvant agent in the treatment of
           patients with recent-onset schizophrenia. The investigators hypothesize that patients
           treated with omega-3 fatty acids will demonstrate greater Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale
           (BPRS) reductions compared to the placebo group.

        -  To identify whether pre-treatment fractional anisotropy (FA) assessed by DTI predicts
           which patients will derive clinical benefit from omega-3 fatty acids. The investigators
           hypothesize that patients with lower fractional anisotropy will derive greater clinical
           benefit from omega-3 fatty acid supplementation.

        -  To identify whether pre-treatment peripheral omega-3 fatty acid concentrations predict
           which patients will derive clinical benefit from omega-3 fatty acids. The investigators
           hypothesize that patients with lower peripheral omega-3 fatty acid concentrations will
           derive greater clinical benefit from omega-3 fatty acid supplementation.
    
  