
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) hazard ratio of trametinib compared to
      that of "commercially available therapies" consisting of one of five commercially available
      agents in women with recurrent low-grade serous carcinoma of the ovary or peritoneum
      previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the nature, frequency and maximum degree of toxicity as assessed by Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4 for each treatment arm.

      II. To determine the quality of life, as assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy-Ovarian (FACT-O).

      IIa. To compare trametinib to the control arm with regard to patients' self-reported acute
      (up to post-cycle 6) quality of life as measured by the FACT-O-Trial Outcome Index (TOI).

      IIb. To compare trametinib to the control arm with regard to patients' self-reported acute
      (up to post-cycle 6) neurotoxicity as measured by the FACT-Gynecologic Oncology Group
      (GOG)-Neurotoxicity (NTX).

      III. To estimate the objective response rate (RR) of patients in each treatment arm.

      IV. To test whether high expression of pERK, as quantified by immunohistochemistry (IHC), is
      associated with better prognosis (RR or PFS) among patients receiving the randomized
      treatment.

      V. To test whether genetic changes associated with MAPK pathway activation (KRAS, NRAS, HRAS,
      BRAF, MEK, ERBB2 or NF1) are associated with improved prognosis (RR or PFS) among patients
      receiving the randomized treatment.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive clinician's choice of either letrozole orally (PO) once daily (QD) on
      days 1-28, tamoxifen citrate PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-28, paclitaxel intravenously (IV)
      over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride (PLD) IV over
      1 hour on day 1, or topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients developing
      progressive disease may cross over to Arm B.

      ARM B: Patients receive trametinib PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 5 years.
    
  