
    
      Background:

        -  Discussing end-of-life (EoL) care is very challenging for young adults (YA) living with
           a life threatening disease.

        -  While many helpful documents exist to facilitate EoL conversations with adults, few
           resources exist to aid YA in understanding and accepting their changing physical,
           emotional and social needs when treatment is no longer effective.

        -  Between 2007-2011, the Pediatric Oncology Branch (07-C-0085) explored the helpfulness of
           Five Wishes with adolescents and young adults living with HIV or advanced cancer.
           Thisresearch led to the development of a new advance care planning (ACP) guide, Voicing
           My CHOiCES (VMC). However, Voicing My CHOiCES has not been empirically examined in its
           completed form.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the perceived helpfulness of VMC.

        -  To determine whether engaging in advanced care planning using VMC is associated with
           reduced anxiety, improved social support, increased acceptance of illness, and/or
           improved communication about ACP with family, friends, and/or health care providers.

        -  To assess the helpfulness of the changes made to the original VMC as compared to the
           revised VMC document.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patient Participants:

        -  Age: 18 through 39 years

        -  Known cancer or other chronic illness and enrolled on an NIH protocol or treated at one
           of the participating sites.

        -  No prior experience using Voicing My CHOiCES

        -  Patients and family/friend and health care providers must be English or Spanish
           speaking. Participants enrolled to assess the helpfulness of changes made to original
           VMC must be English speaking.

      Design:

        -  Each subject will complete a baseline assessment of their anxiety pertaining to advance
           care planning, quality of social support, acceptance of illness,and quality of
           communication with family, friends and health care providers. They will be asked to
           review the advance care planning document, Voicing My CHOiCES , and to comment on each
           section as to whether it can provide an opportunity to address ACP needs for themselves
           and for other YA their age living with a serious illness. They will also assess whether
           revisions are needed to the document.

        -  To obtain the perspectives of different YA, the initial study cohort will include up to
           130 participants, with a minimum of 25 YA who are living independently and 25 YA who
           have a child(ren) of their own. In addition, up to 100 family/friends and health care
           providers of the participants will participate in the follow up assessment. An
           additional 50 participants will be recruited, at the Clinical Center only, to compare
           the original Voicing My CHOiCES to the revised document. A total of up to 280
           individuals may participate in this study.

        -  A 1-month pre-post design will be used to assess the utility of the document, anxiety,
           quality of social support, acceptance of illness, communication about EoL planning, and
           whether the patient participant has shared any of the work completed in the document
           with a family member, friend, or health care provider.

      If the participant had shared the ACP preferences that were documented in Voicing My CHOiCES
      with a family member or friend, and had consented for us to contact that person, we will
      obtain the family member or friend s consent and complete a brief interview assessing the
      helpfulness and limitations of Voicing My CHOiCES for ACP. If the participant had shared the
      ACP preferences that were documented in Voicing My CHOiCES with their health care provider
      and had consented for us to talk with that health care provider, a brief interview assessing
      the helpfulness and limitations of Voicing My CHOiCES for end-of-life planning and whether
      any changes in the participants health care was made in response to Voicing My CHOiCES , will
      be documented.
    
  