
    
      This study main aim has two aims:

        1. To develop and implement a culturally appropriate intervention program by using focus
           group (FGs) methodology.

        2. To evaluate the effectiveness of the culturally appropriate program in preventing PPD
           among Arab Bedouin women in southern Israel, while taking into consideration different
           factors.

      Methods and Research program description The study includes two phases. First, qualitative
      study will be conducted by using focus groups (FGs) method and based on the results of this
      phase the investigators will develop a culturally based program. The second phase will
      include implementation and evaluation of the effectiveness of a culturally appropriate
      intervention.

      The study first phase Developing a culturally appropriate intervention using focus groups
      (FGs) At this phase we will conduct four focus groups. Focus Group questions will be designed
      to encourage participant interaction, and to elicit information relevant to our study aims
      regarding methods of preventing and reducing PPD among Bedouin women. Three focus groups will
      take place in the morning as most women do not work. One focus groups will be conducted in
      the afternoon hours for women who work outside the household.

      At the beginning of each FG, the participants will sign an informed consent form, in addition
      each participant will be asked to complete an anonymous, short demographic questionnaire.

      The study second phase Evaluation of the effectiveness of culturally appropriate intervention
      to prevent PPD. As mentioned above the intervention program will be based on the findings of
      the FG in the first phase and will take approximately six to nine months and will be
      conducted in the Arabic language by an Arab research team from the same culture.

      Data collection: During the year 2016, women who visit a gynecologist in the women's health
      center of Clalit in Rahat, Laqqya and Segev-Shalom will be approached by the PhD student and
      asked to participate in the study.

      All women in the intervention and control groups will be screened for PPD symptoms and
      interviewed face-to-face before the intervention (during pregnancy, beginning at week of 26),
      four to six weeks postpartum and during three to six months postpartum using a structured
      questionnaire in Arabic, which will include questions on PPD symptoms, knowledge and
      attitudes about PPD, and use of mental health care services.

      Then group training will be carried out for postpartum women in the intervention arm only.

      The interviews will be carried out by the PhD student and other trained female students.

      A structured questionnaire in Arabic will be administered, and will include questions on
      knowledge and attitudes about PPD, PPD symptoms, IPV, self-assessment of health status,
      chronic diseases and lifestyle behaviors, socio-demographic, socio-economic, and
      psychological characteristics, obstetrical factors, and use of mental health care services
      for PPD.

      The duration of each interview will be thirty minutes, and the interviews will be conducted
      in Arabic. Women who report EPDS score of ≥10 will be referred to a family physician, social
      worker, psychologist and/or a psychiatrist. Question ten on the EPDS refers to thoughts of
      self-harm, and any positive answer is considered a cause for concern, which means that women
      who reply positively to question ten, regardless of their EPDS score, will be referred to the
      nearest mental health service and women that suffer a sever psychiatric condition needing
      intensive care will be dropped from the study. All women needing help and professional
      psychiatric counseling will be referred to Dr. Awad-Alktnani, psychiatrist from the same
      population, which works in Rahat and Soroka Medical Center in Be'er-Sheva, and one of the
      researchers in the current study.

      The study instruments The study instruments will be in Arabic and it will include validated
      scales and questions that were used in previous research among Arab women in Israel and in
      Arab countries.

      Privacy and Confidentiality of participants and data The first phase of the study: data will
      be collected anonymously, questionnaires will be saved by the researchers at the university.

      In the second phase of the study: participants will sign an informed consent form which
      include name, social security number, telephone number and a serial number. Informed consent
      forms will be saved by researchers in Ben-Gurion University in a closed and locked place.

      Research tools (questionnaires) will include a serial number only, with no Identifying
      details of the participants. These questionnaires will also be saved at the university but
      not in the same folder of the Informed Consent Forms.

      For performing statistical analysis: Data will be typed and stored on a computer without
      identifying details.

      Data analysis and statistical methods Statistical analysis of the second phase of the study
      will be performed using the SPSS statistical software version 20.

      Ethical aspects The study (both phases) will start only after approval of the Clalit Health
      services and Ethics Committee approval
    
  