
    
      The goal of the RecoveryTrack Extended Care (RT-E) study is to improve attendance and
      extended care treatment during outpatient substance abuse treatment (SAT). One way we hope to
      promote and improve retention in outpatient treatment is to allow the primary counselor to
      systematically monitor client progress and respond accordingly to enhance the client's
      progress in outpatient treatment. We have developed an intervention using RecoveryTrack
      software that allows the counselor to monitor the client while s/he is regularly attending
      and to helps to guide their treatment; as well as reaching out and monitoring the client when
      s/he has missed sessions or appears to have dropped out in order to support re-engagement in
      treatment or recovery in other ways. SAT can serve as a gateway to and provide services for
      HIV/STI prevention and treatment as well. Thus, monitoring and responding to HIV/STI risk
      behavior and treatment compliance throughout SAT, and increasing attendance in SAT itself,
      has the potential for additional personal and public health impact.

      Counselors are trained on the RT-E computer application, and learn to implement the clinical
      content and procedures of the RT-E intervention. Clients then are asked to use the software
      with participants twice within the first month, and once monthly for 8 months. If clients
      drop out of treatment or do not show for an appointment, counselors are asked to do
      "outreach" with the clients to promote re-entry into treatment. We also ask the counselors to
      keep track of any time that they spend on the project and how much of their own resources to
      perform outreach. We ask that all sessions be audio recorded and will be rated at a later
      time. The TAU counselors also audio record their sessions and document their time on a log
      any outreach attempts. The counselors are asked to perform their usual outreach attempts if a
      client drops from treatment, and to complete individual sessions without the RT-E computer
      application.

      In total, 25 counselor-participants will be enrolled in RT-E study. All counselors receive
      incentives throughout participation in the study. The incentives are greater in the RT-E
      condition reflecting a greater workload than in TAU with payments at the beginning, middle,
      and end of research participation. The compensation for counselor participants in each
      condition is as follows: RT-E training takes approximately 4-5 hours over a period of several
      weeks at the beginning of the study. RT-E counselors are paid $125 upon completing the entire
      training sequence. RT-E counselors receive supervision by TRI staff in 30 minute sessions
      about once a month during the 1st 6 months of the study and quarterly thereafter, for a total
      of approximately 11 sessions. RT-E counselors are paid $15 for each supervision session
      attended [maximum total = $165].Two times, midway and near the end of the study, RT-E
      counselors complete the Counselor Acceptability Survey and are reimbursed $20 each time. Each
      week RT-E counselors completes the Counselor Activity Log and is paid $2 for each one
      completed during the course of the study [a maximum of $200 for approximately 104 weeks
      ].RT-E Counselors are paid $30 for each completed and audio-recorded phone outreach session
      ($25 if completed but not recorded). Total counselor payment for these activities will vary
      based on number of client participants seen as well as client non-attendance and need for and
      responsiveness to outreach contact. Two times, midway and near the end of the study, TAU
      counselors complete the Counselor Acceptability Survey and are reimbursed $20 each time.

      In total, 150 client-participants will be enrolled in the RT-E study. These participants will
      complete a baseline research interview and follow-up interviews 3, 6 and 9 months later, as
      well as provide urine samples for drug screening (UDSs) at each of the research assessments.
      Clients will be contacted at the midpoint of each follow-up interval to remind them of the
      upcoming follow-up appointment and obtain updated locator information. Clients are paid $30
      for completing the baseline ASI6, urine drug screen (UDS), and Risk Assessment Battery (RAB);
      $35 for the 3-month follow-up ASI6, UDS, and Client Acceptability Interview; $40 for the
      6-month ASI6 & UDS, and $50 for completing the 9-month ASI6, UDS, RAB, & Client Acceptability
      Survey. At months 2, 5, and 8, participants receive reminder letters or phone calls about
      their upcoming follow-up and can earn $5 each of those months by calling TRI and updating
      their Research Locator Form. All payments are be in cash, unless a check or money order is
      more practical (e.g., if payment needs to be mailed). Clients are randomly assigned to groups
      based on their primary counselors' assignment to condition in the study.
    
  