
    
      Food insecurity, "lack of access to enough food for an active, healthy life", affects over
      20% of the 30 million Americans with diabetes. Food insecurity is more common in
      racial/ethnic minorities and those with lower socioeconomic status. Moreover, food insecurity
      is associated with worse diabetes control and increased complications, even after adjusting
      for other risk factors. Food insecurity is a major contributor to disparities in diabetes
      outcomes.

      Medically tailored meal (MTM) delivery programs are a promising intervention for individuals
      with diabetes and food insecurity. MTM programs deliver fully prepared food, tailored by a
      registered dietitian nutritionist to the specific medical needs of the individual, and
      provide education to help optimize disease self-management. Food insecurity is typically
      addressed with food subsidies-offering additional financial resources that can be spent on
      food. While both food subsidies and MTM can increase healthy food access, MTM can help
      overcome other barriers to diabetes management including lack of time, ability, knowledge,
      and skills needed to prepare appropriate meals. The use of these programs is often called
      'food as medicine', as the purpose is to provide exactly the foods needed to help prevent
      diabetes complications. MTM are receiving increasing public attention, but there are, as of
      yet, no full-scale trials to test its effects on diabetes outcomes when compared with other
      food insecurity interventions.

      Our research team has developed a medically tailored meal intervention that combines
      provision of healthy food, tailored to the specific nutrition needs of the individual, with
      an evidence-based lifestyle intervention that uses the period of meal delivery as springboard
      to improve diabetes self-management, both while receiving meals and after meal delivery is
      completed.

      This study is an explanatory-focused randomized trial to assess a community-based medically
      tailored meals intervention (n=200). It will be conducted among diverse participants referred
      for medically tailored meals. Adults with type 2 diabetes, Hemoglobin A1c between 7.0% and
      12.0%, and BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2 (≥ 23 kg/m2 for those with Asian ancestry) will be enrolled and
      randomly assigned to intervention or usual care + food subsidy. The intervention group will
      receive meal delivery and its attendant lifestyle intervention for 6 months, while the usual
      care + food subsidy group will receive a $30/month food subsidy, along with usual diabetes
      care.
    
  