
    
      In the United Kingdom (UK) stillbirth is defined as the death of a fetus before birth and
      after 24 weeks gestation. The incidence of stillbirth in the UK was 4.6 per 1000 in 2014. The
      annual rate of reduction was 1.4%, a rate considerably lower than other high income
      countries, such as Poland (4.5%) and Netherlands (6.8%), demonstrating that more can be done
      to reduce stillbirth rates in the UK. Stillbirths are often preceded by a series of adaptive
      changes, including changes in fetal heart rate (FHR) and reduced fetal movement. Fetal
      monitoring serves, in part, to identify these changes so that appropriate intervention can be
      initiated and adverse outcomes prevented. However, currently used forms of fetal monitoring,
      including Doppler ultrasound and cardiotocography, cannot provide an objective, longitudinal
      view of fetal wellbeing and do not significantly reduce stillbirth rates. A continuous fetal
      monitor could identify signs of fetal compromise earlier.

      A recent study found that 45.1% of surveyed clinicians thought that a continuous fetal
      monitor would be beneficial to their practice, although 81.7% also expressed concerns about
      the utility and clinical implementation of such a device. The Monica AN24 monitor is a novel
      continuous fetal monitoring device which records the fetal electrocardiogram (fECG) via
      trans-abdominal electrodes. Monica AN24 has been shown to have good recording quality though
      one study reported an association between recording quality and gestational age. The effect
      of the device on maternal anxiety is not known. All studies assessing acceptability of the
      device to women have focused on the intrapartum period or during induction of labor.
      Consequently, a prospective observational cohort study is needed to assess the acceptability
      of the Monica AN24 device in the context of antenatal care, as is further exploration of
      factors affecting recording quality of the Monica AN24 device.
    
  