
    
      The investigators prospectively enroll 130 adults that receive colonoscopy examination from
      Jan 1, 2014 to June 30, 2014. Written Inform consents are achieved before colonoscopy. All
      patients are randomly assigned to group A and group B. The group A is named as "the setting
      of colon cleansing room group". The group B is named as " the standard colon preparation
      group". The randomization was done by a study nurse who is well trained about the teaching
      course of bowel cleansing level evaluation, low residual diet education and preparation
      method. Demographic data is collected through questionnaire before colonoscopy. Diet
      restriction for two days with lower residual diet is well educated through a detail
      checklist. All patients receive a brief counselling session. The investigators outline the
      colon preparation instructions. The investigators also explain the rationale for colon
      preparation with a complete checklist and the picture of colon cleansing assessment. All
      patients in group B initiate the standard colon preparation with PEG-ELS made from two
      sachets of PEG (Klean-PrepTM, Norgine Ltd. Harefield, Middlesex, United Kingdom) dissolved in
      2 L of water at 8:00 AM on the day of colonoscopy. All patients in group A drink two liter
      PEG-ELS in the colon cleansing room which is a in-hospital setting for colon preparation at
      8:00 AM on the day of colonoscopy. The time interval in both group between colon preparation
      and colonoscopy is 3 to 5 hours. All colonoscopies are performed by two endoscopists in
      Jin-Shan Branch Hospital with an Olympus CF-260AL colonoscope (Olympus Optical Co. Ltd.,
      Tokyo, Japan). All endoscopists were trained at National Taiwan University Hospital with at
      least eight hundred colonoscopy experience. The endoscopist follow the standard protocol to
      insert, withdraw and observation. Intramuscular injection of hyoscine butylbromide is done as
      antispasmodic if there is no contraindication. Complete colonoscopy is defined as reaching
      and taking a picture of the cecum. Endoscopists take pictures at every anatomical portion of
      colon including cecum, ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigmoid colon and
      rectum before and after fecal material is washed out. Theendoscopist also record all of the
      colonoscopy examination as video files. All colonoscopists are asked to take at least thirty
      pictures during whole colonoscopy examination. Colon cleansing quality is scored by Boston
      Bowel Preparation Quality Scale. The scale is applied to each colon segment including right
      colon (R), middle colon (T) and the rectosigmoid colon(L). The score is calculated by adding
      the 0 to 3 ratings for each colon section. Electronic files of endoscopic pictures without
      lesion presentation and edited videos were reviewed by all endoscopist. All the detected
      adenomas during both study group are recorded and stored as electronic files and video
      including location, size, morphology and endoscopic diagnosis. The primary endpoint of study
      is to compare the Boston Bowel Preparation Quality Scale between the two study group. The
      secondary endpoint is to compare the average number of adenoma detection between the two
      study group. Sample size is estimated by the average number of adenoma detected (1.0 lesions
      per subject in standard preparation group, SD 1.0 and 1.5 lesions per subject in hospital
      preparation group, SD 1.0) according to a previous study in National Taiwan University
      Hospital and the pilot study in National Taiwan University Hospital , Jin Shan Branch , more
      than 80% power by enrolling 65 subjects in each group are achieved ( t test, α error of
      0.05).
    
  