
    
      Prolonged grief disorder (PGD) is a severe psychiatric condition that occurs in about 10% of
      people who experience a recent loss. PGD does not just go away with time and is associated
      with considerable functional impairment, physical and mental health problems, lost
      productivity, lack of interest in previously enjoyed activities, suicide, and depression.
      Because the majority of people with PGD are elderly and less capable of pursuing outside
      care, making readily available treatments for PGD is very important. Current treatments for
      PGD include psychotherapy and antidepressant medications, but there is very little solid
      research on the effectiveness of these treatments. Previous studies have shown that
      Internet-based mental health treatments are an effective and cost-efficient way to provide
      self-help to people who otherwise would not seek care. Using strategies from the
      psychotherapy known as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), this study will evaluate the
      effectiveness of an Internet-based self-help program in treating people who are at risk for
      developing prolonged grief disorder following a recent loss.

      This is a randomized, wait-list control design. Participants will be randomized to
      immediately begin the intervention or to wait for 6-weeks before beginning. The intervention
      will ask participants to log-on to the study's self-help website three times per week for the
      6 weeks of treatment. During these sessions, participants will be offered optional
      information about grief and coping with grief and will be required to complete computer
      exercises that involve identifying self-care needs, support systems, and short- and long-term
      goals. Participants will also be asked to perform off-line activities that are designed to
      increase self-care and social activities and that may take anywhere from a few minutes to 30
      minutes per day. For all participants, there will be four assessments, after randomization,
      before beginning treatment (these 2 are the same for the immediate group), upon completion of
      the intervention, at 6 weeks post-intervention, at 3 months post-intervention (for immediate
      group). Assessments will include questions about mental and physical health adjustment,
      beliefs about the loss, and coping status.
    
  