
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a respiratory disorder typically caused by
      smoking and is characterized by airway obstruction. Exertional dyspnea (perceived
      breathlessness) is a hallmark of COPD regardless of severity and is the primary reason for
      exercise intolerance even in patients with mild COPD (defined using spirometric criteria as a
      forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1)/forced vital capacity (FVC) <0.70 and a FEV1 ≥ 80%).
      Dyspnea in COPD has been shown to profoundly reduce patient quality of life, physical
      activity, and impair patients' ability to complete day-to-day tasks. Previous work in mild
      COPD has demonstrated that exertional dyspnea is the result of increased work of breathing
      during exercise, and that this increased work of breathing comes from: 1) an exaggerated
      ventilatory response to exercise (i.e. increased minute ventilation relative to carbon
      dioxide production, V̇E/V̇CO2), and 2) airflow limitation (i.e. expiratory flow limitation
      and resulting dynamic hyperinflation). A great deal of work has focused on improving airflow
      limitation in COPD; however, very little has been done to understand and treat the
      exaggerated ventilatory response to exercise in COPD.

      Several previous studies in COPD have consistently shown an elevated ventilatory response
      (i.e. greater V̇E/V̇CO2) during exercise. The elevated V̇E/V̇CO2 response to exercise appears
      to be clinically important, as it independently predicts mortality in COPD and indicates that
      physiological abnormalities beyond airflow obstruction are important in determining disease
      severity, dyspnea, and risk of death. This increased V̇E/V̇CO2 in COPD appears to be
      secondary to increased deadspace ventilation(i.e. sections of the lung with ventilation, but
      no perfusion), and this increased deadspace ventilation results in a compensatory increase in
      total minute ventilation (i.e. increased V̇E/V̇CO2) to maintain effective alveolar
      ventilation and arterial blood gas homeostasis.

      The underlying mechanism(s) for the increased deadspace ventilation and V̇E/V̇CO2 during
      exercise in mild to moderate COPD is currently unclear; however, pulmonary microvascular
      abnormalities and hypoperfusion of pulmonary capillaries are potential pathophysiologic
      mechanisms. Mild to moderate COPD patients have reduced pulmonary microvascular blood flow in
      nonemphysematous lung regions, which has led researchers to conclude that the low pulmonary
      perfusion in an intact pulmonary vascular bed is likely the result of pulmonary vascular
      dysfunction. Ventilation-perfusion (V̇A/Q̇) data in mild and moderate COPD shows substantial
      V̇A/Q̇ inequality at rest, with the V̇A/Q̇ distribution skewed towards regions of high
      V̇A/Q̇, which is indicative of increased deadspace. Consistent with this capillary
      hypoperfusion hypothesis, our recent work has shown a blunted pulmonary capillary blood
      volume response to exercise in mild COPD, when compared to age- and height-matched
      non-smoking controls. Importantly, the low pulmonary capillary blood volume was associated
      with increased V̇E/V̇CO2 during exercise, suggesting that low pulmonary perfusion (i.e.
      reduced pulmonary capillary blood volume) leads to increased deadspace.

      Inhaled nitric oxide (NO) is commonly used to test for pulmonary vasodilatory responses in
      patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), as it increases NO bioavailability and
      improves pulmonary vascular function. Previous work in PAH and heart failure (HF) patients
      has shown that standard doses (20-40 parts per million (ppm)) of inhaled NO can reduce
      pulmonary vascular resistance and increase peak oxygen consumption (V̇O2peak). If inhaled NO
      can reduce vascular dysfunction and increase perfusion in mild and moderate COPD, this would
      result in a reduction in V̇E/V̇CO2 and improved exercise tolerance.

      STUDY PURPOSE

      Purpose: To examine the effect of inhaled NO on exercise capacity (V̇O2peak) ventilation and
      dyspnea in in patents with COPD.

      Hypothesis: Inhaled NO will improve exercise capacity, secondary to reduced V̇E/V̇CO2 and
      dyspnea, in mild and moderate COPD, while no change will be observed in healthy controls and
      severe COPD.

      Study Design: Randomized double-blind cross-over design.

      All participants will have a pulmonary function and cardiopulmonary exercise test. The study
      procedure is briefly outlined below and is further outlined in the attached University
      Hospital Foundation Grant.

      Study Protocol: Seven sessions will be completed over a 3-week period in the following order:

      Day 1) Participant enrollment, medical history, standard pulmonary function (PFT) and
      cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPET).

      Days 2 & 3) Randomly-ordered experimental CPETs while either breathing room air or inhaled
      nitric oxide (room air with 40 ppm NO).

      Days 4 & 5) Randomly-ordered constant load exercise tests, at 75% peak power output, while
      either breathing room air or inhaled nitric oxide (room air with 40 ppm NO).

      Day 6) Ultrasonography doppler measurements will be completed to determine pulmonary arterial
      systolic pressure (at rest and during exercise) while breathing room air or inhaled nitric
      oxide. Doppler measurements of systemic vascular endothelial function will be measured at
      rest while breathing room air. To enhance doppler signal during the cardiac ultrasound,
      agitated saline contrast will be used. A small sample of venous blood will be taken to
      analyze inflammatory levels. Additionally, participants will breathe into a small tube so
      that expelled saliva can be analyzed to determine airway inflammation.

      Day 7) Prospective quantitative computed tomography (CT) imaging will be completed to obtain
      lung density, heterogeneity, tissue, vascular and airway measurements.

      Each visit will take approximately 3 hours. The total time duration for each participant will
      be approximately 21 hours.
    
  