
    
      Despite the notable reductions in perinatal transmission of HIV-1 with antiretroviral therapy
      and other interventions, perinatal transmission continues to occur at rates of 20-30% among
      pregnant women who are not identified as HIV-1-infected and/or are not provided with
      antiretroviral therapy. The optimum treatment strategy for prevention of transmission of
      HIV-1 to infants born to these women is unknown. No trials have evaluated the efficacy of
      neonatal antiretroviral therapy alone but observational data suggest benefit from zidovudine
      (ZDV) therapy given to the infant beginning within 48 hours of birth and continued for six
      weeks. This protocol will compare the safety and efficacy of three antiretroviral regimens
      administered in the neonatal period: Arm A- ZDV, Arm B- ZDV plus nevirapine (NVP), and Arm C-
      ZDV plus nelfinavir (NFV) and lamivudine (3TC). Two regimens were selected based on expected
      antiretroviral activity, pharmacokinetic data, and toxicity profiles. Standard of care (6
      weeks of ZDV) alone will be compared to the 6 weeks of ZDV plus either 3 doses of NVP or 2
      weeks of 3TC and NFV. Arm B (ZDV + NVP) is the regimen expected to provide the best profile
      when factors of efficacy, safety, cost, acceptability and convenience are considered. The
      comparison of Arms B and C is also of considerable interest since the 2-drug Arm B is easier
      to implement and less expensive than the triple drug Arm C. Although triple drug therapies
      have been recommended for post-exposure prophylaxis for needle-stick injuries in high-risk
      circumstances, it is unknown whether the triple drug arm will provide better efficacy than
      the 2-drug arm for post-exposure prophylaxis of the infant.

      This open-label study is expected to accrue 1731 infants of women identified in labor as
      being HIV positive or who are HIV positive but have not received antiretroviral medication
      during the pregnancy. If eligible the infant will be randomized at birth to one of three
      aforementioned treatment arms. Medical history, social, demographic, physical exam, RNA and
      T- lymphocyte data are collected on the mother during the delivery visit. The infant will
      have a birth visit and then return for 1-week, 2-week, 4-week, 3-month and a final 6-month
      visit. Infant evaluations will include: a medical history and physical exam, DNA testing, CBC
      and liver function tests, cells for long-term storage and RNA/CD4/CD8 testing if HIV
      positive. The initial study drug doses will be given to the infant while in the hospital.
      Mothers will administer the infants' remaining treatment doses at home depending on ability.
    
  