
    
      The investigators expect to follow the caregivers for 12 months during the caregiving period.

      Based on our prior experience and that of others, patients with clinical levels of symptoms
      report the greatest benefit from interventions aimed at reducing depressive symptoms. The
      investigators will screen caregivers for clinical levels of depression using the CES-D scale.
      If the caregiver screens positive for clinical levels of depressive symptoms (CES-D>16) and
      the patients and caregiver consent to participation, the dyad will be randomized to the
      intervention or enhanced usual care arm based on block randomization and stratification by
      gender (male/female) to assure approximate equal gender distribution in each arm of the
      study. The screening will take place in UPMC Montefiore and Presbyian.

      The participants of this study will be blinded to which arm of the intervention they
      received, either the stepped collaborative care or enhanced usual care. Prior to
      randomization they will be asked to provide information on the intervention that they prefer
      and at the end of the intervention they will be asked what intervention they think they
      received. The findings will be analyzed to determine if intervention preference or perception
      of intervention received affected the outcomes.

      The care coordinators for the proposed intervention will have Master's degrees in psychology
      or counseling and training in cognitive-behavioral therapy and have experience working with
      people diagnosed with cancer and their families. The care coordinators will receive training
      at the University of Pittsburgh in cultural competence. The therapists will serve as a
      liaison between the patient and other health care professionals within the spousal and
      intimate partner caregivers' medical team. A psychiatrist will not be included as part of the
      study team as many of the spousal and intimate partner caregivers do not reside locally. The
      care coordinator will work with the spousal and intimate partner caregivers' PCP,
      psychiatrist, and other health care providers in the spousal and intimate partner caregivers'
      home community to manage the symptoms and medication if indicated. The care coordinators will
      be supervised by the PI who is a clinical psychologist who has been working with cancer
      patients and their caregivers for 20 years.

      Patient and caregiver outcomes will be assessed using a battery of standardized
      questionnaires. The investigators have chosen instruments that are as brief as possible to
      limit burden to patient and spousal and intimate partner caregivers. All instruments have
      been demonstrated to be valid and reliable. The order of the instruments in the battery of
      questionnaires will begin with general, not emotionally laden instruments and also end with
      instruments which may not increase distress in a participant. The proposed time points
      (baseline, 4, 8, and 12 months) reflect intervals that permit the ability to capture changes
      in symptoms and inflammatory biomarkers while not burdening the patient or spousal/intimate
      partner caregivers. The proposed questionnaires were used in prior studies by this team and
      with advanced cancer patients and their family caregivers. The investigators have shown
      better adherence to completing the outcomes measures with self-reported pencil and paper
      questionnaires versus telephone interviews (K07CA118576; R01CA176809). However, the
      investigators will also offer telephone interviews for spousal and intimate partner
      caregivers or patients who have low levels of literacy, sensory impairments, or prefer a
      telephone interview. For all interviews, the research associate will be blinded to the
      participant's assigned treatment arm to prevent bias. The investigators have found no
      differences by method of administration (paper and pencil versus telephone interview).
      Inter-operator variability will be addressed by ensuring that the research staff performing
      measurement of blood pressure, and waist circumference will be trained together, tested by
      the PI for inter-operator consistency, and be assessed at intervals every 4 months for
      continued consistency in measurement of blood pressure and abdominal girth. Consistency in
      laboratory personnel techniques (inter operator variability) will be monitored by Dr.
      Butterfield.

      The frequency distributions of study variables will be examined prior to statistical analyses
      to provide descriptive data and to identify departures from normality. If nonlinearity is
      detected, a transformation will be performed using the Box-Cox transformation, which finds
      the optimal relationship between variables. All measures have established reliability and
      validity similar to that from which the study sample will be drawn; however, the
      reliabilities of scales will be assessed using Cronbach's α.

      Data will be analyzed using SAS (Version 9.3, SAS Institute, Inc., Cary, NC) to conduct
      preliminary exploratory analyses, missing data testing, and the analyses for the primary aims
      (linear mixed models). The level of significance for the analyses will be set at .05. The
      efficacy of the web-based stepped collaborative care intervention compared to enhanced usual
      care will be examined using the 'intent to treat' (ITT) approach, as well as the actual
      treatment received. In the ITT approach, subjects will be included in the analyses in the
      groups to which they were randomly assigned, regardless of treatment, adherence, withdrawal
      or deviation from protocol. The ITT approach minimizes the introduction of bias into the
      analyses and most closely aligns with clinical practice; therefore, it is strongly
      recommended for studies examining intervention efficacy.
    
  