
    
      Background:

      Cardiovascular disease caused by athero-thrombosis is the number one cause of long-term
      morbidity and death worldwide. Many patients with advanced coronary disease benefit from
      Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) by improving symptoms and increasing their longevity.

      However, the benefits of CABG surgery are attenuated by early graft failure. The
      administration of aspirin in the post-operative period has been shown in randomized
      controlled trials (RCT) to reduce the risk of graft occlusion, although rates remain
      unacceptably high. Patients undergoing CABG surgery transiently develop aspirin resistance,
      which likely contributes to vein graft failure.

      The investigators believe the aspirin resistance is a consequence of rapid platelet turnover
      in the early postoperative period, resulting in a large number of platelets unexposed to
      aspirin (due to its short half life). The investigators hypothesize that by increasing the
      frequency of aspirin dosing, the investigators can reverse the aspirin resistance encountered
      post CABG surgery. The investigators are proposing a RCT comparing two different doses of
      aspirin (81mg and 325mg daily) to 162mg BID to determine whether multiple daily dosing can
      overcome aspirin resistance.

      (1)Given that platelet production is increased many-fold after CABG surgery (and the short
      half-life of aspirin), the investigators hypothesize that increasing the frequency of aspirin
      dosing will lead to the acetylation of a greater number of platelets over the course of the
      day leading to an improved antiplatelet effect (as measured by serum thromboxane and platelet
      aggregation assays); (2) The investigators will examine three platelet-related single
      nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) that have been implicated in aspirin hyporesponsiveness.

      The investigators are proposing a single centre, randomized, open-label, RCT in 60 patients
      undergoing elective or urgent CABG surgery, to receive ASA 81mg daily, 325mg daily or 162mg
      bid starting day 1 post-operatively. All patients will receive 325mg 6hrs following the
      procedure (day of operation) as long as there is no contraindication for antiplatelet therapy
      (ie significant bleeding) - as per the investigators centre's standard clinical practice.
      Further details on aspirin administration and outcome measurements are reported below.
    
  