
    
      Research Strategy. The investigator will randomize 45 overweight/obese adults to one of 3
      groups: (1) Control (Con) - no FB, no Behavioral Lifestyle Program (BLP), (2) FB Only, no
      BLP, and (3) FB+BLP. All subjects will use a smartphone to self-monitor diet and PA. The
      subjects will download a feedback system onto the Android operating system smartphone that
      was developed for this study called the SMARTER. The algorithm was developed by Dr. Lora
      Burke of the University of Pittsburgh. All groups will attend a one-time how to self-monitor
      using the smartphone session and receive education materials at baseline. The FB Only and
      FB+BLP groups will receive up to 4 daily FB messages, based on progress in attaining target
      behavior. The FB will be delivered on a variable ratio schedule and tailored to data in
      subjects' recordings. FB+BLP participants will receive a face-to-face BLP intervention that
      will include 3 group sessions over 12 weeks. Also to not confound the effect of the daily FB,
      the interventionists will not provide feedback to the weekly diaries. Sample. The
      investigator will recruit from the community 45 adults, over the age of 18. All participants
      need to be randomized prior to the beginning of the 3 BLP sessions since the sessions are
      conducted as a closed group. The randomization scheme will be implemented via a computerized
      program (Visual Basic 6.0) using minimization method. The randomization will be overseen by a
      statistician (Co-I: S Sereika). Each of the 3 conditions will be assigned a total of 15
      subjects with randomization stratified by gender and ethnicity/race. Intervention. Those in
      the Con and FB Only groups will receive a 1-hr session on provided calorie prescription for
      weight loss and self-monitoring and associated education materials. Only those in FB+BLP will
      receive a 3-session BLP for a healthful lifestyle and weight loss. The groups will meet in
      the School of Nursing and will be led by a trained interventionist. Protocol for
      Self-monitoring: All participants will be subscribed to LoseIt!, an online self-monitoring
      service that can be accessed via the smartphone and computer. This will be used in place of
      the traditional paper diary. This software permits self-monitoring of diet, PA, and weight;
      it also provides feedback on up to 9 macronutrients based on a database of 60,000 foods.
      Because of the investigator's ongoing working relationship with the developers of LoseIt!
      program, the investigator will have access to LoseIt! Connect, a custom portal created by
      LoseIt! for centralized user management. This permits the investigators to view participants'
      entries and set custom controls on participants use, (e.g., disabling particpants' ability to
      share data with outsiders). All participants will be encouraged to self-monitor diet and
      self-report weight. Participants who do not have scales will be given one for the duration of
      the study and be ask to return it at the completion of the study. Participants see the
      nutrient value of each food and the calculated subtotals. The interventionists will have
      access to the diaries so participants can contact a participant if there is any concern about
      the reported eating behaviors. This is the same procedure used for the past 4 years in the
      EMPOWER Study (IRB - PRO10100504). At the training session, participants will be advised on
      how to change the privacy settings on Lose It!. General Information about Feedback Algorithm.
      The FB algorithm programmed in the FB app will use real-time synced self- monitoring data to
      send messages that are responsive to the participants' entries. The server will deliver a
      message that will be displayed on the screen of the smartphones so the person does not need
      to make extra clicks to view it. The FB messages will address one target behavior at a time,
      e.g., self-monitoring or calorie intake. At the baseline education session for the FB Only
      group or the first BLP session for FB+BLP, the individual will make a diary entry; the system
      will send a FB message shortly thereafter to provide immediate reinforcement for
      self-monitoring. Then the FB will be delivered on the incremental 1-4 x/d schedule,
      contingent on progress in self-monitoring and in attaining the person's daily calorie goal.
      Rules will be applied to the delivery of messages to FB Only and FB+BLP, e.g., messages will
      be delivered between the hours set by the participants on particpants phone, e.g., 8 AM and
      9:30 PM, and content will be guided by the parameters built into the algorithm. In the
      implementation of the proposed FB intervention, the investigators will exercise caution and
      sensitivity regarding participants' reception of the messages. In the SMART Trial, the
      messages were motivating and reinforcing, not noting deficiencies in behavior or progress not
      made; however, the messages will provide guidance for corrective action when the person is
      not following the behavior that would be consistent with the pre-established goals. Space
      does not permit extensive message samples but examples might be as follows. Excellent job on
      increasing fruits in your diet. OR Super job staying within the fat limits. Go easy on high
      fat foods tonight; consider having a big salad with nonfat dressing. Protocol for the
      Behavioral Lifestyle Program (BLP) intervention: Group Sessions: Participants will receive
      nutritional and behavioral counseling; practical hands-on experiences to develop skills to
      implement a healthy lifestyle (e.g., practice mindful eating, portion size, modify foods or
      meals to reduce fat content) in three 1 hour group sessions. The groups will meet evenings
      and will be led by the multidisciplinary team (behavioral scientists, nutritionists that has
      been trained by the PI and Co-I (Burke and Ewing). The group sessions will be held in the
      2nd, 4th and 8th week of the 12-week study. Behavior Goals: Calorie: The calorie goal will be
      calculated from the individual's baseline body weight (1200 - 1800 kcal for <250 lbs or 1800
      to 2000 kcal for >250 lbs). Calorie goals can be adjusted if necessary for participants
      struggling to meet the goa;s or for maintenance. Fat: Fat gram goals will 40 - 60 grams per
      day depending on calorie goal. Screening Measures - administered only at baseline.
      Sociodemographic Form will be used to collect data on individual characteristics, e.g.,
      ethnicity, marital status. Rapid Eating Assessment for Patients (REAP) will be used to assess
      current diet to inform the goals for lifestyle improvement. It has 31 items that ask about
      weight, PA and sedentary habits, variety in diet, excess food intake. Participants Online
      Screening Questionnaire will be used to assess Qualtric systems as a screening tool. It will
      be given with the other screening questionnaires at their Baseline Assessment. Outcome or
      Dependent Measures. Unless otherwise noted, all measures will be conducted at 0 and 12 weeks.
      Trained staff will perform these in the Clinical Research Suite in the School of Nursing.
      Participants will be compensated for completing the 12-week assessment. BMI- Weight -
      measured with the Tanita Scale and Body Fat Analyzer with subjects in light clothing standing
      bare foot on the scale's footpads. Height (centimeters) measured with stadiometer for BMI
      (kg/m2) calculation. Cardiometabolic risk factors Blood pressure (BP). BP assessment will
      follow the standard AHA guidelines and measured using an Omron BP Monitor with ComFit cuff
      with the subject in a sitting position after at least a 5-min rest. Whole body composition.
      To describe % fat mass, we will measure body composition (fat mass, % fat, fat-free mass) by
      bioelectrical impedance analysis on the Tanita Scale and Body Fat Analyzer.120 Waist
      circumference will be measured twice with a Gullick II measuring tape. If the two values are
      within 2 cm of each other, a mean is calculated; if not, measurements are taken again until
      they are within 2 cm. Psychosocial surveys.

      Weight Efficacy Lifestyle (WEL) is a 20-item scale used to assess level of confidence to
      resist eating in varied situations or emotional states. It has established psychometric
      properties 135 and takes 5 min to complete. This scale has added explanatory value in weight
      loss behavior in our previous studies. The Newest Vital Sign, a brief test of literacy
      applied to reading a food label. At the completion of study, the groups that were not
      randomized into the group sessions will receive the session material via email.

      The group that did not receive feedback messages will be given the option of receiving
      messages for 12 weeks. If the participant chooses to have the feedback messages, it will be
      loaded on the participant's phones at the 12 weeks assessment.
    
  