
    
      Loss of bladder control results causes the accidental leak of urine is called urinary
      incontinence. It may be slightly bothersome or totally debilitating. It may leads to
      embarrassment and keeps them away from enjoying many physical activities, including
      exercising. Urinary incontinence may develop emotional distress because of some outside
      factors, such as difficulty getting to standing position or only being able to walk slowly,
      which prevent them from getting to the toilet on time.

      Old women experience urinary incontinence more than young women or young girls. Muscles in
      the wall of bladder contracts during urination. Sphincter muscles surrounding the urethra
      relax which let the urine to pass out from the body. Incontinence will occur when the muscles
      of bladder suddenly contracts or are not strong enough to hold back the urine. Then the urine
      may escape with less pressure than usual when the muscles are damaged, this causing a change
      in the position of the bladder.

      Stress incontinence is the most common type of urinary incontinence. 80% of the females
      suffering from urinary incontinence have stress urinary incontinence. Obese women having
      greater intra-abdominal pressure leads to weakening of pelvic floor muscle which causes
      stress incontinence.

      During pregnancy, child birth and menopause physical changes results in the weakening of
      muscles of bladder. As the result of physical exertions, muscles of bladder become weak that
      increase intra-abdominal pressure leakage may cause. Leakage may occur during coughing,
      sneezing or heavy lifting.

      Wii fit games are computer-generated scenario that simulates experience through senses and
      perception. This approach is being used by physical therapist so than their patient stick to
      their exercise protocol and it enhance their training and functional level. Wii fit game
      based pelvic floor muscle exercises helps the pelvic floor muscle to strengthen by different
      movements such as anteversion,, retroversion, lateral tilting, truck rotation, circumduction
      and pelvic stabilization. video game based treatment that enhance patients' motivation,
      functional training and hence adherence to exercise regimen. As clinical practice in women's
      health physical therapy lacks options for pelvic floor muscle training and wii fit game based
      pelvic floor rehabilitation is an innovated method so could be a valuable adjunct in
      management of female urinary incontinence protocol.
    
  