
    
      Patients will be screened from emergency attendance or admission at South and North Sector
      (Queen Elizabeth University Hospital, and Glasgow Royal Infirmary) and from referrals to the
      COPD clinical team at these sites.

      Patients meeting inclusion criteria will be approached and offered enrolment to the study.
      Recruitment and consent timings will be individualised to be most efficient and least
      burdensome for patients. For some patients it will be appropriate to do this immediately to
      avoid burden of repeated attendances; for some patients, delay and consideration may be
      appropriate; for some patients the enrolment and engagement may be a staged process (consent
      at time of hospital attendance, study commence at follow up home or clinic visit etc).

      Patients recruited will receive support information and assistance with login setups for the
      digital service components. Literature with frequently asked questions (FAQs), and team
      contacts for service support are available for throughout the study.

      Patients enrolled will be asked, and prompted with text notifications, to complete daily
      short structured COPD symptom questionnaire. There are a small number of additional questions
      on a weekly basis, with quality of life questions completed once every 28 days. Patients
      recruited will have a "Fitbit" wristband wearable to monitor physiology.

      Patients with hypercapnic respiratory failure will additionally be on home non-invasive
      ventilation (NIV) treatment - this is part of their routine clinical care rather than a study
      intervention. However, the study patient resource and messaging system will be used to gather
      information and support this treatment.

      Selected patients, who are recruited during hospital admission or attendance and will be
      attending outpatient clinic follow up, will undergo exploratory physiology measurements -
      parasternal electromyography (EMG) (similar to electrocardiography (ECG) recording, takes ~20
      minutes with breathing manoeuvres), oscillometry (a breathing test involving 10 resting
      non-effortful breaths blown into the medical device), home pollution monitoring (a pack which
      rests in patients bedroom +/- tube placed outside house) for 7 days - alongside routine
      clinical care at baseline and 3 monthly intervals.

      Patients will have linked access from the patient resource to curated information about COPD
      diagnosis, and all aspects of management. Specific prompts about management - e.g. timing to
      make appointment for annual flu vaccination - will be provided through platform-text
      notifications. Self-management content of the resource will potentially be further developed
      over iterations within the study; any change in content of patient materials would be advised
      as a protocol amendment.

      Patients will be able to message the clinical team using the patient portal. This supplements
      existing availability of answer phone contact details provided as part of routine clinical
      care. Automatic messages will notify patients that this is not for emergency contact, and
      that replies should be expected within Mon-Fri working hours, by next working day. This
      messaging system will be used to support self management, home oxygen and home NIV treatment
      initiation and monitoring, and practical aspects such as appointment scheduling and equipment
      consumable replenishment.

      The clinical team will be able to access the data from the patients symptom diaries, wearable
      and NIV physiology directly - asynchronously, rather than delayed acquisition of this data at
      a clinical contact. This data visualisation will support routine clinical care, and better
      inform unscheduled advice contacts from patients (e.g. help determine significance of
      apparent worsening symptoms).

      This data will be subject to machine-learning analysis, which will evaluate secondary
      endpoints, as per protocol.
    
  