
    
      Abdominal obesity, atherogenic dyslipidemia and hypertension are essential risk factors for
      cardiovascular diseases. Several studies showed favorable effects of weight loss in
      overweight subjects on cardiometabolic risk profile.

      The study was divided into a 3-month weight loss phase (phase 1), a subsequent 3-month phase
      of weight stabilization (phase 2) and a 6-month phase of weight loss maintenance (phase 3).

      For a total of 6 months subjects were randomly assigned to the meal replacement (MR) or
      control (C) group at baseline I.

      During weight loss phase both dietary intervention groups followed an energy-restricted diet
      with a balanced variety of nutrient-dense food of approximately 1200 kcal/d. The MR-WL group
      (MR group during weight loss phase) was advised to replace two of three meals every day with
      meal replacements. The C-WL group (C group during weight loss phase) was advised to follow a
      conventional energy-restricted modified diet with 15-20% of energy intake in the form of
      protein, 50-55% of energy intake in the form of carbohydrates and 30% of energy intake in the
      form of fat. All participants attended ten group training sessions for nutrition education.

      During weight stabilization phase all women of MR-S and C-S group (MR and C group during
      weight stabilization phase) were encouraged to consume a self-directed well-balanced variety
      of nutrient-dense foods without meal intervention. However, the MR-S and C-S group were
      instructed to continue the implemented nutrition advice of weight loss phase.

      At the beginning of weight loss maintenance phase (baseline II) women were randomly assigned
      to the verum (specific micronutrient composition with omega-3 fatty acids) group or placebo
      group. Both groups were encouraged to consume a self-directed well-balanced variety of
      nutrient-dense foods.

      All women participated in an exercise program (fitness walking) on 1-2 days per week during
      all three phases of the study for a total of 12 months.
    
  