
    
      The main purpose of this study is to test a culturally tailored lifestyle intervention that
      incorporates motivational interviewing and is designed to prevent, or delay onset of, T2DM in
      Mexican Americans with prediabetes. Groups of participants are randomly assigned to: a) an
      experimental group that receives a lifestyle program (12 2-hour weekly educational group
      sessions) that emphasizes preparing and eating healthy Mexican-American foods and increasing
      physical activity, followed by 14 bi-weekly support group sessions to problem solve remaining
      barriers to adopting recommended behaviors and 3 booster sessions to enhance maintenance of
      behavioral changes; OR b) an "enhanced" usual care control group that receives lab results
      with individualized guidance and referrals. A secondary goal of the study is to examine the
      influence of genetic variation at selected candidate genes for glucose regulation on response
      to the lifestyle intervention.

      The specific aims of the study are to:

        1. Test a culturally tailored lifestyle intervention that incorporates motivational
           interviewing and is designed to prevent, or delay onset of, T2DM in Mexican Americans
           with prediabetes. Groups of participants are randomly assigned to: a) an experimental
           group that receives a lifestyle program (12 2-hour weekly educational group sessions)
           that emphasizes preparing and eating healthy Mexican-American foods and increasing
           physical activity, followed by 14 bi-weekly support group sessions to problem solve
           remaining barriers to adopting recommended behaviors and 3 booster sessions to enhance
           maintenance of behavioral changes; OR b) an "enhanced" usual care control group that
           receives lab results with individualized guidance and referrals.

           H1: The experimental group, compared to the control group, will have better health
           outcomes at 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36 months post baseline: 2-hour OGTT, A1C, FBG, lipids,
           blood pressure, health behaviors (physical activity, dietary intake), health beliefs:
           barriers, and anthropometrics (BMI [primary outcome], waist circumference). Other
           baseline measures - demographics and acculturation - characterize the population and
           correct for any baseline imbalances between groups.

        2. Prior to testing the intervention, we conduct focus groups in Starr County with
           participants of our previous DSMES studies, physicians from both sides of the border,
           local health officials, and key authority figures (Catholic priests, county officials)
           to fine-tune intervention aspects in the context of diabetes prevention.

        3. Exploratory Aim: Examine the influence of genetic variation at selected candidate genes
           for glucose regulation on response to the lifestyle intervention.

      The study addresses THE major public health problem of U.S.-Mexico border communities.
    
  