
    
      The optimal anesthetic technique for breast cancer surgery allows for good postoperative pain
      relief and rapid discharge. Breast cancer surgery with potential axillary dissection is often
      performed under general anesthesia due to the potential for poor analgesia with local
      anesthetic infiltration at the surgical site alone. General anesthesia can be associated with
      increased post-operative pain, nausea, and delayed discharge when compared to regional
      anesthesia for breast and other types of procedures (1,2).

      The paravertebral block is a technique that has been used perioperatively for breast (3,4),
      thoracic (5), abdominal (6), and hernia surgeries (7). It has also been used for pain control
      after rib fractures and penetrating trauma (8,9). The paravertebral block is performed by
      injecting local anesthetic above or below the transverse processes of the vertebral bodies
      where the spinal nerve roots emerge from the intervertebral foramina. The most common
      technique is to insert a needle 2.5 centimeters lateral to the spinous process at each level
      and "walk off" the transverse process. Injections at one or multiple levels block the somatic
      and sympathetic innervation to these dermatomes (10).

      Rare complications of thoracic paravertebral blocks include epidural spread, intrathecal
      injection, and Horner's Syndrome (1,11,12). One of the most feared complications of the
      traditional technique is pleural puncture, which has an incidence of 0.64% to 6.7% in the
      published literature (3,11,13).

      Ultrasound guidance in regional anesthesia is gaining widespread popularity. This technology
      provides visualization of key anatomic structures and has been shown to decrease block
      placement and onset times (14,15) and improve patient comfort (15). Ultrasound-guided blocks
      are associated with success rates of greater than 90% (15,16). In the thoracic region,
      ultrasound can be used to identify the vertebral transverse processes, as well as the ribs
      and the pleura of the lungs (17). In this way, pleural puncture can be avoided during
      paravertebral block placement.

      To date there have been no published prospective, randomized trials comparing the multiple
      injection thoracic paravertebral technique using ultrasound guidance to general anesthesia in
      breast cancer surgery patients.

      Our hypothesis is that paravertebral block anesthesia will result in shorter Post Anesthesia
      Care Unit (PACU) stays and decreased Visual Analog Scale (VAS) scores when compared to
      general anesthesia in patients undergoing breast cancer surgery. Secondary endpoints will
      include the need for postoperative opioids and the presence of nausea and/or vomiting.
    
  