
    
      Living kidney donation has been promoted as the 'best treatment option' for eligible patients
      with end-stage renal disease on the transplant waitlist by the American Society of
      Transplantation. In 2017, 5,264 living kidney donor (LKD) transplants were performed in the
      United States, representing over one-third of all kidney transplants performed nationally.
      While living donor nephrectomy is viewed as an overall safe procedure, the surgery does carry
      associated potential risks, including out-of-pocket costs, difficulty obtaining insurance,
      and long-term health complications. In 2013, the United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS)
      passed new regulations requiring transplant hospitals to collect living kidney donor (LKD)
      follow-up data for a minimum of 2 years post-donation. Despite this national mandate, less
      than 50% of transplant hospitals were able to meet reporting thresholds for LKDs who donated
      in 2013. Documented challenges to collecting this data include cost, donor inconvenience, and
      data collection burden.

      Therefore, novel methods are required to address incomplete donor follow-up. The
      investigators believe that mobile health (mHealth) systems, such as smartphone applications,
      would provide an effective, low-cost method of improving living donor follow-up rates. The
      investigators have built an mHealth system designed for reporting and collecting LKD
      follow-up data. The mHealth application was created based on previous studies conducted by
      the study team on the attitudes and perceptions of LKDs at a single transplant center on the
      use of mHealth for LKD follow-up, as well as after eliciting input from transplant thought
      leaders in the United States through semi-structured interviews. The aim of this study is to
      pilot test the mHealth system and compare the investigators' ability to achieve required
      follow-up at 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years against controls to help estimate potential effect
      sizes of the intervention.
    
  