
    
      A recent report in Physiological Reviews proposed that the endogenous protease plasmin acts
      on the COVID19 virus by cleaving a newly inserted furin site in the S protein portion of the
      virus resulting in increased infectivity and virulence. Patients with hypertension, diabetes,
      coronary artery disease, cerebrovascular illness, lung disease and kidney dysfunction
      commonly have elevated levels of plasmin/plasminogen and it was proposed that this may be the
      mechanism for poorer outcomes in patients with these co-morbidities. A logical treatment that
      might blunt this process would be the inhibition of the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin.
      There is an inexpensive, commonly used drug, tranexamic acid, (TXA), which suppresses this
      conversion and could be re-purposed for the treatment of COVID19.

      TXA is a synthetic analog of the amino acid lysine which reversibly binds four to five lysine
      receptor sites on plasminogen. This reduces conversion of plasminogen to plasmin, and is
      normally used to prevent fibrin degradation. TXA is FDA approved for treatment of heavy
      menstrual bleeding (typical dose 1300 mg p.o. three times per day x 5 days) and off-label use
      for many other indications. TXA is used perioperatively as a standard-of-care at the
      University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB) for orthopedic and cardiac bypass surgeries. At our
      institution, it is commonly employed in hemorrhaging trauma patients and currently is being
      studied for perioperative use in Cesarean section surgeries. It has also been utilized for
      spinal surgery, neurosurgery, orthognathic surgeries and even long term for the treatment of
      cosmetic dermatological disorders with a long track record of safety. Given the potential
      benefit and limited toxicity of TXA it would appear warranted to perform a rapid randomized,
      double-blind placebo controlled exploratory trial at UAB in the treatment of the early phases
      of COVID19 to determine whether it reduces infectivity and virulence of the COVID19 virus as
      hypothesized. Involvement of each patient is only for 7 days before primary endpoints.

      An exploratory, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind Phase 2 clinical trial in which
      study patients have just been diagnosed with COVID19 as an outpatient. The overall goal of
      this exploratory study is to assess both safety and efficacy of 5 days of TXA versus placebo
      in the COVID19 population. All patients would also receive apixaban 5 mg p.o. BID. The
      primary endpoint for the study would be a need for hospitalization. Contact would consist of
      daily phone contact. Care for COVID19 would otherwise be standard of care.
    
  