
    
      Anxiety is defined as a state of psychic disorder caused by fear of danger ; pain as an
      unpleasant sensory and emotional experience. Although pain and anxiety are subjective
      sensations, oral cavity care is very much associated with these perceptions.

      Thus, the fear of the oral health practitioner (dental surgeon, oral surgeon, maxillofacial
      surgeon, etc.) is one of the main reasons why a large part of the population does not
      consult. This real phobia installed in people's imaginary is partly explained by the fact
      that the mouth is an intimate part of the body. Indeed, according to the Freudian theory,
      discovery of body and sexuality begins with the oral stage with the oral and esophageal
      sphere favored as an erogenous zone (supported by the motor activity of sucking). In this
      way, the oral cavity is a place of love privacy and erotic intimacy, but also a means of
      communication and a means of recognizing tastes. Regular consultation with a specialist is
      consequently essential since good oral hygiene is a source of well-being (notions of
      pleasure, satisfaction).

      Oral health practitioners have many solutions in order to reduce patients' apprehension of
      anxiety and their painful perceptions. In addition to the psychological approach and
      cognitive-behavioral therapy (tell-show-do, adapt vocabulary, involve the patient in the
      therapeutic project) ; medical means are available to the practitioner. According to the
      therapeutic gradient: firstly use of anxiolytics (hydroxyzine) more or less associated with
      music therapy or other methods of distraction, conscious sedation (Equimolar mixture of
      Oxygen and Nitrous Oxide - EMONO) and as a last resort general anesthesia.

      An alternative non-drug technique has increased : the use of virtual reality (VR). This new
      technology, recognized for its entertainment value (creation of virtual environments that
      immerse people in a simulated world) has been extended to other fields including health,
      particularly for pain and anxiety management.
    
  