
    
      The dramatic emergence of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in Asia has coincided with the
      rapid socioeconomic and nutritional transition taking place in the region, with the
      prevalence of diabetes rising five-fold in Singapore in less than four decades. One unique
      aspect of the epidemic has been the significant ethnic differences in predisposition to
      diabetes among Asians and in the ethnic variation between BMI and the risk of developing
      insulin resistance, a precursor to type 2 diabetes. Apart from genetic factors, dietary,
      lifestyle and cultural factors might have influenced the developmental programming through
      effects on the mechanisms associated with developmental plasticity. A center piece of this
      study is to examine how epigenetic changes at birth both reflects past developmental
      influences and, in association with other factors, influences future trajectories of
      development and its relationship to NCDs. Also factors active during childhood - especially
      the first 1000 days of life - will be focused upon.

      The longitudinal GUSTO birth cohort study allows us to examine associations among genetic,
      environmental and lifestyle interactions in the three distinct ethnic groups, Chinese, Malays
      and Indians, present in the Singaporean population.

      Participants have been followed up for their pregnancy outcome, fetal growth and offspring
      development right up to age 11 currently. Participants will continue to be followed up as the
      children enter into the pubertal phase from the age of 10 to 14 years.

      Data will be collected through questionnaires and clinical measurements. The questionnaires
      include socio-economic factors, maternal and child's diet, medical histories, behavioural,
      cognition, lifestyle factors, health status, and home environment. Bio-physical measurements
      will be obtained from anthropometric measurements of participants, human biological materials
      such as blood, buccal swabs, saliva, hair, urine, stool, oral specimen such as exfoliated
      milk teeth, dental plaque and tongue biofilms are collected from the participants (mother /
      father / child where applicable) at their follow-up time points with the GUSTO cohort upon
      their consent.
    
  