
    
      The incidence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which is one of the most
      important causes of worldwide mortality and morbidity, increases with age and the disease
      worsens with the effects of aging. The effects of COPD are not only limited to the lungs, it
      also affects other organs and systems, causing loss of strength in the respiratory muscles.
      Respiratory muscles are the skeletal muscles that must maintain their continuous activities
      for the continuity of life. Just like other skeletal muscles, the respiratory muscles can
      also be trained based on the principles of exercise. Inspiratory muscle training (IMT) is an
      exercise method used in both patients with COPD and the elderly population. Studies have
      shown that IMT has positive effects in COPD and elderly individuals. However, in all these
      studies IMT applications (also known as "foundation or conventional IMT") focus only on the
      respiratory task of the respiratory muscles. Nevertheless, in addition to their basic task of
      respiration, respiratory muscles are also involved in core stabilization and postural
      control.The aim of this study was to create an integrated IMT program for geriatric
      individuals with and without COPD and investigate its effects.

      The participants were divided into two groups as individuals with and without COPD. A total
      of 8 weeks of IMT was applied for both groups using a threshold pressure loading device The
      participants were asked to perform IMT twice a day in the morning and evening. Both groups
      were trained 3 days a week under the supervision of a physiotherapist and other days of the
      week without a supervisor. The treatment program consisted of 4 weeks of foundation IMT
      followed by 4 weeks of functional IMT.The intensity of the exercise was adjusted to 40-50% of
      the MIP. After 10 consecutive breathing cycles, the participants were asked to perform 3-4
      breathe controls. As the tolerance increased, consecutive respiratory cycles were increased.
      The intensity of MIP was adjusted by weekly MIP measurements. Currently, foundation IMT is
      commonly used to train respiratory muscles. In the present study, foundation IMT was applied
      during the first 4 weeks of training. The participants were asked to sit in a comfortable
      upright position. Then the nose clip was placed, and the patients were instructed to tighten
      their lips around the mouthpiece and breathe against the resistance. During this 4-week-long
      training, all IMT applications were performed solely in a sitting position, without any
      loading in other positions. Following the foundation IMT, all participants underwent four
      weeks of functional IMT. Initially, all participants were taught diaphragmatic breathing and
      activating abdominal wall musculature. Each training session started with warm-up exercises
      and ended with cool-down exercises. During the loading phase, core stability, dynamic trunk
      activation and postural control exercises were applied together with IMT.
    
  