
    
      The overall purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of preoperative
      administration of oral zinc lozenges on postoperative sore throat syndrome which consists of
      pain, dysphagia, and in extreme cases hoarseness. It is associated with coughing (which may
      increase surgical related pain) and difficulty with oral intake. The study will look at the
      changes in incidence and severity of POST in the immediate postoperative period.

      Postoperative sore throat (POST) syndrome is a very common complication of endotracheal
      intubation Prior to earlier studies larger endotracheal tubes were utilized for providing
      general anesthesia. The incidence of POST at that time was 48%, with smaller tubes the
      incidence decreased to 22%. It is now standard of care to utilize endotracheal tubes based on
      size and gender of the patient. In subsequent studies to further reduce the incidence of
      POST, the rate of sore throat in the control groups have been between 17-90%. The cause of
      POST is related to direct local tissue trauma leading to inflammation of the pharyngeal
      mucosa and possibly the drying effect of non-humidified gases across the mucous membranes.
      Although there have been multiple treatments recommended for POST, none of them have been
      exactly effective, and the symptoms usually ameliorate within 72 hr without treatment. Even
      though this is the case, it is still recommended to take preventive measures for POST. The
      presence of POST after surgery is a patient satisfaction issue and has also been associated
      with a longer stay in in the post anesthesia recovery unit(Higgins et al). Both pharmacologic
      and non-pharmacologic measures have been recommended in past studies. Nonpharmacological
      methods for attenuating POST have included using smaller-sized endotracheal tubes,
      lubricating the endotracheal tube with water-soluble jelly, careful airway instrumentation,
      and minimizing cuff pressure. Pharmacologic measures have included gargles with lidocaine,
      aspirin, or ketamine preoperatively, inhalation of beclomethasone or fluticasone propionate,
      and recently the use of licorice gargle or magnesium lozenges 30 min preoperatively
      (Ruetzler, Borazan H).

      Zinc has been utilized for many years as a topical agent to promote epithelial health and
      recovery after injury. Several studies have evaluated the effect of zinc on wound healing and
      epithelial tissue health. These studies have shown that supplementation with zinc sulfate
      causes rapid recovery of leg and gastric ulcers (Worthington et al). It seems zinc not only
      increases re-epithelialization, but it also decreases bacterial activity and causes rapid
      wound healing (Arbabi-kalati et al). Zinc has also been shown to be an immunomodulatory agent
      that monitors and modifies the immune system and T-lymphocytes. Decreases in zinc serum
      levels lead to lymphopenia and declines in cellular and humoral immunity. The effect of oral
      zinc sulfate has also been utilized for treatment of oral wounds by oral surgeons; moreover,
      research has shown zinc supplementation assists with the recovery of mucosal wounds and
      treatment of tongue ulcers (Worthington et al). A recent study by Arbabi-kalati, showed that
      high dose oral zinc sulfate (220 mg TID) decreased the intensity of mucositis, xerostomia,
      and pain in individuals undergoing chemotherapy or radiotherapy treatments. The mechanism by
      which zinc improves tissue health was investigated by Sharir et al. and in a model of
      epithelial injury showed that topical zinc directly activates receptors that promote
      epithelial repair.

      Keeping the above studies in mind, the investigators built this study using the protocols
      devised by Borazan H, in which they evaluated the efficacy of magnesium lozenges on POST.
      There are currently no known studies that look at the efficacy of zinc in the prevention of
      POST. The investigators will use custom compounded lozenges from a local pharmacy with 40 mg
      of elemental zinc (equivalent to 174 mg of zinc sulfate) per lozenge, which is the tolerable
      upper intake level for zinc in adults as defined by the US department of Food and Nutrition
      Board.

      The possible knowledge gained from this study for POST syndrome can be extended to people
      undergoing surgeries requiring endotracheal intubation in the future.
    
  