
    
      This study is a prospective randomized sham-controlled study. The research will be carried
      out between January 2021 and June 2022 in XXX Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (PMR)
      Department Urogynecological Rehabilitation Unit.

      After the approval of XXX Faculty of Medicine Ethics Committee, 40 patients who admitted to
      XXX PMR Polyclinic with RP complaints after UI and who accepted the inclusion criteria
      directed to the Urogynecological Rehabilitation Unit, will be included in the study.

      Patients will be informed about the content, purpose and application of the study and their
      written consent will be obtained.

      Treatment Protocol 40 men with UI after RP who meet the exclusion and inclusion criteria will
      be divided into 2 groups using a table of random numbers. MS will be applied to the first
      group and sham MS will be applied to the second group.

      Group 1: Magnetic stimulation (Active MS) Group 2: Sham MS

      Group 1: Magnetic stimulation (Active MS)

      Patients will be instructed to sit in a magnetic coil chair. Magnetic flux is generated in
      this field. This current stimulates the nerve or muscle of the pelvic floor. To administer
      MS, a stimulation amplitude of 200 μs and a repetition of 10 Hz for 10 minutes, 2 minutes
      rest in between, 50 Hz for 10 minutes (20 minutes total), 5 seconds on / 5 seconds off, in
      accordance with device literature will be adjusted to produce maximum stimuli with the cycle.
      During each treatment session, the device will be adjusted to receive patients the current
      intensity gradually increasing, reaching the maximum stimulation intensity. MS will be
      applied two days a week, 20 minutes a day, for 8 weeks, a total of 16 sessions.

      Group 2: Sham MS

      The Sham MS treatment program will be the same as active MS in terms of duration, frequency,
      current duration, current intensity and general patient experience. The same magnetic chair
      will be used for both groups. Sham therapy application will be applied by the coordinator of
      the study by placing a thin deflector lead / aluminum coated plate on the magnetic coil of
      the magnetic chair that prevents the magnetic flux from penetrating into the patient.

      During both applications, the patients will be exposed to the same sound, vibration sensation
      and lighting of the device.

      Patients who did not attend even one of the 16 sessions (MS and sham MS sessions) during the
      study period will be excluded from the study. Until the study is completed, patients will not
      be informed of what treatment they received. At the end of the treatment, patients in the
      sham group will be allowed to receive active MS treatment.
    
  