
    
      It is well established that the metabolism, distribution and elimination of certain drugs is
      affected by inflammatory processes. This results from the expression of cytochrome and drug
      transporter proteins that are altered during the generation of host defense mechanisms. This
      has major implications in inflammation and infection when the capacity of the liver and other
      organs to handle drugs are severely compromised. From studies in animals individual
      cytochrome P450 isozymes and p-glycoprotein (PGP) are down regulated at the level of gene
      transcription with a resulting decrease in the corresponding mRNA, protein and
      enzyme/transporter activity. The loss in drug metabolism and transport is channeled
      predominantly through the production of cytokines which ultimately modify specific
      transcription factors. Other proposed mechanisms that apply to specific cytochrome P450s
      involve post translational steps including enzyme modification and increased degradation.
      When inflammatory responses are confined to the brain there is a loss of cytochrome P450 and
      PGP not only in the brain but also in peripheral tissues. This involves a yet to be
      identified mode of signaling between the brain and periphery but it does involve the
      production of cytokines from a peripheral source.

      In clinical medicine there are numerous examples of a decreased capacity to handle drugs
      during infections and disease states that involve an inflammatory component. This often
      results in altered drug responses and increased toxicities. Inflammation mediated alterations
      in the metabolism of endogenous compounds can also lead to altered physiology. Recently it
      has been shown in rodents that inflammatory responses within the brain alter drug disposition
      in the brain and in peripheral systems. Of particular note to the use of drugs in patients
      with a brain trauma is a recent study in our laboratory carried out in rodents showing that
      the transport of some drugs across the blood brain barrier is dramatically changed during a
      CNS inflammatory response. The reason this occurs is the loss in expression of the drug
      transporter protein (PGP). This allows drugs which are normally transported out of the brain
      by PGP to enter and cause CNS toxicity. Such changes in drug handling capacity during
      inflammation/infection will continue to be one of the many factors that complicate
      therapeutics.

      In humans with a severe CNS trauma (injury, surgery) an inflammatory response commonly occurs
      within the brain. It has also been our clinical observation that when these patients receive
      morphine as part of their care the drug is tolerated for a few days but many patients develop
      agitation that we believe is related to morphine therapy. Our working hypothesis is that a
      metabolite of morphine which is a CNS irritant (3-morphine glucuronide) can enter the brain
      in increased amounts because of the inflammation evoked loss in the transporter protein PGP
      in the blood brain barrier. In normal circumstances morphine is metabolized in the liver to
      two major metabolites (3-morphine glucuronide and 6-morphine glucuronide). These metabolites
      are excluded to some extent by a functioning PGP in the blood brain barrier. If the PGP
      diminishes in the blood brain barrier as a result of CNS inflammation then these morphine
      metabolites will increase in concentration in the brain. Some support for this idea can be
      taken from the recent studies showing that the inhibition of PGP by chemical means increases
      the concentration of the 6-glucuronide of morphine following the administration of morphine
      to rats. Although the 6-glucuronide is more potent than morphine with similar actions, the
      3-glucuronide is a CNS irritant and may cause the agitation observed in these patients. We
      propose to measure these metabolites on both sides of the blood brain barrier in patients
      with CNS trauma/inflammation to determine if the agitation correlates with the build up of
      metabolites. If we can demonstrate that these metabolites increase in the CNS as a result of
      inflammation this study will have far reaching consequences to many other drugs that are
      normally excluded from the brain in this manner (eg digoxin, cyclosporine A, HIV protease
      inhibitors) during their use in any condition that involves an inflammatory component in the
      CNS.
    
  