
    
      Given the aging population demographics, and the barriers that exist in this population in
      terms of exercise participation, determining the level of exercise intensity required and the
      time-course to induce tendon adaptations is of paramount importance in this population.
      Therefore the purpose of this study is to:

        1. determine whether a low intensity exercise training program (resistance 55% 1RM) affects
           tendon architecture and mechanical properties with aging,

        2. compare these effects to those of a higher intensity exercise training protocol
           (resistance 80% 1RM) with a match training work with regards to the low intensity
           exercise training group,

        3. evaluate the time course of tendon adaptations (architecture and mechanical properties)
           for the two training conditions with aging,

        4. compare the effect of an identical training protocol applied on two different muscle
           groups (triceps surae vs quadriceps muscles) on Patellar and Achilles tendon
           adaptations.

      Every subject recruited (Two groups composed of males aged between 65 and 85 years, and one
      group of young subjects (between 18 and 30 years)) will be asked to take part in a training
      program applied on the calf and quadriceps muscle groups on both legs. All subjects will be
      assessed 4 weeks before starting the intervention program (T-4w), at time zero (T0) and every
      four weeks during 12 weeks (T4w, and T8w). The investigation 4 weeks before starting the
      training program will allow using each subject as its own control. The intervention will
      involve a maximum of forty five (45) minutes training sessions 3 times per week. Subjects
      will be subjected to the same battery of baseline assessments (T-4w, and T0), during the
      training procedure (T4w, and T8w), and following the 12-weeks intervention period (T12w).

      The effect of aging and different loading interventions on Achilles and Patellar tendon will
      be investigated for the following parameters:

        -  Tendon mechanical properties (stiffness and Young's Modulus) using US technique to
           assess Achilles and Patellar tendon displacement during an incremental maximal
           contraction.

        -  Tendon architecture using MRI technique to assess Achilles and Patellar tendon
           cross-sectional area, tendon length and moment arm.

        -  Maximal voluntary contraction (MVC)

        -  Muscle architecture using MRI technique.

      Thus all these data will allow defining an optimal training intensity for physical activity
      of elderly persons.
    
  