
    
      Flexibility, the most important component of physical fitness, is defined as the maximal
      range of motion occurring in the joint or joint group. Elasticity is the ability of the
      structure to change its shape and size with the effect of force and to return to its previous
      position when the force is removed. These two components are also very effective on strength,
      agility, balance, speed, coordination and proprioception, which are other components of
      physical fitness. It is very important in reducing stress and tension, relieving muscle
      cramps, muscle relaxation, body fitness, reducing risks of injury and pain, regular sleep and
      daily life activities. Good levels of this increase the efficiency of the movement.

      Different stretching protocols are applied in traditional rehabilitation to increase these
      levels. Static stretching, which is one of these stretching protocols, is known to prevent
      injuries and benefit performance as a result of increasing the range of motion. It is a type
      of stretching that minimizes the risk of injury as well as easy application. However,
      stretching times that will change the elasticity and flexibility of a large-thick muscle and
      a thin-long muscle are different. In the literature, the evidence regarding the effects of
      different static stretching times on elasticity is very limited, and the evidence on the
      effects on flexibility varies. Although 10 to 30 seconds of static stretching is said to be
      effective, studies on which duration is effective for which muscle group are quite limited.

      Based on these, the aim of our study is to examine the effects of stretching exercises of
      different periods on muscle elasticity to be applied to thin and thick muscle groups. The
      study will be carried out on healthy, sedentary people aged 20-45 years. People who agree to
      participate in the study will be randomly divided into two groups. Static stretching will be
      applied to the hamstring and gracilis muscles of one group for 10 seconds while static
      stretching will be applied to the other group for 30 seconds. Static stretching exercises
      will be applied 8 weeks, 3 days a week, 3 times a day in 10 repetitions. On the dominant legs
      of the participants will be evaluated muscle elasticities with Myoton, muscle flexibility
      with flexibility tests, joint range of motion with goniometer. As a result of our thesis
      study, the investigators aim to find out how many seconds of static stretching will be more
      effective in different muscle groups, how different stretching times will change the muscle
      elasticity in different muscle groups, and thanks to this information, the investigators will
      be more successful in rehabilitation.
    
  