
    
      Individuals (N = 320) will be recruited during their initial visit to the Tobacco Cessation
      Clinic. Eligible participants (N = 320) will be randomized to: 1) Standard Care, which is
      counseling and pharmacological treatment (SC; n = 160), or 2) SC + adjunctive financial
      incentives through 12 weeks post-quit (CM; n = 160). All participants will be followed weekly
      from 1 week pre-quit through 4 weeks post-quit, and will return for visits at 8, 12, and 26
      weeks post-quit. Biochemically verified 7-day point prevalence abstinence will be assessed at
      all visits, though abstinence at 26 weeks post-quit (longer-term abstinence) will serve as
      the primary outcome variable. Those randomized to the CM intervention will have the
      opportunity to earn small gift cards for biochemically-verified abstinence through 12 weeks
      post-quit. The value of the gift cards will escalate weekly with continuous abstinence from
      the quit date through 4 weeks post-quit. Additional gift cards for abstinence may be earned
      at 8 and 12 weeks post-quit. We also hope to gain a better understanding of CM treatment
      mechanisms and to identify other factors that directly influence cessation via traditional
      questionnaire and smartphone-based ecological momentary assessment approaches. Smartphone
      technology allows for "real-time" data collection to more accurately capture important
      cessation-related variables, and will be used to deliver gain-framed messages to support and
      strengthen the CM intervention. Participants will complete traditional questionnaire measures
      on a laptop computer weekly from 1 week pre-quit through 4 weeks post-quit, and at 8, 12, and
      26 weeks post-quit. Assessments will be completed by participants either before or after
      their counseling appointments, for which they will receive reimbursement in the form of gift
      cards. Participants will also receive a smartphone at the 1 week pre-quit visit and they will
      be asked to carry it with them at all times through 4 weeks post-quit in order to complete
      EMAs (5 weeks total). Participants will be prompted to complete EMA assessments 5 times per
      day (4 random assessments + 1 daily diary) for five consecutive weeks. Participants will be
      compensated upon the return of the smartphone, based on the percentage of random/daily diary
      assessments that they completed.

      Description of Standard Care. According to the Clinical Practice Guideline, currently
      recommended components of an intensive tobacco treatment intervention include 1) initial
      assessment of willingness to participate, 2) the use of multiple types of clinicians (e.g.,
      medical, non-medical), 3) at least 4 treatment sessions, in an individual- or
      group-counseling format, that are greater than 10 minutes in duration, 4) counseling that
      includes problem-solving, skills training, and social support components, and 5) and the
      opportunity to use effective medications to aid in tobacco cessation (e.g., nicotine patch,
      varenicline). The clinic currently offers all components of standard care. Specifically,
      individuals who would like to quit smoking are referred (typically via electronic medical
      record). Patients are scheduled for their initial appointment with a Tobacco Treatment
      Specialist for an individual counseling session and to discuss pharmacological treatment
      options. Nicotine replacement therapy is provided during the session, or other medications
      are prescribed via communication with the patient's physician or by a provider on-site. Those
      enrolled in the current study will be encouraged to attend at least 5 weekly group sessions
      to facilitate follow-up and the delivery of study incentives.

      Visit 1, Part 1 (Recruitment/Screening). Individuals attending the initial clinic intake
      session will be provided with a 1-page informational handout with information about the
      study. After the session, study staff will check in with potential participants regarding
      their interest. Study staff will review the consent form with interested participants, and
      they will be screened for eligibility on-site in a private room in the clinic. Participant
      eligibility for the current study will not influence eligibility for standard treatment
      through the clinic. The Rapid Estimate of Adult Literacy in Medicine (REALM; see Appendix A)
      will be administered to ensure that all participants are able to read at ≥ sixth grade level
      (i.e., required to complete EMA and self-report questionnaires). Expired carbon monoxide (CO)
      will be measured with a Vitalograph BreathCO carbon monoxide monitor. Participants will be
      questioned about their 1) insurance status 2) age, 3) current level of smoking, 4)
      willingness to quit smoking, and 5) willingness/ability to attend 6 weekly sessions
      (including the first visit). Eligible participants may complete the assessment portion of
      visit 1.

      Visit 1, Part 2 (Pre-Quit Assessment). Participants will complete self-report questionnaires
      on a laptop computer; and expired CO, weight, and height will be measured in a private room
      to ensure confidentiality. Participants will be provided with an Android smartphone and
      instructed regarding the use of the phone (participants may make personal calls) as well as
      the EMA procedures. Participants will receive 4 random prompts and 1 daily diary prompt (in
      the morning) during the normal waking hours each day for four consecutive weeks. Participants
      will be instructed to quit smoking at bedtime or 10:00 pm (whichever occurs first), on the
      evening prior to their next scheduled counseling session (one week later). Participants will
      be randomized to Standard Care (SC) or CM using a random numbers table and advised of their
      group assignment at the conclusion of visit 1. The appropriate schedule of payments (SC or
      CM) will be discussed with all participants (see Table 1). Visit 1 takes approximately 1 hour
      to complete, and participants will be scheduled to return for visit 2.

      Visit 2 (Quit Day). Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a laptop
      computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a private room to ensure
      confidentiality. Visit 2 takes approximately 40 minutes to complete. Participants randomized
      to the CM treatment will receive an additional payment if they self-report abstinence from
      smoking since 10 p.m. the prior evening, and their expired is CO level is < 10 ppm (please
      note that the less stringent cut-off of 10 ppm will be used to verify abstinence at the first
      visit only, due to the recency of quitting). Participants who do not attend will be contacted
      by phone to obtain their self-reported smoking status only.

      Visit 3 (1 Week Post-Quit). Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a laptop
      computer; and expired carbon monoxide (CO) and weight will be measured in a private room to
      ensure confidentiality. Visit 3 takes approximately 30 minutes to complete. Participants
      randomized to the CM treatment will receive an additional payment if they self-report
      continuous abstinence from smoking since the quit day and have an expired CO level of ≤ 6
      ppm. Participants who do not attend will be contacted by phone to obtain their self-reported
      smoking status.

      Visit 4 (2 Weeks Post-Quit). Expired carbon monoxide (CO) and weight will be measured in a
      private room to ensure confidentiality. The visit 4 assessment takes approximately 5 minutes
      to complete. Participants randomized to the CM treatment will receive payment if they
      self-report continuous abstinence from smoking since the quit date and have an expired CO
      level of ≤ 6 ppm. Participants who do not attend will be contacted by phone to obtain their
      self-reported smoking status.

      Visit 5 (3 Weeks Post-Quit). Expired carbon monoxide (CO) and weight will be measured in a
      private room to ensure confidentiality. The visit 5 assessment will take approximately 5
      minutes to complete. Participants randomized to the CM treatment will receive payment if they
      self-report continuous abstinence from smoking since the quit date and have an expired CO
      level of ≤ 6 ppm. Participants who do not attend will be contacted by phone to obtain their
      self-reported smoking status.

      Visit 6 (4 Weeks Post-Quit). Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a
      laptop computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a private room to ensure
      confidentiality. The visit 6 assessment will take approximately 50 minutes to complete. Upon
      return of the smartphones, participants will be compensated based on the percentage of
      completed random assessments. Participants who do not attend will be contacted by phone
      and/or mail to request that the phone be returned by mail (postage paid envelopes will be
      sent) or in-person at the next visit. When participants return the phone they will be
      compensated according to the compensation schedule described above. Participants randomized
      to the CM treatment will receive an additional payment if they self-report continuous
      abstinence from smoking since the quit date and have an expired CO level of ≤ 6 ppm.
      Participants who do not attend will be contacted by phone to obtain their self-reported
      smoking status.

      Visit 7 (8 Weeks Post-Quit). Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a
      laptop computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a private room to ensure
      confidentiality. Participants will receive a payment for completion of the in-person
      assessments, which will take approximately 30 minutes to complete. Participants randomized to
      the CM treatment will receive an additional payment if they self-report abstinence from
      smoking over the past 7 days and have an expired CO level of ≤ 6 ppm. Participants who do not
      attend will be contacted by phone to obtain their self-reported smoking status.

      Visit 8 (12 Weeks Post-Quit). Participants will complete self-report questionnaires on a
      laptop computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a private room to ensure
      confidentiality. Participants will receive a payment for completion of the in-person
      assessments, which will take approximately 30 minutes to complete. Participants randomized to
      the CM treatment will receive an additional payment if they self-report abstinence from
      smoking over the past 7 days and have an expired CO level of ≤ 6 ppm. Participants who do not
      attend will be contacted by phone to obtain their self-reported smoking status.

      Visit 9 (26 Weeks Post-Quit Follow-Up). Participants will complete self-report questionnaires
      on a laptop computer; and expired CO and weight will be measured in a private room to ensure
      confidentiality. Participants will receive a payment for completion of the in-person
      assessments, which will take approximately 40 minutes to complete. Saliva cotinine will also
      be measured via NicAlert test strips to provide additional evidence of abstinence.
      Participants who do not attend will be contacted by phone to obtain their self-reported
      smoking status.
    
  