
    
      This is a single institution open-label phase Ib clinical trial designed to determine the
      safety of immunization of patients with resected Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
      (HNSCC) with lethally irradiated semi-allogeneic human fibroblasts (MRC-5) transfected with
      DNA derived from the subject's own tumor and to measure the immune response to the autologous
      tumor vaccine.

      Briefly, the plan is to use a two-stage trial design and to initially enroll 15 patients with
      Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC). The patients will undergo surgical resection
      to provide complete removal of the primary lesion with negative gross and microscopic
      margins. A portion of the primary tumor specimen not necessary for the pathologic diagnosis
      will be obtained to serve as a source of DNA for preparing the vaccine. Each DNA-based
      vaccine will contain 1 x 10e7 DNA-transfected human allogeneic fibroblasts. The vaccine will
      be lethally irradiated before it is used for immunization. It will be administered
      intradermally in the Outpatient Clinic for a total of four vaccinations delivered at weekly
      intervals.

      Patients delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses will be tested but will not be an
      eligibility criterion. Immunologic response to the vaccine will be evaluated. If there is no
      evidence of toxicity, and >3 of the 15 initial patients show immunologic response, the second
      stage of the study will be opened for accrual of 22 patients.

      To determine patient's response to the DNA-based vaccines, the frequency of T cells reactive
      with recipient cells transfected with the autologous tumor DNA will be measured by ELISPOT
      for IFN-y and compared with the response to non-transfected fibroblasts prior to and after
      vaccination. All patients will be monitored for Immunologic response by assays include
      ELISPOT, flow cytometry for lymphocyte markers, Annexin V binding, TcR expression, caspase3
      activity and serum antibodies.
    
  