
    
      Behavioural and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia (BPSD) (including hallucinations,
      delusions, aggression, restlessness, agitation, wandering, anxiety, depression, elation,
      euphoria, disinhibition, motor disturbances, nighttime behaviours, and appetite disturbances)
      represent an aspect of dementia particularly difficult to manage for which new treatments are
      urgently needed. Current means to manage BPSD typically involve medications (e.g.
      anti-psychotics, anti-depressants, sedatives) associated with negative side effects such as
      lethargy, loss-of-self, cognitive decline, and increased risk of falls, and/or applying
      physical barriers and restraints (alarms, locks, Buxton chairs, tethers) that can cause
      pressure sores, injury, infection, as well as negative psychological effects such as anxiety,
      distress, and aggression. Although options for non-pharmacological management of BPSD in
      acute care exist (e.g. reminiscence therapy, therapeutic touch, music therapy), they are
      seldom implemented in practice due to lack of time, resources, and/or training.

      Exposure to natural environments (seeing greenery, hearing outside natural sounds) has been
      shown to enhance wellbeing, reduce depression, anxiety, and stress levels, and decrease
      hospital length-of-stay for inpatients. Through VR technology, one's surroundings can be
      seamlessly replaced by a virtual world of their choosing. Based on previous studies and
      expert consultation, we created a library of VR experiences depicting calming nature scenes
      (peaceful lake, refreshing forest, cheerful playground) designed specifically for people with
      dementia, as a prototype for introducing immersive VR-therapy to hospitals, long term care
      facilities and private homes. The goal of VR-therapy is to help manage BPSD and stimulate
      psychological/cognitive health and daytime engagement for people with dementia.

      The RCT will be informed by our prior pilot study conducted in the hospitalist medicine
      department of Michael Garron Hospital with inpatients with dementia to validate the proposed
      RCT study protocol (processes, methods, recruitment strategy, resource requirements,
      timelines) as well as by previous feasibility studies in outpatients that showed it is safe
      and feasible to use VR/HMDs for people with dementia.
    
  