
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To ascertain if time to surgical bed failure is increased with fractionated stereotactic
      radiosurgery (FSRS) compared to single-fraction stereotactic radiosurgery (SSRS) in patients
      with resected brain metastasis.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To ascertain if there is better emotional well-being at 9 months as assessed by the
      Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-BR) in patients with resected brain
      metastasis undergoing FSRS compared to SSRS (Primary quality of life [QOL] objective).

      II. To ascertain whether there is improved overall survival in patients with resected brain
      metastases who undergo FSRS compared to patients who receive SSRS.

      III. To ascertain in patients with resected brain metastases whether there is improved
      overall QOL as assessed by the FACT-BR and Linear Analog Self-Assessment (LASA) in patients
      who receive FSRS compared to patients who receive SSRS (Secondary QOL objective).

      IV. To compare the functional independence in patients who receive FSRS to patients who
      receive SSRS.

      V. To tabulate and descriptively compare the post-treatment adverse events associated with
      the interventions, including the potential impact of immunotherapy and targeted therapy.

      VI. To compare rates of radiation necrosis at 12 months in patients who receive FSRS to
      patients who receive SSRS.

      VII. To evaluate if there is any difference in central nervous system (CNS) failure patterns
      (local, distant brain failure, local leptomeningeal disease, widespread leptomeningeal
      disease) in patients who receive FSRS compared to patients who receive SSRS after resection
      of brain metastasis.

      VIII. To ascertain in patients with resected brain metastases whether there is increased time
      to whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) in patients who receive FSRS compared to patients who
      receive SSRS.

      IX. To determine in long-term survivors (patients who are alive more than 12 months from time
      of randomization) whether there is better emotional well-being and overall QOL as assessed by
      the FACT-BR and LASA in patients who receive FSRS to the surgical bed compared to patients
      who receive SSRS (Secondary QOL objective).

      X. To ascertain if time to surgical bed failure as assessed by central review is increased
      with FSRS compared to SSRS in patients with resected brain metastasis.

      XI. To ascertain in patients with resected brain metastases whether there is improved QOL as
      assessed by all other total and individual FACT-BR and LASA items and subscale values in
      patients who receive FSRS compared to patients who receive SSRS (Exploratory QOL objective).

      XII. To determine in patients with resected brain metastases whether there is less cognitive
      progression in patients who receive FSRS to the surgical bed compared to patients who receive
      SSRS (Exploratory cognitive objective).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo SSRS over 1 session.

      ARM II: Patients undergo FSRS over 3 or 5 daily sessions.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 30 days, at 3, 6, 9, 12, 16, and 24
      months, then every 6 months until 5 years from randomization.
    
  