
    
      The long term goal of this research is the successful incorporation of carbon fiber into an
      off loading device will provide protection to the insensate foot of people with diabetes by
      reducing localized peak pressures, and thus the risk of recurrence neuropathic foot wounds
      and fractures, while improving ankle power at push off that will allow individuals with loss
      of ankle muscle function to walk faster and return to dynamic activities required in their
      jobs and for full function in the community. The overall goal of this proposal is to
      determine effects of carbon fiber off loading orthoses (CFO) design characteristics (lay up
      and geometry of strut) on brace strength, weight, power return capacity, plantar off-loading
      and participant comfort using FE models, ex-vivo testing and human testing.

      First, a CFO will be fabricated using geometry consistent with the current clinical standard.
      This representative CFO will serve as a baseline from which a finite element (FE) model will
      be built. The model will be altered as desired to determine the effects of variable design
      characteristics. The FE model will estimate brace deflection and stress when the CFO is
      designed with various lay up designs and brace thicknesses. We will use results from the FE
      model to fabricate a new CFO for study participants.

      We will then measure peak plantar pressures during walking while the participants are
      barefoot, wearing the CFO consistent with current clinical standards, and wearing the new CFO
      fabricated based on the results of the FE model. We will also measure plantarflexor power
      during walking while the participants are wearing the CFO consistent with current clinical
      standards and while wearing the CFO designed based on the results of the FE model. It is
      believed that the FE model driven CFO design will lead to improved brace strength while
      reducing plantar pressure compared to barefoot and will have similar plantarflexor power as
      the CFO based on current clinical standards.
    
  