
    
      The goal is to relate non-invasive brain imaging data to clinical parameters in order to
      develop a mechanistic model of CNS adaptive processes that are produced by a patient-specific
      disease state. The investigators believe that such a model will have significant predictive
      value and might provide added value for subsequent patient management. To achieve the stated
      objectives, the following Specific Aim will be tested:

      Aim 1. To assess regional brain changes in patients with polyneuropathies associated with a
      mild thermal pain challenge and to relate these changes to clinical measures of neuropathy.

      Hypothesis 1A. Regional changes in brain glucose metabolism (as measured using FDG PET/CT
      imaging) associated with thermal pain will differ between patients with polyneuropathy and a
      group of age-matched controls. Specifically, patients with neuropathy will show a
      significantly higher increase in glucose metabolism in the medial pain system (affective
      dimension - brainstem, amygdala, insula) following thermal pain as compared to the control
      group, indicating increased sensitivity of the interoceptive neural control system for
      peripheral pain stimulation in patients.

      Hypothesis 1B. In patients with neuropathy, regional changes in brain glucose metabolism
      associated with thermal pain in the medial pain system (affective dimension - brainstem,
      amygdala, insula) will be inversely related to clinical measures of neuropathic disease state
      (as measured using quantitative sensory testing, nerve conduction study and standardized pain
      scale assessment). In contrast, glucose metabolic changes in the lateral pain system
      (discriminatory dimension - thalamus, area S1) will be directly related to clinical measures.
      The extent of changes in the medial versus lateral system will also be correlated with the
      types of polyneuropathies, including idiopathic painful sensory neuropathy, chronic
      inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) and Charcot-Marie-Tooth type-1A (CMT1A, the
      most common type of inherited peripheral nerve disease).

      Hypothesis 1C. The increase in functional connectivity (as assessed using fMRI following an
      oscillatory thermal pain paradigm) will differ between neuropathic patients and controls.
      Specifically, functional connectivity between the medial pain system (brainstem, amygdala,
      insula) and the cognitive pain system (VLPFC and FP) will be significantly higher in the
      patient group as compared to the controls, indicating increased inhibition of the
      interoceptive brain network by the executive control system. Moreover, functional
      connectivity between the medial and cognitive pain systems will be directly related with
      clinical measures.
    
  