
    
      Chemoimmunotherapy is the standard of care in first-line treatment of CLL patients without
      del17p or TP 53 mutation; physically fit patients are treated with fludarabine,
      cyclophosphamide and rituximab (FCR)1. Due to the high risk of severe neutropenias and
      infections with FCR, bendamustine and rituximab (BR) must be considered in patients aged >65
      years.

      However, these conventional chemoimmunotherapies are associated with side effects caused by
      the rather unspecific mode of action of the chemotherapy. Therefore, there is an urgent need
      for alternatives, especially chemotherapy-free regimens.

      In first line treatment of elderly patients with CLL and coexisting conditions, the
      anti-CD20-antibody obinutuzumab is the new standard therapy. In the CLL11 trial the
      combination of obinutuzumab with chlorambucil proved to be safe and lead to markedly improved
      response rates as well as PFS times in comparison to chlorambucil alone or combined with
      rituximab.

      The BCL2 antagonist venetoclax (GDC-0199/ABT-199) showed striking activity with tumor lysis
      syndrome as dose limiting toxicity in patients with relapsed and refractory CLL. 400 mg
      venetoclax was determined to be a safe and efficacious dose. Several patients treated with
      the combination of venetoclax and rituximab in relapsed refractory CLL even achieved MRD
      negativity. The FDA approved Venetoclax for the treatment of relapsed CLL with 17p/TP53 on
      12th April 2016.

      Therefore, venetoclax plus CD20-antibody based combinations have the potential to induce
      higher rates of MRD negativity in frontline therapy of CLL and concomitantly induce lower
      rates of toxicities so that chemotherapy might be replaced. Furthermore, venetoclax and
      obinutuzumab demonstrated synergistic activity in a preclinical study of a murine Non-Hodgkin
      lymphoma xenograft model, and additive activity in a CLL lymph node model. The combination
      appears tolerable in the firstline treatment of CLL patients with coexisting conditions
      whilst the toxicity profile of both drugs compares favorably to those of the chemotherapies
      currently used in the treatment of CLL. Consequently, it should be tested if rituximab can be
      replaced by obinutuzumab in combination with venetoclax in this trial.

      Ibrutinib, a selective, irreversible small molecular inhibitor of Bruton´s Tyrosine Kinase
      (BTK), showed excellent responses and a safe toxicity profile9,10, even in combination with
      BR. Ibrutinib is approved for treatment of relapsed CLL as well as frontline therapy of CLL
      by the FDA and EMA (April 29th 2016).

      The combination of ibrutinib and venetoclax showed synergy in primary CLL cells.

      Consequently, the aim of the current trial is to evaluate if chemoimmunotherapy in the
      frontline treatment of physically fit patients in CLL can be replaced by combinations of
      these targeted drugs with anti-CD20-antibodies.
    
  