
    
      Administration of propofol to achieve a target of moderate sedation is a challenging task for
      which anesthesia providers receive minimal training. Undersedation results in a noncompliant
      patient, while oversedation results in airway obstruction, respiratory depression, and
      hypotension. Considerable variability in patient pharmacokinetics (the distribution of drug
      within the body) and pharmacodynamics (the translation of drug concentration to clinical
      effect) has been demonstrated. The skill of titrating propofol to the desired target and
      maintaining this state is slowly acquired in the clinical environment of the endoscopy center
      with frequent reliance on rescue skills. An automated system that facilitates this process
      would be useful.

      Pharmacokinetic models allow us to make predictions of the results of drug administration. If
      we know the age and size of the patient, we can determine a quantity of propofol that will
      attain a desired concentration at some point in the future (within the predictive accuracy of
      the model). If they are old, this is less than if they are young. If they are obese, this is
      more than if they are thin. By adjusting the dosing, we can achieve similar concentrations at
      a specified time in a wide range of patients.

      Pharmacodynamic models allow us to relate drug concentration to a probability of response.
      Sensitivity is a randomly distributed variable, and the cumulative probability of response to
      propofol is well represented by a sigmoid curve. While we do not know the concentration that
      will suffice for a given individual, we can determine the probability that this individual
      will lose responsiveness within an interval of concentrations. For example, the probability
      of loss of responsiveness between 1 µg/ml and 6 µg/ml is around 99%. For any given age and
      size, an infusion sequence can be determined so that we traverse this interval smoothly. The
      infusion sequence is determined by minimization of the difference between the simulated
      probability and the target (1). We predict that 90% of 50 year old 70 kg patients will lose
      responsiveness between one minute and three minutes after initiating the infusion, and 99% by
      five minutes. The infusion sequence for this patient is comprised of a bolus of 287 µg/kg
      followed by an initial infusion of 216 µg/kg/min, with an increase to 550 µg/kg/min after 147
      seconds. By selecting the infusion sequence based on the age and size of the patient, all
      patients will track the same target line. These infusion rates are determined prior to
      initiation of sedation, and the clinician can verify that they are appropriate for the
      patient before beginning sedation.

      Once the endpoint of adequate sedation is observed, the effect site concentration associated
      with this endpoint is inferred, and the infusion that will maintain this concentration can be
      determined. This allows the clinical observation to be translated into an infusion rate, much
      as a driver accelerates to a desired speed and then engages the cruise control to maintain
      that speed.

      The intent of this study is to demonstrate equivalent safety and efficacy of PRC to control
      by a skilled clinician.

      References

      1. Mandel JE, Sarraf E. The Variability of Response to Propofol Is Reduced When a Clinical
      Observation Is Incorporated in the Control: A Simulation Study. Anesthesia & Analgesia.
      2012;114:1221-9.
    
  