
    
      The present study aims to assess the efficacy of the Health information package program
      (HIPP) on knowledge about anemia, compliance with iron supplementation pills, and level of
      hemoglobin among Saudi pregnant women with anemia.

      The present sample will be calculated using G-power analysis version 3.1.1, where the Power
      of .95 (β=1-0.95=0.5) at alpha 0.05 (one-sided) was used as the significance level, and
      medium effect size = (0.5) was utilized. The required sample will be 178 anemic pregnant
      women; this number will be increased to reach 196 for an expected attrition rate of 10%.
      Random assignment will use to classify the participants equally (98 women each) either in the
      intervention or control groups using a computer-generated table of random numbers.

      The study will be conducted in antenatal outpatient clinics at primary health care centers,
      Sakakah- Al-Jouf region in the northwest part of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The hospital is
      affiliated with the Ministry of Health and provides free-of-charge health care services for
      all pregnant women, neonates, and children. Nearly 4700 women visited the antenatal clinic
      through the period of 2019.

      Data Collection tools

      A structured interview questionnaire will be used to fulfill the study objectives. Study tool
      developed by Noronha et al. (2013) and translated to simple Arabic language that is
      appropriate to Arabian Culture by Abujilban et al. (2018). Permission and acceptance to use
      the Arabic version of the tool were maintained by Abujilban. The tool has internal
      reliability for the Arabic version with Cronbach alpha = 0.938.

      I- Demographic and health-related information included data related to women's age, marriage
      age, level of education, gestational age, parity, body mass index, inter-pregnancy interval,
      history of excessive or abnormal bleeding during menstruation, and level of hemoglobin.

      II- compliance with iron supplementation included questions related to the extent of
      compliance with iron supplementation among anemic pregnant women and the reason for
      compliance or non-compliance.

      III- The food selection ability checklist contained food items that are rich and poor sources
      of iron, vitamin C, and protein.

      IV- Structured Knowledge Interview Schedule (SKIS): This tool was developed to assess women
      knowledge about anemia before and after the intervention, it contained questions regarding
      the concept of pregnancy, anemia in pregnancy, causes of iron deficiency anemia, signs and
      symptoms, the effect of anemia on pregnancy, prevention, and management of iron deficiency
      anemia. Each correct answer assigned one point. The maximum number of total possible points
      was 86.

      Random assignment will use to classify the participants equally (98 women each) either in the
      intervention or control groups using a computer-generated table of random numbers.
    
  