
    
      Hospitalization is a strong and independent risk factor for Sarcopenia. Older adults who are
      hospitalized in the previous year experience greater losses of lean mass and muscle strength
      than their non-hospitalized peers. Most of the research has focused on understanding muscle
      atrophy as the cause of weakness. However, post-hospitalization muscle weakness is not solely
      due to muscle atrophy- it explains less than 10% of the variance. The investigators propose
      that the sequela of hospitalization (e.g. deconditioning, disease severity, etc.) reduces the
      integrity of brain motor pattern that is used to produce forceful muscle contractions.
      Evidence from the literature suggests that central nervous system impairments explain
      approximately 60% of the variance in the loss in muscle strength observed following
      hospitalization. However, while these findings have helped to move the field forward, the
      measures lack spatial resolution. Accordingly, there remains a major gap in understanding
      whether deterioration of specific brain motor tracts contribute to post-hospitalization
      induced sarcopenia. The investigators intend to conduct a prospective cohort study to examine
      the integrity of the cortical-spinal white matter tract in post-hospitalized older adults.
      However, the investigators lack some essential elements in which to conduct this future
      study. Therefore, this pilot study will refine the following: patient eligibility,
      feasibility of collecting outcomes in patients, variances for statistical power, influence of
      covariates, timeline, patient attrition rates, data analysis strategies and magnetic
      resonance imaging protocol for mapping the cortical-spinal tract. The investigators will
      accomplish these operational aims efficiently and cost-effectively by leveraging funding with
      a newly awarded R01 by Dr. Catherine Price, which seeks to identify pre-surgical neuroimaging
      biomarkers following total knee arthroplasty (TKA) (R01NR014181; IRB# 487-2012).
      Specifically, the investigators will add measures of sarcopenia (muscle strength, mass and
      gait) and assess the integrity of the cortico-spinal tract. Measures will be collected in 20
      patients before and after hospitalization (prior to surgery, 3 months and 12 months
      post-surgery) and 20 controls who are matched in age and disease severity at similar time
      points. In summary, there are long-term impairments that result from hospitalization in older
      adults that are not explained by the illness alone. This pilot study will result in
      subsequent larger NIH funded studies because the research is distinct from all others being
      conducted on muscle function, aging and effects of hospitalization.
    
  