
    
      Eligible participants were allocated to one of three groups. Group (I): patients received 110
      ml normal saline IV just before skin incision Group (II): patients received 1 gm TA (2
      ampoules of Capron 500 mg /5 ml; Amoun, Cairo, Egypt) intravenous just before skin incision.
      Group (III): patients received 2 gm topical TA (4 ampoules of Capron 500 mg/5 ml) applied on
      the placental bed after placental delivery. Patients were randomized to three groups, each
      compromised of 43 patients according to a three-blocked randomization list which was coded (1
      or 2 or 3) at 1:1:1 ratio. The three parallel groups were prepared using a Computer-generated
      randomization system. The allocated groups will be concealed in serially numbered sealed
      opaque envelopes that will only be opened after recruitment. The patient allocation will be
      performed prior to the induction of anesthesia by an independent person, who will not
      otherwise be involved in this study. The trial will be appropriately blinded; the
      participants, outcome assessors and the surgeon performing the procedure will be blinded to
      the medication type, which will be used. In all eligible participants, CH was performed under
      general anesthesia by the same operative and anesthesia team. A dose of 1 g of
      first-generation cephalosporin (Cefazolin®; Bristol Mayers Squibb, Cairo, Egypt) was
      administered intravenously immediately prior to skin incision. The abdomen was exposed
      through Pfannensteil incision. After skin incision, the subcutaneous fat and abdominal fascia
      were opened crosswise, and the rectus muscle was opened on the midline, the parietal
      peritoneum was opened longitudinally, the visceral peritoneum was opened transversely and
      dissected downwards with the bladder and kept against symphysis pubis by a Doyen retractor,
      followed by transverse incision of the uterus at the upper border of the placenta to avoid
      transplacental incision which provoke severe bleeding.

      Eligible participants were allocated to one of three groups after induction of general
      anesthesia and immediately prior to the operation and just before skin incision. they
      received 1-gram tranexamic acid (10 ml) in 100 ml saline infusion or placebo (110 normal
      saline) by slow intravenous injection at an approximate rate of 1 mL per min. Throughout the
      operation irrigation was done by 60 ml of (2g tranexamic acid (10 ml) diluted in 100 ml of
      sodium chloride 0.9%) or placebo ( 60 ml of sodium chloride 0.9%.).At the end of operation
      another dose of 60 ml of (1g tranexamic acid (10 ml) diluted in 50 ml of sodium chloride
      0.9%) or placebo ( 60 ml of sodium chloride 0.9%.) was left intraabdominal then 1
      intraperitoneal suction drain was routinely used in all patients the drains were closed for 3
      hour postoperative , after that time the drains were opened and removed on the second
      postoperative day unless otherwise indicated.. To ensure a sufficiently high concentration of
      topical tranexamic acid, it was diluted only to a volume sufficient to moisten a large wound
      surface. 20 ml moistens at least 1500 cm2.
    
  