
    
      This study will evaluate two alternative methods of inducting syringe exchange referrals into
      routine methadone treatment. The sample (N=390) will be opioid-dependent injection drug users
      referred by the Baltimore Needle Exchange Program (BNEP) for routine outpatient methadone
      treatment using a stepped care model. Subjects will be randomly assigned to one of three
      3-month treatment induction conditions: 1) Low Threshold Stepped Care induction (LTSC), 2)
      Voucher-Based Stepped Care induction (VBSC), or 3) Routine Stepped-Care induction (RSC). The
      LTSC condition will noticeably reduce treatment demands on new admissions during the 90-day
      induction period and is conceptually related to an interim maintenance schedule. It is
      expected to increase patient recognition of the reinforcing effects and benefits of
      methadone, improve the transition to more comprehensive schedules of care, and increase early
      retention. The VBSC condition adds an attendance reinforcement intervention to the routine
      stepped care induction schedule over the first 90-days of treatment. It is expected to
      improve early treatment engagement and retention. Subjects in each of these conditions will
      transition to routine stepped-care (no voucher-based reinforcement) following the 90-day
      induction period. The RSC condition will serve as a comparison group and represents routine
      care in the program where the study will be conducted. All subjects will be followed for
      6-months. Retention, drug use (via urinalysis and self-report), and other infectious disease
      risk behaviors (e.g., syringe sharing; number of injections) are the primary outcome
      measures. The proposed design will also test mediational models to evaluate changes in
      objective indices of engagement (methadone and counseling adherence) and psychological
      constructs (treatment readiness and satisfaction) as predictors of outcome. Regression models
      will be used to evaluate the amount of reduction of drug use necessary to effect varying
      amounts of change in HIV risk behavior. Finally, data will be collected and compared on the
      treatment costs of each induction strategy.
    
  