
    
      Dementia is a term used for a collection of symptoms that can be caused by a number of
      diseases or injuries that affect the brain. Individuals with dementia have a loss of function
      in cognition (thinking, perception, learning, verbal communication, memory, judgment), which
      may lead to behavioral and personality changes (for example, agitation, delusions,
      hallucinations). Some causes of dementia are reversible; however, irreversible dementia is
      caused by certain conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease. Dementia is common in elderly
      individuals, but it is not a normal part of aging. This is a randomized, double-blind,
      parallel-group, placebo-controlled study comparing the effectiveness and safety of
      risperidone to placebo in patients with behavioral disturbances associated with dementia. The
      study is composed of two periods: a 1-week run-in period in which patients are discontinued
      from other antipsychotic drugs and take placebo twice daily and a 12-week double-blind
      period. At the end of the run-in period, patients are randomly assigned to oral solutions of
      either risperidone or placebo. The starting dose of risperidone is 0.25 mg twice daily and
      increasing to 0.5 mg twice daily (1 mg/day). If 1 mg/day shows an insufficient response, a
      maximum of 1 mg twice daily of risperidone is permitted. The patient receives study drugs for
      the 12-week double-blind period. The primary measure of effectiveness is the change from
      baseline to the end of double-blind treatment in the Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory
      (CMAI), a questionnaire evaluating agitation. Additional measures of efficacy include the
      change from baseline to end of double-blind treatment in the Behavior Pathology in
      Alzheimer's Disease Rating Scale (BEHAVE-AD), a rating scale used to evaluate behavior
      symptoms in patients with Alzheimer's disease; the Clinical Global Impressions (CGI), a
      rating system used to evaluate the overall and severity of clinical change in a patient with
      various diseases affecting the brain; the Functional Assessment Staging (FAST), a diagnosis
      tool for determining the stage of dementia; and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), a
      clinical measure used to evaluate cognition. Safety evaluations include the incidence of
      adverse events; results of clinical laboratory tests (hematology and biochemistry);
      measurements of vital signs and body weight; physical examination findings; and the
      Extrapyramidal Symptoms Rating Scale (ESRS), a scale used to measure effects of antipsychotic
      medications on motor functions of the patient. The study hypothesis is that risperidone is
      more effective than placebo, as measured by the total aggression score on the CMAI, in
      treating behavioral disturbances in demented patients. Risperidone oral solution (1 mg/mL).
      Starting doses of 0.25 mg twice daily and increasing to 0.5 mg twice daily (1 mg/day). If 1
      mg/day shows an insufficient response, a maximum of 1 mg twice daily of risperidone is
      permitted. Total treatment duration is 12 weeks.
    
  