
    
      Non-tuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) are important new pathogens in cystic fibrosis, with
      prevalence estimates ranging from 6% to 13%. The diagnosis of the disease in cystic fibrosis
      patients is difficult because the infection may remain indolent in some cases without
      evidence of clinical consequence, while in other patients NTM are associated with significant
      morbidity and mortality. Treatment requires antibiotic therapy over a prolonged period (at
      least 12 to 18 months) with several drugs and varies according to NTM and their antibiotic
      resistance profile. The development of a specialized approach (clinicians / biologists) in
      the management of this infection, combined with the diagnosis and treatment of NTM
      infections, in cystic fibrosis patients is a research priority. It is an indispensable
      long-term strategy for this high-risk population.

      Two main elements confirm the interest of a prevalence survey of NTM infections in cystic
      fibrosis (CF) patients: the diagnostic difficulty of "true" infections (as opposed to simple
      colonizations) to NTM, and the clinical impact on respiratory functions of NTM present in
      these patients. Two recent contradictory studies on the impact of NTM infections in CF
      patients have recently been published. The German monocentric study suggests a greater
      deterioration of respiratory function in CF patients not infected with NTM compared to CF
      patients infected with NTM. 26 patients were infected with NTM: 14/26 with M. avium complex
      (MAC), 10/26 with M. abscessus complex and 2/26 with M. gordonae. Only 5 patients out of a
      dozen positive to M. abscessus and 1 in 14 positive to MAC were treated. Comparatively, the
      other study found a significant deterioration in respiratory function (maximum expired volume
      in 1 seconde) of CF patients infected with M. abscessus. This Scandinavian national study
      reinforced its argument by the fact that an effective treatment made it possible to find
      changes in maximum expired volume in 1 seconde close to that observed before the infection.
      Some differences are observed in these two studies; including the age of the subjects
      included, older in the German study, and the number of positive lung samples per patient. The
      German study retained the criteria of the American Thoracic Society (ATS) / Infectious
      Disease Society of America (IDSA) for interpreting respiratory specimens positive for MNT.
      However, these criteria remain very difficult to apply for CF patients because the clinical
      and radiological manifestations of cystic fibrosis and mycobacterial infection are confounded
      and other criteria are necessary, such as the number of positive pulmonary samples: 5 vs. 2
      to 4 or the decline in maximum expired volume in 1 seconde in the year prior to colonization
      / MNT infection (-5.8% per year vs. 0.7% per year). We see here the necessity of
      complementary studies, in order to be able to identify the diagnostic difficulties and the
      impacts of the therapeutics administered in these patients. Indeed, on the one hand the
      therapeutic impact is very difficult to evaluate in the face of the very weak correlation
      between the results of the "antibiograms" and therefore in vitro and the therapeutic effect
      in vivo. On the other hand, precise diagnostic interpretation remains essential, as published
      observational studies show real discrepancies, largely due to diagnostic biases. Recently,
      under the auspices of the American Foundation and the European Cystic Fibrosis Society,
      guidelines for the management of NTM infections in CF patients have been published. To this
      is added the references of Microbiology.

      Several authors have shown that this diagnosis is an alternative in the context of NTM
      infections in cystic fibrosis patients. Indeed, as mentioned above, the microbiological
      diagnosis is often faulted, due to the difficulty of culturing the samples and their low
      yield in the context of NTM infections. An indirect diagnostic approach can only reinforce
      the screening of cystic fibrosis patients who have had contact with a NTM. Any serological
      response, although unable to date an infection, is the result of a potentially protective
      response of the host undergoing infection, and evidence of antibodies directed against the
      agent's bacterial products pathogen in circulating blood. A simple colonization does not
      allow the appearance of antibodies. An infectious process, even inapparent, must have taken
      place.
    
  