
    
      This is a randomized study with a 2X2 experimental factorial design. A total of 200 men and
      women recruited in the Quebec City area via various media will participate in this study.
      Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to one of four 16-week intervention groups:
      1- Mediterranean Diet (MedDiet); 2- Physical Activity (PA); 3- Combination of MedDiet and PA;
      4- Control Group. Depending on the group, the intervention involves support for nutritional
      and PA components at different times, in groups or individually. The subjects assigned to the
      MedDiet will receive certain foods each week to enhance adherence to the diet. Subjects
      assigned to the PA groups will have the opportunity to have one to two practices supervised
      by week by a team kinesiologist. All participants will have questionnaires to complete at
      different times during the study. These questionnaires will document several important
      aspects of the study including participants' health status, eating behaviours, hunger and
      satiety levels, eating and PA habits, motivation levels and well-being. Participants' diets
      will be assessed using a validated web 24-hour recall (R24W), which evaluates the food and
      beverages consumed during the 24 hours prior to the day they complete the questionnaire. This
      questionnaire will be completed over three randomly selected days on five occasions during
      the study. The level of PA will be evaluated using an accelerometer that objectively
      calculates energy expenditure. This device will be worn by participants for consecutive
      periods of 7 days, 5 times during the study.

      Serum triglycerides (TG) concentrations after an oral fat load (35g of fat/m2 of body
      surface) and other the outcome variables will be measured in each group at baseline and at
      the end of the 16-week intervention. Specially, the fat load test will occur 2 days after the
      end of the intervention (114 days), so that the effect of the last exercise training bout has
      washed out. Cardiometabolic risk factors in the fasting state will be measured at baseline as
      well as twice at the end of the intervention, i.e. at 16 weeks (112 days) and at 16.3 weeks
      (114 days). The cardiorespiratory condition of the subjects will be evaluated during an
      maximal exercise test at the beginning and end of the 16-week intervention (112 days). Body
      composition will be assessed at the beginning and end of the intervention (112 days) by Dual
      Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA). Cardiac structure and function will be measured at the
      beginning and end (112 days) of the intervention using advanced echocardiographic imaging.
      Exercise capacity (VO2max) will measured by a modified Bruce protocol at the beginning and
      end (112 days) of the intervention. Fecal sample will be collected as an optional part of the
      study at baseline as well as at the end of the intervention (112 days). Deep 16S rDNA
      metagenomic analysis (in feces) as well as analyses of microbiota metabolites and endogenous
      bioactive lipid mediators in plasma will be used as surrogates of gut microbiota composition
      and function.

      The primary objective is to compare the impact of each intervention and hence the potential
      synergistic impact of the MedDiet and PA on postprandial TG concentrations measured 4 hours
      after consumption of the oral fat load.

      Secondary objectives are to compare the impact of each intervention and hence the potential
      synergistic impact of the MedDiet and PA on fasting concentrations of the following
      cardiometabolic risk factors: LDL-C, HDL-C, TG, CRP, adiponectin, IL-6, IL-8, TNFA-alpha,
      SBP, DBP. These comparisons will be performed on two sets of measures at the end of the
      intervention, i.e. at 16 week (112 days) and 2 days later (16.3 weeks, or 114 days).
      Secondary objectives also include the comparison of each intervention and hence the potential
      synergistic impact of the MedDiet and PA on cardiac structure and function and on exercise
      capacity (VO2max) measured at the end of the 16-week intervention (112 days).

      Other pre-specified outcomes include assessment of the associations between changes in study
      outcomes and in abdominal fat levels as well as exploratory analyses of how the microbiota
      markers explain the difference between groups in cardiometabolic risk (exploratory
      objective).
    
  