
    
      STUDY PLAN: DESCRIPTION This investigation will be a non-randomized, open-label study of four
      doses of SP01A in 24 individuals infected with HIV who are being treated with triple
      combination antiretroviral therapy. Additionally, a group of six HIV-negative subjects (group
      E) is being recruited as a control for cortisol secretion. This group will not receive study
      medication nor will they be evaluated for dose response or safety parameters.

      DISCUSSION OF STUDY DESIGN, INCLUDING CONTROL GROUP Patients will receive the following doses
      of SP01A and will be divided into a low dose and high dose group for further analyses. There
      will be two segments within the low dose group. Group A will receive 200 mg of SP01A once per
      day. Group B will be administered 200 mg of SP01A twice daily. Similarly, there will be two
      segments in the high dose group. Group C will be treated with 200 mg of SP01A three times per
      day, while Group D will be administered 400 mg of SP01A twice daily.

      A fifth group will also be introduced. This group, Group E, will serve as a control group and
      not receive any treatment.

      The study will be conducted at a single investigative center (AIDS ReSearch Alliance, West
      Hollywood, CA). Six subjects with a diagnosis of HIV who are also receiving triple
      combination antiretroviral therapy and have been so doing for a minimum of 2 months are
      planned per group. Patients will be admitted to an in-patient facility for 72 hours. After an
      initial night to acclimate the patients to the facility, a 24-hour measurement of cortisol
      secretion in blood and urine will be conducted. After this is complete, patients will receive
      an initial single dose of SP01A orally. (200 mg SP-01A for group A, 400 mg for group B, 600
      mg for group C, and 800 mg for group D). Blood and urine samples will also be collected for
      24 hours to further evaluate the safety of the study medication. Patients will then be
      discharged from the facility.

      After a 4-day washout, patients will return to the facility to start an 8-week dose-response
      study, sequentially using the four doses that will now be divided (200 mg daily for group A,
      200 mg twice a day for group B, 200 mg three times per day for group C, and 400 mg twice
      daily for group D).

      Subjects will return to the study center the day they are screened and as close to the same
      day of the week as practical during Weeks 1 (baseline), 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 (end of
      treatment) and 10 (post-treatment for examinations and specimen collection, as well as
      evaluation of reactions to study treatment). At the end of the 8-week drug administration
      period, patients will again be admitted to an in-patient facility for 72 hours. As before,
      patients will have an initial night to acclimate to the facility, followed by a 24-hour
      measurement of cortisol secretion in blood and urine. In the morning, following and ending
      the 24 hour basal cortisol secretion, patients in the four successive groups (A, B, C, and
      D), will receive their last dose of medication. They will also give their last blood and
      urine samples over the next 24 hours for additional safety sample collection. The total
      duration of study subject participation will be 11 weeks.

      The six HIV negative subjects will be enrolled in group E. After an initial night to
      acclimate to the facility, blood and urine samples will be collected to determine baseline 24
      hour blood and urine cortisol secretion. Patients will then be discharged. No study
      medication will be given to patients in group E.
    
  