
    
      Low back pain is a common disorder, with international studies having found prevalence rates
      between 12% and 35% and life time prevalence rates ranging from 49% to 80%.

      It is caused mainly by degenerative spinal disorders, such as spondylolisthesis, degenerative
      scoliosis, degenerative disc disease and recurrent disc herniations.

      The management of low back pain varies from conservative to more invasive methods, such as
      spinal stabilization surgery that involves the placement of metallic screws, rods, plates or
      cages. Such surgery is increasingly performed to improve spinal stability in a variety of
      spine pathologies, including disc degeneration, spinal stenosis and spondylolisthesis.

      On the other hand, spinal fusion surgery is performed in patients with severe chronic back
      pain when segmental instability is believed to cause the symptoms. The rationale for this is
      that pain relief will be achieved once the fusion restricts motion in the painful segments.
      For this purpose, a wide array of techniques has been proposed, including dorsal or
      dorsoventral spondylodesis, either in a one-step or two-step procedure.

      It is estimated that more than 300,000 lumbar spinal fusion procedures are performed annually
      in the United States, and a continuously rising trend has also been observed in other parts
      of the world.

      Unfortunately, recurrent pain after spinal surgery is a well known problem. It is reported
      that up to 10-20% of patients experience persistent/recurrent pain after lumbar spinal
      instrumentation and fusion , with studies estimating the surgical reintervention rate to be
      around 14% over a 4-year follow-up period and 19% over 11 years.

      This may be related to loosening of the metallic implants or to a failure of a stably
      implanted graft to immobilize the fused segments. A further differential diagnosis is
      degenerative disease involving the spinal segments above or below the instrumented region.
      This so-called adjacent instability (AI) or adjacent level disease (ALD) may be precipitated
      by arthrodesis, as this procedure alters the biomechanics of the spine, thereby increasing
      motion of a mechanical load on the segments neighboring the graft. The differentiation
      between these conditions has therapeutic consequences as the treatment varies according to
      the cause.

      Standard evaluation of patients with persistent or recurrent pain following spinal
      stabilization surgery includes clinical examination and conventional imaging using plain
      radiography, CT or MR imaging.

      Conventional imaging is performed for the evaluation of hardware position (changes), hardware
      failure, fusion evolution, alignment of the vertebrae, possible pseudarthrosis and hardware
      loosening.

      In general, because of the presence of nonspecific postoperative changes and metal-related
      imaging artifacts, the interpretation of CT images is often challenging and inconclusive.
      Thus, whether surgical reintervention is indicated based on conventional imaging may prove
      difficult to ascertain.

      The value of bone scintigraphy with single-photon emission tomography/computed tomography
      (SPECT/CT) in patients with persistent or recurrent back pain after spine stabilization
      surgery has been addressed in a number of studies and the technique has been suggested to be
      a useful diagnostic tool for identification of postsurgical spine pathology.

      Although most of these studies were based on a small sample size and lacked robust reference
      standards; it has been concluded that the use of SPECT/CT adds value in assessing patients
      following spinal surgery.
    
  