
    
      The purpose of this Pilot clinical study is to make a preliminary clinical and procedural
      assessment of the treatment of chronic venous stasis ulcers with Autologous Platelet Gel. The
      information and knowledge gained in the Pilot Study will be used to refine the
      Investigational Plan under which a Pivotal Clinical Study will be conducted. One of the
      advantages of conducting a pilot study is that it might give advance warning about where the
      main research project could fail, where research protocols may not or cannot be followed, or
      whether proposed methods or instruments are inappropriate or too complicated to achieve the
      expected clinical outcomes. The Pilot Study will provide preliminary data with which to:

        -  Assess the feasibility of a (full-scale) study/survey

        -  Refine the clinical protocol procedures

        -  Assess the likely success of proposed recruitment approaches

        -  Identifying logistical problems which might occur using proposed methods

        -  Estimating variability in outcomes to help determine sample size

        -  Determine what resources (finance, staff) are needed for a planned study

        -  Assess the proposed data collection and analysis techniques to uncover potential
           problems

        -  Confirm the study objectives are feasible

        -  Train researcher in the elements of the research process and protocol

        -  Assess the magnitude of the difference in the effectiveness of the investigational
           treatment vs control treatment

      The pilot study will provide supporting clinical data for an IDE application to FDA for
      approval to conduct a Pivotal Study of the safety and effectiveness of APG for the treatment
      of chronic venous stasis ulcers. The study will evaluate the hypothesis that treatment of a
      chronic venous ulcer with APG prepared from Autologous Platelet Concentrate (APC+) (and the
      associated autologous growth factors) and Topical Thrombin (TT) has the potential to
      accelerate the re-epithelialization process. Harvest Technologies will submit a marketing
      application to FDA to expand the labeling of the SmartPReP2速 Platelet Concentrate System,
      including its accessory kits, with the specific indication to produce APC for the purpose of
      promoting healing of chronic venous ulcers of the lower extremity.

      60 to 100 study subjects will be enrolled from six investigational sites in this single-phase
      clinical trial.

      The SmartPReP速2 Platelet Concentrate System is a dedicated microprocessor-controlled
      centrifuge. The SmartPReP速2 centrifuge and its accessory, the APC+ Process Kit, are currently
      available and used to produce Autologous Platelet Concentrate. The Harvest SmartJet Dual
      Applicator Kit is legally marketed to apply autologous blood products (K000456, K011032, and
      K020252). Topical Thrombin (TT), (bovine origin), USP is an approved pharmaceutical (NDC
      52604-7102-1) marketed by Jones Pharma, Inc. (Thrombin-JMI速) that is not supplied by Harvest
      and must be obtained by the practitioner.

      This study will compare standard of care medical therapy with and without APC+ and TT.
      Therefore, the study ulcers of the Investigational Group will receive treatment with APC+ and
      TT as an adjunctive treatment modality in addition to standard therapy.
    
  