
    
      A total of 71 undergraduate students in a large public university participated in weekly MM
      sessions through the Fall & Winter semesters of the 2012/2013 academic year. Recruitment was
      facilitated through in-class announcements and poster and print advertisements. Online and
      paper surveys elicited self-report data (reflecting mental health profiles) at program
      initiation which served as baseline measures for the September-October study period, written
      informed consent was also obtained during this time. Inclusion criteria included: 1)
      currently enrolled (part-time-full-time); 2) computer access at the university or elsewhere
      and/or smartphone access Following a standard within-subjects design, participants were
      required to complete the psychological measures at 3 additional assessment periods; Time 2
      (November-December), Time 3 (January-February), and Time 4 (March-April). To alleviate
      demands on the students partaking in weekly MM sessions, follow-up assessments were provided
      in paper and electronic form and completed autonomously. Study participants were given $50
      cash payments for full study participation and the study met the ethical guidelines and
      received approval from the Human Participants Review Subcommittee of the university site
      where the study was conducted.

      The program progressively trained students in "mindfulness of breathing", a form of
      meditation frequently employed secularly. The tutorials were held on campus five times
      weekly, led by a faculty member and a graduate student who were trained, experienced MM
      practitioners. The tutorials were one hour in duration and typically involved 40-45 minutes
      of guided MM followed by a question-answer period that addressed recent research findings.
      Program participation required attendance at one tutorial per week, and participants were
      encouraged to maintain autonomous MM practice.
    
  