
    
      BACKGROUND: Although Zambia's maternal mortality rate has decreased from 591 maternal deaths
      per 100,000 live births since 2007 (2007 Zambia DHS), the maternal mortality rate in 2014 was
      unacceptably high at 398 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births. The WHO strongly recommends
      'skilled care at every birth' as a strategy to reduce maternal deaths. However, it remains
      unanswered how to best deliver high-quality birth and postpartum care, particularly in rural
      and remote areas where distance and poor transportation services severely restrict access to
      care.

      The Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) is committed to improving maternal health and
      has initiated a large cooperative effort that aims to do so through the Ministry of Health
      (MOH), Ministry of Community Development, Mother and Child Health (MCDMCH), and several local
      and international organizations. Within this context, MHs-temporary lodgings located near
      health facilities with skilled care for pregnant mothers who are close to term-represent a
      potentially useful strategy to improve access to skilled obstetric care, particularly for
      those living farthest from the health facilities. MHs provide pregnant women with the option
      of planning ahead and traveling to health facilities well before labor begins, and have
      existed in various forms since the 1950s. However, there is insufficient evidence of the
      effectiveness of MHs in improving access to delivery services and improving maternal
      outcomes. While some evidence suggests MH utilization is correlated with improved maternal
      health outcomes (Gaym, Lori), a Cochrane review found no randomized, quasi-randomized or
      cluster-randomized trials assessing the effectiveness of MHs in low resource settings (van
      Lonkhuijzen L). Rigorous evidence on the impacts of MHs on maternal and perinatal health
      outcomes is needed.

      The Maternity Homes Alliance (MHA) - a partnership between GRZ and implementing partners
      working in collaboration with academic institutions, and evaluation advisor, - seek to help
      women overcome the "distance problem" by implementing MHs, with the hypothesis that offering
      women access to quality MHs will bring women closer to facility-based delivery and postpartum
      care, ultimately improving health outcomes. If systematically implemented on a large scale
      with optimal maintenance, management and community acceptability and utilization, MHs have
      the potential to remove the distance barrier and increase access to safe delivery for women
      living farthest from the health facilities.

      INTERVENTION: This project will implement high quality MHs in Southern, Eastern and Luapula
      Provinces in an effort to increase access to quality intrapartum care among the most
      vulnerable women. Following a formative evaluation that found that MHs could be an acceptable
      option to improve access to safe deliveries in rural Zambia, in-country partners, ZCAHRD and
      Africare, will implement a Core Maternity Home Intervention Model in 10 sites each, totaling
      20 intervention sites.

      OBJECTIVES: The main objective of the evaluation is to understand if MHs can effectively
      increase access to safe delivery, particularly for women living farthest from health
      facilities. Findings from this evaluation will be used to inform program decisions regarding
      implementation of the Maternity Home Model and, if applicable, to advocate for programmatic
      improvements as the Maternity Home Model is taken to scale beyond the districts proposed for
      this project.

      Primary question:

      1. Does the Minimum Core Maternity Home Model increase the number of facility deliveries
      among mothers living more than 10 km from the facilities compared to facilities with no
      improved maternity home services?

      Secondary questions:

        1. To what degree does the Minimum Core Maternity Home Model change maternal and neonatal
           health outcomes among those living more than 10 km from the facility compared to the
           standard of care?

        2. How does the awareness and perceptions of MHs by communities located more than 10 km
           from the health facility change over the period of this study?

        3. How does awareness and perceptions of HF associated safe delivery and HF delivery
           intention among pregnant women living in communities located more than 10 km from the
           health facility change over time?

        4. What is the financial impact that use of the MH has on the families of women who utilize
           it compared to women who do not utilize it?

        5. How does the perception of quality of care differ between intervention and comparison
           sites?

      STUDY DESIGN: This is a quasi-experimental pre-post design wherein one implementing partner
      (BU/ZCAHRD) will use a cluster-randomized matched-pair design and one implementing partner
      (University of Michigan/Africare) will utilize a non-randomized matched-pair, comparison
      design. The framework of the study design is shown below:

      Table 2: Quasi-experimental Study Design to Evaluate the Impact of MHs

      BU/ZCAHRD UMich/Africare Overall R O1 X O2 NR O1 X O2 NR O1 X O2 R O1 _ O2 NR O1 _ O2 NR O1 _
      O2 X = Minimum Core Maternity Home (see above) O = Observations at baseline (O1, in 2016) and
      endline (O2, in 2018) at intervention (X) and comparison (_) sites. R = cluster randomized;
      NR = not randomized.

      Data will be pooled for analysis but sample sizes provide sufficient power to separately
      analyze the BU/ZCAHRD and UMich/Africare sites.

      DATA SOURCES: We will collect data from two main sources:

        1. Household Surveys

        2. In-depth Interviews

      Household Survey (O1, O2): A quantitative household survey will be conducted at baseline
      (2016) and endline (2018) among women who have delivered in the last 12 months) living more
      than 10 km from the intervention and comparison facilities. This approach will capture the
      experiences of those who utilized the facility in their catchment, other facilities, and
      those did who not access a facility for delivery, allowing us to more accurately estimate the
      impact of the MH intervention.

      In-depth Interviews (IDI) (O1, O2): IDIs will be conducted among a sample of respondents
      identified for the household survey to gain a deeper understanding of community perceptions.
      Content will include perceptions of labor and delivery practices, barriers to accessing care,
      knowledge and awareness of MHs, perceptions of the quality of maternity homes, perceptions of
      respectful care at the facility, post-natal care, costs, and perceptions of MH ownership.

      STUDY SITES: Selection and Randomization BU/ZCAHRD will select the 20 sites or 10 pairs
      matched on transfer time to CEmONC and clinic delivery volume. Pairs were randomized into the
      intervention group and control groups, yielding 10 intervention and 10 control sites.

      UMich/Africare will purposively select 10 intervention sites and identify 10 comparison
      sites, matched on transfer time to CEmONC and clinic volume. This totals 20 intervention and
      20 comparison sites across the Alliance. The unit of randomization (for BU/ZCAHRD) and
      matching (both partners) is the facility and its catchment area.

      SAMPLING STRATEGY: We will employ multi-stage random sampling. First, we will randomly select
      a sample of 10 clusters (villages within the catchment area more than 10k from facility) from
      each study catchment area with probability proportionate to population size. Second, we will
      list all households within the selected villages, randomly order them, visit each in that
      order and screen for eligibility, continuing down the list until the nth eligible household
      in each village is identified. Third, we will randomly select, if applicable, one eligible
      woman from each household.

      FOLLOW UP: At each observation point (O1 and O2) we will select a new cross-sectional sample
      using the same methodology. Therefore, households will not be followed up over time.

      DATA QUALITY CONTROL STRATEGY: For quality control, first, enumerators will participate in a
      5-day training. Second, enumerators will be overseen by experienced supervisors. These
      individuals will review surveys for quality nightly. Third, supervisors will randomly select
      a 5% subsample of households for each of the enumerators they oversee and revisit these
      households to re-conduct a subset of survey questions. Data collected by supervisors will be
      compared to data originally collected by enumerators to check reliability. Fourth, data will
      be uploaded and transferred nightly to the data analysis team in Boston (see Data Entry and
      Storage section below) and the analysis team will review in real time for consistency and
      quality.

      DATA ENTRY AND STORAGE: Survey data will be captured on the tablets and saved to the tablets'
      internal memory. Each evening, a supervisor will review and encrypt surveys, then upload the
      surveys nightly to a secure server administered by SurveyCTO. The project team will download
      the encrypted data using the SurveyCTO Client software, and decrypt the data using a
      decryption key generated by the BU/ZCAHRD team themselves.

      The project staff will oversee data entry, management, and storage for qualitative data. All
      qualitative data will be translated into English and transcribed within 1 month of being
      collected. Digital recorders and paper copies of qualitative notes will be kept in a locked
      cabinet until they are fully translated and transcribed, at which point audio files will be
      deleted and notes shredded. The electronic transcriptions will be kept in a
      password-protected file. The qualitative transcriptions will not contain identifying
      information, only a study id number. Only the study team will have access to identifiable
      quantitative and qualitative data.

      SAMPLE SIZE: We will recruit 2,400 women into the survey, 1,200 from each study group per
      round for a study sample of 4,800 households plus 50 pilots at each round. After accounting
      for the clustered sampling design (ICC estimated at 0.04 based on previous work), and
      assuming an alpha of .05, this sample will provide us with 80% power to detect a minimum of
      10 percentage point difference in the anticipated impact of the MH intervention on the
      primary outcome of facility delivery.

      For the IDIs, we estimate a sample of 360 at baseline and endline, but will stop if we reach
      saturation or predictability before the full 360.

      DATA ANALYSIS: All quantitative analyses will be conducted in SAS version 9.4 (SAS Institute,
      Cary, NC). Our quantitative analytic plan is threefold, yielding descriptive, bivariate and
      multivariate statistics. First, we will begin with a descriptive analysis of the sample for
      the household level characteristics and respondent level demographics.

      Second, we will also look for differences in outcomes within the matched pairs. Categorical
      variables will be compared between intervention and control groups using the chi-squared test
      if cell sizes are sufficient or Fisher's exact test if cell sizes are small; continuous
      variables will be compared using t-tests if normally distributed or non-parametric Wilcoxon
      rank sum tests if distribution is non-normal.

      Third, we will calculate crude and adjusted logistic or linear regression models depending on
      the outcome variable. We will calculate the relative risk or odds ratios comparing the
      intervention to control arms, adjusting for any imbalanced covariates.

      All qualitative data will be analyzed in Nvivo 10 © (Doncaster, Australia). We will conduct a
      content analysis of the in-depth interview transcripts. Coding themes have been identified a
      priori according to the outline of the interview guide. Additional themes will be included if
      they emerge during analysis. We will triangulate findings with the quantitative data to
      identify consistencies, inconsistencies or additional themes to be explored.
    
  