
    
      Discovery of genetic basis of impaired metabolism has greatly advanced treatment of patients
      with known metabolic diseases. However, many more genetic and metabolic disorders and their
      molecular causes remain to be discovered. The overall goal of this study is to discover new
      disease-associated genes in children, while establishing a specific focus on metabolic
      disorders where molecular characterization is most likely to lead to novel therapies. The
      primary objective is to identify novel pathogenic mutations in children with rare Mendelian
      disorders. The secondary objectives are: 1) Optimize methodology for metabolomic sample
      collection, processing and analysis; and 2) Establish normative ranges for a large number
      (potentially up to 1000) of metabolites in healthy newborns and older children.

      Approximately one in three admissions to tertiary care pediatric hospitals results from
      conditions with a genetic basis. Although the majority of these conditions are rare, they
      collectively account for a disproportionate amount of illness and death in children.
      Discovery of the genetic basis of rare conditions often uncovers the pathophysiological basis
      of common diseases. This is particularly true for genetic diseases of impaired metabolism
      (inborn errors of metabolism, IEMs). There are many more genetic and metabolic disorders yet
      to be discovered. Of approximately 20,000 known human genes, less than one-fifth are
      currently associated with a disease phenotype. IEMs are a particular area of focus for us for
      two major reasons. First, of the several hundred known IEMs, many are already effectively
      treated with dietary modifications and/or medical therapy. This indicates to us that
      discovery of new IEM genes has great potential to produce clinically actionable insights into
      pathophysiology and therapeutic opportunities, ultimately leading to treatment of children
      that would otherwise be impossible to treat. Second, the PI of this study, Dr. Ralph
      DeBerardinis, is an expert in metabolomics, the practice of identifying and quantifying
      metabolites from biological systems. We will therefore implement research-based metabolomic
      profiling to the evaluation of patients with suspected IEMs or other genetic diseases. This
      detailed analysis will substantially increase the likelihood of identifying clinically
      relevant metabolic perturbations in children with growth failure, acidosis, hypoglycemia,
      hyperammonemia, and other abnormalities of putative genetic origin. It would also enable us
      to interpret mutations uncovered by clinical or research-based genomic sequencing. We believe
      that establishing a systematic procedure to evaluate both the metabolome and the genome in
      sick children will produce new insights into the genetic basis of pediatric disease, and
      ultimately new ways to treat these conditions.

      In this study, subjects will be recruited as two populations: control and diseased. In the
      control population, plasma samples of healthy newborns will be acquired at the time of blood
      collection for state-mandated newborn screening from Parkland. We will also collect blood
      from healthy children from the clinics at Children's Medical Center (CMC), again piggybacking
      this research sample with venipuncture for clinically indicated blood collection. All plasma
      samples will be subjected to metabolomics to determine the healthy ranges for a large number
      of metabolites. This comprehensive profile of metabolites in children will be used as
      normative ranges to identify outlying metabolites in diseased subjects. Additionally, if
      suspected metabolic outliers are detected from this normal population, DNA samples extracted
      from the leftover packed cells or blood samples will be subjected to genomic sequencing to
      profile the associated gene mutations. The diseased population will be recruited from the
      clinics of the Pediatric Genetics and Metabolism Division in the Department of
      Pediatrics/CMC. Blood and DNA samples will be collected from patients for metabolomic
      analysis and next-generation sequencing respectively to define the metabolic abnormalities
      and associated gene mutations. Skin fibroblasts from patients will also be collected and used
      for biological validation of the metabolic effects of novel mutations, in particular by
      complementing diseased fibroblasts with wild-type alleles of genes mutated in the patient. If
      any rare Mendelian disorder is considered in a subject, blood from his/her family members
      will be acquired and subjected to metabolomic and genomic analyses to facilitate
      identification of the diseased-associated genes.
    
  