
    
      This randomized double blind clinical trial of consenting nulliparous women in spontaneous
      labor who require oxytocin for labor augmentation seeks to determine whether use of a high
      dose oxytocin regimen improves obstetric outcomes when compared with a low dose oxytocin
      regimen, in a manner that is safe for both mother and neonate.

      This project will include 1002 women recruited from the obstetrical service at Prentice
      Women's Hospital. Women will be included if they are at least 36 weeks gestation, have a
      singleton pregnancy, and have been diagnosed with spontaneous labor or spontaneous rupture of
      membranes. Women will be exposed to oxytocin for the indication of labor augmentation at the
      discretion of their obstetric provider.

      Women will be randomized with equal probability to intervention group using a fixed
      allocation procedure. To maintain a double blind design, the Prentice Women's Hospital
      pharmacy will carry out the randomization of oxytocin solutions according to the random
      assignment so that neither the women or their care providers nor the investigators will know
      the identity of the intervention assignment. The low-dose oxytocin regimen group will receive
      a starting oxytocin regimen concentration rate of 2 milliunits/minute that can be increased
      at increments of 2 milliunits/minute, as per the discretion of their obstetric provider. The
      high-dose oxytocin regimen group will receive a starting oxytocin regimen concentration rate
      of 6 milliunits/minute that can be increased at increments of 6 milliunits/minute, as per the
      discretion of their obstetric provider.

      Once the women are enrolled, randomized, and in receipt of their assigned interventions,
      further clinical management will be left to the discretion of each woman's obstetric
      provider.

      Prior to discharge from the hospital, baseline demographic and clinical data will be obtained
      via chart review.
    
  