
    
      Erlotinib as a single-agent is currently approved for the treatment of patients with NSCLC
      whose disease has progressed following one prior course of chemotherapy and is currently
      being evaluated in NSCLC patients who have not received prior systemic treatment. However,
      when studied with combination chemotherapy in the first-line setting, continuous daily
      administration of erlotinib did not result in improved patient survival. Further clinical and
      in vitro data suggest that the sequencing of cytotoxic chemotherapy with EGFR TKIs is
      important to maximize their therapeutic potential when administered in combination.

      Satraplatin is an orally administered platinum analogue that has shown promising single-agent
      activity in multiple tumor types including prostate, ovarian, and small cell lung cancer.
      Additionally, the single-agent activity of satraplatin in NSCLC is similar to that of other
      commonly used platinum agents used to treat NSCLC. However, satraplatin is better tolerated
      than cisplatin, causing less renal toxicity and ototoxicity, and it can be administered in
      the outpatient setting. From a toxicity profile, it is more similar to carboplatin in that
      myelosuppression is its dose limiting toxicity (DLT). Satraplatin is currently being
      evaluated in a pivotal phase 3 clinical trial as 2nd-line therapy for patients with hormone
      refractory prostate cancer.

      The rationale for this study is to develop an active and well-tolerated oral regimen for
      patients ≥ 70 years of age with NSCLC who may not be candidates for aggressive combination
      systemic chemotherapy. Administration of the study drugs will be sequenced with satraplatin
      administered on days 1-5 and erlotinib on days 8-21 of each 28-day cycle. As erlotinib has
      shown an advantage in survival without a commensurate improvement in response rate, the
      primary endpoint will be progression-free survival (PFS); thus patients will be randomized to
      treatment with either the experimental regimen or single-agent continuous erlotinib.
    
  