
    
      The current study adopted a double-blind, double-dummy, placebo-controlled mixed design, with
      Treatment (oxytocin, dopamine, and placebo) as a between-subjects factor, and Target (self,
      friend, and an identifiable stranger) and Feedback (desirable vs. undesirable) as
      within-subjects factors. Upon arrival, participants first completed a set of questionnaires,
      including mood measurements and other questionnaires related to optimistic or prosocial
      tendency. Participants then self-administered with the pharmacological challenge 40 min
      before the main task, i.e., the belief updating task where participants indicated and updated
      their beliefs about the future of oneself, a gender-matched best friend, and a gender-matched
      identifiable stranger. At the end, participants completed the mood measurement again, as well
      the debriefing questionnaires which designed to measure their beliefs about the experimental
      process.

      For the vicarious optimism task, participants completed three blocks of the two-session
      belief updating task where they were asked to estimate the likelihood of adverse life events
      happening to three targets: themselves (referred as Self), a gender-matched best friend
      (referred as Friend), and an identifiable stranger (whose name, brief description and picture
      were presented to the participants to get familiar with before the estimation, such as "The
      stranger is Zhexing, a 25-year-old male, Chinese"; referred as Stranger).

      Participants completed two estimation sessions for one target before beginning with the next
      target, and the order of targets was counterbalanced across participants within each group.
      For the first session of each target block, participants were first presented with 30
      different adverse life events (in a random order) and estimated the likelihood of each event
      happening to the target in the future (the 1st estimation, referred to as E1) on a self-paced
      basis. Participants were then presented with the probability of each event occurring to an
      average person in a similar environment (Feedback) for 2s. In the second session,
      participants estimated the likelihood of the same 30 events (in a random order) happening to
      the target person again without receiving feedback (the 2nd estimation, referred to as E2).
    
  