
    
      To demonstrate feasibility of the project in a pilot trial we plan to enroll up to 500
      patients to pre-hospital thrombolysis/clot busting followed by emergent catheterization and
      stenting of the problematic or culprit artery.

      This will comprise an EMS system capable of performing pre-hospital ECGs followed by emergent
      transportation to a Level I Cardiovascular Center where the patients will be taken to urgent
      cardiac catheterization and emergent stenting of the culprit artery.

      Patients identified as having typical symptoms of acute MI and an ECG consistent with acute
      ST elevation MI will be screened in the field by paramedics or in the spoke hospitals by the
      ED attending physicians using the screening form. Verbal Consent will be obtained for
      receiving acute therapy for their MI as outlined in the protocol. After therapy is initiated
      in the field or at the spoke hospital, the patients will be transported as quickly as
      possible to the receiving Level I Cardiovascular Center (Hub Hospital). The ED personnel in
      the Level I Cardiovascular Center will have activated the Interventional Cardiovascular Team
      and the Cath Lab personnel after having received the initial qualifying transmitted ECG.

      Once the patient arrives, informed consent will be obtained by the ED investigator and/or
      in-house Cardiology fellow for enrollment in the PATCAR Trial. Thrombolytic ineligible
      patients will also be collect for this study and also go directly to the Cath Lab for PCI.
      Study coordinators will enter the data into the Case Report Forms and forward the completed
      forms to Westat-ALA for data capture in the database. In addition to the qualifying ECG,
      ECG's will be obtained at hospital discharge/transfer. All patients will follow the current
      standard of care for STEMI/heart attacks patients. Patients will have a Cardiac MRI done on
      day 3 or 5 of their hospital stay, to measure the size and amount of damage the heart
      suffered as a result of their Heart attack.
    
  