
    
      Setting:

      Patients meeting the inclusion and not the exclusion criteria will be sent a letter
      containing information about the study and that they will be called within 2 weeks by one of
      the investigators. If the patient agrees to come for a fist visit he or she will be invited
      for a first visit to come to the general practice of Heerde.

      Informed Consent:

      During the telephone call and the first visit, patients will be able to ask any question.
      When the patient is properly informed and gives written informed consent the patient will be
      included for this study. Specific items such as duration of the study, the frequency of
      follow-up visits, and the voluntary nature of participation will be discussed prior to
      obtaining informed consent. Also, because of potential reproductive toxicity (no reports are
      known of developmental toxicity studies on Cr3+ compounds given orally), we will advice
      patients to take contraceptive precautions (33).

      Stop criteria:

      When a patient has any possible drug intolerance the patient will be asked to contact us. We
      will note every possible side effect. If there is any serious side effect the patient will be
      asked to stop with the intervention medication.

      Power and Sample Size Calculations:

      Sample size was calculated by using the computer program G-power. Mean HbA1c of patients with
      HbA1c 7-8,5% in a general practise in our region is 7,70% (SD 0,44). Powered to detect a 0,5%
      absolute reduction in HbA1c in the six-month follow-up of patients treated with chromium as
      compared to placebo patients. With a power 95%, alpha 0.05 2-tailed, the total sample size is
      44 (22 in the first group and 22 in the second group).

      Randomisation:

      60 patients who will meet the inclusion criteria are randomly assigned in a double-blind
      trial to receive treatment A or B in addition to their current therapy for six months. Method
      of blinding randomisation: drug packages are labelled with the randomisation code by the
      hospital pharmacy. Neither the physician nor the patient will be informed of the treatment.
      There is no delay between study enrolment and randomisation.

      Intervention:

      Two treatment protocols are proposed. Treatment A consist of 400 microgram Bio-chromium/day
      and treatment B consists of a placebo. One type of chromium tablets will be made; 100
      microgram Cr/tablet. Placebo is made to appear identical with the chromium tablets. Patients
      are instructed to ingest 2 tablets of the study drug with breakfast and 2 with diner.

      Measures:

      Medical history consists of duration of diabetes, diabetes medication, general medication,
      renal or hepatic diseases and recent complaints. Body fat percentages will be measured using
      the OMRON BF306 (HBF-306-E). Patients are weighed while wearing clothes on bare feet. Length
      is measured while standing on bare feet and blood pressure measured when the patient is in a
      sitting position according to the Dutch College of General Practitioners (34).

      Serum creatinine, hepatic enzyme (PT), HbA1c, Haemoglobin (Hb), fasting glucose, fasting
      insulin, serum total cholesterol, LDL, HDL, and triglycerides will be measured at baseline
      with the standard procedure in our hospital (Weezenlanden Location, Isala Clinics).

      At baseline and after six months, also serum chromium will be measured. Extra citrate and
      serum collection tubes will be frozen for additional measurements, when needed. Also 24-h
      urine will be collected at baseline and after 6 months and volume, creatinine, protein and
      albumin will be measured. Three tubes containing both 2 cc of urine will be frozen for
      additional measurements. These (extra) analyses will only be made after given information and
      approval of the patient, and after approval of the medical ethical committee.

      Follow up:

      At baseline, an appointment will be made for the following visit and an appointment for a
      telephone call after 4 weeks. During this call, patients will be asked if they had any
      complaint which started after inclusion to this study. For stimulating compliance, patients
      will be asked how they use their tablets. When this is different from described in this
      protocol, patients will be advised accordingly. Furthermore, patients will be able to ask any
      question during this telephone call.

      Patients can call us when there is any possible adverse or toxic effects of the drug during
      office hours.

      After 3 months, only HbA1c and Hb will be measured. The other measures as described above,
      except for length will be measured at baseline and after 6 months.

      Handling of losses to follow-up:

      Patients withdrawn from study medication will receive regular follow-up until the end of the
      6-month follow-up period.
    
  