
    
      Aortic stenosis (AS), the most common valvular heart disease, occurs when there is a
      narrowing of the aortic valve opening. New transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI,
      also called transcatheter aortic valve replacement [TAVR]), is a minimally invasive surgical
      procedure that is rapidly expanding as the dominant treatment modality for elderly patients
      with AS. Approximately 1000 patients will undergo TAVR surgery in Ontario in fiscal year
      2018-2019 and that number is expected to increase to ~80% of all valve replacement surgery
      within the next 5 years.

      Patients that undergo TAVI are at risk of developing cardiac arrhythmias such as heart block
      and atrial fibrillation and many are routinely monitored in-hospital for 5-8 days
      post-surgery. Currently, this monitoring is done using scarce and expensive hospital
      telemetry beds.

      This study uses a novel clinical pathway including remote monitoring pre- and post-TAVI using
      a new service called mobile Cardiac Arrhythmia Diagnostics Service (m-CARDS™). m-CARDS™
      consists of a patient cardiac monitoring device that transmits cardiac data in real time to a
      centralized center. Patients wearing the device can remain in the comfort of their own home
      while being monitored remotely. The monitoring device is Health Canada approved and has been
      used extensively. Because it is highly sensitive to cardiac arrhythmias, including all levels
      of heart block, it is ideally suited for this type of monitoring.

      If this pathway is adopted across all centres it will significantly reduce the pressure on
      hospital resources while at the same time improve the patient experience, enabling them to
      get home sooner. Hospital telemetry is very expensive. Reducing the length of stay from 2-8
      days on average to 24hr for many patients would represent cost savings to the hospitals and
      province.

      While some studies show that patients could be discharged earlier, there is still significant
      variability in adopting a short length of stay post-TAVI due to a perceived need for
      inpatient monitoring and lack of adequate knowledge and data on feasibility of remote
      outpatient monitoring.

      In addition, the pre-TAVR monitoring will enhance our ability to predict and plan for
      interventions such as permanent pacemaker implantation. The primary objective of this project
      will be to facilitate the implementation of this monitoring technology into a busy tertiary
      care setting and better understand the conditions necessary for successful implementation.
      This will be achieved through ongoing stakeholder engagement (patient, provider, and hospital
      administrators) at all stages of the implementation program and close evaluation of quality
      metrics to ensure fidelity of the m-CARDS™ system.

      Overall, implementation of this system is expected to impact the following levels of the
      health care system:

      i) Patient-Level: Improved quality of life through "better care closer to home" facilitated
      by physician supported monitoring before TAVI and post-TAVI discharge from hospital.

      ii) Provider-Level/Organizational-Level: Integrate the m-CARDS™ system into a busy TAVI
      clinical care pathway that can be adapted at other TAVI centres and ensure
      physician/administrator engagement/confidence in this novel technology.

      iii) System-Level: Reduced (1) hospital length of stay and associated costs, (2) readmissions
      and unplanned medical visits, and (3) likelihood of hospital acquired infections.
    
  