
    
      Introduction: Cervical cancer is the seventh most common and the eighth deadliest cancer in
      Chinese women. In spite of the advances in multimodality treatment regimens, there were
      15-40% patients suffering from recurrence within initial irradiated field[1, 2], of which 95%
      recurrence occurred within 2 years and only 20% of them could be treated by salvage
      treatment[3-6]. there were controversies on how recurrent cervical cancer within the
      irradiated field should be dealt with. Surgery such as pelvic extenteration had to remove
      involved organs including intestine, rectum or bladder and sometimes led to severe
      complications and a poor quality of life. After the initial 45-50Gy irradiated to the whole
      pelvis, it seemed to have minimal space of further re-irradiation for recurrent disease as
      conventional radiotherapy was applied when considering late toxicities of organs at risk. The
      radiation dose for pelvic structures received will reach 45-50 Gy, almost reached the upper
      limits of normal tissues. For recurrent cervical cancer patients receiving retreatment by
      radiotherapy, the toxicity increased by 30%-56%[2] when conventional technique was applied,
      toxicities restricted sufficient treatments to the recurrence disease leading to a poor
      prognosis, which was usually less than a year [8]. IMRT has an advantage over conventional
      techniques because of delivering a high dose to target volume while sparing organs at risk
      which were previously irradiated in the primary radiotherapy. We have a five years'
      experience using IMRT to treat patients with recurrent disease within the previously
      irradiated field and most of patients showed good response and tolerable complication.
      According to our retrospective research (publishing), thirty-three patients made a median
      survival time of 14.06 months, one year overall survival was 55% and 2 year overall survival
      was 22%, which were better than the results of one year survival 10-20% from previous studies
      [8]. For further evidence, we designed this prospective clinical trial to evaluate the
      efficacy and safety when using intensity modulated radiotherapy to treat patients with
      recurrent cervical cancer within the previously irradiated field.

      Methods: Sixty patients with recurrent cervical cancer within the previously irradiated field
      will be prospectively enrolled in this study. Only patients meeting both the including
      criteria and exclusion criteria will be carefully selected considering potential severe
      toxicities. A primary course of 36Gy will be prescribed to the recurrent site and a further
      9-24Gy of dose escalation will be prescribed to the gross tumor volume in the second course
      according to the toxicities and the shrinkage of tumor to the irradiation. Intensity
      Modulated RadioTherapy (IMRT) will be chosen for dose delivery as this technique gives
      sufficient dose to target volume meanwhile sparing organs at risk. Weekly cisplatin of
      30mg/m2 by five weeks will be administrated intravenously to the selected patients.

      Outcome measurements: Toxicities will evaluated using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
      Events version 4.0 (CTCAE 4.0). Acute toxicities will be monitored weekly until one month
      after the completion of radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Then late toxicities will be recorded
      by monthly following-up. Three year's progression free survival (3y PFS) and three year's
      recurrence free survival(3y RFS) are the major endpoints of this study. Every three months
      the patients will be evaluated with necessary modalities such as physical examination, blood
      test, radiography, computed tomography, magnetic resonance and/or positron emission
      topography until three year after the last radiotherapy/chemotherapy.
    
  