
    
      Purpose and Aims The main aim is to determine the effects of high or low intensity physical
      training with or without integrated behavioral medicine support strategies to prevent and
      minimize cancer related fatigue (CRF), improve health related quality of life (QoL) and to
      understand the role of inflammation and cytokines in the development and maintenance of CRF,
      as well as to increase knowledge with respect to cost-effectiveness of rehabilitation
      programs. This will be evaluated in newly diagnosed breast, colorectal and prostate cancer
      patients during adjuvant therapy at three different centers in Sweden; Uppsala, Lund/Malmö
      and Linköping and one in Norway.

      More specifically, the investigators' objectives are to:

        1. Investigate the effects of high intensity training compared to low intensity training on
           patient reported outcomes (CRF as primary endpoint), chemotherapy/radiation completion
           rates, medical (oncology) adverse effects, physical activity and daily function, during
           adjuvant treatment and at long-term-follow up. In addition, effects on the course of
           disease (e.g time to relapse).

        2. Investigate if supplemental behavioural medicine support strategies increase adherence
           to exercise during adjuvant therapy and further if they increase the maintenance of
           physical activity behaviours and decrease sedentary time in the long run.

        3. Explore the role of changes in inflammatory markers and cytokines related to physical
           training and following training to investigate whether these serve as mediators for the
           effects of physical training on CRF and QoL.

        4. Pursue the investigation of a direct role of cytokines secreted from the working
           muscles, in inhibiting cancer cell growth and inducing apoptosis.

        5. Evaluate health economic issues; cost effectiveness of the interventions, health
           production and individual wellbeing.

      In Phys-Can, the investigators will implement rigorously designed and adequately powered
      randomized longitudinal multicenter clinical trials, with physical training and behavioral
      medicine support interventions. The highly multi- and interdisciplinary and international
      consortium behind this proposal is in an excellent position to perform international and
      interdisciplinary competence- and network-building activities to generate valid, high quality
      data covering all areas included in the project, from basic biomedical data to patient
      reported outcomes (PROs), i.e. from bench to bedside. This is unique in health care sciences.

      Study design A 2x2 factorial design will be used. With this design the investigators can
      study main effects and interactions between factors (groups). Patients will be randomized to
      one of the following groups; A) individually tailored high intensity training twice a week
      with (H+BM) or without behavioral medicine support strategies (H) or B) individually tailored
      low intensity training twice a week with (L+BM) or without behavioral medicine support
      strategies (L).

      Study sample/procedure Patients, who are recently diagnosed with breast cancer, colorectal
      cancer or prostate cancer and scheduled for adjuvant therapy at Uppsala, Lund/Malmö,
      Linköping and Haukeland University hospitals will be consecutively included in the study.
      Based on the power calculation, 612 patients will be included.

      All patients will exercise twice a week during 6 months which is equal to the most extensive
      adjuvant treatment period. It is also an optimal period to achieve physical training effects
      and to establish physical activity behavior. Physical training under the guidance of trained
      coaches will be offered twice a week. Training intensity is 40-50% (low intensity group) or
      80-90% (high intensity group) of maximal cardiorespiratory fitness/muscular strength.
      Physical training sessions consist of both cardiorespiratory and resistance exercise. Every
      four week, progress from resistance training is evaluated by means of a strength test, and
      absolute intensity is adjusted accordingly Motivational and self-regulatory behavioral
      medicine support strategies (motivational and self-regulatory strategies) will be provided
      for the H+BM and the L+BM groups i.e. strategies to enhance engagement in the high and low
      intensity exercise programs respectively, and to maintain health enhancing physical activity
      after the completion of the programs.
    
  