
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Sedentary habits in middle-aged individuals are associated with increased risk for
      cardiovascular disease. Studies examining this association typically have assessed physical
      activity participation in a narrow window, (for example, 1 week or 1 month) relative to
      probable disease etiology and progression. When the study was initiated, the possible
      relation of long-term physical activity patterns over decades or a lifetime to disease risk
      was not known because there existed no validated method of determining such exposure, but
      such studies were needed. It was hypothesized that validation of long-term recall of activity
      could lead to the application of lifetime physical activity patterns questionnaires. Data on
      lifetime activity patterns might be useful in case-comparison and prospective studies of
      cardiovascular disease.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Data analyzed for this project were from a cohort that had been under observation in the
      Aerobics Center Longitudinal Study. Baseline preventive medical examinations were given to
      6,902 men and women during the interval from 1971-1982. Current physical activity and
      physical fitness levels (maximal exercise treadmill test) were assessed at baseline.
      Participants also completed a lifetime physical activity pattern questionnaire as part of a
      mail survey done in 1986. Self-reported physical activity from the 1986 questionnaire was
      used to categorize participants' physical activity levels for the years 1971-1985. These
      recalled levels of activity were compared to physical activity and physical fitness levels
      assessed during those same years at the baseline examinations (measure of truth). For
      example, participants who reported in the 1986 survey that they engaged in relatively high
      levels of physical activity in 1976 were expected to have recorded higher levels of physical
      fitness at the 1976 examination than participants who reported in 1986 that they were
      relatively sedentary in 1976. The study design permitted evaluation of how accurately
      participants recalled their physical activity up to 15 years in the past and allowed
      quantification of the errors investigators might expect from such assessments.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  