
    
      1. Anesthesia management The standard procedures of anesthesia and CPB in the two
           institutions were applied as described (49, 50). Briefly, anesthesia was induced with
           midazolam, sufentanil, muscle relaxant and/or etomidate, and maintained by continuous
           remifentanil infusion and sevoflurane inhalation, combined with intermittent muscle
           relaxant and sufentanil intravenous injection.

        2. CPB management CPB involved a roll pump, a membrane oxygenator, a filter and connecting
           tubes and was primed with colloid solution of 1000 mL and 500 ml crystalline liquid.
           During CPB, blood flow was at 2.0-2.4 L/m2/min to maintain mean arterial pressure at
           50-80 mmHg. Cold 4:1 blood cardioplegia was used for heart arrest. During CPB,
           nasopharyngeal temperature was maintained at 32-340C during these procedures and
           moderate hemodilution was used. All patients received an initial heparin dose of 375
           U/kg to achieve systemic anticoagulation, and additional heparin was intermittently
           injected to maintain activated clotting time longer than 480 s during CPB. After weaning
           from CPB, heparin was neutralized with protamine in a 1:1 ratio based on the initial
           heparin dose.

        3. Data Collection Form (DCF) In order to minimize the role of potential confounders on
           adverse outcomes, we will do a systematic search for "risk factor, predictor, adverse
           outcome, mortality, morbidity, complications, and cardiac surgery" using EMBASE,
           Cochrane and PubMed databases from Jan 1, 2000 to Dec 31, 2015. All the perioperative
           potential risk factors mentioned in these studies will be on the DCF.

        4. Data collection All variables in the DCF will be retrieved from the Hospital Electronic
           Medical Record System and medical records. If information on a certain variable cannot
           be acquired, it will be recorded as ☒. For example, there may be no record of the
           hemoglobin level on the fifth day after surgery, so we will write ☒ in brackets on the
           fifth day hemoglobin value.

           After the data collection is finished, the investigators will sign their names on the
           first page of the DCF.

        5. Data Checking Two supervisors will check data promptly. If data are doubted, they will
           send their questions to the first investigator. According to the Schedule of Events, an
           "X" will be recorded after the data are confirmed to be correct. Once the whole DCF is
           completed, the supervisors sign their names and send the DCF to the statisticians.

        6. Data Input Data will be input by one statistician using EpiDate3.0 (Odense, Denmark,
           http://www.epidata.dk/), and another independent statistician will confirm this
           procedure. Then the CRFs will be stored sequentially.

        7. Quality control and quality assurance Diagnosis must be performed strictly according to
           pre-established definitions. All data in the DCF will be inspected promptly and
           correctly in order to guarantee reliability. All procedures in this study will be
           performed by two independent researchers.

        8. Statistical analysis Data analysis will be carried out by experienced
           biostatisticians.Categorical variables are expressed as frequencies (percentages), and
           compared between patient groups using the chi-squared or Fisher's exact tests.
           Shapiro-Wilk tests are used to determine the distribution of continuous variables.
           Normally distributed data are reported as mean ± standard deviation (SD), and compared
           between groups using one-way ANOVA test. Skewed data are expressed as median
           [interquartile range (IQR)] and compared between groups using Wilcoxon rank sum tests.
           The incidence of complications between groups will be performed with the chi-squared
           test or Fisher's exact tests. Logistic regression analysis will be performed to evaluate
           risk factors for complications.
    
  