
    
      Chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting significantly reduces patients' quality of life,
      increases fatigue, anxiety, and increases costs of health care delivery. Ginger (Zingiber
      officinalis) is already used in traditional folk medicine to treat nausea and vomiting in
      various populations. Ginger's ability to block 5-HT3 receptors and its free-radical
      scavenging in the intestines suggest that it may be beneficial for reducing both the
      prevalence and severity of chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting. Despite ginger's
      possible benefits in reducing the prevalence and severity of chemotherapy induced nausea and
      vomiting, no dosing and/or safety studies have been performed.

      This study will assess the efficacy and safety of two dose levels (1000 mg, or 2000 mg,
      orally/day) of Zingiber officinalis extract (standardized for 5% gingerols) in patients
      undergoing chemotherapy (cisplastin or adriamycin) who have experienced at least one episode
      of chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting despite optimal conventional medical therapy. The
      primary aim of the study is to determine the most efficacious dose of powdered ginger-root
      for reducing the prevalence and severity of acute nausea and vomiting. Secondary aims of the
      study include (1) determination of the most efficacious dose of powdered ginger-root for
      reducing the prevalence and severity of delayed nausea and vomiting; (2) assessment of the
      safety of different doses of oral powdered ginger root in patients receiving chemotherapy;
      and (3) determination if study participants can discern if they are receiving placebo or
      ginger. Participants receiving either adriamycin or cisplatin for cancer related treatment
      will be randomized to receive one of two doses of powdered ginger or placebo immediately
      prior to chemotherapy infusion. Participants will be followed for 72 hours after infusion in
      order to assess frequency and severity of nausea and vomiting. Baseline and 72 hour post
      chemotherapy labs will be used to assess safety profile of ginger.
    
  