
    
      The study compared the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of two dominant heroin dependence
      treatment approaches: center-based compulsory rehabilitation (CCT) and community-based
      voluntary methadone treatment (MMT) in Hai Phong City, Vietnam. CCT centers are institutions
      in which people who use drugs are confined for two years. MMT has been internationally
      recognized as an efficacious treatment for heroin dependence and was introduced in Vietnam in
      2008.

      The design was combined retrospective and prospective, non-randomized cohort over three years
      (with data at five time-points). The study was conducted between 2012 and 2014, involving 208
      CCT participants (of which 80% were followed up) and 384 MMT participants (of which 78% were
      followed up) with heroin dependence. The five time-points were: baseline, two years after
      treatment commencement, then three months, six months and 12 months after the initial two
      years. The study combined primary data and secondary data to assess the effectiveness of the
      two treatment modalities. The economic component measured the costs of the two treatment
      modalities to compare cost-effectiveness outcomes.

      The study had two primary outcomes: self-reported heroin abstinence (confirmed by urine drug
      screening) and self-reported drug-free days (DFDs). DFDs was reported in two different
      time-frames. DFDs in the preceding 30 days was used for effectiveness comparison and DFDs
      over three years was used for the cost-effectiveness comparison. The study has four secondary
      outcomes: illegal behaviors, overdose, blood-borne virus (BBV) risk behaviors, and monthly
      drug spending).

      Mixed effects regression models were used to analyze the effectiveness data and
      non-parametric bootstrapping methods were used to estimate cost-effectiveness. The time-frame
      for the cost-effectiveness analysis was three years.
    
  