
    
      Due to a lack of routine viral load (VL) monitoring in Lesotho until now, most health care
      workers in the districts lack the necessary information on how to manage patients with
      elevated viral loads. The CART-1 study found re-suppression rates of only 30% with only 70%
      returning for a second VL. From these estimates, it is clear that the current practice for
      managing these patients must be improved. A simple intervention has been designed that could
      be feasibly adapted at all health centres in Lesotho.

      To ensure that the effect of this intervention is measured and to avoid a long delay in
      adopting the intervention, a stepped wedge design was chosen. In addition the study would
      thus not disrupt the on-going staggered roll-out of routine viral load provision to patients
      on ART at the 12 health facilities. Stepped wedge designs are a form of clustered study in
      which the intervention is delivered to groups rather than individuals. In this case, the
      cluster is the hospital or health centre. Each health centre will undergo a time period with
      the standard of care and then will be randomly selected to cross-over to the intervention at
      different time points, until all of the health centres have crossed-over to receive the
      intervention. Data on the endpoint will be collected continuously at all health centres. The
      use of a step wedged study is pragmatic - the intervention is offered to exert its expected
      benefits and research insight is a secondary aim. This innovative design will lead to much
      stronger evidence than observational studies.

      Routine VL (viral load) monitoring started in Butha-Buthe hospital in December 2015, in
      Seboche Hospital in May 2016 and the remaining 10 health centres in June 2016. Once each
      hospital/health center has implemented routine VL monitoring for a least 12 weeks, the
      standardized adherence intervention will be rolled out to the hospitals/health centers in a
      randomized fashion. Every 12 weeks starting in May 2017, two hospitals/health centers will be
      randomly selected to start with the adherence intervention.

      Randomization times will be separated by 12 weeks to allow for implementation and assessment
      of the intervention within each time period. Final data collection will occur in October
      2018. All nurses at the centres will be trained in the standardized adherence counselling by
      an experienced professional counselor and an experienced ART nurse prior to the introduction
      of the intervention.

      The tracing of patients who do not show up for adherence counselling sessions or confirmatory
      VL will be done according to the current system in use at the health centre (usually contact
      individual via village health worker or phone if available) and will remain the same during
      both the control and intervention period.
    
  