
    
      Polypharmacy, or the concomitant use of 5 drugs or more, is a serious health concern and
      affects more than half of Canadians aged 65 years and older. It is the number one
      identifiable risk factor for adverse drug events (ADEs), which are responsible for 27,000
      hospital admissions annually in Canada and up to 20% of return visits to the hospital within
      30 days of discharge. Many ADEs are preventable or ameliorable through interventions to
      reduce inappropriate prescribing.

      MedSafer, the intervention software, applies an electronic set of criteria, previously
      designed and piloted on one thousand (1000) hospitalized patients by a group of Quebec and
      Ontario internists, geriatricians, palliative care doctors and pharmacists, to identify
      potentially inappropriate medications (PIMs) in the hospitalized elderly and generate
      instructions for the patient and physician for safe discontinuation. The current study seeks
      to partially automate the deprescribing process and to demonstrate the efficacy of this type
      of intervention on adverse drug events at 30-days post hospital discharge.

      At the time of hospitalization, the patient's medications, co-morbidities, and a measure of
      frailty will be entered into the MedSafer software which will output an individualized and
      prioritized deprescription plan for the most responsible physician's consideration. Any
      subsequent medication changes will be transmitted to relevant community physicians. The study
      will evaluate the impact of stopping PIMs on the occurrence of ADEs within 30 days of
      discharge, as compared to usual care.

      This study will take place on the clinical teaching units (CTUs) at 11 hospitals from seven
      university hospital centres across Canada. Based on historical data, the investigators
      estimate a combined 5200 eligible patients per year with nearly 50% taking ten or more
      medications. Many will have multiple medical co-morbidities such as diabetes, heart disease,
      and renal insufficiency. A large portion will meet criteria for geriatric syndromes such as
      frailty and will be at high risk for the development of delirium, falls and functional
      decline. This population is ideal for a generalizable deprescribing study.

      All patients aged 65 or older who meet inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled. A
      trained research assistant will identify eligible patients and medications will be screened
      using MedSafer. A deprescribing plan will be generated for the CTU team containing the
      rationale for suggested medication changes and strategies for safe and successful
      deprescription. The CTU team will then decide, in conjunction with the patient/proxy and
      relevant consultants, whether to apply the suggested modifications.
    
  