
    
      A treatment relying on the association of both platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and hyaluronic acid
      (HA) could represent a therapeutical alternative for patients suffering from vulvovaginal
      dryness who cannot be treated with hormone therapy.

      Indeed, hyaluronic acid is widely distributed in all tissues, and most particularly in
      vulvovaginal tissues. Due to its hydrating and healing properties, HA plays a key role in
      tissue regeneration, facilitating the entry of a large number and variety of cells into the
      injured area, reconstructing in this way an extracellular matrix capable of supporting the
      proliferation and differentiation of cells for tissue regeneration. In addition,its ability
      to retain water at up to 1000x its weight makes it the ideal substance for ensuring hydration
      of the skin. Thus, the gynaecological use of HA could be a promising therapeutic option for
      the treatment of vulvovaginal dryness.

      On the other hand, numerous studies have shown the role of PRP in the healing of soft and
      hard tissues. PRP is an autologous preparation from the patient's own blood playing the role
      of growth factors reservoir during treatment. Indeed, platelet activation induces
      alpha-granules degranulation, releasing synthesized pre-packaged growth factors. Once
      released, growth factors induce different cell signaling cascades that activate angiogenesis,
      cell proliferation, cell differentiation and new matrix synthesis for tissue regeneration. A
      recent clinical study showed that PRP could significantly reduce sexual distress of patients
      suffering from dyspareunia and suggests that PRP could improve vaginal vascularization and
      physiologic responsivness in patients with vaginal atrophy.

      In the present pilot study, a combination of PRP/HA obtained with Cellular Matrix will be
      injected in the vulva, vaginal wall and perineum of women with vulvovaginal dryness. Outcomes
      will be compared before and at various timepoints after treatment.
    
  