
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the efficacy of recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein (sEphB4-HSA) in patients
      with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) as measured by confirmed
      prostate specific antigen (PSA) response rate.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. The safety and tolerability of sEphB4-HSA in patients with mCRPC according to National
      Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)
      5.0.

      II. To assess the time to PSA progression. III. To assess overall response rate in patients
      with measurable disease using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 (soft
      tissue) and Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) (bone) criteria.

      IV. To assess radiological progression free survival (rPFS) using RECIST 1.1 (soft tissue)
      and PCWG3 (bone) criteria.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore molecular changes associated with EphB4 and ephrinB2 expression in tumor
      specimens (primary and/or metastatic tissue).

      II. To explore association of response with molecular biomarkers including aberrations in the
      PI3K pathway, MYC and TP53.

      III. To assess immune cell infiltration of tumors in biopsies. IV. To assess circulating
      immune changes associated with treatment.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive recombinant EphB4-HSA fusion protein intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on
      day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for cycles 1-6 and then every 21 days for subsequent
      cycles. Patients may continue to receive sEphB4-HSA treatment until no longer clinically
      benefiting (PCWG3), unacceptable toxicity, treatment delay >= 4 weeks, or prohibitive
      illness/change in patient?s condition, or patient decides to withdraw from study.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 6
      months for up to 1 year.
    
  