
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether the addition of methotrexate (MTX) or VBMF
      (vincristine/bleomycin/methotrexate/fluorouracil) to radiotherapy for advanced carcinoma of
      the head and neck (with or without primary surgery) influences locoregional control and
      prolongs survival. II. Determine whether an effect on locoregional control or survival is
      apparent when chemotherapy is given during or following radiotherapy and whether it is
      increased when chemotherapy is given at both times. III. Determine, in a special
      randomization of patients with cancer of the oral cavity or oropharynx, whether neck
      irradiation improves locoregional control and survival.

      OUTLINE: Randomized study. Patients without prior surgery are randomized 1:2 to Arms I:II-IV,
      while those with prior surgery are randomized 1:1 between Arms I and II only. Patients with
      tumors of the oral cavity or oropharynx may elect additional randomization between Arms V and
      VI and will receive irradiation of the primary according to the Manchester regimen. Arm I:
      Radiotherapy. Irradiation of the primary and/or lymph nodes according to 1 of 2 regimens
      (Manchester 3-week schedule or SECOG 6-week schedule) using megavoltage equipment. Arm II:
      Radiotherapy plus Concurrent Single-agent or 4-Drug Combination Chemotherapy with Leucovorin
      Rescue. Involved-field irradiation as in Arm I; plus Methotrexate, MTX, NSC-740; with
      Leucovorin calcium, CF, NSC-3590; or VBMF: Vincristine, VCR, NSC-67574; Bleomycin, BLEO,
      NSC-125066; MTX; Fluorouracil, 5-FU, NSC-19893; with CF. Arm III: Radiotherapy plus
      Subsequent Single-agent or 4-Drug Combination Chemotherapy with Leucovorin Rescue.
      Involved-field irradiation as in Arm I; plus MTX or VBMF; with CF. Arm IV: Radiotherapy plus
      Concurrent and Subsequent Single-agent or 4-Drug Combination Chemotherapy with Leucovorin
      Rescue. Involved-field irradiation as in Arm I; plus MTX or VBMF; with CF. Arm V:
      Radiotherapy. Neck node irradiation using megavoltage equipment. Arm VI: Observation. No
      nodal irradiation.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: At least 1,000 patients will be entered.
    
  