
    
      A recent expert consensus report concluded that, "Little is known about how well or under
      what conditions health innovations are sustained and their gains maintained once they are put
      into practice. Implementation science typically focuses on uptake by early adopters. The
      later-stage challenges of sustaining evidence-supported interventions receive too little
      attention." This report placed high priority on conducting return on investment (ROI) studies
      to determine how much is gained when effective programs are sustained, and cost-benefit
      trade-offs for effort required to sustain.1 Information is especially needed for preventive
      behavioral health interventions for adults in outpatient medical (e.g., primary care; OBGYN)
      settings.

      Postpartum depression (PPD) is common and can have serious and lasting consequences for
      mother and child, including maternal increased risk for suicide, compromised functional
      status, and adverse infant developmental outcomes. Prevalence of PPD is ~13% in the 12 weeks
      after childbirth, with rates up to 50% among low-income women, who are especially vulnerable
      to the consequences of PPD. Outpatient clinics offering prenatal care are an opportune place
      to deliver PPD prevention services because most women will visit while pregnant. Recent
      guidelines suggest that prenatal clinics should screen for PPD after birth and refer once it
      is identified. Unfortunately, prenatal clinics do not routinely do anything to prevent PPD
      from occurring.

      The ROSE Program (Reach Out, Stay Strong, Essentials for mothers of newborns) is a
      small-group intervention to prevent PPD that is delivered during pregnancy in outpatient
      prenatal settings. ROSE is the only PPD preventative intervention that (1) has been found to
      significantly reduce cases of PPD in multiple randomized trials, and (2) has been tested in
      community prenatal settings with racially and ethnically diverse low income pregnant women.
      ROSE consists of four 90-minute group sessions and a 50-minute individual booster session
      after delivery. Requests for ROSE training in Philadelphia and nationwide in Japan, and
      recent policy changes supporting payment for comprehensive perinatal services (including
      behavioral health care) to underserved populations all suggest a context ripe for embedding
      ROSE in prenatal clinics long-term. Given the need for ROI studies about sustainment efforts
      and that ROSE is well-positioned for implementation and sustainment research, we propose a
      Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomized (SMART) Trial of the effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of a stepwise approach to sustainment of ROSE in 90 outpatient clinics
      providing prenatal care to pregnant women on public assistance accross the US. Our conceptual
      framework comes from RE-AIM and a review on sustainment by Co-I Wiltsey-Stirman,3 with
      sustainment strategies based on the Replicating Effective Programs (REP) framework. All
      clinics will receive enhanced implementation as usual (EIAU; initial training + tools for
      sustainment). Clinics will be assessed using surveys and qualitative interviews 9 times over
      2.5 years after receiving EIAU. Clinics at risk for failure to sustain operationally (defined
      as no ROSE intervention in 3 months and none planned) and/or clinically (defined as low
      fidelity to ROSE core elements) will be randomized to receive additional sustainment support
      for up to 18 months after baseline. At the first time period at which a clinic is determined
      to be at risk (i.e., at 3, 6, 9, 12, or 15 months), that clinic will be randomized to receive
      either: (1) no additional implementation support (EIAU only), or (2) EIAU plus low-intensity
      (every 3 months) coaching and feedback (LICF). If clinics receiving LICF are still at risk at
      subsequent monitoring periods, they will be randomized to (1) EIAU + LICF only, or (2) EIAU +
      LICF + high-intensity (monthly) coaching and feedback (HICF). Additional study follow-up
      interviews will occur at 18, 24, and 30 months, but no implementation intervention will occur
      after 18 months. We will assess costs and benefits of sustainment strategies. Aims are to:

      Compare effectiveness of each sustainment step for the following final and proximal OUTCOMES:

        1. Sustainment of core program elements at each time point, and total length of time in
           weeks that: (i) any ROSE services were provided, and (ii) were provided with adequate
           fidelity to core elements (primary).

        2. Health impact (e.g., PPD rates over time at each clinic) and reach (number of patients
           enrolled in and completing the ROSE program).

        3. Return on Investment (costs and cost-effectiveness of each sustainment step).

        4. Hypothesized mechanisms include sustainment of: (a) clinical and organizational capacity
           to deliver core elements, and (b) a sense of engagement/ownership by key clinic staff,
           Examine predictors and processes to determine which kinds of clinics need which level of
           support.

        5. Explore which clinic characteristics (e.g., organizational and state policy contexts)
           and hypothesized mechanisms (Aim 4) are associated with best sustainment to determine
           tailoring variables for choosing/sequencing EIAU, LICF, HICF in the future.

        6. Document implementation/sustainment effort processes, their timing relative to desired
           outcomes, critical incidents to explore factors most related to sustainment after
           accounting for hypothesized mechanisms.

      To our knowledge, this study will be the first randomized trial evaluating the ROI of a
      stepped approach to sustainment, a critical unanswered question in implementation science.
      The study will also examine a set of strategies to promote sustainment of an effective PPD
      prevention intervention for low-income women, reducing negative consequences for mother and
      child. The proposal directly addresses the goal of PAR-16-238 to conduct longitudinal studies
      on "factors that contribute to the sustainability of evidence-based interventions," to test
      strategies to improve quality of care among underserved populations, examine mediators and
      moderators, and examine cost-effectiveness or other economic outcomes. Thus, the study will
      advance implementation science, knowledge of implementation science mechanisms, and clinical
      care for an at-risk population.
    
  