
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate the safety of sequentially administered vaccinia-carcinoembryonic
      antigen (CEA) vaccine and ALVAC-CEA vaccine (CEA-Avipox vaccine) in two schedules and with
      the addition of sargramostim (GM-CSF) plus or minus interleukin-2 (IL-2) in patients with CEA
      expressing tumors. II. Compare the CEA-specific cellular immune response in cancer patients
      randomized to receive a single vaccination with vaccinia-CEA vaccine followed by three boosts
      with ALVAC-CEA vaccine (V-A-A-A) or the reverse vaccination sequence (A-A-A-V). III.
      Determine whether the addition of GM-CSF alone or with IL-2 enhances the immune response to
      sequentially administered vaccinia-CEA vaccine and ALVAC-CEA vaccine. IV. Compare the enzyme
      linked immunosorbent assay ELISPOT with lymphoproliferative and cytotoxicity assays for
      measuring CEA-specific T lymphocyte immune response.

      OUTLINE: This is two-stage, partially randomized study. In stage one, patients are randomized
      to arm I or II. Arm I: Patients receive vaccinia-carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) vaccine
      intradermally on day 1 of course 1 and ALVAC-CEA vaccine (CEA-Avipox vaccine) intramuscularly
      (IM) on day 1 of courses 2-4. Each course lasts 28 days. Arm II: Patients receive ALVAC-CEA
      vaccine (CEA-Avipox vaccine) IM on day 1 of courses 1-3 and vaccinia-CEA vaccine
      intradermally on day 1 of course 4. Each course lasts 28 days. Patients in arms I and II
      continue 28-day courses through month 6 and then receive 3-month courses for 2 years in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. In stage two, patients are enrolled
      successively into arms III and IV. Arm III: Patients receive vaccines according to whichever
      schedule (arm I or II) was found to be superior plus sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously
      (SC) on days 1-4 of each course. Each course lasts 28 days. Arm IV: Patients receive vaccines
      plus GM-CSF as in arm III and interleukin-2 SC once daily on days 7-11 of each course. Each
      course lasts 28 days. Patients on arms III and IV continue 28-day courses through month 6 and
      then receive 3-month courses for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. If 2 or more patients in either arm III or IV experience dose limiting
      toxicity, accrual into study stops. Otherwise, the best response among the 4 arms is
      determined and further HLA-A2 positive patients are enrolled into that arm so that a total of
      6 HLA-A2 positive patients with advanced disease and 6 HLA-A2 positive patients with NED
      (without radiographic or clinical evidence of tumor) are treated. If more than one regimen is
      equally superior, the least toxic regimen is chosen for further accrual. Patients are
      followed at 28 days following the last vaccination.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 24 patients (6 HLA-A2 positive and up to 3 HLA-A2 negative
      patients per arm) will be accrued for this study.
    
  