
    
      Recent evidence suggests that HMG-Coenzyme A (statin) therapy may be associated with improved
      survival in both ischemic and non-ischemic heart failure (HF). Large, randomized outcome
      studies of statins in HF are currently underway, but these trials will not address underlying
      mechanisms. The aim of the study is to investigate statins' potentially beneficial mechanisms
      of action in HF, focusing on: 1) sympathetic nervous system activation and 2) myocardial
      remodeling, and 3) immune activation in heart failure.

      Fifty patients with systolic HF of non-ischemic etiology from a single center will be
      randomized in a double-blinded fashion to 3 months of atorvastatin 10mg QD (25 subjects) vs
      matching placebo QD (25 subjects). The following exams will be performed at baseline
      (pre-treatment) and at end of study (post-treatment): sympathetic microneurography,
      echocardiography, and peripheral blood chemokine analysis. Sympathetic microneurography at
      the peroneal nerve will directly quantify changes in sympathetic nerve activity
      (bursts/minute). Echocardiography (with the addition of MRI in a subset of subjects without
      pacemakers or implantable defibrillators) will be used to track changes in cardiac structure
      and function; indices of remodeling will include measurement of left ventricular mass index,
      left ventricular volume indices, left ventricular ejection fraction, and subendocardial scar
      quantification (MRI only). Immune activation will be characterized by circulating cytokines
      and chemokines. Additionally, quantification of established cardiac biomarkers (cardiac
      troponin, B-type natriuretic peptide, and C-reactive Protein), Holter monitor/heart rate
      variability studies, and quality of life and global clinical assessment will be performed
      pre- and post- treatment.

      Neither sympathetic microneurography nor MRI have been previously utilized to assess statins'
      effects in humans with HF. The impact of statin therapy on inflammatory chemokine activation
      in HF also has not been studied. The knowledge gained from our proposed investigations may
      serve as a basis for understanding how statin therapy has potential to improve clinical
      outcomes in HF, and may ultimately lead to new therapeutic strategies for HF.
    
  