
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of erlotinib when
           administered during and after radiotherapy in young patients with newly diagnosed
           high-grade glioma and unfavorable low-grade glioma.

        -  Determine the 1- and 2-year progression-free survival of patients treated with this
           regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Correlate genetic abnormalities in epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and
           components of downstream pathways with treatment response in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the ability of erlotinib to inhibit EGFR signaling in patients with high-grade
           glioma who require second surgery.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of erlotinib and its metabolites in these patients.

        -  Correlate plasma and cerebrospinal fluid levels of vascular endothelial growth factor
           and basic fibroblast growth factor with tumor response in patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Correlate irradiation dosimetry with patterns of failure, standard and investigational
           imaging, and toxicity in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study of erlotinib followed by a phase II study.

        -  Phase I: Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days week, for approximately 6½
           weeks. Beginning on the first day of radiotherapy, patients receive oral erlotinib once
           daily for up to 2 years.

      Cohorts of patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined.

        -  Phase II: Patients will receive erlotinib as in phase I at the MTD and undergo
           radiotherapy as in phase I.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 75-80 patients (15-20 for the phase I portion and 60 for the
      phase II portion) will be accrued for this study.
    
  