
    
      The Sumatriptan, Naratriptan and Treximet Pregnancy Registry aims to assess whether there is
      a substantial increase in the risk of major congenital malformations (MCMs) following in
      utero exposure to those anti-migraine medications. Exposure during the first trimester is of
      primary interest as this represents the period of organogenesis.

      The Registry is a primarily prospective enrolment and follow-up study. Patients exposed to
      sumatriptan, naratriptan, or the sumatriptan-naproxen combination during pregnancy, are
      enrolled, on a voluntary basis, by their healthcare provider. Enrolment is encouraged early
      in pregnancy and if possible prior to any prenatal testing. The healthcare provider provides
      initial information concerning patient demographics; details of the pregnancy including the
      estimated delivery date and results of any prenatal testing; and the timing, dosage, route of
      delivery (e.g. oral, subcutaneous, intranasal) of drug exposure in pregnancy. The registry
      accepts exposure reports from anywhere in the world. Within the United States (US) the
      healthcare provider can contact the registry using a toll free number. Outside of the US
      enrolments are made through the GlaxoSmithKline local operating company.

      Close to the estimated date of delivery the healthcare provider is contacted by the Registry
      to provide follow up information concerning the pregnancy outcome (live or still birth,
      spontaneous or induced abortion), the presence or absence of a MCM, and the history of
      headache and exposure to sumatriptan, naratriptan or the sumatriptan-naproxen combination
      during pregnancy. Up to six attempts are made to contact the healthcare provider to obtain
      pregnancy outcome information. After six attempts, the record is closed as lost to follow up.

      Pregnancy outcomes are classified as outcomes with MCMs, outcomes without MCMs and
      spontaneous abortions. The outcomes with and without MCMs are further classified as live
      births, stillbirths/fetal deaths and induced abortions. Spontaneous abortions are reported
      separately due to potential for inconsistent identification of malformations in that
      situation.

      It is beyond the scope of the Registry to consistently access pediatric evaluations and
      medical records. For this reason the main outcome is restricted to major congenital
      malformations that are external and recognizable in the delivery room or shortly after birth.
      To provide consistency, reported congenital malformations are classified as major or minor
      according to criteria used by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)'s
      Metropolitan Atlanta Congenital Defects Program (MACDP). All malformation reports are
      reviewed and classified by a paediatrician from the CDC and further information is requested
      as necessary.

      Analyses are restricted to prospectively enrolled pregnancies (enrolment prior to knowledge
      of the birth outcome). Retrospectively enrolled pregnancies are reviewed for patterns of
      malformation types, but are not included in formal analyses as retrospective reporting can be
      biased towards more unusual and severe outcomes and are less likely to be representative of
      the general population experience.

      The proportion of infants with MCMs among prospectively reported exposures is calculated as:
      the total number of outcomes with major birth defects (number of outcomes with major birth
      defects + the number of live births without defects).

      All spontaneous pregnancy losses, as well as induced abortions and fetal deaths without
      reported defects, are excluded from the denominator due to the potential for inconsistent
      identification of malformations in those situations. The 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for
      risk estimates are calculated using exact methods based on the binomial distribution.

      Analyses are stratified according to trimester of exposure (with the second trimester
      starting at week 14 and the third trimester at week 28 of gestation) for each anti-migraine
      of interest. If an individual is exposed to multiple drugs of interest during pregnancy, the
      exposure is included in analyses for each drug of interest.

      The registry does not have an internal comparator group, but descriptive comparisons are made
      with MCM rates from general population studies in the literature.

      Prospective reports are also reviewed to detect any unusual patterns of malformation types
      that may warrant further investigation.

      The data from the Sumatriptan, Naratriptan and Treximet Pregnancy Registry are reviewed, and
      conclusions developed, by an independent scientific advisory committee. A semi-annual interim
      report summarizing aggregate data is provided to disseminate information on a regular basis.
    
  