
    
      Currently, SARS-CoV-2 disease represents a Public Health emergency of international concern.
      The new coronavirus COVID-19 is estimated to have infected more than 1.8 million people
      worldwide. The WHO estimates that the contagion rate (R0) of the virus is 1.4 to 2.5, which
      affects its exponential replication. In the absence of an effective treatment for SARS-CoV-2
      disease, there is an urgent need to evaluate therapeutic alternatives that reduce the
      mortality and morbidity of this virus. There is scientific evidence that supports the use of
      convalescent donor plasma for the treatment of emerging virus outbreaks and suggests that the
      transfusion of convalescent donor plasma is effective, and therefore the following question
      is established:

      The use of plasma from convalescent donors by COVID-19 in patients with SARS-CoV-2 disease,
      stage II (moderate) and III (severe), is a treatment that reduces mortality?

      Given that the mortality rate is a very relevant fact, which concerns the general population,
      the clinical treatments that can be used to reduce the mortality rate of critical cases are
      of great relevance. There are patients recovered from COVID-19 who are potential plasma
      donors, and in turn, many critical patients who need to receive it.

      Currently, there are no effective treatments to address COVID-19 disease. A recent WHO report
      indicates that early results with the use of convalescent plasma suggest that it may be a
      potentially useful treatment modality for severe SARS-CoV-2 disease. The use of convalescent
      plasma from COVID-19 in acute infected patients is currently considered an experimental
      therapy. This implies the need to promote clinical trials in order to demonstrate their
      efficacy. It is recommended that the entire process from donor selection, processing,
      labeling, storage and distribution to be carried out in a specifically licensed institution.
      These institutions must have all the guarantees that prove the correct practice of the
      procedures.

      The use of convalescent plasma has been used as rescue therapy in patients with SARS whose
      condition continues to deteriorate despite treatment with methylprednisolone pulses, in
      addition, different studies have shown a decrease in hospital stay, and lower mortality in
      patients treated with convalescent plasma compared to those in which this treatment was not
      used.

      A multicenter randomized study by Hung showed that the use of convalescent plasma in patients
      with type A H1N1 influenza was associated with a lower viral load and a reduction in
      mortality 5 days after the onset of symptoms. A Mair-Jenkins meta-analysis showed that
      mortality was reduced after several doses of convalescent plasma, and another meta-analysis
      by Luke identified in 1703 patients with influenza pneumonia (1918-1925) that the use of
      convalescent plasma blood products an absolute reduction. 21% (95% CI 15-27; p = 0.001) in
      crude fatality with low risk of bias.
    
  