
    
      The Study Drugs:

      RAD001 is designed to stop cancer cells from multiplying. It may also stop the growth of new
      blood vessels that help tumor growth, which may cause the tumor cells to die.

      Erlotinib hydrochloride is designed to block the activity of a protein found on the surface
      of many tumor cells that may control tumor growth and survival. This may stop tumors from
      growing.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take erlotinib
      hydrochloride by mouth every day of each 28-day study "cycle". You should take erlotinib
      hydrochloride once a day in the morning with 1 cup (about 8 oz.) of water. Erlotinib
      hydrochloride should be taken at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after you have any food,
      vitamins, iron supplements, or other non-prescription drugs.

      On Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of each cycle, you will take RAD001 by mouth in the morning. You
      should either take the study drug on an empty stomach with 2 cups (about 16 oz.) of water or
      after a low-fat meal. You should not take the study drug after large fatty meals because
      fatty meals lower the amount of the study drug in your body. Some examples of a low-fat meal
      include cereal with fat-free milk, a low-fat muffin, toast, or a bagel with fat-free spread,
      or fruit salad.

      On days when you take both RAD001 and erlotinib hydrochloride, RAD001 should be taken right
      before erlotinib hydrochloride.

      If you experience intolerable side effects, you must call your doctor right away. The doctor
      may tell you to stop taking the study drugs or to take fewer pills. The study drugs may also
      be stopped completely, if your doctor thinks it is necessary.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of every cycle, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) and urine will for collected for routine tests. You should
           be fasting at the time of the blood draw. You should not eat or drink anything except
           water after midnight the night before.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking or have taken since your last visit.

      On Day 8 of Cycle 1, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  Blood (about 2 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests. You should be
           fasting at the time of the blood draw. You should not eat or drink anything except water
           after midnight the night before.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking or have taken since your last visit.

      At the end of every even cycle (Cycles 2, 4, 6, and so on), you will have a CT or MRI scan to
      check the status of the disease. The scans will be the same type that you had during
      screening.

      Length of Study:

      You may remain on study as long as you are benefitting. You will be taken off study early if
      the disease gets worse, you have intolerable side effects, or if your doctor decides that it
      is in your best interest to stop treatment.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      About 14 days after the last dose of study drug, you will have an end-of-study visit. The
      following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  You will have a performance status evaluation.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests. You should
           be fasting at the time of the blood draw. You should not eat or drink anything except
           water after midnight the night before.

        -  If you have not had them within the last 4 weeks, you will have a CT or MRI scan to
           check the status of the disease. The scans will be the same type that you had during
           screening.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      After you go off study, you will be asked how you are doing once a month for the first 6
      months from the beginning of the study treatment. Then you will be asked how you are doing
      every 3 months from then on. This may be done either by phone contact or a clinic visit and
      will take about 15-30 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Erlotinib hydrochloride in combination with gemcitabine is
      commercially available and FDA approved for the treatment of pancreatic cancer. RAD001 is not
      FDA approved or commercially available. At this time, the combination of these drugs is only
      being used in research.

      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  