
    
      Hypothyroidism causes the body to not be able to produce enough thyroid hormones.
      Levothyroxine and liothyronine are synthetic (man-made) hormones that may help treat
      hypothyroidism by increasing the metabolism (activity) of cells of all tissues in the body.
      The combination treatment, given to patients with hypothyroidism, may help improve normal
      body and brain functioning.

      Levothyroxine is a man-made type of hormone that is made and released by the thyroid gland
      (thyroxine [T4]). Liothyronine is also a man-made type of hormone, but it is made by the
      thyroid gland (triiodothyronine [T3]). Both levothyroxine and liothyronine effect different
      functions in the body that help regulate (control) the activity and amount of energy that
      cells use.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this
      study. You will have your complete medical history recorded. You will have a
      neuropsychological evaluation (a series of tests that evaluate how well your brain is
      performing). This evaluation includes an interview, and tests will be performed to check your
      memory, language, and thinking abilities. You will have a neurological exam performed, which
      will include measurement of your weight, height, and performance status (how well you are
      able to perform daily activities). This will be done within 14 days before the start of this
      study.

      You will have blood collected (about 2 tablespoons) for routine laboratory tests (free T4,
      total T3) for patients with hypothyroidism. You will also be given 4 questionnaires to fill
      out that will ask about your general QoL and changes in your mood. These questionnaires will
      take about 20 minutes total to complete.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive your standard
      dose of levothyroxine (after you have your blood collected for laboratory tests and physical
      measurements taken) by mouth. You will receive liothyronine by mouth on Day 1 of this study
      and then have a neuro-cognitive test ( that evaluates how well your brain is performing). The
      dose of liothyronine you receive will depend on the dose of levothyroxine that you are
      already on.

      Approximately 4 weeks after you start on the treatment, you will be called by a research data
      coordinator or research nurse who will ask you questions about any symptoms of
      hyperthyroidism that you may be having. This is in case your dose of liothyronine is too high
      and may need to be adjusted.

      You will be receiving levothyroxine and liothyronine for up to 8 weeks. However, you will be
      taken off this study, if your disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side
      effects.

      You will be asked to return again to the hospital 8 weeks after your first visit for an
      end-of-study visit. You will have another neuropsychological evaluation performed. Blood
      (around 2 tablespoons) will again be collected to test the levels of free T4 and total T3 in
      your body. You will also have your physical measurements taken. You will receive another
      standard dose of levothyroxine. You will have another neurocognitive test performed, and you
      will be given 4 more questionnaires to evaluate your QoL and any changes in your mood. The
      questionnaires will take about 20 minutes total to complete.

      Your participation in this study will be over after your end-of-study visit.

      This is an investigational study. Liothyronine and levothyroxine each are approved by the FDA
      for hypothyroidism and are commercially available. However, the use of these drugs in
      combination is experimental. Up to 26 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  