
    
      Orogastric tube feeding is a feeding method used to support the feeding of newborns who
      cannot be fed orally and OGT insertion causes pain. Ottawa Neonatal Pain Interest Group
      (2015) and the studies have shown that OGT insertion causes acute pain in newborns. It was
      stated that OGT insertion causes pain in newborns and non-pharmacological methods were
      effective in reducing this pain. However, there have been no studies in which
      non-pharmacological methods (expressed breast milk, swaddling and facilitated tucking
      methods) are alone and in combination with OGT insertion procedural pain for preterm infants.
      Therefore, the purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of using expressed breast
      milk, swaddling and facilitated tucking methods together and alone in reducing the pain
      caused by OGT insertion process in preterm infants. Based on the above literature review and
      mechanisms, the investigators hypothesized that: (1) Swaddling, expressed breast milk, and
      facilitated tucking alone could be more effective than routine care on preterm infant pain
      before, during, and after OGT insertion procedure. (2) Pain occur less frequently before,
      during, and after OGT insertion procedure in preterm infants treated with combinations of
      swaddling, expressed breast milk, and facilitated tucking than in those receiving routine
      care. (3) Combined intervention of swaddling+expressed breast milk, and facilitated
      tucking+expressed breast milk could be more effective than any single intervention on preterm
      infant pain before, during, and after OGT insertion procedure.

      Preterm infants were recruited by convenience sampling from level III neonatal intensive care
      units of three hospitals in Turkey/Antalya from November 2017 to 2018. Preterm infants
      meeting study criteria (n=219) from 2017 to 2018. Participation was refused by 24 parents who
      did not want their infants to be videotaped data collection (12), refused anything extra done
      to their infants (n=10), were not interested (n=2) and 8 infants did not need OGT insertion;
      thus, 187 infants participated in this study. Preterm infants who did participate did not
      differ significantly in terms of sex, GA, postnatal age, and body weight. To calculate study
      power, the investigators first determined that the effect size was 0.51, based on the mean
      Premature Infant Pain Profile (PIPP) scores, respectively, and the correlation (r=0.385) of
      PIPP scores between the six groups. Based on this effect size and a significance level of
      0.05, the study power (two tailed) with 187 infants was 0.99. Based on the between- and
      within-group variances of PIPP scores during OGT insertion procedures the effect size was
      0.33. Thus, a sample size of 187 preterm infants was sufficient. Preterm infants were
      randomly allocated before the OGT insertion by a neonatal nurse using a random closed
      envelope manner to one of the six groups: routine care group, swaddling, expressed breast
      milk, facilitated tucking, swaddling+expressed breast milk, and facilitated tucking+expressed
      breast milk group. After obtaining parental written consent, neonatal nurse who apply OGT
      insertion randomized the infant and learned the allocation group. The nurses could not be
      blinded to the allocation because of the nature of the intervention. However, the outcome
      assessment of the videos was blinded. OGT insertion procedure was conducted by the clinical
      nurse in NICU within the scope of treatment for preterm infants in the case when clinical
      physician was deemed as necessary. The assigned treatment condition was administered by one
      researcher. In the routine care group, while a neonatal nurse performed the OGT insertion
      procedure, physiological measurements of the highest value of heart rate and the lowest value
      of oxygen saturation were recorded by one researcher 1 min before the procedure, during the
      process and after the process in 1st and 2nd minutes acquired for each infant in the unit
      with an individual monitor. In the swaddling group, swaddling process was applied 10 minutes
      before the painful procedure. The swaddled newborns remained in the swaddling during the
      procedure and for 5 minutes after the procedure. In the study, breast milk was given slowly
      to the upper part of the tongue of each preterm infant from his/her own mother as a single
      dose before OGT insertion. In the expressed breast milk group, preterm was ensured to take
      all of 2 ml breast milk by reducing the aspiration risk of breastmilk. The breast milk was
      given without touching the tip of the injector to the newborn's mouth. The preterm infants
      were not allowed to suck the tip of the injector. In the facilitated tucking group,
      facilitated tucking was initiated 3 minutes before OGT insertion in order for the newborn to
      feel the fetal position and to cope with the painful procedure. The preterm was kept in fetal
      position during the procedure and for 5 minutes after the procedure. In the combined
      swaddling and expressed breast milk group, swaddling procedure was conducted by the
      researcher to the preterm infant 10 minutes before the OGT insertion procedure. 2 ml breast
      milk was administered by the researcher to preterm using a sterile injector as a single dose
      for 2 minutes before OGT insertion procedure. In the combined facilitated tucking and
      expressed breast milk group, facilitated tucking method was applied right after giving 2 ml
      breast milk by the researcher to the preterm 3 minutes before OGT insertion procedure. The
      Premature Infant Pain Profile (PIPP) scale was used for the pain assessment. Physiological
      indicators were continuously monitored and behavioral indicators (facial images) were
      videotaped by a real-time colour video recorder. The digital camera was fixed at a certain
      angle via the tripod 30 minutes before the procedure. Pain was scored from videotapes of
      infants' faces 10 min before, 2 min during, and 5 min after OGT insertion procedures. PIPP
      score was measured by two specialist pain doctors who were blinded to the study purpose, and
      to the study group allocation. The inter-rater reliability of the Premature Infant Pain
      Profile ranged from 0.97-0.99 (0.97 for baseline [phase 1], 0.97 phase 2, 0.98 phase 3, 0.99
      phase 4, respectively). All preterm infants, heart rate and oxygen saturation were measured
      using an electrocardiographic bedside monitor and continuously recorded by custom computer
      software.

      Each OGT insertion included four phases: (1) Baseline: 1 min of baseline was collected at the
      end of the 30 min without stimuli. (2) OGT insertion: conducting the OGT measurement,
      inserting and fixing OGT (3) Recovery: one min after OGT insertion. (4) Recovery: two min
      after OGT insertion. Heart rate, oxygen saturation, and PIPP scores were evaluated by four
      phases.

      For the statistical analysis of the data obtained in the study, SPSS (Statistical Package for
      Social Science) for Windows 22.0 and SAS software, version 9.4 (SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC,
      USA) packaged software were used. In the analysis of the measurements such as heart rate and
      oxygen saturation taken from the same newborns at different times, both graphical methods and
      repeated measures analysis of variance were used. Paired-sample t-test was applied to the
      features found to be significant as a result of repeated measures analysis of variance.
      Advanced analysis of the Bonferroni post-hoc test was also performed. Concordance between the
      two first evaluators for the PIPP measurements were evaluated using the intraclass
      correlation coefficient (ICC).

      In order to compare the preterm infants with and without pain in six different application
      groups, those having PIPP values of ≥6 were defined as 1 "pain" and values less than 6 were
      defined as 0 "no pain". In the analysis of the repeated measure data obtained from the
      preterm infants in six application groups and at different measurement times, the Generalized
      Estimating Equation (GEE) method's multiple logistic regression models were used. When the
      observations are related with each other as in the data with repeated measures, GEE models
      give more effective and unbiased estimates than ANOVA-based models. Statistical significance
      was defined as p<0.05.
    
  