
    
      Liver has a central role in fatty acids metabolism that is impaired in chronic liver
      diseases. Polyunsaturated fatty acids are reportedly reduced in liver cirrhosis, which is
      considered a condition of essential fatty acids deficiency. However, there is a paucity of
      data concerning the level of the multitude of circulating fatty acids in liver cirrhosis.
      Oxidative stress is involved in the pathogenesis of chronic liver disease and fibrosis.
      Increased oxidative stress with impaired antioxidant status at the systemic level has been
      described in different chronic liver diseases and negatively influences graft function after
      liver transplantation (Poli G. 2000, Loguercio C 2003). 7-Ketocholesterol and
      7beta-hydroxycholesterol, prototype molecules of free radical-mediated cholesterol oxidation,
      are very important oxysterols currently accepted as in vivo reliable markers of oxidative
      stress. High oxysterols plasma levels are associated with an alteration of normal plasma
      fatty acid pattern in cystic fibrosis (Iuliano 2009). The Model for End-Stage Liver Disease
      (MELD) score is a common score used routinely to stage liver function in patients with liver
      cirrhosis (Al Sibae 2010). After ischemia-reperfusion injury at liver transplantation
      oxidative stress, hepatic endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and cholesterol metabolism are
      interrelated key processes to preserve graft regeneration and function. A blood sample is
      obtained in each subject to measure MELD score at the first visit and at liver
      transplantation. Further blood samples are collected at days seven and 30 post
      transplantation. Blood samples are also obtained from healthy subjects. Liver biopsy samples
      are obtained from liver transplant donors. Oxidative stress and fatty acids lipidomics are
      measured to evaluate the actual plasma concentration in liver cirrhosis patients to be
      compared with healthy controls. Oxidative stress and fatty acids are also analyzed as a
      function of disease status, and for its influence on transplant outcomes. Lipid metabolism
      gene and endoplasmic stress reticulum gene expression are evaluated in liver biopsy specimen
      to study the influence on graft function.
    
  