
    
      The investigators aim to better understand and delineate the genetic syndrome YY1 (a.k.a.
      Gabriele-de-Vries syndrome).

      This genetic disorder was described in June 2017 in the American Journal of Human Genetics
      (PMID 28575647).

      Since this first publication of 23 individuals carrying the pathogenic mutation YY1, another
      individual has been reported in the literature (PMID 30549423).

      In addition, the first paper focused on the clinical description as well as the effect of
      pathogenic YY1 variations in chromatin regulation.

      The investigators are seeking to better define the phenotype of individuals with pathogenic
      variants of YY1, to better understand intellectual functioning as well as the strengths and
      weaknesses of intellectual functioning by collecting standardized neuropsychological
      assessments already performed such as WPPSI/WISC and WAIS. For this purpose, the
      investigators will gather clinical and neuropsychological data already carried out in the
      context of care.

      The investigators also aim to gather the cerebral MRI scans already performed in order to
      better delimit the cerebral anomalies observed in individuals and if the sequence is adapted,
      the investigators will perform VBM studies.

      Finally, the investigators will attempt to identify an epigenetic signature in this genetic
      disease. To this end, the investigators will collect genomic DNA from peripheral blood
      already collected for genetic analysis and send an anonymized batch of samples to our
      collaborator, Dr. Bekim Sadicovik. Dr. Bekim Sadicovik and his team will compare the
      epigenetic DNA methylation-type markers with the corresponding sex and age controls. If
      specific probes are abnormally methylated in YY1 individuals, this will determine a
      disease-specific epigenetic signature. The investigators will then be able to propose an
      epigenetic signature for individuals with uncharacterized YY1 variations (class 3, VUS). This
      method will make it possible to define whether the variation is responsible for the disease
      or not without going through functional analysis steps that are difficult to implement
      routinely.

      The expected benefits are a better understanding of YY1 disease, keys to neuropsychological
      rehabilitation, a better understanding of human brain functions, the possibility of proposing
      an epigenetic signature for people in whom it is not possible to decide whether a variation
      in the YY1 gene is pathological or not
    
  