
    
      Learners in Group 1 undergo training on the EBUS-TBNA simulator before performing EBUS-TBNA
      on the study patients.

      Learners in Group 2 completed a one month clinical Interventional Pulmonary Medicine
      rotation. During this rotation, they completed ≥15 and ≤25 EBUS-TBNA clinical procedures with
      an Interventional Pulmonologist experienced in EBUS-TBNA.

      Learners in both groups receive a standard EBUS-TBNA knowledge review process before their
      patient care EBUS-TBNA experience. This includes a series of oral questions and a written
      lymph node staging diagram which they need to correctly answer, prior to performing EBUS-TBNA
      on study patients. Learners in Group 2 complete this review process informally on a number of
      occasions during their Interventional Pulmonary Medicine rotations. Learners in Group 1
      formally undergo this review process 5 times during the EBUS-TBNA simulation training.

      Bronchoscopy is performed utilizing a 1T-160 Olympus video bronchoscope (Olympus Canada,
      Markham, Canada) for the airway examination and a BF-UC160F-OL8 (EBUS bronchoscope - Olympus
      Canada, Markham, Canada) for the EBUS-TBNA procedure. In order to standardize for differences
      in bronchoscopy method, a single attending Interventional Pulmonologist (IP) is responsible
      for performing all 16 bronchoscopies with the learners. The complete airway examination and
      any additional non-EBUS-TBNA samples are performed by the attending IP. All endobronchial
      ultrasound bronchoscopy performance metrics are recorded by another IP not involved in the
      procedure on a standard data sheet.

      EBUS-TBNA is performed by the learner with 3 specific goals:

        1. Intubation with the EBUS-TBNA bronchoscope.

        2. Lymph Node Ultrasound Examination. Identify 5 major lymph node stations (11R, 4R, 7, 4L,
           11L).

        3. Sampling of two lymph nodes per patient. The order and location of lymph nodes was at
           the discretion of the attending IP. Following the biopsy of two lymph nodes stations by
           the learner, the attending IP completes the rest of the procedure, including any further
           biopsies that are necessary. The learner is expected to perform 3 successful passes in
           each of the two lymph nodes, with a total of 5 allowed attempts per lymph node station.

      The learner procedure time starts at the time of the first intubation attempt with the
      EBUS-TBNA bronchoscope, and finishes with the last biopsy of the second lymph node station.
      If other clinically important lymph nodes are present or if more than 3 successful
      aspirations are desired, the stopwatch is stopped while the attending IP performed the
      biopsies.

      Samples are placed in alcohol preservative and sent to the cytopathology lab as per our
      routine procedure. No indication as to group allocation is available to the clinical
      cytopathologist interpreting the samples.

      To be enrolled, patients and learners must give written informed consent.

      The EBUS-TBNA simulator used for this study is the AccuTouch Flexible Bronchoscopy Simulator
      (CAE Healthcare, Montreal, Canada), equipped with an EBUS-TBNA module. This simulator has
      been described in detail previously in the articles cited at the end of this
      ClinicalTrials.gov entry.
    
  