
    
      Although there is robust evidence for the efficacy of medication assisted treatment (MAT),
      e.g., buprenorphine, extended-release naltrexone, methadone, this evidence-based treatment
      (EBT) is not available for the majority of opioid dependent clients (ODCs) in the criminal
      justice (CJ) population.

      In a recent survey of drug courts our group found that less than half include MAT as a
      treatment option for their ODCs. Moreover among the minority of courts that do permit MAT, it
      is typically restricted. Responses by drug court personnel revealed serious concerns about
      diversion, misuse, and uncertainty about the efficacy of MAT, especially among courts in
      which MAT was unavailable. Despite these barriers, 70% of the courts indicated that with
      proper evidence MAT could be considered or expanded as a treatment option. To increase court
      professionals' understanding of MAT and facilitate decisions on whether MAT would be an
      appropriate treatment, we proposed a Stage I study to develop and test the feasibility of
      using an eLearning and an eLearning + a behavioral change team intervention, an Addiction
      Technology Transfer Center - ATTC - Technology Transfer [TT] model, to advance knowledge and
      facilitate inclusion of MAT as a treatment option in the criminal justice system (CJS) for
      ODCs. To enhance the eLearning modality we included testimonials from opinion leaders/early
      adopters of MAT (e.g., a drug court judge, a representative from the National Association of
      Drug Court Professionals, and treatment providers) who addressed specific concerns such as
      methods to identify qualified MAT providers, appraise treatment plans, and prevent and
      minimize negative effects of diversion and misuse. The behavioral change intervention will be
      based on a model of process improvement developed by the ATTC Network5 to expand treatment
      options for the management of opioid dependence, in this case MAT. The planned program
      represents the first study to: 1) include testimonials by opinion leaders in conjunction with
      an eLearning approach to spur inclusion of an evidence-based intervention for the treatment
      of opioid dependence within a criminal justice (CJ) setting and; 2) adapt the ATTC TT model
      to the specific goal of facilitating inclusion of MAT as a treatment option. Specific aims of
      the study are:

      Aim 1. Develop an eLearning (web-based) intervention that will provide information about
      risks and benefits of MAT to help drug and felony court staff determine whether MAT is
      suitable for their clients. The protocol will include group discussions with both
      MAT-friendly and MAT-averse court personnel and inclusion of a MAT Advisory Panel (MAP), a
      team of experts in the implementation of MAT in CJ settings. Through an iterative process
      (review/revisions by MAT experts and court staff) we will develop a consensual outline
      representing topics that would be addressed by our web-based intervention. The objective will
      be to provide a balanced, thorough presentation of both benefits and risks of MAT provision
      and will specifically seek to address concerns about MAT provision such as diversion and
      misuse. Informed by diffusion of innovations theory, the eLearning modules will be enhanced
      by including testimony of criminal justice professionals about their experiences with MAT in
      their courtrooms, what their concerns had been prior to MAT adoption by their court, and how
      ￼these concerns (and other obstacles that emerged) were addressed.

      ￼ Aim 2. Develop a TT intervention to facilitate Courts' readiness and resources to engage in
      case-by-case inquiries to determine whether and under what circumstances to permit MAT.
      Working with ATTC TT experts we will develop a change team (CT) intervention for court
      representatives and treatment providers (including Judge, coordinator, administrator, and
      case-managers). The objective of the proposed CT intervention will be to: 1) Broker
      relationships between MAT providers and courts; ensuring that MAT providers will accept court
      referred individuals; 2) Reinforce the educational objectives - including addressing in
      substantive ways issues of availability, access (including cost), misuse, and diversion -
      with court personnel in order to expand policy and practice to include MAT; 3) Work with
      local MAT and other treatment providers to help create an environment in which MAT is
      accepted as part of the constellation of available treatments; 4) help develop protocols such
      as assertive ongoing monitoring and support to assure that MAT benefits are sustained once a
      client has been referred to treatment.

      Aim 3. Conduct a small-scale trial to evaluate the preliminary effectiveness of the eLearning
      intervention, and the eLearning + change team intervention (TT-intervention). Targeting
      courts that either do not place their ODCs in MAT or tightly restrict MAT access, 24 courts
      will be randomly assigned to 1 of 2 treatment conditions: 1. Treatment as usual, followed by
      the eLearning intervention, or 2. eLearning intervention followed by the CT intervention.
      Outcomes include 1) the rate of enrollment of clients in MAT; 2) rate of referral of clients
      to MAT; 3) MAT Knowledge, 4) Willingness to use MAT, and 5) Barriers to MAT. We expect this
      development/pilot project will lead to a protocol to implement an EBT in the CJS; a setting
      with high numbers of ODCs.
    
  