
    
      Primary objective To compare two commonly used MS medications, IFN β-1a subcutaneous three
      times per week (Rebif) and oral twice daily dimethyl fumarate (Tecfidera), on mean number of
      new or enlarging T2 lesions at 6 months in adults with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis
      who are prescribed these medications and receive a 6 month MRI scan as standard of care.

      Key secondary objective To compare Rebif vs. Tecfidera in reducing the T2 lesion volume,
      number of T1 black holes, gadolinium-enhancing lesions, brain parenchymal fraction, brain
      white matter fraction and brain gray matter fraction on the 6 month MRI.

      Other secondary objectives

        -  To compare the two treatments on the following clinical efficacy measures which are
           routinely obtained as part of our clinical practice: Expanded disability status score
           (EDSS), ambulation index (AI), disease steps and number of relapses. In addition we will
           obtain the MSFC-4, which in addition to the AI which is routinely done, will include the
           symbol digit modalities test (SDMT), low contrast visual acuity, and 9 hole peg test.

        -  To compare adherence to the two treatments using an adherence question.

      Tertiary objectives

        -  To compare the two treatments on optical coherence tomography (OCT) and visual acuity
           measures.

        -  To compare the following patient reported outcomes: MSQOL-54 (MSQOL54), Modified MOS
           Social Support Survey (MSSS), Modified Fatigue Impact Scale (MFIS), Center for
           Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D).

        -  To compare cognitive function using the brief repeatable battery of neuropsychological
           tests in Multiple Sclerosis (BRB) which includes the following cognitive measures:
           Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT), Selective Reminding Test (SRT), 10/36 Spatial
           Recall Test (10/36), Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT).

        -  To compare the following Pharmacoeconomic outcomes: Healthcare Utilization and Costs,
           QUALY, Unscheduled visits (office, ER, hospital), out-of-pocket expenses (e.g., durable
           medical equipment, copays), Work Productivity and Activity Impairment (WPAI), Treatment
           satisfaction questionnaire (Treatment Satisfaction for Medication Questionnaire (TSQM))

      Design: The study is a single center, 6-month, randomized, parallel-group, single blind study
      to compare two FDA approved treatments for MS (Rebif and Tecfidera) in adults with
      relapsing-remitting MS. 120 subjects will be treated with each medication (total 240
      patients). Randomization will ensure balanced patient groups and prevent bias. Patients will
      be prescribed the medication by their treating physician who will follow the patient in a
      open fashion as part of standard of care for MS including obtaining MRI imaging at 6 months.
      At 6 months, patients will have a neurologic exam by an independent examining physician and
      administration of questionaires by study staff blinded to their treatment.

      Methods: Relapsing-remitting patients beginning medication and deemed suitable for treatment
      with Rebif or Tecfidera as part of standard of care for MS will be explained the nature of
      the study, after which informed consent will be obtained. They will undergo a baseline visit
      and then randomized to one of the two treatments. Blood samples for biomarker studies will be
      collected at the baseline visit and at 6 months. MRI is obtained prior to therapy and at 6
      months as part of standard of care. Following the completion of the 6 month study period,
      subjects are able to continue on either of the two treatments or switch to another agent
      according to their own preference and following discussions with their treating MS
      neurologist.

      Subjects who discontinue treatments prior to the 6 month period are free to begin another
      therapy. Upon discontinuation of treatment, subjects will complete the end of study (EOS)
      visit as soon as possible and will be followed for the duration of the 6-month treatment
      phase.
    
  