
    
      This is a phase 2 multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial of
      patients who have high-risk intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMN) of the pancreas.
      Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion and stratified by whether the patient had
      high-grade dysplasia (yes vs. no vs. no resection) identified in the initial resection
      specimen (for resected subjects), and whether or not the patient is taking metformin at the
      time of randomization. Patients will be required to have undergone a pancreas CT or CT
      angiogram of the pancreas in accordance with the standard practice at the enrolling
      institution within 3 months of study entry. The CT imaging study will be used to document
      baseline IPMN characteristics and to ensure that there is no evidence of a preexisting
      pancreatic cancer.

      Following randomization, patients will take the study drug or placebo BID for 3 years. Both
      the study drug arm and the placebo arm will undergo standard laboratory, radiographic, and
      endoscopic assessment for IPMN progression. Every 6 months, patients will undergo assessment
      of serum CMP, CBC, and CA19-9. EUS will be performed 6 months after randomization (+/- 4
      weeks) and then annually. Pancreatic CT will be performed 1 year after randomization (+/- 4
      weeks) and then annually. The intent of these timings is to have the EUS and CT be on an
      alternating 6-month schedule per standard of care.

      Patients, nurses, and physicians will be blinded to the randomization. Study drug will be
      provided to patients in the outpatient clinic. Pill diaries will be provided at the time that
      the study drugs are given and will be evaluated every 6 months, at the time of routine
      follow-up.

      Safety and efficacy will be assessed throughout the treatment period. Assessment for study
      drug complications will be made by phone call every other month (in between routine
      follow-up) and at routine follow-up every 6 months by the attending surgeon or designee,
      until the end of the study. If a complication is identified, the study drug will be
      discontinued. Patient evaluations will be scheduled bi-annually for the primary endpoint and
      off-schedule evaluations may be made to address symptoms or clinical concerns as they arise.

      The investigators plan to accrue 200 patients during a period of 2 years and will follow all
      patients for 3 additional years, for a total trial duration of 5 years.
    
  