
    
      Less than 20% of primary care providers adhere to national asthma guidelines. Interventions
      to improve provider adherence to guidelines have had modest success. We believe that changing
      provider behavior must be viewed in the context of the provider's environment. We hypothesize
      that providers who are most successful in implementing and sustaining asthma management
      programs will have a set of personal attributes, related to asthma, characterized by
      readiness to change, high self-efficacy, positive outcome expectancies and high outcome value
      AND will work within organizations that facilitate and support such activities. We propose a
      two phase study. In Phase 1 (Year 1) survey instrument development and testing and provider
      meetings to discuss the interventions will occur. Providers in 49 practices/clinics that are
      using an asthma management program called Easy Breathing, will complete these surveys that
      will characterize the organization and organizational culture of the clinics/practices and
      the provider personal attributes surrounding asthma. In Years 2-5, a randomized, controlled
      study of either a behavioral intervention, an organizational intervention or no intervention
      (control) will be performed in 36 of these clinics/practices. Clinics/practices in the
      behavioral arm will receive an intervention consisting of expert modeling, program-, clinic-
      and provider-specific feedback, and use of opinion leaders and academic detailing.
      Clinics/practices in the organizational arm will receive an intervention consisting of
      benchmarking, leadership capability training and team building and incentives/ rewards. The
      primary outcome variable is the number of Easy Breathing surveys completed by provider and by
      clinic/unit of time. We have previously shown that enrollment in Easy Breathing (which was
      adapted directly from the national asthma guidelines) as demonstrated by completion of a
      survey is a surrogate indicator of inhaled corticosteroid use and is associated with
      decreased medical services utilization. This study will thus investigate the complex
      interactions between provider personal attributes and the organization and the effect of
      targeted interventions on provider performance to implement an asthma disease management
      program. These data will then be used in future studies to determine how to better tailor
      interventions in a cost constrained environment.
    
  