
    
      Congestive heart failure is an important public health issue. It remains the leading cause of
      hospitalization in Medicare beneficiaries. Ninety percent of all hospitalizations for CHF are
      due to fluid overload. Most of the expense related to the management of heart failure is due
      to hospital-based care; interventions that reduce the amount of time patients spend in the
      hospital may greatly decrease the cost associated with caring for these patients.

      Hospital stay for patients admitted for acute decompensated congestive heart failure (adCHF)
      is largely dictated by how quickly the signs and symptoms of congestion can be relieved and
      whether ACE inhibitors can be started safely. Diuretics are usually effective in relieving
      congestion, but achieving adequate diuresis often requires a process of trial and error. Some
      patients are simply refractory to oral or intravenous diuretics. Diuretics stimulate adverse
      neurohormonal systems and can cause progressive azotemia. Bayliss (1977) showed that there is
      a significant increase in renin and aldosterone levels as a response to diuretic treatment
      rather than as a result of the heart failure itself. Gottlieb (2002) showed that loop
      diuretics diminish glomerular filtration rate in patients with heart failure. In addition, as
      more diuretics are given, serum electrolyte imbalances often occur, requiring additional
      monitoring of patients.

      UF has been used as a therapeutic method to remove excessive fluid in patients for over 30
      years. UF removes excess water without causing a significant clinical change in the
      electrolyte composition of the blood or causes adverse affects on the kidneys and
      neurohormonal system. Studies have shown that UF increases urine output, increases
      responsiveness to standard oral therapies and decreases readmission rate. While the
      usefulness of UF in this patient population has great potential, this form of therapy is not
      usually performed due to the need for invasive venous access and increased expense i.e. high
      flow dialysis machines. CHF Solutions has developed the Aquadex System that has FDA market
      clearance for UF. The advantage of the Aquadex System is its simplicity and the fact that it
      can be administered by means of peripheral catheters or with a central venous access. Early
      prospective series and subsequent clinical experience involving adCHF patients have shown
      that 4 to 8 liters can easily be withdrawn in a short amount of time using the peripheral
      access approach with the Aquadex System. Volume removal was not associated with disruption of
      electrolyte balance, worsening of renal distress or impact on blood pressure or heart rate of
      clinical significance. The Aquadex System is a predictable, safe, and effective way to ensure
      adequate volume removal that may result in shorter hospital stays, better symptom relief and
      more efficient dosing of medications for the treatment of adCHF.

      The purpose of this study is to determine whether the Aquadex System can improve the acute
      management of patients with adCHF and maintain this improvement over a period of time
      compared to IV diuretics. Ultrafiltration in this patient population may decrease length of
      hospital stay and reduce hospital readmissions for heart failure leading to a significant
      reduction in costs for the treatment of these patients.
    
  