
    
      The proposed study will consist of a pilot trial of three 12-week, 24-session Tai Chi
      intervention groups compared with three 12-week, 24-session wellness education control
      groups. Participants will be randomly assigned in blocks of 14 to either the Tai Chi or the
      wellness education condition, half to each. Veterans who do not agree to randomization will
      be excluded. Baseline and post-intervention assessments will be completed, and it is
      anticipated that 42 individuals will complete baseline assessments. After the final sessions,
      participants will be asked to provide feedback to investigators via questionnaires, a focus
      group discussion, and individual interviews utilizing open-ended questions. Information
      collected from participants will be integrated and utilized for presentations/manuscript
      preparation, as well as to refine protocols for use in future research.

      Potentially eligible veterans who have expressed interest in the study will be called and
      research staff will describe all aspects of the study. Research staff will answer any
      questions, and then obtain oral consent for screening for eligibility criteria in the medical
      record. Study staff will then go through the eligibility criteria over the telephone and
      schedule a baseline assessment as appropriate. Participants will be mailed information about
      the time and location for the initial baseline assessment and the class schedule and location
      to which they are assigned. They will also receive phone calls with this information.
      Information collected during the telephone screening (prior to completion of the Informed
      Consent Form) will be collected and retained with the prospective participant's verbal
      permission. This information will be kept separate from identifying information (names,
      addresses, and telephone numbers). Some information collected from the electronic medical
      record will be recorded in order to document inclusion and exclusion criteria.
    
  