
    
      1. Background: Formocresol (FC) is the most widely used pulpotomy medicament in the primary
           dentition. There are concerns associated with this medicament, primarily the
           carcinogenicity of the chemical and internal resorption of the treated tooth. Recently,
           Mineral Trioxide Aggregate (MTA) has been suggested with preliminary studies showing
           promising results.

        2. Study design: This is a prospective clinical randomized controlled trial (RCT), which
           will be performed at Department of Dentistry, National Taiwan University Hospital, to
           compare the treatment outcomes between MTA and FC in pulpotomized human primary molars
           and to evaluate whether GMTA is a viable alternative to DFC in pulpotomies treatment of
           human primary molars.

        3. Hypotheses:

             -  Null Hypotheses: there is no clinical, radiographic, or histological difference
                between GMTA and DFC at 6, 12, 18, 24 month post-treatment when used as a pulp
                dressing agent in pulpotomized primary molars.

             -  Alternative Hypotheses: There is a statistically significant difference between
                GMTA and DFC as a pulpotomy agent. GMTA shows clinical and/or radiographic and/or
                histological success as a dressing material following pulpotomy in primary human
                molars and may be a suitable replacement for DFC in primary molar pulpotomy.

        4. Specific Aims:

             -  The primary aims of this investigation are:

                  1. Compare the clinical and radiographic results of GMTA with DFC pulpotomies on
                     vital human primary molars at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months post-operatively.

                  2. Assess intraradicular histological changes of the pulpal tissue and root
                     dentin following pulpotomy treatment with GMTA or DFC.

             -  The secondary aims of this investigation are:

                  1. Assess the outcome of GMTA by multiple operators that have been calibrated to
                     the methods of mixing and placing the material.

                  2. Assess whether sex, tooth type, arch, and age of patient at time of treatment
                     influence the overall success rate of GMTA pulpotomies.

                  3. Compare the radiographic success of the two materials based on both the
                     traditional radiographic assessment criteria adopted by the American Academy
                     of Pediatric Dentistry (AAPD) and the alternative radiographic success
                     criteria adopted by Zurn et al. 2000.

                  4. To serve as a basis for future research in the comparison of GMTA and DFC
                     pulpotomies. This will include larger sample size, longer follow-up periods,
                     and a collaborative study with UM group (Prof. Jan C. Hu).
    
  