
    
      The goal of the proposed study is to perform a randomized, controlled trial (RCT) to test the
      efficacy of a novel integrative exercise program called Preventing Loss of Independence
      through Exercise (PLIE) on function and quality of life in older adults living in the
      community with Mild cognitive impairment (MCI), which is an intermediate stage between the
      expected cognitive decline of normal aging and the more-serious decline of dementia.

      Because current dementia medications have minimal impact on function and quality of life and
      do not stop or slow the disease course, it would be desirable if there were an intervention
      that could prevent or delay the onset of full-blown dementia. Moreover, there is growing
      evidence that behavioral interventions such as exercise have a variety of beneficial effects
      in individuals with dementia and MCI.

      PLIE was developed based on recent discoveries in neuroscience and experimental psychology
      that have found that, although explicit memory (the ability to consciously recall new
      information) is impaired in individuals with dementia, implicit memory (unconscious learning
      that typically occurs through repeated exposure) is relatively preserved. Therefore, PLIE
      focuses on training procedural memory (unconscious learning of procedures) to build the
      strength and capacity to perform the movements that are most needed for daily function (e.g.,
      transitioning safely from sitting to standing). In addition, to maximize the benefits of the
      training, PLIE integrates elements of Eastern and Western exercise modalities to develop
      mindful body awareness and enhance social connection.

      The investigators have completed a pilot study of the PLIE program at an adult day center in
      San Francisco, CA. Results suggest that PLIE was associated with clinically meaningful
      improvements in cognitive function, physical performance and quality of life as well as
      reduced caregiver burden when compared with usual care at the facility. The current study
      will enable the investigators to build on this pilot study results by performing a RCT of
      PLIE for individuals who have MCI but who do not yet have dementia.

      Study participants will be randomly assigned to receive the PLIE intervention program (1
      hour, 2 days/week, 4 months) or Usual Care (UC) control (standard senior center activities, 1
      hour, 2 days/week, 4 months) (N=40, 20/group) using a wait-list design. The co-primary
      outcomes are 4-month change in physical function (Short Physical Performance Battery, SPPB),
      cognitive function (Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale - cognitive subscale, ADAS-cog) and
      quality of life (Quality of Life in Alzheimer's Disease, QOL-AD). The investigators will also
      look at the 4-month change in the following neuroimaging measures: brain volume with
      structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), functional connectivity with resting-state
      functional MRI, cerebral perfusion with arterial-spin labeled MRI. To account for the
      wait-list design, all outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 4 months and 8 months.

      The proposed project will address a critically important health problem related to optimizing
      functional status and quality of life in older individuals with MCI. The current study will
      utilize rigorous research methods to test the efficacy of an innovative and promising new
      program for older adults with MCI. If the program is successful, the investigators will work
      with VA and community-based organizations to implement PLIE more broadly.
    
  