
    
      Pragmatic Trial Demonstration Goals

      The HiLo Trial is one of the pragmatic trial demonstration projects of the NIH Health Care
      Systems (HCS) Research Collaboratory. These demonstration projects are intended to be large
      clinical trials that are conducted within the clinical care environment and evaluate
      interventions implemented by care providers and relying as much as possible on data obtained
      as part of routine clinical care. HiLo has the following demonstration project goals:

        1. To implement an electronic consent process;

        2. To use of a single IRB of record to oversee hundreds of dialysis facilities;

        3. To implement a trial-driven treatment algorithm by dietitians at the participating
           dialysis units

        4. To harmonize across 2 different dialysis providers data elements obtained though
           clinical care;

        5. To monitor safety without using individual adverse event reporting.

      HiLo will cluster-randomize dialysis facilities using stratification to achieve balance
      across the two arms. Stratification will be by dialysis provider organization (DaVita or
      University of Utah) and by unit size (above or below the provider's median facility census).
      Within each stratum, the facilities will be randomly assigned. Once a facility is randomized,
      all of its individually enrolled patients will be assigned the same treatment.

      Participants will be followed for up to 27 (enter at enrollment end) - 45 (enter at
      enrollment start) months.

      Two phosphate titration protocols will be used that have the same "look and feel" as those
      used in practice in an effort to sustain a mean time-averaged difference in serum phosphate
      between the two arms of ≥1 mg/dl:

        1. Low serum phosphate target that is consistent with current standard of care: The goal is
           to titrate and maintain serum phosphate to <5.5 mg/dl.

        2. Higher serum phosphate target that is the intervention strategy: The goal is to titrate
           and maintain serum phosphate to ≥6.5 mg/dl by setting a serum phosphate threshold >7.0
           mg/dl when binders will be initiated, as has been done previously.

      A mean serum phosphate of 4.8-5.2 is anticipated in the low arm and 6.5-6.8 in the high arm,
      as observed in two pilot clinical trials.Since serum phosphate is 4-7 mg/dl in most patients
      with ESRD, ≥1 mg/dl difference equates with a ≥33% difference within the modifiable range of
      time-averaged phosphate exposure. Specific binder choices will be relegated to the discretion
      of local providers based on local practice.
    
  