
    
      Rationale. Gingivitis and periodontitis represent highly prevalent oral pathologies in
      pregnant women. The physiological, immunological and endocrine changes imposed by pregnancy
      are associated with a greater predisposition for the development of gingivitis. Considering
      the potential association between the presence of gingivitis and the development of
      complications during pregnancy and the time of delivery (preeclampsia, preterm, IUGRs), it is
      important to evaluate the impact of early administration of a mixture of lactobacillus on
      improved health oral status, and at the same time assessing the effect on risk reduction of
      prematurity and/or IUGRs.

      For primary outcome the investigators will evaluate the changes along the study in the oral
      health status evaluated through a composite of Modified Gingival Index (Lobene) + Plaque
      Index (Silnes and Loe) + Gingival Bleeding Index + Probing pocket depth (PPD) and Clinical
      attachment level (CAL).

      For secondary outcomes the investigators will evaluate rate of prematurity and or
      Intrauterine growth retardation; changes in mother salivary markers of systemic inflammation;
      profile of inflammosome in placenta and new born cord blood; lactobacilli, bifidobacteria and
      streptococcus profile in vagina by RT-PCR (specific primers); changes during the study for
      oral microbiome Intervention group wil receive L. reuteri Prodentis (L. reuteri DSM 17938 &
      L. reuteri ATCC PTA 5289 ) at a dose of 2x10^8 Colony Forming Units (CFU). One lozenges is to
      be taken twice per day (one in the morning and one in the afternoon) giving a total daily
      dose of at least 4x108 CFU/day since randomization until delivery.

      The control group will receive placebo lozenges which contains identical ingredients except
      for lacking the bacteria. One lozenges is to be taken twice per day (one in the morning and
      one in the afternoon. The study product will be kept refrigerated (+20 - +80 C)
    
  