
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the overall survival (OS) in patients with stage II-IIIB non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC) after image guided, motion-managed photon radiotherapy (Arm 1) or after image
      guided, motion-managed proton radiotherapy (Arm 2) both given with concurrent platinum- based
      chemotherapy.

      II. To compare the cardiac toxicity and lymphocyte reduction (lymphopenia) definitely,
      probably, or possibly related to treatment between the 2 arms.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) between the 2 arms. II. To compare the
      development of grade 3 or higher adverse events not included above that are definitely,
      probably, or possibly related to treatment.

      III. To compare differences between the two arms in quality of life (QOL) based primarily on
      the development of shortness of breath at 6 months and secondarily on the development of sore
      throat at the end of chemoradiotherapy (chemoRT) (as measured by the lung cancer module of
      the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory [MDASI-Lung]), as well as breathing related functioning
      impairments as measured by the Shortness Breath Questionnaire [SOBQ].

      IV. To compare cost-effectiveness outcomes between the 2 arms. V. To compare pulmonary
      function changes by treatment arms and response. VI. To explore the most appropriate and
      clinically relevant technological parameters to ensure quality and effectiveness throughout
      radiation therapy processes, including imaging, simulation, patient immobilization, target
      and critical structure definition, treatment planning, image guidance and delivery.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo photon beam radiation therapy 5 days per week for a total of 35
      fractions and receive either paclitaxel* intravenously (IV) over 1 hour and carboplatin* IV
      weekly during radiation therapy or etoposide IV on days 1-5 and 29-33 and cisplatin IV on
      days 1, 8, 29, and 36. Patients with non-squamous cell cancera may receive pemetrexed IV and
      carboplatin IV on every 21 days.

      ARM II: Patients undergo proton beam radiation therapy 5 days per week for a total of 35
      fractions and receive either paclitaxel* and carboplatin*, etoposide and cisplatin, or
      pemetrexed and carboplatin (for non-squamous cell cancer patients only) as in Arm I.

      *In both arms, patients who receive paclitaxel and carboplatin must complete 2 courses of
      consolidation therapy.

      CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Beginning 3-6 weeks after chemoradiotherapy, patients receive either
      paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV on day 1 or durvalumab IV every 2 weeks.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses or every 2 weeks for up to 12 months for
      durvalumab in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with
      non-squamous cell carcinoma may receive durvalumab or pemetrexed IV and carboplatin IV on day
      1 every 21 days for up to 4 courses.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-8 weeks, every 3 months
      for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.
    
  