
    
      The prevalence of pleural effusion is high among medical patients, reaching 62% among Medical
      ICU patients. Often clinicians are standing in front of a symptomatic respiratory patient
      with moderate or large pleural effusion. The clinical question whether TC will be beneficial
      for the patient with respiratory compromise is yet to be shown. There are few, small scale
      studies on the benefit of pleural effusion thoracentesis. Only one study found sustained
      effect of thoracentesis on oxygenation among 10 patients on mechanical ventilation. Lung
      function was found to improve after TC among patients with paradoxical movement of
      hemidiaphragm, and relief of dyspnea after large pleural effusion TC was demonstrated as
      well. No study to date, as the investigators know, on the benefit of TC, was done on
      non-ventilated, ward patients with moderate to large pleural effusion. Also, no studies to
      date showed any improved clinical outcome of this procedure.

      Although ultrasound guided TC is a safer mode than blinded TC, complications as pneumothorax,
      pain, shortness of breath, cough, bleeding, hematoma, and re-expansion pulmonary edema may
      result from TC. Although no consensus exist regarding the benefit of TC still this procedure
      is common among ventilated and non-ventilated patients. The investigators seek to find
      whether there is clinical benefit for TC, among non-ventilated, ward patients with moderate
      to large pleural effusion. For this purpose the investigators aim to conduct a prospective
      randomized trial.

      In this study the investigators aim to compare outcomes as: hospital length of stay, vital
      signs and wellbeing, utilization of imaging modalities and readmission rates among patients
      who had therapeutic TC compared to those who had not. Also the investigators would like to
      try and predict the amount of pleural effusion from the ultrasound imaging as well as to find
      the added value of point of care US screening of pleural effusion on top of routine Xr among
      patients with respiratory instability.

      To the best of the investigators' knowledge, no prospective randomized study to date has
      compared the strategy of TC to none among non-ventilated ward patients with respiratory
      complains.

      This is a prospective, double-center, randomized clinical trial. This is a stage 1 pilot
      trial aimed to provide better understanding on the study population and study groups. This
      trial will comprise a total of 60 patients, 30 subjects on the intervention group and an
      equal number on the control group. The results of this pilot trial will be to design a larger
      trial and calculate a required sample size.
    
  