
    
      Background: Every year over 300 children and adolescents up to the age of 18 years are newly
      diagnosed with cancer in Switzerland. Survival after childhood cancer has increased
      substantially over the last decades and 10-year survival now exceeds 85%. This results in an
      increasing numbers of childhood cancer survivors - currently around 7,000 survivors in
      Switzerland. Due to cancer treatment or the cancer itself, a large part of the childhood
      cancer survivors suffers from late effects. Early diagnosis and intervention can reduce
      morbidity and mortality due to late effects. Therefore, regular follow-up care, even beyond
      childhood, is very important, but transition from pediatric to adult follow-up care is a
      critical point. In Switzerland there are very different aftercare and transition models,
      although it is unclear which aftercare strategy is the best and meets the needs of survivors.
      The Aftercare of Childhood Cancer Survivors (ACCS) study aims to fill this gap.

      Objectives: The main objective of the ACCS study is to identify the current needs of
      adolescent and young adult long-term survivors in terms of follow-up care by comparing three
      different transition practices. The secondary objective is to assess survivors' knowledge on
      their diagnosis, therapy and follow-up examinations longitudinally.

      Methods: ACCS is a multicenter questionnaire-based study, including survivors from three
      pediatric oncology centers in Switzerland. Eligible survivors who already transitioned to
      adult care at start of the study once receive a letter explaining the purpose of the study,
      the study information, the informed consent form, and the questionnaire. The questionnaire
      asks about cancer knowledge and additionally includes validated scales on cancer worry,
      self-management skills, ongoing care, and expectations. The survivors send the documents back
      by a prepaid envelope. Eligible survivors before transition to adult care at start of the
      study receive a letter explaining the purpose of the study, the study information and
      informed consent form, and the first questionnaire two to four weeks before the next
      scheduled follow-up visit. They can either send the documents back before the visit or bring
      them to the visit. The participants receive three month after the visit a short questionnaire
      to assess cancer knowledge. Three month after the follow-up visit after transition (15 month
      after last visit in pure pediatric setting), the participants receive the first comprehensive
      questionnaire again.

      Rationale and significance: There are very different aftercare and transition models in
      Switzerland, although it is unclear which follow-up care strategy best meets the needs of
      survivors. The data collected within the ACCS study helps to define which transition and
      follow-up care strategies and related factors are favoured by adolescent and young adult
      survivors. Adaption of transition processes to the needs of survivors improve adherence to
      follow-up care of adult childhood cancer survivors. As late effects increase with increasing
      time from treatment, adult survivors of childhood cancer are at particular risk to develop
      late effects and it is important that they continue follow-up care.
    
  