
    
      IDH1 mutations are thought to be among the earliest mutations occurring during transformation
      of glial cells into gliomas and dependence on the IDH-2HG pathway for survival and growth may
      be most relevant during the indolent phase of low grade tumor growth. However, the
      preclinical workup of IDH inhibitors was technically unable to assess low grade gliomas
      because the cells do not grow in vitro and so cannot be cultured, and the cells have such a
      low proliferation rate that they do not grow in mouse in vivo models. Despite this, Dr. Maher
      and colleagues have studied low grade metabolism in low grade gliomas in vivo, in patients
      undergoing surgical resection and infused with 13C-glucose or 13C-acetate. 13C-labeled tumor
      can be studied by 13C-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) ex vivo. 13C-NMR data from IDH-mutated
      low grade gliomas demonstrate that these tumors are highly metabolically active, capable of
      oxidizing both glucose and acetate while these substrates also contribute carbon to actively
      making 2HG (manuscript in preparation). These data strongly suggest that the low grade tumors
      may be dependent on the IDH pathway for maintaining the altered metabolic state of the cell
      and altered epigenome necessary for tumor growth. Treating low grade gliomas during the
      period of indolent growth poses a challenge in terms of evaluating a molecular targeted
      therapy for response and survival. Standard MRI assessment for low grade gliomas based on
      T2/FLAIR signal can be difficult to quantitate and reflects additional non-specific changes
      in the tumor microenvironment including edema and reactive gliosis. This is exacerbated by
      the natural history of these tumors for which there may be no change in tumor size over
      years. Added to this is the uncertainty that a drug was able to penetrate the blood brain
      barrier, enter the tumor and inhibit the target. To date, there is no non-invasive way to
      determine target inhibition, leaving the patients on a drug that may not inhibit the target
      and the investigator unsure if data being obtained reflects true activity. The current
      clinical trial addresses these challenges through a neoadjuvant clinical trial that combines
      non-invasive evaluation of 2HG by MRS to assess target inhibition within 1 week of study
      entry and direct tumor tissue analysis after 6 weeks on study in the surgical cohort. The
      comprehensive planned tissue analysis is designed to assess the impact of IDH305 on metabolic
      pathways, the epigenome and transcriptome, in addition to standard assessment of cellular
      proliferation and cell kill. A second cohort of patients, the non-surgical cohort, will
      include patients with a presumptive diagnosis of IDH-mutated glioma based on elevated 2HG on
      screening 2HG MRS but without a surgical resection planned because of perceived high risk of
      the procedure. It is anticipated that ~ 93% of these patients will have an IDH1 mutation and
      thus treatment with the IDH1 selective inhibitor will knockdown 2HG. For patients with an
      IDH2 mutation (~7-8%), we anticipate that there will be no change in 2HG. These patients will
      come off study, sparing them any potential toxicity without potential benefit.
    
  