
    
      The specific aim is to determine the effect of progressive resistance training and
      α-linolenic acid supplementation for decreasing markers of inflammation and improving muscle
      mass and strength in older adults. This will be done by comparing older adults who will
      participate in the same resistance training program while supplementing their diet with
      either α-linolenic acid or placebo.

      The hypotheses of this research are:

      Resistance training combined with α-linolenic acid supplementation will decrease the
      pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α), and
      increase strength and muscle mass more than resistance training and placebo supplementation
      in older individuals.

      Sixty untrained males and females over 60 years of age will be recruited by newspaper ads.
      Subjects will be matched for sex and age and randomly assigned to supplement with 15 g/day
      α-linolenic acid (ALA) from flaxseed oil or placebo (corn oil) while participating in
      resistance training, 3 times per week for 12 weeks. The 15 g dose was chosen because it was
      effective for reducing pro-inflammatory cytokines in healthy adults over 4 weeks (Caughey et
      al., 1996). Twelve weeks of resistance training was chosen because it is effective for
      increasing muscle mass and strength in older adults (Chrusch et al., 2001). Our sample size
      of 30 subjects per group will be sufficient for detecting the expected changes in cytokines
      (Caughey et al., 1996) with a power of 80% and alpha level of 0.05. The primary dependent
      variables will be the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNF-α. Secondary dependent
      variables are chest press and leg press strength, lean tissue mass, and muscle thickness. A 2
      (groups) x 2 (time, baseline and 12 weeks) ANOVA with repeated measures on the 2nd factor,
      will be used for analyses with alpha level of 0.05.

      Methodology: Exercise Training: The exercise training will consist of a progressive
      resistance training program designed to increase skeletal muscle hypertrophy by having
      participants complete 12 different machine-based resistance exercises. The exercises will
      include: chest press, shoulder press, lat pulldown, bicep curl, triceps extension, leg press,
      knee flexion, knee extension, hip flexion/extension, and hip abduction/adduction. The
      subjects will complete between 3-4 sets of 6-12 repetitions at intensities between 65-80% of
      their 1 repetition maximum in a progressively overloaded fashion.

      Biochemical Measures: Assessment of markers of inflammation will be done by biochemical blood
      analysis at baseline and after 12 weeks supplementation combined with resistance training.
      Blood will be drawn after an overnight night fast in the morning to account for changes due
      to diurnal variation. Approximately 10 mL of blood will be drawn from the antecubital vein of
      the arm. Serum will be assessed for the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-6 and tumor
      necrosis factor-alpha using ELISA.

      Fitness Testing: One repetition maximum (RM) strength tests will be done using chest press
      and leg press at baseline and 12 weeks. Subjects will complete a standardized warm-up of
      cycling and stretching before the strength test. The testing protocol will allow subjects to
      become familiar with the movement patterns of the resistance training machines before
      initiating the strength testing trials. Subjects will be gradually progressed to the maximal
      load that they can lift for the chest press and leg press. Once the subject is unable to
      complete a full repetition, the last successful attempt will be recorded as their 1RM.

      Body Composition: Lean tissue and fat mass will be assessed by dual energy X-ray
      absorptiometry, and muscle thickness of the extensors and flexors of the elbows and knees
      will be determined by ultrasound at baseline and 12 weeks.
    
  