
    
      IBD can be challenging to manage as disease flares are often unpredictable and rarely
      coincide with scheduled outpatient appointments. Websites are a novel way of assisting
      patients to take more control over monitoring and managing symptoms and have been shown to
      improve outcomes in some chronic diseases. The My Medical Record (MyMR) webiste was developed
      to help patients learn about IBD, access test results, monitor symptoms, and manage their
      medications, with email support from the IBD team.

      The use of home faecal calprotectin monitoring will also be explored. This marker of IBD
      activity is normally performed in hospital laboratories and becomes elevated before the onset
      of clinical symptoms of an IBD flare. New technologies enable patients to perform the test at
      home with the aid of a smartphone application.

      A 6 month exploratory feasibility study will be conducted to assess if a combination of MyMR
      and a home faecal testing kit is a feasible and acceptable means for patients to monitor
      their illness. Their use will be targeted to patients who have recently stopped (or reduced)
      a treatment for IBD, as up to 50% of these patients may have a disease flare within a year.

      Interventions

        -  Clinic appointments Study participants will not be required to attend any routine
           outpatient follow up appointments for the 6 month study period, after which they will be
           reviewed by a member of the IBD team.

        -  Questionnaires and interviews Partcipants will receive questionnaires and a sample will
           also undergo interviews to explore their views regarding the website and stool test.

        -  Website

      Participants will be encouraged to use all functions of the website at least monthly:

        1. Secure email messaging service

        2. IBD educational material

        3. Stool, nutritional and flare journals

        4. Blood and test results

        5. Faecal calprotectin monitoring - monthly testing (or sooner if symptoms of a flare-up)
           using QuantonCal home faecal calprotectin smartphone application. Participants will test
           and monitor their FC levels monthly. The results will be overseen by the IBD team who
           will make contact within a week in the event of abnormal results if the participant has
           not already done so.

             -  Blood tests All participants will have a routine blood test at 0 and 6 months.
                Those taking azathioprine, mercaptopurine and methotrexate should continue regular
                blood monitoring (minimum of 3 monthly FBC, U&E, LFT and CRP) as usual practice.
                Participants will be provided with blood test results and explanations of their
                significance via MyMR. The results will be overseen by the IBD team who will make
                contact within a week in the event of abnormal results if the patient has not
                already done so.

             -  Safety Patients can contact the IBD team the email messaging service at any time
                for advice and support.
    
  