
    
      Background: Text messaging shows promise as an intervention mode for many health conditions
      due to its accessibility and timeliness . Few studies have evaluated the effectiveness of
      text message-based interventions for weight loss. This study is a randomized controlled trial
      comparing an intervention of daily text messaging (Text4Diet) focused on weight-related
      behaviors to a control group.

      Participant Involvement: One hundred seventy overweight or obese adults will have their
      height and weight measured and complete a battery of questionnaires at baseline, 6 and 12
      months. Participants in the intervention group will receive on average 4 texts per day
      consisting of weight related behavioral recommendations, knowledge based questions, and
      prompts to promote physical activity and weight monitoring. Texts are interactive and
      personally relevant based upon a baseline questionnaire. The control group will receive only
      monthly newsletters but not text messages. Participants in both conditions will receive
      monetary compensation for participation, travel to the study site, and reimbursements for
      text messaging.

      Participants: Inclusion criteria consists of: a) age: 21 to 65 years, b) overweight or obese
      status: BMI between 25.0 and 39.9, c) regular access to the Internet, d) own and regularly
      use a cell phone and know how to use SMS, d) ability to read and speak English, and e)
      ability to participate in moderate PA. Exclusion criteria consists of a) current pregnancy or
      the intention of becoming pregnant during the 12 month trial, b) moving out of the country
      during the 12 month trial, and c) current eating disorder.

      Dates: Recruitment for the RCT began in September 2010. The RCT began in January 2011 and
      ended in December 2011. Data analysis will occur through June 2012.

      Location: San Diego, CA

      Risks to Participants: This study involves low risk. Participation may involve some
      discomforts, such as embarrassment from sharing information about home environment, weight,
      and technology, diet, and exercise habits. There is a risk of loss of confidentiality of
      research information. All risks will be minimized according to the study protocol.
    
  