
    
      Background:

      MS is the leading cause of non-traumatic disability in young adults. It is most commonly
      diagnosed in people between the ages of 20 to 50, causing visible and invisible disability
      that limits functioning and progresses over time. Canada has one of the highest prevalence of
      MS in the world; Alberta has the highest rate of MS in Canada (340/100 000 population).
      Having MS is associated with significant economic, physical and psychological burdens on the
      individual with corresponding burden upon society.

      Global approach to treating and supporting PwMS has become multidisciplinary, multi-pronged
      and increasingly complex; MS impacts a person's physical, psychological and social
      well-being. Despite advances in healthcare for PwMS in the 21st century, multiple studies
      have reported a number of unmet care needs for PwMS: in areas of healthcare delivery,
      education, counselling and psychological support, and in supporting their informal
      caregivers. Recently, a study of over 1000 PwMS, reported that a higher number of reported
      health and social care-related unmet needs predicted lower health related quality of life,
      with all domains of the EQ5D-3L as being important.

      PwMS prefer multidisciplinary care, recommended as essential by international multiple
      sclerosis experts. It has been reported that NPs are well-placed providers for PwMS, with
      their expertise in chronic disease management and quality of life approach. A recent
      integrative review identified three themes to the role of the MS nurse specialist: (1)
      longitudinal care co-coordinator; (2) care provider; and (3) expert resource. In one
      questionnaire study, PwMS indicated that they preferred contacting the specialized MS nurse
      above other health professionals. In addition, having NPs to enhance the multi-disciplinary
      team could potentially provide healthcare cost-savings: in the United States, NP-led care was
      reported to be cost-saving in comparison to physician-led care.

      Private-practice general neurologists and family doctors provide care to approximately 2000
      PwMS outside of a tertiary multi-disciplinary clinic setting with a wide catchment area
      extending across Central and Northern Alberta, Northern BC, Saskatchewan and Northwest
      Territories. It is challenging for general neurologists and family doctors to balance care of
      PwMS with the pressures of busy office practices in a fee-for-service setting.

      There have been few controlled randomized trials comparing NP-led care vs usual care for
      people with chronic diseases. One demonstrated clear benefits of NP involvement in managing
      people with chronic pain, reporting better pain control, coping, and use of pain medication
      by those followed by an NP, while another trial reported better outcomes for people with
      Parkinson's disease randomized to multidisciplinary team care with an NP vs care by a general
      neurologist. The investigators wish to follow a similar protocol to Smigorowsky et al, who
      studied the impact of NP-led care for people with atrial fibrillation.

      The study's aim is to evaluate the effects of NP-led care for PwMS on their depression and
      anxiety levels at 3 months and 6 months compared to 'usual care' (community neurologists'
      care and MS registered nurses), in addition to measuring quality of life for PwMS and their
      caregivers, fatigue levels, outpatient healthcare visits and phone calls, and to measure
      patients' satisfaction of the care provided.

      Design: The investigators will conduct a prospective randomized controlled trial with two
      equal groups. It is hypothesized that PwMS whose care is managed by an NP would have less
      depression and anxiety (as measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - HADS) at 3
      months.

      The randomized controlled trial will be conducted in a distributed, outreach model, in the
      offices of seven community neurologists who follow PwMS as a part of their general neurology
      private practices. Family doctors will be able to refer patients with MS directly to the NP,
      if not followed by any neurologist, through the MS clinic referral process already
      established. The research team will randomize consented participants who meet inclusion
      criteria on a 1:1 ratio on a centralized secure website.

      Participants will be randomized to NP intervention of providing care for 6 months vs usual
      care provided by their regular neurologist, a MS registered nurse or their family doctors.

      3.10 Primary and Secondary Outcomes: The primary outcome will be the difference in change in
      HADS-D and HADS-A scores between intervention and control groups at 3 months. Secondary
      outcomes will include difference in change in: (a) HADS-D and HADS-A scores at 6 months; (b)
      Euro Quality of Life 5D (EQ5D) at 3 and 6 months; (c) Modified Fatigue Impact Scale (MFIS)
      score at 3 and 6 months; CAREQOL-MS - caregiver health-related quality of life in MS
      questionnaire for those participant caregivers, who agree to participate in a questionnaire
      at baseline, 3 months and 6 months, and number of healthcare outpatient visits/interactions
      during the study period.

      Participants' satisfaction with the level of care provided to them will be measured at 6
      months using a validated Consultant Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ).

      3.11 Recruitment, consent and data collection: Recruitment will be done through a few
      methods, due to potential participants being recruited from various community neurologists'
      offices and family doctors' practices in Northern Alberta: (1)There are seven community
      neurologists who will participate in recruitment through their practices. (2) PwMS who are
      followed primarily by a family physician will be referred by their family physicians directly
      to the NP via the tertiary MS Clinic fax (3) Caregivers will be approached through the PwMS,
      if the PwMS consents to participating in the study. After informed consent, PwMS and their
      informal caregivers (where applicable) will be invited to complete the questionnaires
      (HADS-D/HADS-A, EQ5D, MSIF, CAREQOL-MS at baseline, 3 months and 6 months with a participant
      diary of outpatient visits and phone calls with healthcare providers submitted at 3 and 6
      months, and a consultant satisfaction questionnaire completed at 6 months. The questionnaires
      will take around 10 to 15 minutes each time to complete.

      3.12 Sample Size: Using the information from Honarmand and Feinstein [Baseline scores and
      standard deviation (SD)], and the following assumptions 90% power and a two-sided alpha of
      0.05, a total sample size of 200 (100 in each group) will be required to detect 1.5
      difference between the intervention and the control groups.

      3.14 Statistical Analyses: Data analysis will be performed. Categorical variables will be
      reported using frequency and percentage and continuous variables will be reported using mean
      (SD) or median [Interquartile range (IQR)] as appropriate. Univariable analysis will be
      conducted to determine if there was a statistical significance between the outcomes from
      baseline to three months and six months, respectively. All test assumptions will be checked
      during the data analysis process. Independent T-test will be used to assess the primary
      (HADS-D and HADS-A at 3 months) and secondary outcomes (HADS-D and HADS-A at 6 months, EQ5D,
      and MFIS). The consultant satisfaction survey will be analyzed as continuous variables, with
      the overall satisfaction score being calculated as a sum of the scales of each question.

      3.15 Validity and Reliability: The questionnaires used in the study have been tested for
      validity and reliability in studies involving PwMS. Three papers report total HADS scores in
      PwMS.The EQ5D quality of life measure is commonly used in the MS population, and the MSIF is
      a standard measurement of fatigue in MS, as has the CAREQOL-MS, a caregiver quality of life
      survey for those caring for PwMS. Satisfaction with healthcare provider care will be measured
      by the overall mean score of the consultation satisfaction questionnaire (CSQ) completed at
      the 6 month follow-up visit. The CSQ is a self-administered tool with 18 questions using a
      5-point Likert scale, ranging from strongly agree to strongly disagree. It measures 3 factors
      of the healthcare provider interaction: (1) professional aspects; (2) depth of patient
      relationship with provider; and (3) perceived length of consultation. Higher scores indicate
      higher satisfaction. We will reduce biases through using objective measures to examine the
      effects of NP-led care intervention. It is impossible to blind the participants for the
      intervention. It is important that all participants are offered NP intervention to minimize
      bias from those in either the intervention or control arm, by having those participants
      randomized to the control arm being seen by the NP at 6 months, after their involvement in
      the study has concluded. That way, all participants in the study are offered appointment with
      the NP, either within 4 weeks for the intervention arm vs at 6 months for the control arm.

      3.16 Ethical considerations: The research protocol was reviewed and approved by the Health
      Research Ethics Board of the University of Alberta.(approval number Pro00069595) PwMS will be
      able to be referred to the NP by community neurologists and family doctors outside of
      participating in the study, if they decline to participate in the study.

      3.17 Conclusion: To the investigators' knowledge, there have been no studies examining
      effects of NP-intervention of care for PwMS in a prospective, randomized and controlled
      clinical trial. Findings of this study will contribute to ways in which the
      multi-disciplinary care for PwMS and their caregivers could be enhanced by the addition of a
      specialized NP to aid general community neurologist practices in care delivery to PwMS
      outside of tertiary MS clinic settings. This study will evaluate the effects of nurse
      practitioner intervention depression and anxiety levels in PwMS and their informal
      caregivers. The evidence gained from this study will provide information on how nurse
      practitioners enhance the care and potentially resolve identified unmet needs for PwMS when
      introduced as part of a multi-disciplinary team approach for general neurologists working in
      a distributed community setting.
    
  