
    
      To participate in this study, the subject will need to have a central line (a thin plastic
      catheter or tube that is placed during surgery into one of the large veins in the neck or
      chest).

      Also before treatment can begin, we will test the subject's blood for viruses which can cause
      problems after the transplant.

      Before treatment can begin, stem cells will be collected from the donor that has been
      selected as the best match for the subject. White blood cells will be collected from the
      donor. The cells will then be mixed with a special protein called a CD34 antibody that binds
      to the stem cells which will then be separated out from the white blood cells by a special
      machine called a CLINIMACs CD34 Reagent System in the laboratory. This is an investigational
      and experimental device which is not approved by the FDA. Although this device is not
      approved for use in this country, it has been in use for years and is approved in other
      countries. The stem cells will be collected and frozen before we start to give chemotherapy.

      TREATMENT PLAN

      To prepare the subject's body for transplantation, the subject will be given high dose
      chemotherapy (also called a conditioning treatment) for 8 days prior to the transplant as
      follows:

      The subject will be given a drug called Ara-C in high doses through the central line every 12
      hours starting 8 days before transplant (called day - 8) until 5 days before transplant
      (called day - 5). Starting one day after receiving the first Ara-C dose (day - 7), we will
      add a drug called cyclophosphamide once a day to the treatment for the next two days. This
      will be given in high doses (also through the central line). Also on day - 7, we will add a
      drug called MESNA. MESNA is used to decrease the side effects caused by cyclophosphamide.
      After the medication treatment is finished (day - 4), radiation treatment will be given to
      the entire body twice a day for 4 days. The chemotherapy and radiation treatment will last 8
      days. If the subject has abnormal cells in the spinal fluid, 6 extra daily doses of radiation
      treatment may be given to the head. This would be done before any of the drugs are given and
      before the subject is admitted for transplant.

      NOTE: Depending on the subjects health status, the doctor may decide the subject should not
      receive Ara-C. If this is a possibility, the doctor will discuss this with the subject.

      On the second day of radiation (day -3), the subject will receive CAMPATH-1H as a daily
      4-hour IV (intravenous, by vein). The subject will receive this infusion once a day for a
      total of three days. CAMPATH 1H is a special type of protein called an antibody, that works
      against certain types of blood cells. CAMPATH 1H is important because it stays active in the
      body for a long time after infusion, which means it may work longer at preventing GVHD
      symptoms.

      The day after the radiation treatment is completed (day 0), the subject will receive the
      specially selected donor stem cells. Once in the bloodstream, the cells will go to the bone
      marrow and should begin to grow. If the subject is at risk for developing GVHD or if the
      subject begins to develop GVHD, the doctor will prescribe medicines to help prevent or treat
      this side effect. The doctor will describe these medicines at that time.

      To learn more about the way the new cells are growing blood will be taken for research
      purposes at approximately 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and a year after the transplant. On
      day 100, the subject will have the same tests/evaluations the subject has been experiencing
      since the transplant, however, the subject will also have a bone marrow aspirate (we take a
      sample of bone marrow to evaluate the disease and GVHD status). For patients who do not
      develop GVHD, they may have an additional bone marrow aspirate on day 180 (about 2 months
      after the previous one).

      After day 365, the subject will be asked to return to the clinic once a year for evaluations.
      These evaluations will be similar to the ones the subject had on day 100.
    
  