
    
      Most sacral fractures can be treated non operatively. These include stable, non displaced
      sacral fractures without a significant associated pelvic ring disruption, fractures not
      involving the lumbosacral junction, and fractures without neurologic injury.

      Surgical options range from minimally invasive techniques to formal open reduction and
      internal fixation. Techniques for neural decompression include laminotomy and foraminotomy,
      anterior bone disimpaction, and lumbosacral plexus neurolysis. Anterior sacral and pelvic
      stabilization techniques involve various methods of anterior stabilization of the pelvic ring
      (e.g., application of a sacroiliac plate). Posterior stabilization techniques include
      percutaneous sacroiliac screw fixation, bilateral sacroiliac screw fixation with posterior
      tension-band plate fixation, posterior alar plate fixation, and lumbopelvic segmental
      fixation.

      Percutaneously placed iliosacral screws are commonly used for the fixation of sacroiliac
      joint disruptions and for sacral fractures. Adequate experience and intraoperative imaging is
      necessary to safely insert these screws, since the safe corridor for placement is fairly
      small. In some patients, such as those with a dysmorphic sacrum.

      Transiliac posterior tension band fixation, offers an alternative method for stabilization of
      the posterior pelvic ring.

      It is indicated in:vertically unstable comminuted sacral fractures, for which iliosacral
      screws may be insufficient. It is also indicated in patients with a dysmorphic sacrum in whom
      there is no safe corridor for placement of iliosacral screws. Threaded rods or a posterior
      plate may be secured to the posterior ilium.Also it can be used in bilateral sacral fracture;
      Late presented (neglected) sacral fractures and in osteoporotic sacral fracture.It is
      Minimally invasive technique with Less exposure to irradiation, image-independent, Easy,
      reproducible technique, Economic conventional implant and stable fixation.
    
  