
    
      Hepatic imaging plays an important role in identifying and differentiating both benign and
      malignant neoplasms of the liver. One of the clinical and radiologic dilemmas facing hepatic
      medicine is the accurate differentiation of focal nodular hyperplasia (FNH) and hepatic
      adenoma (HA). This is a question of some import, as there are significant prognosis and
      treatment differences between these entities, as well as overlap in the patient populations
      in whom they occur.

      FNH is the second most common benign neoplasm of the liver, with a strong female
      predilection. These lesions are usually asymptomatic and incidentally discovered, and carry
      only a small risk of complication such as bleeding. There is no malignant potential. Hepatic
      adenomas (HAs) are more rare benign neoplasms that also have a female predilection. However,
      these lesions are more likely to be symptomatic, and carry a higher bleeding risk especially
      as they grow over 4 cm. In addition, they harbor a small risk of malignant transformation to
      hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Of note, patients may present with both types of lesion
      concurrently.

      Currently, MRI with hepatobiliary contrast agents is the standard for differentiation of
      these lesions. These agents (such as gadoxetate disodium, or Eovist) are actively transported
      into hepatocytes, which are present in FNH and only in very rare cases with HA. Previous
      research (such as from Grazioli et al.) has shown that hepatobiliary agents can differentiate
      these lesions with excellent accuracy. However, there is still overlap between these lesions
      on imaging, and for certain patients MRI may be difficult or impossible.

      FDA approval of contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) agents in 2016 has opened a new avenue
      for abdominal imaging. CEUS utilizes gas containing lipid microbubbles to provide pure
      intravascular contrast, allowing for evaluation of vascular and solid organ perfusion. It has
      an excellent safety profile and is not excreted by the kidneys, allowing for use in patients
      with acute and chronic renal disease. It has been used for some time outside of the US for
      liver lesion evaluation, and the enhancement patterns of both FNH and HA have been described
      in the literature by Kim et al. as having different appearances. CEUS can be especially
      useful for focal liver lesion imaging for patients who cannot or will not undergo MRI, and it
      has the advantages of flexibility, increased temporal resolution, and decreased cost. This
      study aims to compare the utility of CEUS for differentiating FNH and HA with the current
      standard of hepatobiliary contrast MRI.
    
  