
    
      The hemiparesis, which corresponds to muscle weakness in hemisphere contralateral to injury,
      is the most common disorder after stroke Brain. The most obvious implication is postural
      asymmetry, having direct relation to respiratory pressures are also reduced due to muscle
      weakness, thus altering the respiratory capacity of these individuals. The Pilates Method is
      gaining prominence in clinical and scientific areas, contributing to restoring good posture
      and vertical alignment of the body. Therefore, this study aims assess muscle electrical
      activity, respiratory capacity and functionality of spastic hemiparetic patients before and
      after application the Pilates Method, soil and therapy pool. A randomized study where 60
      hemiparetic participate will be held with brachial predominance and 30 healthy subjects
      (Control Group), of both sexes, ages 40 to 70 years. Individuals with hemiparesis will be
      randomly assigned through a lottery and half held 10 consecutive sessions of Pilates in the
      soil and the rest will the same protocol adapted for therapy pool. The control group will be
      treated by the Pilates Method in the soil. The exercises will aim to lengthen musculature
      shortened due to postural pattern of pathology ; strengthen selected muscles that give
      support and postural musculature more important upper limb for activities of daily living.
      Participants will undergo postural assessment, activity EMG, muscle strength, respiratory
      capacity analysis and evaluation of the functionality of the upper limbs on the first day of
      treatment and after doing all sessions. The Student's t test will be used, with a
      significance level of 5 % to compare results obtained before and after treatment. After the
      tests, the Pearson correlation will also be made between the data obtained in soil and
      therapy pool. Thus, it is expected that Pilates can improve postural alignment and the
      breathable hemiparetic and the strengthening of specific muscles of the upper limbs assist in
      improving the functionality of them in their daily activities.
    
  