
    
      -  Patient registry: Participants experiencing cognitive impairment will be recruited will
           be recruited at Guang'anmen Hospital, Beijing, China, via web or posters. A neurologist
           will make the diagnosis. Randomization will be performed by the pharmacological
           assessment center at Guang'anmen Hospital.

        -  Sample size: The calculation of sample size is based on the primary outcome that the
           change from baseline in ADAS-cog. According to previous studies [26], 39% of patients
           showed an improvement of at least 4 points on the ADAS-cog after treating by donepezil.
           We estimated the rate 39% in the donepezil group and 55% in the EA combined with
           donepezil group. 304 participants were needed to provide 80% power at a significant
           level of 5% using analysis of variance. The total sample size required for the study is
           334 (167 each group) assuming a 10% loss to follow-up.

        -  Quality control

             1. Investigators participating in this trial will take a strict course about the
                process of randomization, manipulation of electroacupuncture, selection of
                patients, the whole process of this trial and request for filling out case report
                form in order to improve the internal consistency of observation between different
                researchers.

             2. The process of randomization will be under a rigorous control.

             3. This trial has a specific inclusion and exclusion criteria.

             4. Both outcome assessors and statisticians will be blinding.

             5. Patients will sign the informed consent voluntarily and a good relationship between
                researchers and patients will be established in order to improve patients'
                compliance. Participants will have a detailed record of the contact information
                easy for follow-up.

             6. The standard of the drugs, acupuncture apparatus, inspection equipment are
                consistent for the patients in the two groups.

        -  Outcome assessment, completion of case report forms and data management will be under a
           rigorous supervision.
    
  