
    
      GNX102 is a humanized monoclonal antibody (mAb) developed by GlycoNex. GNX102 binds with high
      affinity to branched Lewis B/Lewis Y (LeB/LeY) glycans, which are novel glycans caused by
      glycosylation changes in tumors. The monomeric LeB and LeY are blood group related antigens,
      commonly present in healthy adult tissues at low to moderate levels, but are overexpressed in
      multiple carcinomas and their presence correlates with tumor development and progression.

      Higher affinity for branched LeB/LeY glycans is intended to allow GNX102 to discriminate
      between the monomeric LeB and LeY glycans presented on normal tissues from the branched LeB
      and LeY glycans present on cancer tissues. This preferential binding to branched LeB/LeY
      versus monomeric LeB and LeY could improve the therapeutic index by both improving
      selectivity for tumor cells and reducing toxicity to normal tissues.

      The investigational product GNX102 will be administered as an intravenous infusion over one
      hour every 21 days as a single agent. One cycle is 21 days in duration. Patients may continue
      to receive study drug every 21 days without interruption between cycles unless there is
      unacceptable toxicity or experiences progressive disease. A dose delay of up to 14 days is
      permitted between cycles to address toxicities.

      The GNX102 starting dose will be 1 mg/kg and escalating to 3 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 30 mg/kg and 60
      mg/kg. This dosing schedule is designed to start with a dose that is anticipated to produce
      an exposure level in patients that has some potential to provide clinical benefit yet is
      many-fold below an exposure level that was associated with an acceptable safety profile in
      toxicology studies. The half-log dose escalation strategy is designed to ensure that there
      are clinically meaningful differences in GNX102 exposure between successive cohorts.

      Up to five (5) dose levels are planned during dose escalation. Dose escalation will depend on
      the number and intensity of observed toxicities as well as review of available
      pharmacokinetic (PK data). A Safety Review Committee (SRC) will review available safety and
      PK data as relevant to make recommendations related to selection of dose and schedule (dosing
      interval), as well as modifications to PK time points. At the recommendation of the SRC, a
      cohort may be repeated or intermediate dose levels between scheduled dose levels may be
      explored during the escalation phase.

      Dose escalation will follow a standard oncology 3+3 design with a dose-escalation schema.

      Up to 30 patients may be enrolled in the dose expansion cohorts. Once the MTD has been
      determined in the dose escalation phase of the study, approximately 15 additional patients
      may be enrolled in one or two dose expansion cohort(s) (at the MTD and one lower dose level)
      to further assess safety and the RP2D as well as anti-tumor activity.

      In accordance with FDA COVID-19 Guidance on the Conduct of Clinical Trials of Medical
      Products during COVID-19 Pandemic (dated March 18, 2020; updated March 27, 2020; updated
      April 16, 2020), GlycoNex and the Contract Research Organization (CRO), Linical Americas,
      supporting this study are modifying their processes and procedures in alignment with FDA
      Guidance to ensure the safety of study participants, while streamlining study conduct and
      decreasing the burden on patients and sites. The intent is to reduce visits, procedures
      and/or tests that are considered non-essential in order to assure patient safety and address
      the most important trial objectives. The SRC may determine that procedures or visits need to
      be rescheduled or omitted. The IRB will be notified promptly of such change(s) and a
      subsequent amendment will be provided in a timely manner.
    
  