
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE

      HIV AND KS

      The prevalence of HIV in the United Kingdom (UK) is rising with about 83,000 living with HIV
      and 7,000 new cases per annum (pa). At diagnosis a third of patients have severe
      immune-suppression with a cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) positive cell count less than
      200/mm3 (HPA, 2009), which is associated with opportunistic infections and an increase in
      various tumours. Cancer is a leading cause of death in individuals living with HIV, and KS
      remains the commonest AIDS-associated malignancy. In a UK prospective cohort followed in the
      Highly Active Anti-Retroviral Therapy (HAART) era, 5.5% of HIV positive patients developed KS
      (Stebbing et al., 2006).

      KS is associated with co-infection with HIV and human herpesvirus-8 (HHV-8). Patients
      typically present with multi-focal cutaneous disease often with associated lymphoedema.
      Extra-cutaneous disease commonly involves the gastrointestinal tract, lung, liver and spleen.
      For early KS, initiation of HAART may be sufficient to control the disease and radiotherapy
      is of benefit for localised disease (Di Lorenzo et al., 2007). Currently the only alternative
      for progressive localised disease is cytotoxic chemotherapy.

      Cytotoxic chemotherapy with liposomal anthracycline or taxanes, is indicated in patients with
      widespread cutaneous KS, extensive oral disease or symptomatic visceral involvement (Bower et
      al., 2008). Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) 20mg/m2 q 3 weeks as first-line therapy in
      combination with HAART is reported to give tumour response in 55% of patients and median
      progression free survival (PFS) of 22 weeks (Cooley et al., 2007). Second-line therapy with
      low dose paclitaxel (100mg/m2 q 2 weeks) is reported to give a response rate of 56% with
      median PFS of 39 weeks (Tulpule et al., 2002). However the majority of patients' progress
      despite chemotherapy and new treatment alternatives are required.

      JUSTIFICATION FOR DESIGN

      Selumetinib has been tested in a number of phase I and phase II trials as both monotherapy
      and combined with cytotoxic chemotherapy in patients with advanced solid malignancies. A
      toxicity profile and recommended dose has been established in these patients. Selumetinib has
      not been tested in combination with HAART. No significant interactions are predicted between
      Selumetinib and HAART however a phase I study is required to investigate the pharmacokinetic
      effects of combining these drugs. In particular we wish to establish that Selumetinib will
      not reduce the efficacy of HAART.

      This trial is an open-label multi-centre phase I/II study to investigate the use of
      selumetinib as a potential treatment for HIV-associated KS. Phase I is an accelerated dose
      finding study with dosing commencing at 1 dose level below that recommended for monotherapy
      or in combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy. The aims of phase I are to identify a maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) for selumetinib in patients on HAART whilst proving selumetinib does not
      reduce the efficacy of HAART. Phase II aims to provide evidence of the efficacy of
      selumetinib as a treatment for KS. Evidence of efficacy will be assessed via objective
      response rate to treatment and will be used to develop a protocol for a future randomised
      phase II/III study.
    
  