
    
      To date, no dementia drugs have shown a disease-modifying effect in clinical trials. It is
      now understood that the pathology underlying Alzheimer's disease is present decades before
      symptoms become apparent. Starting an intervention only when a patient develops cognitive
      symptoms, and therefore when there is substantial disease burden, may reduce the chance of
      any disease-modifying effect. Instead, targeting interventions earlier, when the pathological
      burden is lower, may increase the likelihood of preventing or delaying dementia onset.

      Consequently, there is a need for a method that identifies patients who are at an increased
      risk of developing dementia. This requires the development of a risk prediction model, which
      utilises multiple predictors in combination to produce individualised estimates of the risk
      of developing dementia risk over time.

      An ideal risk prediction model for a population-based application would need to use
      predictors that are already available to, or readily obtainable by, general practitioners
      (GPs). Such a predictive tool could be used as a low cost, scalable method of recruiting an
      'at risk' group of participants to future trials of risk modification strategies or
      preventative therapies. Once an effective disease-modifying intervention is identified,
      clinicians could use the same model to identify at-risk patients who may benefit most from
      undergoing the intervention.

      An ideal dementia risk prediction tool would contain only information that is readily
      available to, or easily obtainable by, clinicians such as General Practitioners (GPs).

      The investigators aim to develop two 10-year risk prediction models: one to predict all-cause
      dementia and one to predict Alzheimer's disease dementia, in UK adults aged 60-79 years,
      using only predictors that are routinely available to GPs. They will develop the model using
      data from the Secure Anonymised Information Linkage (SAIL) Databank, which is composed of
      anonymised, linked primary care, hospital admissions and mortality data for the population of
      Wales, UK.

      The investigators will then go on to externally validate their dementia risk prediction
      models in an external dataset, such as the UK's Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD).
      They will also validate an existing, published study using data from the The Health
      Improvement Network (THIN) (Walters et al. 2016) using this external dataset, allowing us to
      compare the performance of the models.
    
  