
    
      Involuntary voiding during sleep, nocturnal enuresis (NE), affects 7-10 % of all 7-year-olds,
      and 0.5-2 % of young adults. Night-time polyuria is one of the main pathogenic mechanisms.
      Today, the only method to diagnose nocturnal polyuria is home recordings involving diaper
      weight and registrations of first morning voids, which is very time-consuming. By using mass
      spectrometry (proteomics) on nocturnal urine samples from children with NE, the investigators
      aim to identify protein markers in relation to nocturnal polyuria. The perspective is to
      simplify an important part of the clinical characterization of NE patients.

      This hypothesis-generating pilot project will be performed on 20 boys with NE. The children
      will have to collect:

        -  Urine at bedtime on a wet and a dry night.

        -  Urine during a wet night through a collecting device (non-invasive).

        -  First morning voided volume following both a wet and a dry night.

      Together with the analysis of a broad palette of peptides and proteins in the urine, there
      will be performed targeted analysis of arginine vasopressin (AVP), co-peptin and aquaporins,
      due to our knowledge about AVP and aquaporin roles as key regulators of the water balance in
      the body. Endpoints are any biomarkers in urine found to be associated with nocturnal
      polyuria. The proteomics methodologies are available at the proteomics core facility of
      Research Unit for Molecular Medicine, Dept. of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital.

      Based on the analytical uncertainty of the protein analysis methods, 20 samples are
      sufficient for detecting down to two-fold alterations in protein levels (p<0.05). By using
      state of the art mass spectrometry, the difference in any protein level between 1) the total
      urine amount on a wet and a dry night, and 2) first morning voided volume on a wet and a dry
      night, will be evaluated. Student's t-test with significance level at p<0.05 will be used.The
      amount of proteins in each urine sample will be correlated to the total amount of proteins in
      the respective sample.
    
  