
    
      Post-operative follow up with patients is critical to providing high quality and cost
      effective care. In the current standard of care, patients receive verbal instructions from
      their physician along with discharge paperwork that outlines best practices for self-care.
      Unfortunately, difficult instructions can be miscommunicated or be overwhelming, and patients
      often leave confused, resulting in poor patient care post-discharge and high 30-day
      readmission rates. Medication adherence represents a crucial area for follow-up, as it is a
      major determinant of high-quality outcomes for post-operative care. Specifically, over 50% of
      patients in the U.S. either forget to or don't correctly take their prescription medications.
      Non-adherence causes nearly 10% of all hospital admissions in the U.S. and 125,000 annual
      deaths.

      In a survey of 10,000 patients, the most common reported reason for missing medications was
      forgetfulness (24%), followed by perceived side effects (20%), high drug costs (17%), and
      perception that a prescribed medication would have little effect on their disease (14%). The
      majority of the factors contributing to non-adherence could therefore be resolved by
      longitudinally addressing forgetfulness and misconceptions about medication effectiveness,
      options for treatment, and side effects.

      An SMS patient engagement case-management platform (Memora Health, Boston, MA) has been
      created that enables providers to input a new medication regimen into a web-based, HIPAA
      compliant app that then sends text message reminders to the patient to take their medication.
      Communication is two-way, therefore not only helping to improve adherence and self-management
      for the patient, but also providing care staff with more data on the post-discharge behavior
      and care satisfaction of their patients. While the value of SMS-based interventions on health
      outcomes is abundant in the literature, there is a paucity of data evaluating the impact of
      SMS follow-up on improving surgical outcomes through improved medication adherence and early
      detection of SSI. The purpose of this study is to utilize Memora Health, a platform that
      leverages mobile messaging as a medium for advancing preventive care, to improve the quality
      of post-operative care delivered to patients, and thereby improve patient satisfaction as
      well as reducing readmissions.
    
  