
    
      Based on 1. the established efficacy of both, galantamine and memantine in subjects with
      Alzheimer's disease, 2. galantamine's dual mode of action being a cholinesterase inhibitor
      and an allosteric modulator of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) an effect which
      might lead to enhanced neurotransmission in other neuronal populations, i.e., glutamatergic
      and GABAergic, 3. memantine's neuroprotective properties, which have been demonstrated in
      several experimental system, but not yet in a clinical setting the primary hypothesis is
      formulated that treatment with a combination of galantamine plus memantine, which may exert
      additional effects on the level of neurotransmitter modulation, will reduce the
      memory/cognitive problems in AD patients. The effects of the combination therapy will be
      compared to galantamine effects alone.

      As a secondary hypothesis, it is proposed that a combination treatment with galantamine plus
      memantine could conceivably slow disease progression and/or delay the progression of dementia
      in probable AD. It is reasonable to assume that the effect will be clearer with a combination
      therapy (galantamine, memantine) than with cholinesterase inhibitors alone which have been
      evaluated in long-term clinical trials (rivastigmine, donepezil, galantamine). To corroborate
      a potential disease modifying effect and to more reliably separate it from a purely
      symptomatic effect, the disease progress will not only be tracked by clinical measures (CDR
      rating), but also by using volumetric MRI techniques. Fox et al. have developed a sensitive
      method to follow changes in overall brain volume over time. In 'normal' ageing about
      0.2%/year (SD 0.3%) change in brain volume is documented, whereas in AD, changes of 2.8%/year
      (SD 1%) are measured. People 'at risk' for developing AD show changes of about 1.5%/year.
      Recently it was established that rates of hippocampal atrophy correlate with change in
      clinical status in ageing ('conversion') and AD. Overall, brain atrophy or MRI delineated
      hippocampal volumes and memory decline seem to be clearly linked. The project will
      prospectively investigate the validity of investigations of hippocampal volume in assessing
      therapeutic effects in AD. MR-proton-spectroscopy provides consistent evidence that the
      neuronal marker Nacetylaspartat (NAA) is reduced in AD, whereas the role of myo-inositol,
      choline and creatine is less clear. NAA is thought to be present exclusively in neurons in
      gray matter and in their axonal processes in white matter and not in glial cells. NAA signal
      loss suggests neuronal loss when it is observed in gray matter and loss of or damage to
      axonal structures when it is observed in white matter. A correlation of NAA decrease in
      tissue samples of patients with AD with the number of senile plaques and neurofibrillary
      tangles was reported. Recent results indicate that the severity of dementia in patients with
      AD is positively correlated with the decrease in NAA/Cr only in the parietal cortex and in
      the temporal lobe. These data are consistent with the observation that the amount of synaptic
      loss is the dominant indicator of dementia in AD. The cognitive decline in patients with AD
      may be linked with a neuronal loss or dysfunction preferentially in the temporoparietal
      association cortex. This project will prospectively investigate the validity of spectroscopic
      abnormalities in assessing therapeutic effects in AD.

      The primary objective of this trial is to establish the hypothesis that a combination of
      galantamine plus memantine improves memory/cognitive performance to a larger extent than
      galantamine monotherapy in AD subjects after one year of double-blind treatment.

      Memory/cognitive performance will be assessed with the ADAS-cog/11. The confirmatory
      statistical assessment of this hypothesis will be based on the change of the ADAS-cog/11 from
      baseline to the end of the treatment period.

      Additional endpoint variables to be assessed in an exploratory manner in parallel to the
      ADAS-cog are:

        -  Preservation of functionality as assessed using the ADCS-ADL/AD scale.

        -  Global rating of dementia as assessed using the CDR rating instrument.

        -  Neuropsychiatric symptoms as assessed using the NPI rating instrument.

        -  Resource utilization as assessed using the RUD rating instrument.

        -  Caregiver burden as assessed using the burden interview (BI).

        -  Safety with adverse event reports, laboratory parameters, vital signs, physical
           examination and ECG

      The secondary hypothesis states that the combination therapy with galantamine plus memantine
      is more effective than galantamine alone in delaying clinical progression of dementia in this
      population over an observation period of one year. Global severity of dementia will be
      assessed with the CDR scale.

      Supplementary endpoint criteria for this hypothesis are:

        -  Reduction in the rate of serial MRI determined brain (hippocampal) atrophy and of
           MRS-based parameters.

        -  Safety with adverse event reports, laboratory parameters, vital signs, physical
           examination and ECG.

      Further analyses of sub-groups (e.g., determined by biological variables) or biological
      outcome measures investigated by the diagnostic module with respect to the above measures are
      planned.
    
  