
    
      This study will include patients refered to our oculoplastic department for evaluation of
      eyelid disorders (ptosis or eyelid malpositions due to various mechanical, muscular,
      neurogenic factors).

      all patients will be over 21 years old, with eligibility for signing an informed concent
      form.

      all patients will undergo a full clinical standard evaluation of eyelid malposition made as
      part of the routine evaluation of eyelid malpositions. as part of this evaluation- the
      levator muscles strength will be measured by monitoring the amount of millimeters of
      difference between the uper lid closed and open position (a regular technique for levator
      muscles assessment).

      a second levator muscle strength evaluation will include the study device. this device is
      used for weight evaluation of objects. an object is measured by attaching it to the device
      with a metal hook and a string. the device is hand held.

      for measurements of the upper lid force the device will be temporarily attached to the upper
      eyelid using a specially designed base made in the shape of the eyelid. the attachment will
      be using a sterile medical tape (plaster). this sterile base is attached to the outer eyelid
      and does not involve in any point any harm to the continuity of the skin, injections , harm
      or contact to the eyeball or any other parts of the eye. this base is attached from its back
      to a string witch attaches to the measuring device. the investigator holds the measuring
      device and asks the patient to open and close his eyes. the force that is generated while
      opening the upper lid is measured (in grams) by the device.

      this evaluation will allow a unique first proper estimation of the true levator palpebra
      strength. it will be compared to the levators' strength as estimated using the routine
      techniques for assessing their efficacy.

      the assessment will be made one time for each patient. after the measurement- the sterile
      tape will be removed and will be disposed. no further interventions will be made for each
      patient.
    
  