
    
      Despite progress in the treatment of children and adolescents suffering from solid tumors and
      tumors of the CNS, patients with metastatic disease (or with disease with other high risk
      features) continue to suffer from relapse when treated with standard chemotherapy protocols.
      In these patients, high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) followed by autologous stem cell
      transplantation (ASCT) has been proposed as consolidation therapy in this high-risk
      population.

      The paradigm for successfully utilization of autologous stem cell transplantation is
      childhood neuroblastoma. A large, well performed, randomized study in children with high risk
      neuroblastoma showed that application of autologous stem cell transplant can lead to improved
      disease free and overall survival, effects that were further augmented by the administration
      of biological agents with specific activity against this tumor. Smaller non-controlled
      studies and case series have shown that ASCT is feasible in children with solid tumors or
      with tumors of the central nervous system. Despite the many reports in the literature, there
      is little agreement among investigators as to the ideal combination of chemotherapeutic
      agents that should be included in the high dose chemotherapy regimen administered prior to
      ASCT for these patients. The choice of agents in these protocols is dictated by the use of
      drugs whose dose limiting toxicity is hematopoietic, a concern that is obviated by the
      subsequent infusion of autologous stem cells. As such, the majority of HDC protocols exploit
      the steep dose response curve of alkylating agents, where administration of high doses had
      usually been limited by fear of inducing permanent myeloablation.

      A major limitation of many HDC protocols is that many of the alkylating agents that are used
      have already been utilized in front line protocols. A further problem in the design of HDC
      protocols that is unique to patients suffering from CNS tumors, is that the administered
      agents must traverse the blood brain barrier (BBB) in order to reach the site of the tumor.

      A major breakthrough in the the application of HDC in children nwith CNS tumors occurred with
      the use of Thiotepa, a highly myeloablative bifunctional alkylating agent that partitions
      equally across the BBB. Thiotepa is now a mainstay of all HDC protocols for children with CNS
      tumors.

      Hara et al. pioneered a novel combination of Thiotepa with Melpahlan, also an alkylating
      agent, in the treatment of children with a variety of solid tumors. They catalogued the
      toxicity of this protocol, and suggested a dose level of each drug in the combination that
      led to toxicity levels of grade ≤3. Of note, in the Hara series, some patients also received
      high dose Busulfan.

      We piloted the Hara protocol in our center on 14 patients and found that the dose levels
      suggested in their study were not tolerated well by children in our center. We decided to
      modify the Hara protocol by reducing the doses of both Thiotepa and Melphalan to reduce the
      incidence of severe gastrointestinal toxicity that our patients experienced. In addition,
      after two patients succumbed to fulminant gram positive infections on the original protocol,
      we instituted the empiric administration of Vancomycin for primary treatment of febrile
      neutropenia in these patients, pending the results of blood cultures. We also decided to
      restrict admission to the protocol to patients with minimal amounts of residual disease as
      measured by MRI / CT scan or biochemical markers prior to transplant.
    
  