
    
      Background:

        -  Kaposi sarcoma herpesvirus (KSHV)-associated primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) and large
           cell lymphoma arising from KSHV-MCD are aggressive B cell neoplasms with
           clinicopathologic and molecular profiles distinct from other AIDS-related lymphomas.

        -  There are no prospective studies on these rare lymphomas. Clinical experience is
           limited; however, reported prognosis is poor, with median survival estimated at less
           than 6 months using conventional CHOP-like chemotherapy.

        -  Novel treatment is urgently needed for KSHV-associated lymphomas, and the therapeutic
           approach must take into account concurrent KSHV-associated malignancies which are
           commonly seen in this patient population

        -  Pomalidomide, an immune-modulatory derivative (IMiD) of thalidomide has in vitro

      direct antitumor effect in KSHV-lymphomas as well as immune modulatory and antiangiogenic
      effects that may be beneficial in treating both KSHV-NHL and in many patients, concurrent KS.

        -  Rituximab, an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, has recently been shown to be an active
           agent in the management of KSHV-MCD. Although PEL is a CD20-negative tumor, advances in
           the understanding the biology of KSHV-infection of B-cells, the pathobiology of IL-6
           syndromes in KSHV-MCD and KSHV-NHL, and clinical experience using rituximab in the
           treatment of KSHV-MCD support use of rituximab in the treatment of KSHV-NHL, especially
           in patients with concurrent KSHV-MCD.

        -  Modified dose-adjusted etoposide, prednisone, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, and
           doxorubicin (DA)-EPOCH is an anthracycline-based regimen that allows for personalization
           of dose-intensity showing that inclusion of etoposide and infusional administration
           decreases tumor cell resistance.

        -  The use of DA-EPOCH in combination with rituximab for the treatment of HIVassociated
           diffuse large B-cell lymphoma or Burkitt lymphoma has been shown to be safe and
           effective.

        -  Given the central role of controlling HIV viremia with combination antiretroviral
           therapy (cART) in the management of KSHV-associated malignancies, as well as the likely
           contribution of uncontrolled HIV viremia to PEL pathogenesis, cART will be employed as
           an important part of the treatment regimen.

      Objectives:

      Phase I:

      -Determine the maximum tolerated dose and/or recommended phase II dose of pomalidomide in
      combination with DA-EPOCH-R.

      Phase II

      -Evaluate overall survival in treatment-naive patients with primary effusion lymphoma treated
      with pomalidomide in combination with, DA-EPOCH and rituximab (DAEPOCH- RP).

      Eligibility:

      -Adult patients greater than or equal to 18 years with pathology confirmed primary effusion
      lymphoma,

      including extracavitary variant OR large cell lymphoma arising in the setting of
      KSHVassociated MCD.

        -  Lymphoma that is measurable or assessable

        -  Previously treated patients will be allowed if they have not been treated with modified
           DA-EPOCH or pomalidomide for KSHV-associated lymphoma

        -  Any HIV status

        -  Hematologic and biochemical parameters within pre-specified limits at baseline

        -  Willing to use effective birth control, as defined in the full protocol

        -  Neither pregnant nor breast feeding

        -  Excluded if other serious co-morbid condition that would prohibit administration of
           planned chemotherapeutic intervention is present

      Design:

        -  This is a phase I/ II study of pomalidomide in combination with modified DA-EPOCH-R in
           patients with PEL and diffuse large cell lymphoma arising in the setting of KSHVMCD.

        -  Phase I of the study will evaluate escalating doses of pomalidomide (3 mg, 4 mg, and 5
           mg) in combination with modified DA-EPOCH-R to determine safe and tolerable phase II
           pomalidomide dose for combination.

        -  Treatment in both Phase I and Phase II will have three parts. Patients will receive up
           to 21 days of pomalidomide monotherapy (part A), followed by 6 cycles of pomalidomide in
           combination with modified DA-EPOCH-R (part B), and then an optional up to 12 months of
           pomalidomide (part C) for patients with concurrent KS, symptomatic KSHVMCD, or KSHV
           inflammatory cytokine syndrome (KICS).

        -  Patients with HIV will generally be prescribed cART.

        -  In phase I, with 3 dose levels, 9-18 patients will be accrued (3-6 patients per level).

        -  In the phase II portion of the study, 15 evaluable patients will be enrolled over 48-60
           months and 12 months follow-up after the last patient has enrolled, a 1-tailed 0.10
           alpha level test would have 80% power to determine if OS curve would demonstrate a
           1-year OS consistent with 45% or better and ruling out 20% or worse.
    
  