
    
      Post-operative breast surgery patients may face an array of complications. Breast surgery can
      include biopsy, lumpectomy, mastectomy or some type of reconstruction (Drackley 2012).
      Chronic pain and lack of mobility in the chest and/or shoulder are two of the more common and
      persistent issues in this population, however it is still unclear as to how many actually
      suffer from these (Wallace 1996). Current treatment for each of these usually includes
      prescribed narcotic pain medication and/or some physical therapy, the first being a treatment
      with many side effects, the latter being quite expensive. Global and integrated massage
      techniques have been used as a way of decreasing stress, anxiety, and some self-reported
      pain, however a targeted massage technique geared towards the breast/chest/shoulder region
      has not been rigorously evaluated (Drackley 2012). Myofascial massage has been shown to be an
      effective treatment for other post-surgical patients in reducing pain and increasing
      mobility, but efficacy has yet to be shown specifically in post-breast surgery patients
      (FitzGerald 2009). If proven effective, myofascial massage could be used as an inexpensive
      and non-invasive addition to current pain and mobility treatment (Cassileth 2004).

      Specific Aims

      Aim A.

      Determine the effectiveness of myofascial massage specific to the breast/chest/shoulder area
      in reducing self-reported pain among patients who have undergone a mastectomy or other breast
      surgery.

      Aim B.

      Determine the effectiveness of myofascial massage specific to the breast/chest/shoulder area
      in increasing self-reported mobility in the affected shoulder among patients who have
      undergone a mastectomy or other breast surgery.

      Hypothesis: Compared to control patients receiving general full body massage, myofascial
      massage specific to the breast/chest/shoulder area reduces pain and increases mobility in
      patients who have undergone breast surgery.
    
  