
    
      The cell therapy that is being used in this study is called gene-modified gamma delta T cells
      or Drug Resistant Immunotherapy (DRI). Gamma delta T cells are a type of lymphocyte or white
      blood cell that may help the immune system to recognize and kill cancer cells. Some
      chemotherapy can kill these gamma delta T cells. For the cell therapy being used in this
      study, the genes or DNA within these gamma delta T cells are modified so they are resistant
      to or may not be affected by chemotherapy. The chemotherapy that is being used in this study
      is called temozolomide (TMZ) and can reduce the number of these gamma delta T cells or
      lymphocytes. This study will also find out if these modified gamma delta T cells (DRI) are
      unaffected by TMZ. The DRI is given in combination with a standard dose of TMZ and is
      administered into the brain where the tumor is located.

      After subjects are consented in Parts A and B of the study, approximately about 2 tablespoons
      of blood will be collected for tests that may provide additional information about subjects T
      cells and how they may respond to treatment.

      Part A Subjects will have a surgical procedure completed that will remove their tumor (called
      a surgical resection). They will have a Rickham catheter placed which is a device typically
      used to deliver chemotherapy into the brain. The infusion catheter will be placed first prior
      to the tumor resection. A sample of tumor tissue will be taken and examined to confirm the
      diagnosis of GBM. The diagnosis of GBM must be confirmed prior to beginning Part B.

      Part B After the surgical resection and on Study Day 1, subjects will return to the study
      doctor's office/clinic to undergo a procedure called apheresis. This procedure will separate
      out cells called peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Apheresis is the removal of blood
      plasma from the body by collecting your blood and separating the plasma from the PBMCs. These
      cells include the gamma delta T cells that will be used to synthesize the DRI γδ T cells.
      Once the cells for the DRI γδ T cells are synthesized, they are reintroduced into subject's
      brain through the Rickham catheter.

      Following apheresis and confirmation that the required number of gamma delta T cells were
      collected, subjects will begin the recommended or standard of care treatment for newly
      diagnosed GBM. This will include 6 weeks of chemotherapy with TMZ and radiation. Subjects
      will then have about 4 weeks of no treatment prior to beginning the Part B maintenance phase
      of treatment, which includes 6 cycles of TMZ. Depending on which dose level they receive,
      they will be administered either 1 injection of the DRI γδ T cells or 3 and these will be
      injected through the Rickham catheter.

      The first 3 subjects will receive a single dose of the DRI γδ T cells at the lowest dose
      level. Subjects receiving a single dose of the DRI γδ T cells will be observed for a of
      minimum 30 days from the time the first subject is enrolled, followed by a minimum of 7 days
      between each additional subject enrolled to allow for evaluation of potential side effects.
      If the DRI γδ T cell injection does not cause serious side effects, the second set of 3
      subjects will be enrolled. The second set of 3 patients will receive 3 doses of the DRI γδ T
      cells. The approximate duration of the study may be up to 15 years, or until disease
      progression or subjects withdraw from the study.
    
  