
    
      The primary objective of this study is to develop an Attention Training (AT) protocol for
      adolescents with social anxiety disorder (SAD). Attentional biases to threat have been shown
      to be associated with the development and maintenance of anxiety disorders, in both adults
      and youth. Given these relations, AT paradigms have been developed to modify these
      attentional biases. Such paradigms have been shown to be promising in the treatment of adult
      anxiety. However, to date, only two small studies have examined the use of AT with children,
      and no ATT protocol has been developed specifically for use with children or adolescents.
      This is important, given the complications and possible ineffectiveness of applying
      adult-designed therapies to youth. Given this gap in the literature, the primary aims of the
      current study are intended to develop a treatment program to address attentional biases and
      anxiety in adolescents with SAD, to collect preliminary data regarding the program's
      short-term efficacy and feasibility, and to explore attention biases as a mediator and
      moderator of initial treatment outcomes. It is hypothesized that the AT protocol developed in
      the current project, compared to a placebo control comparator condition, will result in
      reductions in social anxiety among a sample of adolescents with SAD. Further, the AT protocol
      is expected to reduce attentional biases to threat among those adolescents who possess such
      biases prior to treatment (not all adolescents are expected to show this bias yet AT has been
      shown to be potentially effective with these youth; the presence/absence of attention bias
      will be explored as a moderator of change). The proposed study will be a pivotal step towards
      assessing the feasibility of an adolescent-focused AT procedure for the treatment of SAD.
      Results will contribute to an emerging body of research exploring the ameliorating effects of
      experimental paradigms that target information processing biases in anxious youth. Given
      emerging evidence regarding the use of AT in adult populations, findings from this study may
      have implications for improving the current prevention and treatment options available for
      anxious adolescents.
    
  