
    
      Osteoporotic vertebral fractures (OVCFs) are common in the elderly population, with an
      estimated 1.4 million new fractures occurring every year worldwide. Patients may present with
      pain and frequently require hospital admission for analgesia, bed rest, and physical support
      (bracing). While their back pain may last for 6-12 weeks, complications such as pneumonia,
      decubitus ulcers, venous thromboembolism, and even death may occur. Percutaneous
      vertebroplasty (PVP) is now a therapeutic option for individuals for whom medical management
      has not been successful or for those who are at risk for developing complications due to
      long-term immobilization. Recently, three randomized controlled trials (RCT) concerning PVP
      have been published with conflicting results. So this study is to compare PVP with
      conservative therapy in patients with osteoporotic VCFs. Moreover, this study addresses
      concerns about the possibility that PVP increases the incidence of new compression fractures
      in adjacent vertebrae.

      This study is a multicenter randomized controlled trial (RCT), Participants in this study
      will be allocated randomly to PVP or conservative treatment.All Participants will be asked to
      fill out standard questionnaires to provide clinical information at baseline (the day of
      randomization), and at 1 day, 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after the
      treatment. Cross-over will not be offered before 12 months after randomization. All standard
      questionnaires (except the 1-day questionnaire) consist of the VAS score, Quality of Life
      Questionnaire of the European Foundation for Osteoporosis (QUALEFFO), EQ-5D, and
      Roland-Morris Disability (RMD) Questionnaire. Furthermore,additional questions about pain
      treatment, hospital stay, outpatient visits,medical aids, and medical costs will be completed
      with the help of a nurse practitioner.
    
  