
    
      Randomization Procedure:

      Subjects who meet DSM-IV cocaine dependence or abuse and other inclusion criteria will be
      randomly assigned to an IM or NT group, using an adaptive urn randomization procedure, which
      adjusts for gender, referral source (self-referred or count-mandated), psychiatric medication
      (yes/no), and type of cocaine addiction (polydrug vs. cocaine only). Simple randomization may
      not be adequate to assure a balance between the groups of known predictive indicators. While
      the primary basis of assignment remains randomization, urn randomization biases assignment
      towards balance between groups based on variables known to be related to treatment outcome
      when sample sizes are intermediate. Randomization reduces the possibility that one group will
      be assigned a disproportionate number of the few patients in certain subgroup.

      Overview of the Treatment Procedure Twelve treatment sessions over 12 weeks will occur in the
      outpatient facility once a week, about 30 minutes each session. Treatment outcomes will be
      assessed at weeks 4, 8, 12, and 24 (3 months after treatment). The follow-up assessments can
      occur either at the outpatient facility, or at our offices in University of Maryland (Kernan
      Hospital). We will make the follow-up sessions at both sites equivalent to each other, and
      provide financial compensation for individuals who travel to our campus. For those who do not
      want to come to the University, we will ensure that the follow-up sessions at the treatment
      facility will be held in a private room separate from the location of staff and patients to
      ensure privacy. Subjects are clearly assured that no one at the treatment facility will have
      access to their treatment outcome data.

      We considered having the same therapists deliver both treatments to limit therapist-specific
      effects independent of the actual treatment condition. Upon further consideration, we decided
      that this approach could potentially lead to overlap in the delivery of the two treatments
      and/or unintentional biases in the implementation of the control treatment. Therefore, we
      decided to have a total of four therapists of similar experience. Two will deliver the IM
      therapy, and other two will provide NT. The therapists for both groups will have similar
      qualifications. To prevent bias, the therapists of NT will be blinded to the study
      hypotheses. Treatment fidelity will be monitored through sample audio records of selected
      sessions to ensure the separation of treatment protocols. If diffusion occurs, further
      training will be utilized. To further prevent bias, none of the therapists will be involved
      in outcome assessment, and they will be blind to participant responses. Assessment measures
      will be conducted by research staff available for the study.

      Description of IM Treatment Procedure Basically, IM with RFB is a combining transitions
      behavior therapy designed for different stages of addiction treatment. Following three stages
      and corresponding treatment contents will be included in the 12-week treatment.

        1. Stage 1: Treatment Engagement and Detoxification (week 1-2). In our pilot study some
           addicts had difficult sitting still for 15-mins meditation with eyes closed, but they
           could do breathing exercise with eyes open. In this study we will use 6 breaths/minute
           as near resonant-frequency at the beginning of IM training. Each subject will receive a
           MP3 player with customized RFB guiding program that include waving sound (audio) and
           moving bar (visual) to assist the subject to do RF breathing. The subject is required to
           do abdominal RFB at least 15 min per day open-eye in the first week, and close-eye in
           the second week, then gradually switching to a combination of RFB and IM.

        2. Stage 2: Recovery and transition by reducing craving and irritability (week 3-6). Based
           on prior feedback on RFB, from week 3 on therapist will introduce IM technique one by
           one to the client to practice. Week 3: introduce 16-mins IM, start with close-eye RFB,
           relaxing body section by section through slow breathing, and attention plus breathing to
           warm up lower abdomen. Week 4: RFB & IM as a coping tool, therapist helps clients find
           the key trigger situation for stress or relapse, and apply RFB and IM technique as a
           copying strategy. Week 5: add guided imagery into IM (21 mins) to help detoxify brain
           and body, to learn scan body part by part with increased sensation inside. Week 6:
           review and catch-up if miss any prior sections.

        3. State 3: Revitalization and Relapse Prevention (week 7-12). Through experience of body
           scan by guided imagery, discuss the balance working toward change and accepting
           experiences that arise. Integrate IM techniques into daily life. Week 7: customize
           guided imagery for other problems, balance acceptance and change; Week 8: introduce full
           version of IM (25 mins) with technique of reversed abdominal breathing, which helps
           recharge the body with vital energy and calmness; conclude IM by integrating
           breath-mind-body into oneness - an optimal level of mind-body integration. Week 9:
           techniques of handling random thoughts during meditation, and learn to separate thoughts
           from action, a key issue in dealing with craving or relapse. Week 10: how to use IM
           techniques to handle different relapse triggers, do not have to act on thoughts. Week
           11: different ways to integrate IM technique into daily life, make IM part of routine.
           Week 12: review, feedback, and provide local sources for more meditation practice and
           study.

      The success of IM for addiction depends on therapist facilitation and quality of subject's
      daily practice (home-work). The description of each facilitation meeting and assigned
      homework are listed in the therapist manual available upon request. In general, each session
      the therapist will 1) get feedback from prior session and daily IM practice; 2) teach new
      components of IM step by step; 3) link IM technique to the addiction problem and prevention
      of relapse.

      Nondirective Therapy (NT for control group) NT is a procedure in which the therapist refrains
      from directing the client, but instead reflects back to the client what the latter has said,
      sometimes, restating the client's remark. NT has been used as a control treatment in previous
      therapy development studies and was consider a good control in psychotherapy research. NT is
      chosen for this study to control for non-specific effects that show to contribute to outcome
      such as therapeutic alliance and therapist competency. Thus, both treatment conditions will
      contain individual therapy interaction.

      The protocol for the individualized NT will mirror the layout of IM therapy -12 weekly
      meetings, 30 minutes each. Subjects in NT group will be instructed to do Diaphragmatic
      Breathing (DB) exercise and will be given assigned homework (writing journal) and track
      progress. DB is incorporated into the NT as treatment providing non-specific effects
      associated with attention and homework completion.

      In short, Both IM and NT groups will get the same amount of extra contact with therapist (30
      mins/week) in addition to their regular treatment, with breathing exercise (RFB or DB) and
      homework (IM or writing journal). Both treatment conditions will be audio-taped for
      evaluation of fidelity and differentiation. This design will make the study outcomes more
      reliable and transferable for the future therapy development studies.
    
  