
    
      Around 25-50% of very preterm infants suffer from neurodevelopmental delays (motor, cognitive
      and behavioral problems), which are most likely related to brain micro-structural defects and
      impaired neuronal maturation and connectivity. These alterations in brain maturation
      occurring during the neonatal period may be implicated in long-term neurobehavioral disorders
      later experienced by preterm babies.

      There is increasing evidence that also stressful events (excessive sensory stimulation,
      paucity of parental contact and painful procedures) experienced in the Neonatal Intensive
      Care Unit (NICU) by preterm neonates can affect neurodevelopment through epigenetic
      mechanisms.

      The brain is a genomic mosaic, owing to somatic mutations that arise throughout development.
      It is already established that mobile genetic elements, including LINE-1 (L1), are one source
      of somatic mosaicism, inducing copy number variations in neural genome. Environmental
      experiences can drive brain plasticity at a molecular level, with changes in DNA methylation.
      In particular, L1 promoter methylation/demethylation is already associated with L1
      mobilization in the brain genomes and its deregulation is linked with important neurological
      diseases. A preliminary study has shown the correlation between L1 promoter methylation
      levels and preterm birth. In addition, maternal care during early life has been reported to
      drive variability in L1 mobilization and methylation of the neural hippocampal genome in mice
      models.

      Several studies have reported how individualized developmental care in the NICU can
      ameliorate preterm infants' medical outcome and subsequent neurodevelopment. More recently,
      early intervention (EI) strategies based on parental training and multisensory stimulation,
      such as infant massage and visual stimulation, have been demonstrated to enhance child's
      neurodevelopment. These programs have the greatest potential to reduce environmental stress
      in preterms, promoting brain plasticity, optimizing dyadic interaction and ameliorating
      neurodevelopmental outcomes.
    
  