
    
      Medical providers are often faced with patients whose source of pain may be the result of an
      inflammatory response caused by trauma or disease. By managing the patient's inflammation,
      the clinician may see improved response to traditional pain management therapy and existing
      protocols.

      Also, degenerative arthritis of spinal and extremity joints may lead to significant low back,
      knee, hip, shoulder pain etc, as the ratio of cartilage degradation to cartilage formation
      increases with age. An amniotic tissue derived product may prove to be an ideal non-steroidal
      and potentially regenerative therapy for use by the medical provider due to its unique
      characteristics.

      The orthopedic application of amniotic fluid dates back to at least the 1930's. The placental
      membranes produce an array of immunosuppressive and anti-inflammatory molecules, which make
      these tissues suitable for use as a wound covering [or as an anti-inflammatory] in a clinical
      setting. In addition to structural properties, placental membrane and amniotic fluid (AF) is
      a rich source of growth factors, including organic compounds and nutrients, hyaluronic acids,
      amino acids, antioxidants and stem cells.

      AF's anti-inflammatory actions may be mediated in part by its secretion of anti-inflammatory
      cytokines including interleukin-10, inhibin, activin, and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist
      as well as anti-inflammatory protease inhibitors such as ∞-1 anti-trypsin inhibitor and
      inter-a-trypsin inhibitor. AF may modulate acquired immunity by suppressing alloreactive
      responses and down regulating production of Th1 and Th2 cytokines.

      In addition to having known anti-inflammatory qualities, placental membrane cells, derived
      from the layer of trophoblast cells covering the developing embryo, do not express MHC Class
      II antigens, which are responsible for the rapid rejection of allografts in humans. Because
      AF is immune privileged, it is an ideal allograft with no known graft-versus-host disease
      (GVHD).

      The amniotic fluid product may provide not only an anti-inflammatory response, but also
      potentially yield regenerative effect or reduce further cartilage degeneration.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate an amniotic fluid tissue product in the treatment
      of pain due to all types of musculoskeletal conditions.
    
  