
    
      1. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE Chronic subdural hematoma (cSDH) is a frequently occurring
      neurological disease of the elderly and common in daily neurosurgical practice. It consists
      of an extracerebral encapsulated collection of mostly liquefied old hematoma, located between
      the dura and arachnoid. The original small, and often asymptomatic, haemorrhage is caused by
      rupture of a bridging vein after, often minor, head trauma. Due to generalized cerebral
      atrophy, increased venous fragility, and the more frequent use of anticoagulation therapy,
      older people are more at risk of developing a cSDH.

      During several weeks, the original hematoma is encapsulated by a membrane consisting of weak
      neocapillaries from where recurrent small bleedings occur. The pathophysiological mechanism
      is thought to be a problem in the local haemostasis due to fibrin degradation products of the
      original small hematoma that inhibit further haemostasis in the subdural space. Together with
      an osmotic draw of water, owing to its high protein content, this results in growth of the
      hematoma. Therefore, it usually takes several weeks for the cSDH to grow and become
      symptomatic.

      Signs and symptoms arise due to compression of brain tissue. These can be generalised, such
      as headaches, light-headedness, cognitive disturbances, apathy, somnolence, seizures,
      frequent falling and depression. Also focal deficits, such as dysphasia, motor weakness or
      sensory disturbances, can be symptoms of a cSDH.

      The current incidence of cSDH is estimated to be 15/100,000 per year. The number of patients
      with cSDH is expected to increase considerably in the near future due to the continuing
      growth of the elderly population, and the increase in the use of anticoagulation and
      anti-aggregation therapy. By 2030, the incidence is expected to rise up to 20/100,000 per
      year, thus making cSDH the most common neurosurgical condition in adults. In The Netherlands,
      this comes down to 3,600 new patients each year.

      Treatment Treatment options are conservative and surgical. Conservative treatment currently
      consists of a wait-and-scan policy in which the patient is regularly monitored for
      neurological deterioration and growth of the hematoma on follow-up imaging. Anticoagulation
      and antiplatelet therapy is discontinued in low-risk patients, based on individual
      risk-benefit assessment and the discretion of the treating physician. If the clinical
      condition of the patient worsens, the indication for surgical evacuation of the hematoma is
      re-evaluated.

      Spontaneous resolution of cSDH with a conservative treatment occurs in approximately 2.5% of
      patients, and is therefore relatively rare. Of all patients diagnosed with cSDH in The
      Netherlands, about 50% is primarily treated conservatively. Of these, around 75% still need
      an operation (own data). If the symptoms are serious or worsen over time, surgical evacuation
      of the hematoma is currently the designated therapy. This therapy is an effective treatment,
      but is also associated with life-threatening risks. In these old, often frail, patients with
      multi-comorbidity, surgery comes with significant risks for future cognitive functioning and,
      therefore, loss of independency. In a large series of 1205 patients, symptomatic recurrence
      after surgery was 9%, mortality 2% and unfavourable functional outcome 22%.

      Outcome measurement Studies evaluating quality of life and functional outcome with cSDH
      patients are scarce. The modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score is usually the only clinical
      outcome parameter. A literature search for quality of life in cSDH results in only two
      clinical studies. The first used the postoperative mRS, Barthel Index and Sickness Impact
      Profile as outcome measurements; the second used a pre- and postoperative Karnofsky
      Performance Score.

      Tranexamic acid As hyperfibrinolysis is thought to play a role in the liquefaction and
      enlargement of cSDH, pharmaceutical options to block fibrinolysis have been explored in an
      effort to eliminate the necessity for surgery. The use of tranexamic acid (TXA), an
      antifibrinolytic drug, has so far been reported in five small series. In the first
      retrospective series, a total of 21 patients were treated with TXA, of whom three after
      primary burr hole surgery. In none of these 21 patients, additional surgery was necessary.
      The second, a prospective pilot study in 14 patients, showed a 41% reduction of cSDH after
      surgery, and an additional 91% residual volume reduction on CT after 90 days, during oral TXA
      treatment of 650 mg per day, for a mean (SD) duration of 90 (27) days, without recurrence,
      re-expansion, or any complicating venous thromboembolisms. The third study, a case report
      series of three patients treated with 650mg TXA per day for one month after surgery for cSDH,
      showed no recurrences and thromboembolic complications. The fourth, a case report of one
      patient successfully treated primarily with TXA, was recently published, and finally, in the
      abstract of a Asian article, the authors conclude that administration of Gorei-San, a
      Japanese herbal Kampo medicine, combined with TXA has the potential to prevent recurrences of
      cSDH.

      With these limited, however promising, data no definitive conclusion can be made regarding
      the role of TXA in the treatment of cSDH. Therefore, a prospective study evaluating the
      efficacy and safety of TXA is needed. Currently, two prospective trials (the TRACS study and
      the TRACE study are running in an effort to answer this question. The first study, a phase 2b
      trial with the aim to provide preliminary data required to plan a larger phase III trial,
      excludes patients using anticoagulants. These patients comprise a significant portion of the
      cSDH patient population, and therefore, the results of the TRACS study will be difficult to
      extrapolate to the future care of all cSDH patients. The second study (TRACE) is a
      randomised, observer blinded trial, investigating the value of treating cSDH patients with
      TXA after surgery. This is a different patient population than proposed in the investigators'
      trial, in which they plan to include only patients in whom the primary treatment is
      conservative. Also, both trials are set up with a primary radiological outcome parameter and
      therefore potentially provide insufficient clinically relevant information.

      This phase III trial aims to investigate the efficacy and safety of TXA as an addition to a
      primary conservative treatment of cSDH, in an effort to prevent surgery for cSDH. Since
      surgical treatment under general anaesthesia and a hospital admittance of a minimum of two
      days is associated with significant morbidity, as described earlier, the investigators assume
      that preventing surgery also prevents deterioration of patients' quality of life. This trial
      is also the first in describing functional outcome and quality of life of cSDH patients in a
      prospective manner. Since the target population partially comprises patients with a depressed
      level of consciousness, and patients using anticoagulants and antiplatelets, these patient
      groups will be included in this trial as well.
    
  