
    
      The Study Drug:

      Gimatecan is designed to block the function of an important protein (topoisomerase I) in
      cancer cells that helps repair damage to DNA (the genetic material of cells). When this
      protein is blocked, cancer cells may die.

      Screening Tests:

      Before you can start receiving the study drug, you will have what are called "screening
      tests." These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this
      study.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Your complete medical history will be recorded.

        -  Your vital signs (blood pressure, pulse, breathing rate, and temperature), height, and
           weight will be measured.

        -  You will be asked how well you are able to perform the normal activities of daily living
           (a performance status evaluation).

        -  You will be asked about any medications you may be taking.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood (about 2 teaspoons) or
           urine pregnancy test.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspirate performed. To collect a bone marrow aspirate, an
           area of the hip is numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow is
           withdrawn through a large needle.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is necessary, you will have a bone marrow biopsy when you have
           the bone marrow aspirate done. To collect a bone marrow biopsy, an area of the hip is
           numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow and bone is withdrawn through
           a large needle.

        -  You will complete a questionnaire to see how the disease may be affecting your ability
           to do your daily activities. The questionnaire will take about 15 minutes to complete.

      Study Drug Dose Level:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, the amount of study drug you
      receive will be based on when you join the study. Three (3) to 6 participants will be
      enrolled in this study and given a certain dose. If they do not experience intolerable side
      effects, the next 3-6 participants enrolled will receive a higher dose. This process will
      continue until researchers find the highest dose of the drug that can be given without
      causing serious or intolerable side effects. The study doctor will tell you what dose you
      will be receiving and how this compares to the doses other participants have received.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will take gimatecan on Days 1-5. On Days 6-28, you will take no study drug. Each 28-day
      period is called a study "cycle." If your doctor thinks it is necessary, your study cycles
      may be shortened so that you will receive the study drug more often.

      You will take the medication on an empty stomach, swallowing the capsules whole. You should
      not eat for 1 hour after taking the medication. If you take other medications while you are
      on this study, they must be taken 4 hours before or after you take gimatecan.

      Study Visits:

      Blood (about 2 tablespoons each time) will be drawn for routine tests every 1-4 weeks for the
      length of this study. Most of these blood tests will be done once a week, but some will only
      be done once every 4 weeks.

      You will have a physical exam every 4 weeks for the first 3 months, then every 3 months.

      At the end of Cycle 1, and then every 9-12 weeks after that, you will have a bone marrow
      aspirate and/or biopsy. Bone marrow biopsies and aspirates may be collected more often if
      your study doctor thinks it is necessary.

      Once per week for the first 3 cycles, you will complete a symptom questionnaire. This will be
      done either at a study visit, or you will be called by a member of study staff. The
      questionnaire will take about 15 minutes to complete.

      Length of Study:

      You can remain on this study for up to 12 months. If, after this time, it is considered that
      gimatecan is helping you, the study doctor will discuss the possibility of continuing the
      study drug therapy outside of this study. You may be taken off this study early if the
      disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Once you are off this study, you will have an end-of-study visit, and the following tests
      will be performed.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be experiencing.

        -  Blood (about 4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will repeat the symptom questionnaire.

      This is an investigational study. Gimatecan is not FDA approved or commercially available. It
      has been authorized for use in research only. Up to 30 patients will take part in this study.
      All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  