
    
      In the last fifty years we have drastically changed our eating habits, in particular our
      fibre intake. Our hunter-gatherer ancestors ate more than 100 species of fruit and
      vegetables, which contributed between 20 and 30 g of dietary fibre per day. Currently, a
      typical citizen of our country reaches 10% of that amount.

      Therefore, fibre deficiency alters digestion and metabolism, increasing nutrient absorption
      (obesity, increased insulin resistance, hyperlipidaemias), produces altered colonic
      metabolism (inflammatory bowel disease), and slows faecal transit (increasing the lumen
      pressure with diverticulosis, appendicitis, haemorrhoids and colon cancer. In addition, the
      prebiotic effect is important.

      Several studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of digestion-resistant maltodextrin in
      the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation. Investigators carried out a single blind
      study among young people with constipation who were administered 9.2 grams of resistant
      maltodextrins per day or placebo, and found significant changes in defecation frequency and
      in faecal volume.

      Kimura et al. carried out a clinical trial in women with constipation and a defecation
      frequency of less than 3 times per week and administered 5 grams of resistant maltodextrins
      per day, demonstrating its effectiveness in significantly increasing the number of
      defecations per week, the number of days per week without defecation and the faecal volume.
      Additionally, an improvement was found aspects such as colour, stool odour and psychological
      feeling after defecation.

      Finally, an interesting feature of Resistant maltodextrins is that it normalises the colonic
      transit time without causing diarrhoea, whilst increasing the stool volume, moisture and
      frequency of defecation.

      The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of resistant maltodextrins, compared to
      placebo, in reducing the colonic transit time in healthy subjects.

      For That, 60 subjects will be stratified by gender (30 women: 15 with resistant maltodextrins
      and 15 placebo and 30 men: 15 with resistant maltodextrins and 15 placebo).
    
  