
    
      Overview.

      Participants will be women living with HIV (N=up to 40) age 50 or over. Women will be
      recruited from the Boston area. Based on the investigators' qualitative work, the
      investigators will deliver an adapted version of the 3RP resiliency intervention to groups of
      5-8 HIV-infected women age 50 and over. The 3RP intervention will consist of 8-10 weekly
      sessions of 90 minutes each focused on skills training to build and enhance resilience. The
      investigators will conduct baseline and post-treatment quantitative assessments, in addition
      to individual exit interviews to solicit feedback on the intervention. These data will be
      used to inform the design of a future randomized pilot study.

      Study procedures.

      Participants (N = up to 40) will be HIV-infected women age 50 or over . Participants will be
      recruited via study flyers (posted in the infectious disease clinics at local hospitals and
      in the waiting areas of Boston area community organizations) and provider referral. Once an
      individual expresses interest in the study, a research assistant will screen that individual
      to assess study eligibility criteria. Individuals who meet inclusion criteria will be invited
      to sign informed consent and complete an in-person baseline assessment. Participants will
      then complete the intervention (described below), a post-treatment assessment, and an
      individual in-depth exit interview to provide feedback on their experience in the study.

      3RP Intervention:

      Once enrolled in the study, participants will complete weekly group sessions of the 3RP
      intervention. Sessions will focus on developing an understanding of stress sources and
      physiology, and on developing a regular practice of eliciting the relaxation response (RR)
      and learning cognitive behavioral and positive psychology skills to enhance resiliency to
      long-term stress. Participants will be encouraged to practice skills (RR practice, thoughts
      records to learn adaptive thinking) between group sessions.
    
  