
    
      Nitric Oxide Breathing Test:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will have a nitric oxide breathing test
      performed before, during and after radiation therapy. You will you will have a nitric oxide
      breathing test 1 week before you complete radiation therapy, when you complete radiation
      therapy, and at each follow-up visit for 6 months.

      To complete this test, you will breathe out into a device called a nitric oxide breath
      analyzer for 10 seconds. You will repeat this test 3 times. The results of this test will
      give researchers information about possible inflammation in your lungs. The results of this
      test will be compared with any breathing symptoms you may experience during the same time
      period.

      For your first breath testing session and any session when your nitric oxide level is at
      least 1 ½ times higher than the first session, you will repeat the test for up to 5 different
      "breathe out rates". This additional testing will allow the researchers to find where in your
      lungs the nitric oxide increase is coming from.

      Breathing Symptoms Questionnaire:

      On the day of each breathing test, you will complete a questionnaire about your breathing and
      any symptoms you may be experiencing. This should take about 10 minutes. After radiation
      therapy is complete, some of the monthly questionnaires will be completed by the data
      coordinator using telephone interviews.

      Length of Study:

      Your participation in this study will be over after you complete the last breath testing
      session.

      This is an investigational study. The nitric oxide breath analyzer used in this study is FDA
      approved and commercially available for measuring breathed out nitric oxide levels in
      patients with asthma. Its use to predict lung inflammation caused by radiation therapy is
      investigational.

      Up to 150 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  