
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES I. To assess the activity of trametinib in metastatic castration resistant
      prostate cancer (mCRPC) that has progressed on either enzalutamide or abiraterone acetate.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES I. Durability of prostate specific antigen (PSA) response as measured by
      the time to PSA progression as defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 guidelines for PSA
      progression.

      II. Maximal PSA response. III. Quality of life by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-
      Prostate (FACT-P).

      IV. Time to initiation of alternative antineoplastic therapy. V. Time to radiographic
      progression. VI. Objective response rate according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) guidelines.

      VII. Overall survival measured as time from enrollment until death. VIII. Safety and
      tolerability. IX. Analysis of trametinib target engagement of mitogen-activated extracellular
      signal-related kinase (MEK1/2) is assessed by presence of p-ERK, the primary phosphorylation
      target of activated MEK1/2, in pre-treatment and at progression radiographically directed
      metastatic tumor biopsies by immunohistochemistry evaluation of p-ERK. Markers of cell
      proliferation (Ki67) and apoptosis (p27) will also be assessed.

      XI. Investigation of molecular correlates to resistance and sensitivity to trametinib using
      pre-treatment and at progression metastatic biopsies.

      XII. Discovery of one or a set of possible discriminative networks that are associated with a
      response to trametinib.

      XII. Enrichment for patients in the second phase who have tumors exhibiting genomic features
      associated with a response to trametinib.

      XIV. Analyses of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) for genomic aberrations
      correlated to treatment response.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD). Treatment continues in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 and 4 weeks, and then
      every 4 weeks thereafter.
    
  