
    
      Colorectal cancer is one of the most common and deadliest cancers worldwide. Since tumor
      stage at time of diagnosis is a critical determinant of patient outcome, early detection of
      colorectal cancer by screening modalities holds the key to improving patient survival.
      However, current tests, i.e. fecal occult blood testing and colonoscopy, are inadequate for
      first line screening of colorectal cancer due to limited accuracy and low participation
      rates, respectively. Therefore, there is an urgent need for new and accurate tests that can
      be used for en masse screening of colorectal cancer. A blood-based test represents a
      promising alternative as it takes little time, poses minimal risk to the patient, and is
      therefore very likely to lead to high participation rates. The development of an effective
      blood-based screening tool is based on the identification of biomarkers in the blood that are
      sensitive and specific for colorectal cancer. Studying the metabolic phenotype of colorectal
      cancer may help to identify such biomarkers since the metabolism of cancer cells is known to
      differ significantly from that of normal cells. More specifically, the entire metabolism of
      cancer cells is reprogrammed to increase anabolic reactions that favor cell growth and cell
      survival.

      The hypothesis of the present study is that metabolic phenotyping of blood plasma allows to
      (i) discriminate between colorectal cancer patients and control subjects and (ii) identify
      new biomarkers for colorectal cancer. In order to test this hypothesis, The investigators
      will apply proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H-NMR) spectroscopy to perform metabolic
      phenotyping of blood plasma in 50 colorectal cancer patients and 50 control subjects.
      Multivariate statistics will be performed to assess the discriminative power of the applied
      methodology in distinguishing between both groups and to identify metabolites with potential
      as biomarkers for colorectal cancer.
    
  