
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Increasingly, researchers are recognizing that risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD) in
      adulthood is rooted in the social and material life conditions of childhood, and that these
      childhood conditions may predict risk for CVD above and beyond traditional adulthood
      indicators of socioeconomic status (SES) such as education, occupation or income. Nowhere is
      this life course perspective on CVD risk more important than in the case of African
      Americans, especially the generation that "came of age" in the U.S. South in the late 1950s
      and 1960s, the peak years of the modern Civil Rights Movement. While some African American
      members of this age cohort were able to take advantage of the new opportunities for economic
      advancement, some others were not, resulting thereafter in different life course trajectories
      of exposure to social and economic hardship. The relationship between variations in these
      social and economic life course trajectories, and CVD risk (specifically hypertension) in
      adulthood, has not been investigated in African Americans.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study uses the Pitt County, (NC) cohort, a community sample of African Americans (N=1784,
      66 percent female, 80 percent response rate) who were between 25-50 years of age at baseline
      in 1988. Normotensives in the baseline sample were re-examined in 1993 (N=1195, 66 percent
      female, 85 percent response rate). In addition to measuring blood pressure, extensive data on
      psychosocial, behavioral, and anthropometric characteristics were obtained at both times. The
      study re-examines the original cohort in 2001; the anticipated sample size is 1142
      individuals (717 women and 425 men). Starting from age 20, respondents' reported exposure to
      three domains of socioenvironmental stressors will be assessed: (1) adverse socioeconomic
      conditions; (2) low levels of social integration; and (3) racial discrimination. Taken
      individually, and then collectively, the greater the cumulative life course exposure to these
      stressors, the greater the risk for adult hypertension is expected to be. The primary
      analyses will focus on the relationship between pre-1988 exposures and 1988 blood pressure
      status (retrospective analyses), and the relationship between pre-1988 exposures and changes
      in blood pressure status between 1988 and 2001(prospective analyses).
    
  