
    
      The proposed study is a prospective naturalistic study of patients with a first treated
      episode of mania or depression. Patients male or female between the ages of 16 and 50
      inclusive with a Mood Disorder according to DSM-IV criteria. Control subjects will also be
      recruited for this study and undergo the same initial testing. Follow-up visits every second
      year will be requested of control participants.

      Patients will be recruited through Family Physicians, and referrals to the Mood Disorders
      Program. We will respond to referrals with a brief telephone screening interview, and
      appropriate referrals will be prior to the initiation of medication. Study patients will be
      treated according to clinic practice guidelines for major depressive disorder and bipolar
      disorder, as well as for comorbid psychiatric conditions. At intake, a variety of measures
      will be used to collect data on symptoms and co-morbidity, cognitive processing, social
      functioning, family and personal history, life events, substance use, mood symptoms,
      personality functioning and characteristics, and physical well-being (baseline blood work and
      urine, heart rate, blood pressure, weight).

      This study will address issues regarding both structural and functional brain changes that
      occur in mood disorders by including both imaging and cognitive tests on subjects at entry
      into the protocol, as well as re-testing with cognitive tests annually and study end-point.
      Magnetic resonance imaging will be used to obtain data on anatomic structures in the brain.
      MRI's will be repeated every two years. A small number of subjects (15) from each group of
      depressed patients (first episode, never treated and multiple past episode patients, never
      treated) as well as in healthy control subjects will along with the MRI be asked to complete
      a magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and a functional MRI.

      Episodes of mood elevation and depression will be monitored and recorded with respect to time
      of onset, level of symptoms, time to remission and recovery, and time to relapse or
      recurrence if applicable. Subjects will be monitored by clinicians on a regular basis as
      indicated by their degree of illness and their individual treatment.

      In addition to clinical care, all subjects will complete a diagnostic work up which will take
      approximately 4 hours and include diagnostic, functional, cognitive and physical assessments
      including routine blood and urine tests. Then weekly visits/contacts for up to one (1) hour
      in duration for at least eight (8) weeks, then monthly follow-up visits of up to one (1)
      hour. Brief clinical assessments and self-report questionnaires will be completed at these
      visits and further blood tests every six months will be required along with weight, waist/hip
      circumference, blood pressure and pulse rate. Additional blood tests may be required as
      clinically indicated.

      The exact number of visits will depend on the degree of illness and the speed of recovery.
      Euthymia Testing will be completed after achieving two (2) weeks of Ham-17 ratings less then
      7, which will include the following assessments: CVLT, CFQ, MOS, Sub-syndromal Scale, COPE,
      SAS-R, NEO-PI-R and the "Mood Induction". Annual (on subjects' entry into the study) Testing
      will be completed; at which time a repeat of the initial assessments will be done. The
      duration of this study is two years with a possible extension of two more years if the
      subjects has completed the study requirements and are interested in continuing their
      participation. Each subject will be asked to complete the final visit(s), which would include
      a repeat of the initial assessments and a MRI.

      Patients who require ongoing clinical care will continue to be followed by their treating
      psychiatrist following completion of the study protocol. This process will provide a database
      through which patient characteristics at the time of initial presentation may be examined in
      relation to the onset and course of illness, prognosis, and response to various forms of
      treatment. While some of these factors have been examined in previous studies, little
      information is available on patients who are treatment naive at time of study entry. This
      project seeks to explore these issues and to provide a basis for further research in the area
      of first episode mood disorders.
    
  