
    
      The North American Imaging in MS Cooperative has reviewed the utility of the central vein
      sign (CVS) in the diagnosis of MS in 2015. They concluded that "To formally establish the
      clinical value of the CVS for the differential diagnosis at disease onset, a large,
      prospective, multicentre study including patients at first presentation of possible MS is
      necessary". The paper outlining the 2017 McDonald diagnostic criteria for MS specifically
      mentions the promise of the CVS but suggests that it "requires detailed investigation to
      determine whether it is useful and practical". The rationale of this study is to provide an
      overwhelming case for a straightforward and rapid clinical adoption of our MRI test, which
      will change our ability to confirm or refute the diagnosis of MS.

      Radiologists and neurologists can also readily interpret our proposed CVS using a simple
      'rule of six' that was described in a previous study. This involves the detection of any six
      lesions with a central vein present. This rule has the potential to be easily implemented in
      clinical practice if it has superior diagnostic sensitivity, when compared to lumbar puncture
      results.

      If the CVS can be shown to have superior diagnostic sensitivity at first presentation of MS,
      when compared to performing a lumbar puncture, then lumbar punctures can be avoided in many
      patients. These patients will benefit in several ways. The patients will avoid a procedure
      that is often painful or unpleasant. Those who currently refuse to have lumbar puncture will
      benefit from expedited diagnosis, limiting their anxiety and uncertainty. A secure diagnosis
      could lead to more rapid treatment decisions and a better long-term prognosis. In addition,
      fewer workdays will be lost attending hospital for investigation. From the NHS' perspective,
      it would avoid day case hospital admissions for lumbar punctures and readmissions to treat
      the common complication of post lumbar puncture headaches. This would create significant cost
      savings, when considering the significant number of patients undergoing this diagnostic
      process.
    
  