
    
      This study will be conducted on 64 teeth selected from patients according to inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. They will be selected from the dental clinic in faculty of dental
      medicine, Al-Azhar University. The procedure will be explained and written informed consent
      will be obtained from each patient. The possible discomforts, risks, and benefits will be
      fully explained to the patients. Ethical committee approval will be obtained.

      Protocol of caries removal will be removed Subsequently, the central cariogenic biomasses and
      superficial part of the necrotic and demineralized dentin will be then excavated, leaving the
      last carious affected dentin layer.

      Sample grouping:

      The patients will be randomly assigned into four main groups according to the material used
      (16 for each) then each group will be subdivided into two subgroups (n=8) according to time
      of treatment (B1) after one month,(B2) after three month.

      A1: cavities will be treated by propolis extract then sealed directly by temporary
      conventional glass ionomer.

      A2: cavities will be treated by hesperidin then sealed directly by temporary conventional
      glass ionomer.

      A3: cavities will be treated with Silver diamine fluoride then sealed directly by temporary
      conventional glass ionomer.

      A4: cavities will be sealed directly by temporary restorative material (conventional glass
      ionomer) without any treatment.

      Evaluation of the microbiological effect Dentine samples will be collected from the base of
      the cavity using sterile spoon excavator from the four groups for baseline bacteriological
      assessment immediately after excavation, then another sample will be taken after one month
      for each subgroup (B1)and three months of treatment for each subgroup (B2).

      Evaluation of the remineralization effect Each group will be assessed radiographically
      immediately at base line (B0), after one month (B1) and three months (B2) to evaluate the
      dentin remineralization.
    
  