
    
      Study Therapy Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take propranolol by
      mouth 2 times a day.

      While taking the drug, you should continue to check your blood pressure daily with your own
      personal blood pressure machine, at your local pharmacy, or in the clinic. If you are
      personally monitoring your blood pressure, you should contact the research nurse if the
      systolic blood pressure (SBP - the higher number) is less than 110, or if the diastolic (DBP
      - the lower number) is less than 50 (or your heart rate is 50-60 and you show symptoms at 2
      different timepoints 24 hours apart). The study doctor may decide to lower or raise your dose
      of study drug during the study based on your heart rate and/or blood pressure measurements.

      You will fill out a pill diary to write down the doses of propranolol that you take each day.

      For the relaxation and guided imagery sessions, you will be given an MP3 player with an audio
      recording that you should listen to 2 times a week for up to 4 months (or longer if you
      choose). The study staff will talk to you about how to complete the sessions. You will fill
      out a relaxation diary to write down whether you were able to complete the sessions and
      whether you had any difficulties with it, such as distractions.

      You should bring both diaries to the clinic at each visit.

      Study Visits:

      At Month 1:

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.

      At Months 2 and 4:

        -  Your vital signs will be measured.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may have had. Blood (about 5-6 teaspoons)
           will be drawn for routine tests and for testing on cytokines, RNA, and tumor markers.

        -  You will complete the same questionnaires as at screening.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have an EKG to check your heart function.

        -  If you are an MD Anderson participant, the test to find out how many calories you need
           to have on a daily basis will be repeated.

        -  At Month 2 only, if the doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a CT scan of the
           chest, abdomen, and pelvis to check the status of the disease.

        -  At Month 4 only, any updates to your medical history will be recorded. You will have a
           physical exam.

      Length of Treatment:

      You may continue the study therapy for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study therapy if the disease gets worse, if
      intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your active participation on the study will be over after the last visit. The study staff
      will continue checking your medical record from then on to see how you are doing.

      This is an investigational study. Propranolol is FDA approved and commercially available to
      treat certain heart and blood pressure problems, anxiety, migraines, and tremors. Its use in
      this study is investigational.

      Up to 20 participants will be enrolled in this multicenter study. Up to 5 will be enrolled at
      the Harris Health System. Up to 10 will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  