
    
      This is a 9 months, randomized, single center, open-label, parallel-group study to compare
      the efficacy and safety parameters of vitamin D supplementation in vitamin D deficiency
      subjects in China.

      Eligibility for participation will be determined by medical history, physical examination,
      and laboratory results obtained during a screening visit. About 300 subjects with vitamin D
      insufficiency or deficiency will be included in this study. All subjects will be given
      informed consent before starting any examination and test. The following data of all subject
      will be collected: liver and kidney function, HbA1c, fasting blood glucose, fasting lipid
      profile, serum calcium, serum phosphate, parathyroid hormone, 25-hydroxy vitamin D(25OHD),
      serum procollagen type I N propeptide, serum C-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen, s-CTX
      and muscle power and balance.

      After baseline data are collected, eligible subjects will be randomized into each group at a
      1:1 ratio (150 for control group and 150 for vitamin D supplementation group, less than 20%
      drop-off rate is acceptable for this study). The initial vitamin D doses will be based on
      25OHD levels at basis, and this dosage may be changed according be the level of 25OHD until
      the end of this study.

      All subjects in the control group will be followed every half year. All subjects in the
      vitamin D group will be followed by visiting clinic, and will be titrated their doses. Dose
      adjustment should be aimed at achieving the following 25OHD targets: 30ng/ml. If above 25OHD
      target has not been achieved, vitamin D dose should be adjusted. Clinic visit will be
      conducted 3 months later to collect information, such as serum calcium, 25OHD and adverse
      events.

      Complicated examinations will be repeated again after 9 months treatments for both groups,
      including physical examination, liver and kidney function, HbA1c, fasting blood glucose,
      fasting lipid profile, serum calcium, serum phosphate, parathyroid hormone, 25-hydroxy
      vitamin D(25OHD), serum procollagen type I N propeptide, serum C-terminal telopeptide of type
      I collagen, s-CTX and muscle power and balance. Data will be collected and analyzed.
    
  