
    
      Primary Hypothesis: To determine the efficacy of topical tretinoin cream for the prevention
      of nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC) among high risk individuals (at least 2 NMSC?S in last 5
      years).

      Secondary Hypothesis: Secondary objectives are: (a) to determine the long-term effect of
      topical tretinoin on the prevalence of premalignant actinic keratoses, and (b) to distinguish
      subpopulations in which topical tretinoin is particularly effective or ineffective, compared
      to the overall study population.

      Intervention: Apply Tretinoin 0.1% cream or placebo cream to face and ears twice a day.

      Primary Outcomes: New NMSC lesions on the face and ears. Number of actinic keratoses on the
      face and ears.

      Study Abstract: One-third of all malignancies in the United States (approximately one million
      cases diagnosed annually) are nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC). NMSC causes considerable
      morbidity, economic burden, facial deformity and at least 1,000 deaths annually. Prevention
      of these malignancies with a topical agent free of serious side effects would confer
      substantial public health benefit. Three hundred fifty thousand veterans were expected to
      develop NMSC in 1994. NMSC is one of the most common conditions requiring dermatologic care
      in the VA system.

      Topical tretinoin has been used extensively to treat photoaged skin. Retinoids administered
      orally in high doses appear to be effective in chemoprevention of nonmelanoma skin cancer but
      have unacceptable toxicity. In this study, 1200 patients with a recent history of squamous
      cell and/or basal cell carcinoma will be enrolled at six participating centers over a
      four-year period and will be randomly assigned to either 0.1% tretinoin cream or placebo.
      They will be followed for a minimum of two years to determine if topical tretinoin is
      effective in reducing the risk of new occurrences.

      Weinstock, M.A., Bingham, S.F., Cole, G.W., Eilers, D., Naylor, M.F., Kalivas, J., Taylor,
      J.R., Gladstone, H.B., Piacquadio, D.J., and DiGiovanna, J.J. Reliability of Counting Actinic
      Keratoses Before and After Brief Consensus Discussion. Arch Dermatol 137:1055-1058, 2001
    
  