
    
      Atrial fibrillation is the most common form of arrhythmia, affecting more than three percent
      of the population. The condition carries an increased risk of thromboembolism, in particular
      stroke. In 2013 approximately 25000 acute strokes were diagnosed in Sweden, with the result
      of death or severe disability in nearly half of the cases. Numerous studies have shown that
      the risk for stroke can be reduced by approximately 60-70 % with the use of anticoagulant
      therapy to patients with one or several risk factors for stroke and concurrent atrial
      fibrillation. The European Society of Cardiology recommends use of the CHA2DS2VASc algorithm
      to identify persons at increased risk for stroke in the setting of atrial fibrillation.
      Prophylaxis is recommended if CHA2DS2VASc ≥ 1 (not only female gender).

      The agents used include warfarin and the more recently developed non-vitamin k oral
      anticoagulants (NOACs). Despite good evidence and recommendations in current guidelines,
      however, there remains a substantial undertreatment in this group of patients.

      The Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions have shown that only 63% of patients
      with a CHA2DS2VASc score ≥ 2 are prescribed anticoagulant therapy [7]. The reasons for this
      is most likely multifactorial, including ignorance of the CHA2DS2VASc algorithm as well as
      reluctance of the use of potent drugs from both doctors and patients. Furthermore, the high
      pace in modern medicine increase the risk of missing the diagnosis of atrial fibrillation
      and/or the conditions constituting the CHA2DS2VASc algorithm.

      Clinical decision tools is a relatively new phenomena in modern medicine showing promising
      results, but evidence for clinical outcome are sparse. The clinical decision tool for stroke
      prevention (CDSS) has been developed in collaboration between Cambio Cosmic (the supplier of
      the electronic journal in the county of Östergötland), the Cardiology Department at Linköping
      University hospital and primary care professionals. The decision tool is activated when a
      patient is being logged into the electronic journal. If the patient has a diagnosis of atrial
      fibrillation (or atrial flutter) and a CHA2DS2VASc score ≥ 1 (not only female gender) without
      current anticoagulant therapy, a screen warning will appear. By clicking on the warning, the
      responsible physician will get an overview of the patient's diagnosis according to the
      CHA2DS2VASc algorithm. Furthermore, a calculation of the estimated stroke risk for the coming
      year will appear, and links to national guidelines be provided. The physician can thereafter
      decide to prescribe anticoagulant therapy in accordance with current guidelines or,
      alternatively, postpone the decision/make a decision to refrain from medication. In case the
      choice is made to refrain from medication the physician is asked to choose between a set of
      predetermined reasons in order to monitor the main reasons for deviation from guidelines.

      If, on the other hand, the patient has anticoagulant therapy in accordance with current
      guidelines, no screen warning will appear.

      CDSS has shown promising results in a pilot study conducted at five units in the County of
      Östergötland during the fall of 2014. The aim of the present study is to investigate this
      computerized decision tool in a large randomized trial in the primary care setting.

      Study design The present study is a cluster randomized study in the primary care setting in
      the County of Östergötland, Sweden. The investigators intend to include all primary care
      units (n = 43) in the County of Östergötland. Participation is non-compulsory. The population
      in the County of Östergötland is 442 105 (December 2014)

      At the time of inclusion all primary care units will be stratified in four strata based on
      the number of patients listed on each unit and current adherence to guidelines (i.e. the
      percentage of patients with a diagnosis of atrial fibrillation and CHA2DS2VASc ≥ 1 (not only
      female gender) that are currently prescribed anticoagulant therapy). They will thereafter be
      randomized to intervention with the CDSS application or serve as a control unit (continue
      with usual care, randomized 1:1). Prior to randomization all the participating general
      practitioners will receive an education about atrial fibrillation and the associated risk of
      stroke, including the CHA2DS2VASc algorithm and an overview of anticoagulant therapy.
      Furthermore, all units receiving the CDSS will have a briefing about the technical aspects of
      using the application.
    
  