
    
      Single center, retrospective and prospective study.

      In order to assess the efficiency of the of usual rehabilitation proposed to patients in the
      day hospital, assessments are systematically performed before and after the rehabilitation
      program:

        1. Assessment of muscular strength and fatigue:

           Assessments of voluntary force will be those usually performed in the context of the
           evaluation of patients. The isokinetic dynamometer CON-TREX ® is a device that provides
           a quantified result of the torque developed in a predetermined joint area with a
           constant speed which is also defined in advance.

           The assessment includes an assessment of the strength in isometric contraction (at 40
           and 90 degrees of knee flexion) and concentric contraction (30, 60 and 90 degrees per
           second). Fatigue is evaluated by two self-administered questionnaires: the Fatigue
           Severity Scale and Modified Fatigue Impact Scale.

        2. Effort test:

           The aerobic capacity of patients will be assessed by a triangular maximal exercise test.

           The effort test is performed on a cycle ergometer from a triangular incremental
           exercise. Beforehand, blood pressure and ECG are recorded to establish that the patient
           can safely achieve a gradual stress test. Heart rate, blood pressure, oxygen
           consumption, the feeling (Borg scale) and ECG are recorded immediately before and
           immediately after the end of the test and every minute for at least 5-10 minutes during
           the recovery phase.

        3. Clinical assessment:

      The Timed Up and Go test will be used to assess the patient's capacity of postural
      transition.

      This is a timed quantitative assessment of the duration needed to change from sitting in a
      chair, get up and walk three meters, make a U-turn and come back to sit down.

      The 10 meters test quantifies the walking speed of patients (meters / second) over 10 meters
      A test of ascending and descending10 stairs is also performed, as well as the 6 minutes
      walking test.

      In addition to these functional assessments, clinical tests are conventionally performed such
      as the measurement of muscle strength (Medical Research Council scale), range of motion,
      spasticity (modified Ashworth scale) and an assessment of the balance and posture.

      The SEP-59 questionnaire will be used to assess the patients quality of life.
    
  