
    
      The Investigational Device is a standard Natural Rubber Latex (NRL) condom with a coating on
      the inside and outside. The Investigational Device is dry to the touch on removal from the
      foil. When the coated condom comes into contact with body fluids upon penetration it absorbs
      the moisture and forms a lubricious (slippery) layer on the condom. From this point, the
      coating and the standard NRL condom feel and behave like a standard pre lubricated condom.

      Condoms are a widely used, cheap and effective contraceptive and an important primary
      prevention strategy that can substantially reduce the likelihood of transmitting sexually
      transmitted infections (STI's) (Holmes et al, 2004). Consumer studies have revealed that the
      'messiness' associated with pre lubricated condoms can be off putting to the consumer and
      possibly deter use completely. It is thought that as the condom coating is initially dry to
      the touch this may remove the 'messiness'.

      The duration of the Investigation is 3 days. In that time subjects will attend the clinic 3
      times, (Day 1, Day 2 and Day 3) for baseline assessments and subsequent Clinical Assessments.
      Clinical Assessments will include an examination of the external genitals (both male and
      female subjects) and internal genitals (female subjects only) in order to make an assessment
      of dermal tolerance of the area when exposed to a Project Unusual Condom in-use.

      Couples will be provided with Investigation Device at visit 1 and Visit 2. There is a 24 hour
      period after receipt of Investigational Device in which couples are asked to use the condom
      for 1 act of vaginal intercourse, recording compliance and their experience of the
      Investigational Device in a Diary Card and questionnaire.

      Assessments of tolerance will be made by the PI throughout the Investigation. The PI is a
      Physician with extensive Dermatology training. Assessments of dermal tolerance will include
      scoring particular sites according to a Total Irritancy score, providing a Global Assessment
      of Tolerance and at the end of the Clinical Investigation the Investigator will make an
      Overall Tolerance Rating Statement.
    
  