
    
      Objective: (i) To identify the differences between the "intervention" and "usual care" groups
      in Framingham risk scores, anthropometrical, biochemical parameters at baseline and at 24
      months and compliance to prescribed regimens. Prevalence of maternal and paternal risk
      factors, DNA/mRNA profile and other risk factors may also be examined. (ii) To assess the
      relation between CIMT and psychosocial status with other conventional cardiovascular risk
      factors and serum levels of inflammatory markers in the "intervention" versus "usual care"
      groups over 2 years of follow up. (iii) Subjects that scored high on the emerging risk
      factors and IMT score will undergo CAC scanning. This will allow us to correlate the values
      of the CAC score in FDR's of patients with premature atherosclerosis to the IMT score and to
      the biochemical markers already captured in this study.

      Method: (i) Index patients with premature atherosclerosis (angina with ECG changes,
      myocardial infarction, Coronary artery bypass grafting, Percutaneous transluminal coronary
      angioplasty, Peripheral vascular disease, Cerebro vascular disorders) in men below age 50yrs
      and women below age 60yrs at the time of the above mentioned adverse events will be
      identified from cardiac cath lab, healthy heart program St.Paul's and VGH, wards of St.
      Paul's hospital, heart function and transplant clinic and also from Cardiologists' offices,
      and will be asked to participate in the study. Those who volunteer to participate will be
      assessed for both the classical and emerging cardiovascular risk factors and asked for
      permission to approach their FDRs. The family of these index patients will be randomized
      using block randomization method (block of 4) in to usual care or intervention group. After
      recruitment of the patient, recruitment of their first degree relative will be undertaken. If
      present in the hospital during visiting hours, relatives will be approached in person by the
      study coordinator for participation in the study. Alternatively, relatives will be contacted
      by letter for participation, followed up by a telephone call.

      FDRs and their spouses will undergo a comprehensive risk factor assessment including dietary,
      smoking, drinking and exercise habits. Data on past medical history, family history and
      treatment history will be collected. Anthropometric measurements (height, weight, waist
      circumference), blood pressure, heart rate and lipidemia markers will be recorded. Blood
      sample will be collected for biochemical measurements, which will include total cholesterol,
      low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides,
      Apoprotein-B and A1, lipoprotein (a), homocysteine, C-reactive protein and glucose. Blood
      will be stored for future genetic analysis. Risk for future events will be estimated
      according to Framingham and or procam risk score. The same procedure will be repeated at the
      beginning and at the end of the 2-year period.

      The participants will be divided into "intervention" and "usual care" groups. The
      intervention group will receive a risk assessment summary, with a copy to their family
      physician. Recommendations for treatment of modifiable risk factors to targets (blood
      pressure control, lipids, glucose, and smoking cessation) and counseling will be carried out.
      Regular follow up of study participants at 3 and 6 months will be made and patient will be
      called over phone at 4 and 8 months for lifestyle counseling and all participants will be
      reassessed at 2 year. The usual care group will receive an initial risk assessment summary
      along with their diet, exercise and other risk assessments using the questionnaire. The risk
      assessment summary will be mailed to the patient and to their family physicians with a note
      highlighting the abnormal results and will be asked to discuss this with them. The same
      procedure will be repeated at the end of the 2-year period. The comparison of intervention
      and usual care groups will be made at 24 months after their initial assessment for their
      health and risk factor profile.

      (ii) Those participants older than 30 yrs with >10% risk score who volunteer to participate
      in FACT phase 2 study will be asked to sign a consent for the IMT study and be given the
      psychosocial questionnaire to complete and asked to bring it back at the time of their IMT
      visit. IMT will be measured by experienced technicians using HP Pointrex ultrasound scanner.
      This takes about 45 minutes. The data will be analysed by the experienced sonographer and
      stored offline for future use. A second scan will be performed two years later.

      (iii) Subjects already enrolled in the study that underwent IMT scan for the baseline visit
      will be selected as candidates for this procedure. Patients who meet the above criteria will
      be selected form both the "intervention" and "usual care" group; contacted by mail/phone and
      asked to participate in this portion of the study. If, they agree, patients will be given a
      new consent form to sign and after the consenting is done, an appointment for the CAC scan is
      made.

      The subject will be asked to abstain from caffeine or caffeine-containing products the day of
      the scan in order to ensure an optimal rest heart beat < 80bpm. No other preparation is
      necessary for this procedure. The total length of this appointment is about 30 minutes, and
      most of this time is required to place ECG patches and to properly position the subject. The
      actual scan takes only 20 seconds. The technician will ask the patient to hold his breath for
      approximately 20 seconds while the scan is performed. The CAC scan will be administered by a
      trained technician at the Canada Diagnostic Centre located at 136-55 West 12th Avenue in
      Vancouver, BC. Except for the small amount of radiation the patient will be exposed to during
      this procedure there are no other known risks associated with this scan.
    
  