
    
      Unintentional injury is the leading cause of death for young children in the United States
      (U.S.) and is responsible for more child deaths than the next three causes combined, that is,
      homicide, suicide and cancer. Each year approximately 9,000 children die, 250,000 are
      hospitalized and more than 9,000,000 children are treated in emergency departments for
      preventable injuries (at a cost of around $87 billion in medical and societal costs). Child
      and adolescent unintentional injury deaths have not declined to the same extent as other
      diseases have, and resources directed at reducing child injury are not commensurate with the
      burden it poses. More than 50% of these injuries occur in and around the home, where young
      children spend most of their time. Common causes of fatal and non-fatal unintentional
      childhood injuries include: fires and burns, falls, drowning, poisoning, and suffocation. For
      example, residential fires account for nearly 90 percent of all fire-related deaths. Almost
      13,000 children are injured by TV tip-overs each year. Medications are the leading causes of
      child poisoning. Finally, other home hazards include bunk beds, high chairs, windows, stoves
      and ovens, button batteries, laundry packets, and toys-ubiquitous products and home features
      present in nearly every U.S. home.

      Unlike diseases such as cancer, there is no need to wait on a cure...there already is one.
      Many of the injuries can be prevented through the use of safety equipment and by following
      safety recommendations. Using known, effective countermeasures, namely, smoke alarms, carbon
      monoxide detectors, stair gates, cabinet locks and latches, and anchoring TV and furniture
      can prevent or reduce the consequences of a child being injured. Unfortunately, overall the
      rates for these safety behaviors vary/are low (add a citation). Barriers related to
      identifying hazards, finding credible information and recommendations, and obtaining the
      safety products best-suited to the features of a home make creating a safe home difficult for
      parents and caregivers. Interventions for increasing home safety behaviors have ranged from
      the provision of educational materials, to health care provider counseling, safety product
      distribution, hands-on experiential learning provided in safety resource centers have been
      evaluated (with varying degrees of effectiveness), however, wide-reaching interventions, to
      reach large/substantial parent and caregiver audiences, are needed. Offering tailored safety
      information on multiple topics via a single platform, combined with the ability to acquire
      safety devices, is a more efficient means to reach a large segment of the population and may
      help reduce the aforementioned barriers.

      Thus there is an urgent need for mobile technologies-that is, programs using mobile phone or
      tablet, including apps and text messaging, or portable devices to deliver an intervention-to
      reduce barriers by helping parents identify injury hazards in their homes, consolidate
      credible injury prevention recommendations, organize information by room or feature, tailor
      by child age, facilitate the acquisition and installation of safety products, encourage and
      track progress, thereby increasing the likelihood that parents accomplish these important and
      life-saving safety tasks. Our long-term goal is to prevent or reduce the consequences of
      home-related child injuries. The overall objective of this proposed research, which is the
      next step toward attainment of our long-term goal, is to preliminarily evaluate a mobile
      technology-based health behavior change intervention, the Make Safe Happen® app, for
      improving knowledge and behavior for the prevention of unintentional child injuries. Our
      central hypothesis is that parents will have increased safety knowledge and more safety
      behaviors (self-reported and observed), and higher behavioral intention to make their homes
      safer after utilizing the Make Safe Happen® app compared to a control group. The rationale
      that underlies the proposed research is derived from the Health Belief Model (HBM) which
      explains that an individual's perceptions of a threat posed by a health problem
      (susceptibility, severity), the benefits of avoiding the threat (perceived benefits), and
      factors influencing the decision to act (barriers, cues to action, and self-efficacy) effect
      their decision about whether to take action to avoid injury or illness (National Cancer
      Institute 2005). The investigators plan to objectively test our central hypothesis and,
      thereby, attain the objective of this application by pursuing the following specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1. Determine whether a mobile technology-based health behavior change
      intervention, the Make Safe Happen® app is effective in improving safety knowledge for the
      prevention of unintentional child home-related injuries, compared with no intervention. Our
      working hypothesis is that parents and caregivers receiving the intervention will have
      greater safety knowledge than parents and caregivers in the control group.

      Specific Aim 2. Determine whether a mobile technology-based health behavior change
      intervention, the Make Safe Happen® app is effective in increasing behavioral intention for
      the prevention of unintentional child home-related injuries, compared with no intervention or
      alternate interventions. Our working hypothesis is that parents and caregivers reporting
      higher behavioral intention will be more likely to complete tasks related to "childproofing"
      or "safety proofing" their homes.

      Specific Aim 3. Preliminarily investigate whether a mobile technology-based health behavior
      change intervention, the Make Safe Happen® app is effective in improving safety behaviors,
      acquisition and use of safety devices for the prevention of unintentional child home-related
      injuries, compared with no intervention.

      Possible Exploratory Sub-Aims Sub-aim #1. Evaluate race and ethnicity as a potentially
      important modifier of the impact of the intervention.

      Sub-aim #2: Evaluate household income as a potentially important modifier of the impact of
      the intervention.

      Sub-aim #3: notifications [NOTE: if app use period is only 1 week long, they will not
      naturally receive notifications as they are currently proposed] Sub-aim #4: e-health literacy
      (defined as the ability to seek, find, understand, and appraise health information from
      electronic sources and apply the knowledge gained to addressing or solving a health
      problem)(Norman and Skinner 2006)

      It is anticipated that these aims will yield the following expected outcomes. First, the
      investigators expect to determine the effect of the intervention on parents' safety
      knowledge, thereby demonstrating the utility of a mobile app for future unintentional child
      home-related injury prevention. Second, the investigators expect to learn whether the
      intervention increases behavioral intention to complete home safety behaviors and safety
      device acquisition. Third, the investigators will explore whether the intervention increases
      safety behaviors, acquisition and use of safety devices. In an exploratory aim the
      investigators will begin to assess whether the intervention is adopted differently among
      parents of varying races/ethnicities, which will suggest opportunities for tailoring the
      intervention to maximize its impact. Next, the investigators will have established a link
      between parents' behavioral intention related to home injury prevention behaviors and device
      use, which will inform future prevention efforts and expansion of the Make Safe Happen®
      program and app. Finally, the investigators will provide new insights into the synergism
      between caring for young children and providing them a safe home environment free of hazards.
      These outcomes are expected to have an important positive impact because providing a safe
      home environment has the potential to prevent or reduce unintentional child injuries and
      deaths, as will now be detailed in the next section.
    
  