
    
      The burden of atrial fibrillation (AF) on Western countries healthcare systems is steadily
      increasing, with over 2 million Americans and 4 million Europeans affected by this condition.
      It is by far the most common sustained arrhythmia encountered in clinical practice, with a
      striking impact on morbidity and mortality. Achieving a definite cure is highly desirable, as
      this would have profound social and economic implication. In patients with drug-refractory
      paroxysmal AF, multiple clinical trials have established the superiority of catheter ablation
      over further antiarrhythmic drug (AAD) therapy for the long-term maintenance of sinus rhythm,
      to improve quality of life, and reduce hospitalizations. Recent randomized controlled trials
      have also demonstrated a beneficial role of catheter ablation as a first-line therapy in
      patients with paroxysmal AF, with significantly better arrhythmia control and improved
      quality of life compared to AAD therapy. Patients with symptomatic persistent AF represent a
      more challenging group to treat, given the overall lower success rate of catheter ablation
      procedures in this group of patients. Pharmacologic rhythm-control strategies are also less
      effective in persistent AF, with a substantially increased economic burden given the repeat
      admissions for electrical cardioversions and AAD initiation/titration. In patients with
      symptomatic persistent AF who have already failed AADs, catheter ablation has been shown
      superior to further AAD therapy for sinus rhythm restoration in a recent randomized
      controlled trial. However, the value of an upstream adoption of catheter ablation for the
      treatment of symptomatic persistent AF (i.e., before a trial with AADs) is unknown. The
      purpose of the third Radiofrequency Ablation vs Antiarrhythmic Drugs for Atrial Fibrillation
      Treatment (RAAFT-3) trial is to determine whether catheter ablation is superior to AAD as a
      first-line therapy in patients with persistent AF who had not been exposed to antiarrhythmic
      treatment.
    
  