
    
      If the patient is willing to participate and signs the consent, he/she will be randomized to
      one of the three treatment groups:

        1. Single shot block

        2. 24 hour catheter

        3. 48 hour catheter

      The choice of anesthetic technique will be at the discretion of the anesthesiologist. In our
      institution we usually advocate for spinal anesthesia for total knee arthroplasty. All
      patients will receive their multimodal perioperative pain protocol (MP3) medication as per
      protocol in the patient receiving area (400 mg of gabapentin, 200 mg of Celecoxib, and 1gm of
      acetaminophen).

      Patients will be monitored during block performance with standard ASA monitors. All patients
      will be receiving 2 L of oxygen via a nasal cannula. Sedatives will be titrated to effect.
      Midazolam 1-2 mg, and fentanyl 50-100 mcg will be used for sedation.

      Block time out will be preformed according to standard operating procedure. All blocks will
      be done under ultrasound guidance. Sonosite S nerve machine will be used with a high
      frequency linear (HFL) US probe with 6-13 MHZ frequency. Both single shot and continuous
      adductor canal block will be performed according to the standard operating practices in our
      department 4. Ultrasound survey at the medial part of the thigh will take place, halfway
      between the superior anterior iliac spine and the patella. In a short axis view, the femoral
      artery will be identified underneath the sartorius muscle, with the vein just inferior and
      the saphenous nerve just lateral to the artery. The needle will be introduced in-plane and 2
      to 3 mL of local anesthesia bolus will be used to verify correct placement of the needle in
      the vicinity of the saphenous nerve in the adductor canal.

      For single shot blocks: A bolus of total volume of 20 ml of ropivicaine 0.5% will be injected
      through the needle.

      For the continuous block: The catheter will be introduced and advanced 2-3 cm beyond the tip
      of the needle under ultrasound visualization. The needle was withdrawn over the catheter.
      Injection of a bolus of 5 ml of ropivacaine 0.5% will take place through the catheter while
      observing the spread of local anesthetic under ultrasound. The catheter hub will be affixed
      to the upper lateral thigh with sterile occlusive dressings and an anchoring device.

      Block success will be defined as a change in cutaneous sensation to touch with an alcohol pad
      in the saphenous nerve distribution over the medial leg within 30min after injection.
      Subjects with successful catheter placement per protocol and nerve block onset were retained
      in the study. Subjects with a failed catheter insertion or misplaced catheter indicated by a
      lack of sensory changes had their catheter replaced or were withdrawn from the study.

      At the conclusion of surgery, the catheters will be connected to a pump that will infuse
      local anesthetic. Ropivicaine 0.2% at 8 ml/hour. In the postoperative anesthesia care unit,
      intermittent boluses of hydromorphone will be used as needed. Postoperative analgesia will
      follow the MP3 protocol. Drugs that are used for the multimodal analgesia protocol include
      acetaminophen (1 gm every 8 hours for 72 hours), celecoxib (200 mg every 8 hours for 72
      hours), Gabapentin (300 mg every 8 hours for one week if the patient is opioid naïve and for
      two weeks if patients are opioid tolerant), and oxycodone (5-10-15 mg oral as needed every 4
      hours for pain based on patient reported pain score).

      All patients will receive prophylaxis for postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) during
      surgery. The protocol for prophylaxis against PONV include administration of 4 mg of
      dexamethasone after induction of anesthesia and 4 mg of ondansetron 20 minutes before
      recovery from anesthesia. Dexamethasone is withheld if the patient has poorly controlled
      diabetes mellitus (DM). Uncontrolled DM will be defined as random blood glucose above 250
      mg/dl.
    
  