
    
      An Open-Label, Randomized, Multicenter Phase II Trial Comparing the depletion of malignant
      stem cells with Dasatinib vs. Imatinib in Patients with Newly Diagnosed Chronic Phase Chronic
      Myeloid Leukemia

      Estimated Number of Study Centers and Countries/Regions: Appr. 12 sites in 5 Nordic
      countries. Stem cell analyses will be performed in 4 Nordic centers (Helsinki, Lund, Oslo and
      Stockholm).

      Study Phase: II

      Research Hypothesis: Treatment with dasatinib 100 mg daily (QD) results in greater and more
      rapid depletion of the Philadelphia (Ph) -positive stem cell pool within 6 months of therapy
      than imatinib 400 mg QD in newly diagnosed chronic phase (CP) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)
      patients.

      Primary Objective: To compare the number of Ph-positive cells in the stem cell compartment in
      newly diagnosed CP CML patients treated with dasatinib 100 mg QD vs. imatinib 400 mg QD.

      Study Design: open-label randomized Phase II trial in newly diagnosed CML patients in CP.
      Patients will be randomized to receive dasatinib at a starting dose of 100 mg QD or imatinib
      at a starting dose of 400 mg QD.

      Duration of Study: The study will be open for enrollment until the planned number of 40
      patients is randomized. All patients will be treated and/or followed for up to 18 months.
      Based on the amendment 1 (Oct 2011), the follow-up of the patients will continue additional 4
      years until 31.12.2015.

      Number of Patients per Group: Approximately 40 patients will be randomized, 20 patients to
      dasatinib and 20 to imatinib. Additional patients will be recruited in case insufficient
      amount of representative samples have been obtained from first 40 patients.

      Study Population: Patients 18 years or older with a newly diagnosed CP CML, not previously
      treated with any systemic treatments for CML

      Study Assessments and Endpoints:

      All stem cell assays are based on the preselection of CD34+ cells from large volume of bone
      marrow (BM) aspirates using paramagnetic beads. The CD34+ fraction will be further subdivided
      based on the expression of CD38 marker (positive vs. negative) using a sorting flow
      cytometer.

      The primary endpoint is a comparison of proportion of Ph-positive cells in stem cell
      compartments (CD34+CD38neg and CD34+CD38+) at 6 months between the study arms.

      Secondary endpoints are comparisons between treatment arms for: (1) the number of Ph-positive
      cells in all stem cell compartments at 1 and 3 months, (2) BCR-ABL RQ-PCR in blood at 1, 3,
      6, 12 and 18 months, and (3) rate of CCyR within 3, 6, 12 and 18 months.
    
  