
    
      Chemotherapy is widely used to treat a variety of cancers, and is associated with significant
      complications and even death. The established method for assessing patient fitness is by
      developing a clinical assessment of patient fitness, and classifying this using a performance
      status tool. Pancreatic Cancer patients with poorer performance status have been shown to
      have lower median survival of just 4 months. There is also evidence that patients with poorer
      performance status have lower response rates to other chemotherapy, higher complication
      rates, shorter progression free and overall survival. In clinical practice patients with
      performance status 2 are often offered chemotherapy, even though there is little evidence of
      its benefit, as the numbers of patients included in clinical trials with PS 2 is low and
      benefits from chemotherapy appear to be more modest.

      Cardiopulmonary exercise testing is a non-invasive test that allows quantification of
      fitness. It is an objective measure of function capacity/fitness. It has been used in
      patients due to undergo major surgical intervention, and has the ability to identify those
      patients who are at higher risk of complications and mortality. CPET has been shown to be
      superior to the ASA in predicting peri-operative risk. The ASA classification is similar to
      PS in that it is graded from 1-4, and is a bedside assessment.

      Despite the ability of PS to predict outcome it is a fairly blunt tool. The WHO PS is the
      most commonly used and is graded from 0-4. The categories are broad, for example a WHO PS of
      0 could refer to a marathon runner or an elderly patient who is normally relatively inactive.
      Differentiating between grades is subject to observer error. There is reasonably good
      agreement between clinicians when differentiating between WHO grade 0-2 and 3-4, however
      variability exists within these subsets.

      More recently it has been noted that it is harder to clinically assess older patients, and
      there is concern that many fit older patients are not being offered appropriate treatment.
      This is the subject of a current Department of Health (DoH) equality initiative.

      The investigators are interested in identifying whether (CPET) offers additional benefit over
      that of WHO PS in the assessment of patients fitness for palliative chemotherapy for
      pancreatic cancer, by identifying those patients who might survive longer and tolerate
      chemotherapy better, thus predicting their outcome. The CPET variables most commonly used in
      risk prediction models are the volume of oxygen taken up at the anaerobic threshold relative
      to body mass (maximal oxygen consumption,VO2 at anaerobic threshold (AT)), the Peak oxygen
      uptake achieved during the exercise test relative to body mass (VO2 peak) and the oxygen
      pulse (O2 pulse) which is a derivative value involving oxygen uptake and the heart rate.

      The benefit of CPET will be determined by the following:

        -  Overall survival at 6 months

        -  Response Rate (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors criteria (RECIST) version
           1.1)

        -  60 day all-cause mortality

        -  Grade 3 and above adverse events (CTCAE v4) related to chemotherapy

        -  Chemotherapy dose intensity (% of planned doses given)

        -  Progression free survival (RECIST criteria version 1.1)

        -  European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) quality of Life
           questionnaires (QLQ): to assess quality of life of cancer patients (QLQC30 (version 3))
           and participants with pancreatic cancer (QLQ-PAN26)and a health survey 36 questionnaire
           (RAND 36-item short form health survey 1.0).

        -  Overall survival
    
  