
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether pelvic floor muscle training and behavioral therapy in gynecologic
      cancer survivors results in improvement in incontinence symptoms as measured by a validated
      questionnaire (Patient Global Impression of Improvement) at three month follow-up when
      compared to women who do not undergo pelvic floor muscle training.

      II. To evaluate whether women who undergo pelvic floor muscle training and behavioral therapy
      report greater improvement in validated urinary incontinence symptom severity, pelvic floor
      distress and quality of life measures than women who do not undergo pelvic floor muscle
      training.

      III. To evaluate the acceptability of pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) among gynecological
      cancer survivors and to provide preliminary data to inform a power analysis for a larger
      randomized trial.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive a handout describing behavioral management tips for urinary
      incontinence, including information and suggestions about optimal volume fluid intake,
      constipation management, measures to reduce urgency by spreading fluid intake, and avoiding
      caffeine and other bladder irritants that have proved effective in other intervention trials.
      Patients undergo PFMT over 20-30 minutes teaching them to contract the pelvic floor muscles
      correctly and receive feedback to avoid the contraction of abdominal, gluteal or adductor
      muscles. Patients are asked to perform 3 sets of 10 pelvic muscle contractions with a goal of
      holding the contraction for 5 seconds daily for 12 weeks and also receive a reminder phone
      call to address concerns and review the instructions at 4 weeks.

      ARM II: Patients receive usual care for urinary incontinence, with an option to join the
      training program after completion of study.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 months.
    
  