
    
      Summary of the Parent Grant (R01HD087994): The parent grant is a cluster randomized
      comparative effectiveness trial designed to test the effectiveness of an integrated
      intervention for sustained testing and retention (iSTAR) on linkage, engagement, and
      retention among women with HIV infection. The iSTAR intervention provides: confidential,
      onsite integrated laboratory testing during baby showers; a network of church-based health
      advisors; clinic based teams trained in motivational interviewing; quality improvement skills
      to engage and support HIV-infected women; and integrated case management to reduce loss to
      follow-up. Primary outcomes are the difference in linkage and engagement rates between iSTAR
      and the clinic-based control group (CG). The secondary outcomes are the difference in
      retention and viral suppression rate.

      Building upon the parent grant, this administrative supplement grant will assess the
      comparative effectiveness of Men's Club (MC) as intervention group (MC-IG) compared to the
      control group (MC-CG) on the initiation and sustainment of exclusive breastfeeding. Men's
      Club is an integrated intervention where male participants receive a five-hour
      interactive/educational session during their partner's pregnancy, and weekly phone reminders
      during the first six-week postnatal period to increase EBF knowledge and support strategies,
      and to improve sustainment of EBF respectively. Male partners in MC-CG will not receive the
      proposed intervention. Additionally, we will explore barriers and facilitators to support and
      sustainment of exclusive breastfeeding among participants from both MC-IG and MC-CG in the
      study. The Primary Outcome is the difference in the rate of initiation and sustainment of EBF
      between the two groups. The Secondary Outcome is the difference in knowledge of feeding
      options among male partners and rate of sustained EBF among the female partners in the two
      groups at 6 months post-delivery.
    
  