
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, investigation of a six
      week course of adjunctive rifampin vs. adjunctive matched placebo (riboflavin) added to
      backbone antibacterial therapy for the treatment of diabetic foot osteomyelitis. Backbone
      antibacterial therapy will be with single or multiple agents selected by the clinical
      treatment team based either on culture results or standard empiric therapy, and which can be
      administered either intravenously or orally. Rifampin will be dosed at 600 mg daily. The
      primary outcome measure is amputation-free survival. Amputation events include both below-
      and above-ankle amputations. Primary outcomes will be determined by systematic medical record
      review and through confirmatory research visits, phone calls and, as needed, information from
      non-VA providers. The results for amputation-free survival will be analyzed by means of a
      two-sided log-rank test. The secondary outcomes of complete wound epithelialization and
      remission of osteomyelitis will be determined by the research team through VA record review
      and/or direct examination.

      The study will initially enroll and randomize a total of 880 study participants to receive
      either rifampin or placebo (riboflavin) in addition to backbone antibiotic therapy prescribed
      by their clinician. Investigators expect to enroll, on average, close to one subject per
      month per site (10-12 per year/site) at 28 VA medical centers to achieve total randomization
      of 880 subjects over three years. In meeting this average site enrollment projection,
      Investigators anticipate variation in enrollment between larger and smaller sites, and
      between high-performing and low-performing sites. Subjects will be followed through the end
      of the second year after randomization or until a study primary endpoint event (amputation or
      death) occurs. On average, study participants will be followed for 1.8 years through
      systematic review of medical records, and by study visits and phone calls.
    
  