
    
      The microalgae are selected depending on their contents of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids,
      e.g. eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), high-quality protein (focus:
      essential amino acids), dietary fibers but also vitamin D pre-cursors and further vitamins,
      minerals and trace elements.The nutrient bioavailability is evaluated in a controlled,
      randomized, double-blind study in parallel design. The intervention products (smoothie
      enriched with Chlorella pyrenoidosa, Nannochloropsis salina) are consumed daily over 14 days.
      In addition, the background diet is standardised by provision of defined menu plans ensuring
      an optimal energy and nutrient intake. The control group I receive no intervention products
      and no menu plans and control group II receive a smoothie without microalage and defined menu
      plans.

      A sup-group of five participants per group consume a test meal after the fasting blood
      sampling on the first study day. This is followed by a postprandial blood sampling after 30,
      60, 90, 120 and 180 minutes.

      The NovAL study is conducted to evaluate the bioavailability of nutrients such as omega-3
      LC-PUFA, vitamin D, vitamin B12, further vitamins, amino acids, minerals, and trace elements
      from the selected microalgae species. Therefore, the concentration of these valuable
      nutrients and relevant markers of their status in humans (e.g. vitamin B12 status:
      holo-transcobalamin, methylmalonic acid, homocysteine; iron status: ferritin, transferrin,
      transferrin saturation) are analysed in the human biofluids (serum/plasma, erythrocytes, 24 h
      urine) before and after defined consumption of the selected microalgae species over 14 days.
      Besides the comprehensive analysis of the nutrient status in humans, cardiovascular risk
      factors and risk factors for diabetes mellitus type II are analysed. Thus, the NovAL study
      allows the assessment of i) the nutrient bioavailability from the selected microalgae species
      but also ii) their contribution on nutrient supply and prevention of non-communicable
      diseases such as cardiovascular diseases or diabetes mellitus type.
    
  