
    
      Proctocolectomy with ileal pouch anal anastomosis (IPAA) remains the procedure of choice for
      patients with ulcerative colitis (UC). IPAA allows at risk tissue to be removed with
      restoration of intestinal continuity while maintaining favorable long-term functional
      outcomes and quality of life. While less than 30% of patients experience short-term
      postoperative morbidity following IPAA, up to 15% of pouches will ultimately fail due to
      technical or inflammatory complications, the majority of which manifest as a fistula from the
      pouch to the perianal or vaginal locations. Pouch failure due to a fistula tract is
      notoriously difficult to treat. Despite immunosuppressive medications and attempts at local
      repair, most patients will end up with a pouch excision and permanent ostomy. This can be a
      devastating outcome in some patients as it impacts body image and quality of life.

      Pelvic sepsis following original IPAA has been reported in 5% to 25% of patients, and is the
      leading cause of pouch failure due to the development of pelvic fibrosis and decreased
      distensibility of the pouch, ultimately resulting in poor pouch function. One of the leading
      causes of pelvic sepsis and development of a pouch fistula is Crohn's Disease (CD) of the
      pouch. While the majority of pouches are constructed for UC, up to 25% of patients with an
      IPAA will end up having a change in diagnosis from UC to CD or development of de novo CD of
      the pouch.

      The first report of successful healing of a Crohn's fistula with mesenchymal stem cells
      (MSCs) was in 2003. Since them great enthusiasm has spurred several phase I phase II, and
      phase III trials designed to study the safety and efficacy of MSCs for perianal CD, all of
      which have reported encouraging results with regard to safety and efficacy. With over 300
      patients now treated, there is a large body of evidence supporting the local delivery of MSCs
      to heal perianal Crohn's fistulas. Peri-pouch fistulas are similar to Crohn's perianal
      fistulas except that instead of the rectum containing the internal opening of the fistula,
      the internal opening is in the ileal pouch, constructed in place of the rectum.

      Given the high safety profile and relative success in treating perianal Crohn's disease with
      mesenchymal stem cells, the investigators are using a GMP grade allogeneic bone marrow
      derived MSC cell line to establish safety and secondarily monitor for healing in patients
      with ileal pouch fistulas in the setting of Crohn's disease of the pouch. This trial will use
      allogeneic bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) to produce regenerative signals.
      The specific rationale for MSCs in IPAA is based upon 1) their anti-inflammatory properties;
      2) published experience of MSC in this condition and perianal Crohn's fistula demonstrating
      efficacy and safety; 3) existence of cGMP methods for their isolation and growth.

      This study will enroll adult men and women who have undergone IPAA at least six months prior
      and now have a peri-pouch fistula related to Crohn's disease of the pouch. Patients who are
      refractory to conventional medical therapy will be considered. Patients enrolled will be
      those that meet current indications.
    
  