
    
      White matter fiber tracking may provide a novel tool to assess the integrity of injured motor
      tracts in the cervical spine. It provides information about fiber directions which is not
      given by conventional MRI. White matter fiber tracking in the brain is used at several
      institutions, including our own medical college, for presurgical planning of tumor excision.
      We believe that the technical and clinical experience gained for the brain can be applied to
      fiber tracking in the cervical spine as well. White matter fiber tracking in the cervical
      spine has some important clinical applications:

        -  A better understanding of the relationship between abnormal cervical spinal anatomy and
           the impact on fiber tracts would be helpful in determining the best treatment for a
           particular patient. It may be able to define the indication and role of surgical
           decompression and stabilization based on quantifiable and reproducible data obtained
           with this new imaging technology.

        -  It could help the surgeon to determine what type of surgical approach to choose
           (anterior versus posterior surgery, depending on the degree of compression / impingement
           on nerve fibers).

        -  Correlation between quantitative diffusion measures and spinal cord injury may be used
           in monitoring the response to treatment and may therefore be an important parameter for
           clinicians to follow.

        -  White matter fiber tracking may also help to determine the pathophysiology underlying
           cervical spondylotic myelopathy. Currently, there is a debate as to whether cervical
           spondylitic myelopathy is caused mainly by compressive narrowing of the spinal canal,
           which may lead to focal ischemia and tissue injury, or whether excessive motion due to
           cervical spondylosis results in increased strain and shear of spinal axons resulting in
           injury (Henderson et al., Neurosurgery 56(5):1101-13, 2005). If the latter is correct
           one would expect diffusion changes along the course of white matter tracks above and
           below the spondylotic changes.

      We will first study a pool of 15 normal control subjects to refine our data acquisition and
      postprocessing tools, and to sample quantitative diffusion based data for the normal cervical
      spine. A second group of subjects will include 10 patients with significant cervical
      spondylosis and upper extremity radiculopathy without myelopathy. The third group will be 10
      patients with cervical spondylosis and signs and symptoms of myelopathy. The two patient
      groups will allow us to define systematic differences between normal values and values in the
      injured spine.

      The DTI data will be processed using tools for artifact correction first and then tools for
      rendering T2 weighted images, diffusion weighted images, ADC maps and FA values.
    
  