
    
      Rationale: Treatment of diastolic left heart failure is a challenging task. Compared to
      systolic left heart failure the level of evidence for known medical treatment regiments is
      low. Sildenafil, a phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE 5) inhibitor and effective therapy for pulmonary
      arterial hypertension acts as a selective pulmonary vasodilator by inhibiting the impaired
      nitric oxide (NO) pathway. Reducing the pulmonary vascular resistance would be the primary
      target by treatment of diastolic left heart failure with PH. But clinical and hemodynamical
      studies to evaluate the role of Sildenafil in diastolic heart failure, also called heart
      failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) with secondary pulmonary hypertension are
      lacking. Our hypothesis is that Sildenafil decreases pulmonary artery pressure in patients
      with HFpEF and pulmonary hypertension.

      Objective: To investigate whether Sildenafil treatment results in a hemodynamic improvement
      and in an improvement of exercise capacity in these patients.

      Study design: single-center, prospective, randomized, placebo controlled study. Study
      population: 52 patients with HFpEF and PH Intervention : One group receives three times daily
      20 mg Sildenafil for 2 weeks followed by three times daily 60 mg Sildenafil for 10 weeks. The
      other group receives three times daily 20 mg of Placebo, followed by 3 times daily 60 mg
      placebo.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Primary objectives

      1. To investigate whether Sildenafil treatment results in a reduction of pulmonary artery
      pressure (PAP) in HFpEF patients with PH (investigated invasively by right heart
      catheterization) .

      Secondary objectives

        1. To investigate whether Sildenafil treatment results in an reduction of wedge pressure in
           HFpEF patients.

        2. To investigate whether Sildenafil treatment results in an improvenemt of cardiac output
           (CO) in HFpEF patients.

        3. To investigate whether Sildenafil treatment results in improvement of exercise capacity
           in these patients ( defined as change in VO2max)
    
  