
    
      Project Background: The term "recent Veterans" refers to Veterans who served in the military
      operations Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, and Operation New Dawn.
      Almost 60% of recent Veterans who received VA care have been diagnosed with a mental health
      disorder, most commonly posttraumatic stress disorder (32%), depressive disorders (26%),
      anxiety disorders (25%), and substance abuse (13%). The research literature consistently
      confirms that recent Veterans with stress-related mental health disorders experience
      impairment in functional domains of health (overcoming and managing disease), purpose
      (meaningful daily activities and participation in society), and community (positive
      relationships and social networks).

      Project Objectives: The proposed research will characterize patient centered care in VA
      mental health care and produce a brief patient centered intervention that will empower
      Veterans to lead and personalize their mental health care in support of their functional
      recovery. In Aim 1 of this research the investigators will characterize rates of providers'
      and recent Veterans' (n=30) participation in the four components of PCC, as well as barriers
      and facilitators of each PCC component, to inform development of a brief patient centered
      mental health intervention in Aim 2. In Aim 2 the investigators will develop a brief patient
      centered mental health intervention for recent Veterans experiencing stress-related mental
      health disorders and conduct a pre-pilot demonstration (n=10) to assess acceptability. This
      intervention will be informed by data collected in Aim 1 and developed using an iterative
      process of discussion with and input from recent Veterans, VA mental health providers, peer
      specialists, and researchers. Finally in Aim 3 the investigators will test the feasibility
      and preliminary efficacy of the brief intervention by conducting a randomized controlled
      trial with 48 recent Veterans with stress-related mental health disorders.

      Project Methods: In Aim 1 data will be collected at one time point using surveys and a
      recording of a Veteran provider encounter which will be coded to quantify Veteran and
      provider patient centered care behaviors. Intervention development in Aim 2 will be led by a
      multi-stakeholder Advisory Panel and further developed using Veteran focus groups.
      Acceptability will be demonstrated via qualitative interviews following a pre-pilot
      demonstration project with 10 Veteran participants. In Aim 3 data will be collected at
      baseline, post-RCT participation, and 3 month and 6 month follow-up. Feasibility will be
      assessed with study administration data on engagement and participation in the intervention
      and preliminary efficacy will be evaluated via coded Veteran provider encounters and
      quantitative analysis of functioning from self-report surveys.
    
  