
    
      The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) identifies sexual dysfunction as a major
      issue facing cancer survivors (defined broadly as patients and their caregivers, starting at
      the point of the index cancer diagnosis). It is well known that a cancer diagnosis and
      treatment negatively impacts partner relationships and quality of life (QOL) (for both
      patient and partner). Despite this, only about a third of patients seek assistance, and the
      figures regarding assistance from caregivers is lacking.

      The etiology of sexual dysfunction is multifactorial and includes problems with sexual desire
      and pleasure, hormonal deficiencies, vaginal and penile alterations related to treatment,
      delayed or absent orgasm and/or ejaculation, pain with intercourse, erectile dysfunction, and
      psychological problems such as anxiety, depression, and changes in body-image. Unfortunately,
      interventions have largely focused on ways to improve sexual function, although even these
      are limited. Additionally, clinicians are often reluctant to address sexual function with
      their patients due to their lack of training and discomfort in engaging in these
      conversations. Given the well-documented burden of sexual dysfunction, there is a compelling
      need to develop interventions to address sexual health, for both patient and partner while
      encouraging clinicians to discuss sexual health issues.

      Beyond the issues of the individual, couples and families are also impacted by cancer
      treatment. A wide body of literature shows that a cancer experience can add additional
      demands on couples, especially in the realms of communication, intimacy, and sexuality. A
      small study of 8 couples where the female partner had breast cancer identified three themes
      of significance: (1) disconnection from the relationship, due to the woman prioritizing her
      own needs before those of the partner or of them as a couple; (2) renegotiation of the couple
      relationship; and (3) need for support for negotiating going forward as a couple.
      Unfortunately, they also comment on the limited evidence-based interventions to aide this
      transition, particularly for the couple.

      In this project, the investigators will build upon standard procedures to address intimacy at
      the end of curative intent therapy through sensate focusing exercises (SF). SF will be
      delivered during a face-to-face survivorship visit using a trial-specific script.

      The project will proceed in two phases. During phase 1, the investigators will assess
      feasibility by conducting a prospective pilot study. During phase 2, the investigators will
      conduct a randomized trial comparing survivorship care with or without sensate focusing.

      This project has the potential to substantially enhance the care of survivors. By
      implementing such an intervention to improve sexual function, we aim to enhance the QOL and
      intimacy of cancer survivors.
    
  