
    
      Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy in men currently, second only to lung cancer in
      China. And in Europe and America, it has already overtaken lung and bowel cancer and become
      the greatest threat of of men's health. After the diagnosis of high-risk prostate cancer
      patients, endocrine therapy is still the main treatment. It is effective for most patients
      who receive androgen deprivation therapy at first. However, after the remission whose median
      time is 18 to 24 months through endocrine therapy, most patients will turn to castration
      resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). The treatment of CRPC has always been a difficult point ,
      and now it has become the emphasis of new endocrine drug development for prostate cancer.

      Abiraterone acetate tablets in combination with prednisone apply to the treatment of
      metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer. It has been approved by the US Food and Drug
      Administration in 2011 and gotten listing license in China. Abiraterone acetate is an
      effective irreversible inhibitor CYP17 enzyme and can be converted into abiraterone in vivo.
      Abiraterone is an androgen biosynthesis inhibitor with a high affinity and selectivity to
      CYP17. The inhibitory activity of abiraterone for CYP17 was 10-30 times higher than that of
      ketoconazole. Androgen biosynthesis is inhibited by inhibiting CYP17. The results of many
      large-scale clinical trials showed that abiraterone acetate could effectively prolong
      survival time of the patients .

      In this study, Blood and plasma samples, urine and faeces samples in 72h from healthy Chinese
      adult volunteers who have taken abiraterone acetate tablet orally on an empty stomach or
      after meals were collected for metabolite analysis, the relationship between plasma
      concentration and gene polymorphism, and identifying the major metabolites in metabolic
      biological samples to reveal the pharmacokinetic characteristics of abiraterone acetate
      tablets，demonstrate the pharmacodynamic mechanism，and explore the effect of different
      genotypes Pharmacokinetic characteristics in healthy Chinese adults.

      The result provides theoretical basis for clinical rational drug use.
    
  