
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Health Risk Appraisals instruments have provided the field of health promotion with an
      imaginative motivational and instructional tool to foster personal behavioral change. A HRA
      typically asked questions about smoking, blood pressure, exercise, medical history, diet and
      other life style variables. These risk indicators were then compared to epidemiological and
      mortality data to yield an estimate of an individual or group's risk for disease. They were
      widely regarded as the most promising new addition to the health promotion armamentarium. The
      National Health Information Clearinghouse divided them into the following three categories:
      Computer-Scored HRAs, which were mailed to a central computer facility for batch processing
      and were usually the more complex and detailed appraisals; Microcomputer-Based HRAs, which
      c;ould be processed by a microcomputer at home, in schools or at the worksite; and
      Self-Scored HRAs, which were usually brief, did not involve a computer, and were scored by
      the user.

      Although HRAs were a burgeoning industry in health education, no properly designed and
      conducted scientific evaluation of them on a sufficiently large and representative sample of
      the general population had been undertaken in the United States or elsewhere.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In the first stage, fourteen HRAs were evaluated by determining the validity of the scoring
      system for estimating cardiovascular risk as employed in the Framingham Heart Study data
      base, the accuracy of the reported risk factor scores as measured by physiological values,
      and the understandability and social acceptability of the instrument format. The second stage
      of the project was a field test to determine reliability and cost-effectiveness. Ten groups
      of respondents were formed by randomly assigning eligible adults to one of the five HRA
      groups and then to reliability and validity status.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  