
    
      Hejinen et al (1) recently conducted a meta-analysis to compare outcomes of conventional IVF
      in women presenting with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and non-PCOS patients. They
      compared nine RCTs reporting data on 458 PCOS patients (793 cycles) and 694 matched controls
      (1116 cycles) and concluded that in PCOS there is an increased cancellation rate, but more
      oocytes retrieved per pick-up and a lower fertilization rate. Overall, PCOS and control
      patients achieved similar pregnancy and live birth rates per cycle. The incidence of ovarian
      hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) after oocyte retrieval was rarely reported.

      Our results are in accordance with this meta-analysis. Therefore, if the pregnancy and
      abortion rates in PCOS and controls do not differ, the main problem when dealing with PCOS in
      IVF is OHSS. This condition can be approached by using an antagonist instead of an agonist,
      by changing the kind of ovulation trigger and by co-treating patients with metformin.

        -  One of the currently debatable issues regarding the use of GnRH antagonists refers to
           the timing of GnRH antagonist initiation. A fixed protocol starting antagonist
           arbitrarily on Day 6 of stimulation has been used in all introductory comparative trials
           employing a daily antagonist administration (2). Following these trials, a flexible
           antagonist initiation by a follicle of 14-15 mm has been evaluated. Currently,
           initiation of antagonist in the early follicular phase in PCOS patients has been
           performed by Lainas and coll. (3) who treated patients with PCOS either with a long GnRH
           agonist scheme or a fixed day-1 GnRH antagonist protocol and concluded that initiation
           of GnRH antagonist concomitantly with recombinant FSH on day 1 is associated with an
           earlier follicular growth and a different hormonal environment during the follicular
           phase when compared with the long agonist protocol. This may lead to a reduction in the
           incidence of OHSS.

        -  Over the past 15 years, it has become increasingly recognized that insulin resistance is
           central to the pathogenesis of the PCOS (4). Metformin, a biguanide insulin-lowering
           agent, has been extensively investigated in the management of PCOS. Two recent
           systematic reviews (5, 6) demonstrated that metformin improves reproductive function of
           some women with PCOS. Metformin also appeared to improve the outcomes of ovulation
           induction therapies when combined with clomiphene and gonadotrophin. Tang et al.
           recently studied PCOS overweight patients undergoing IVF to whom they administered 850
           mg bid or placebo 28 days prior to the stimulation (7). They concluded that short-term
           co-treatment with metformin for patients with PCOS undergoing IVF/ICSI cycles does not
           improve the response to stimulation but significantly improves the pregnancy outcome and
           reduces the risk of OHSS.

      The aim of this study is to verify if using an antagonist the number and quality of MII
      oocytes is equal compared to a standard long agonist protocol while reducing the risk of
      hyperstimulation.

      Outcome measures:

      Primary endpoints:

        -  Oocytes MII Secondary endpoints

        -  Fertilization rates

        -  Pregnancy rates

        -  Miscarriage rates

        -  Incidence of OHSS
    
  