
    
      Background: Fifteen percent of U.S. adults continue to smoke despite the availability of
      effective smoking cessation treatment and healthcare systems are positioned to address this
      deficiency. Text messaging is a widespread technology which shows promise as a way to reach
      smokers and to connect them with treatment. Tobacco cessation support delivered by text
      message increases abstinence among smokers interested in quitting in community- or
      school-based settings. This has led to the creation of text messaging programs by the
      National Cancer Institute, SmokeFreeTXT, and others. However, little is known about the
      feasibility of delivering smoking cessation support by text message for smokers engaged in
      healthcare systems. Integrating text messaging programs within healthcare systems has clear
      advantages. Documentation of smoking status is one of the Meaningful Use standards. This
      documentation enables healthcare systems to identify their population of smokers and
      proactively target them with health interventions outside of the busy office visit. Text
      messaging programs originating from the physicians' practice may also leverage the influence
      physicians have on smokers' motivation to quit.

      Text messaging has been used in healthcare systems to effectively improve medication
      adherence in other conditions. Adherence to smoking cessation medications is at least
      modestly associated with cessation and measures of adherence to smoking cessation medications
      suggest overall low adherence to cessation medications outside of clinical trials. Offering
      free nicotine replacement therapy along with the medication adherence advice in a text
      messaging intervention will allow us to evaluate of the effect of adherence messages on
      medication use.

      Study design A pilot randomized controlled trial of 206 smokers who receive care in
      Massachusetts General Hospital-affiliated primary care practices will compare the effect of
      delivering behavioral smoking cessation content with pharmacotherapy support by text message
      plus nicotine replacement therapy on self-reported quit attempts (intentional non-smoking for
      ≥24 hours), medication adherence, days not smoked, and smoking abstinence at the end of
      treatment. Smokers will be identified using the electronic health record, screened by their
      primary care provider, and proactively contacted by telephone by a clinical research
      coordinator. Potential subjects will be screened for eligibility by self-report and chart
      review by the Principal Investigator. Eligible subjects will be stratified by practice and
      readiness to quit (plan to quit smoking in the next 30 days vs no plan to quit smoking/plan
      to quit smoking in the next 6 months) and randomized 1:1:1:1 to 4 groups using a variable
      block randomization.

        1. Brief advice (BA): Brief advice to quit smoking and usual care. Rationale: All subjects
           will receive brief advice from a trained clinical research coordinator. All primary care
           subjects also have access to guideline-concordant tobacco treatment through usual care
           with their primary care provider. Their primary care provider can refer them to
           in-person or telephone counseling and can prescribe medications.

        2. Nicotine replacement therapy (NRT): Brief advice + 2 weeks of nicotine patches and/or
           lozenges mailed to subject. Rationale: In order to test the effect of text messaging on
           medication adherence, we need to have treatment groups receiving medication and
           medication plus text messaging. To deliver medication, mailed NRT, like text messaging,
           reaches patients outside of the busy office visit. Mailed NRT alone has also been shown
           to increase cessation and may itself be an effective intervention compared to brief
           advice and usual care.

        3. Text messaging (TM): Brief advice + 12 week personalized, tailored text messaging
           program. Rationale: Text messaging shows promise as an intervention to help smokers to
           quit. However, it has not been well tested among primary care patients. Text messaging
           may connect those primary care smokers who do not access currently available treatment
           services like telephone counseling or prescribed medication with assistance outside of
           the clinic office.

        4. Text messaging and nicotine replacement therapy (TM+NRT): Brief advice + 12 week
           personalized, tailored text messaging program + 2 weeks of nicotine patches and/or
           lozenges mailed to subject. Rationale: As above, in order to test the effect of text
           messaging on medication adherence, we need to have treatment groups receiving medication
           and medication plus text messaging. Text messaging has been shown to increase medication
           adherence in other conditions and medication adherence is suboptimal among users of
           smoking cessation medications. Integrating text messaging within healthcare systems
           offers opportunities to coordinate with pharmacotherapy and this 4 group design allows
           us to test the effect of text messaging alone on smoking outcomes and the effect of text
           messaging on NRT use.
    
  