
    
      The Institute of Medicine (IOM) recommendations were established with limited evidence
      showing how the pattern of weight gain is associated with short-and long-term health of
      mothers and their children. Previous studies evaluated the impact of overall gestational
      weight gain pattern across gestation using latent class analysis and others have evaluated
      maternal weight change pattern-by trimester or early/late pregnancy-on offspring size and
      adiposity. However, it remains unclear if there are weight gain trajectories or specific
      periods of weight gain that are associated with greater adiposity in offspring, and whether
      effects persist across the life course.

      The MINT study will expand our understanding of determinants that are influencing maternal
      weight trajectories, including race/ethnicity, prepregnancy BMI and parity. Although many
      factors are well-established determinants of pregnancy weight gain, such as prepregnancy BMI
      and parity, there is limited understanding of whether these factors and others, such as
      maternal diet, race, psychosocial health or socio-economic status, influence the overall
      pattern of pregnancy weight gain and the IOM has called for research in this area. This
      knowledge is essential for providing personalized clinical recommendations for weight gain
      monitoring and to develop interventions to support healthy weight gain that optimizes health
      outcomes for mother and child.

      This study is an observational, prospective cohort design, and will recruit up to 60
      volunteers with singleton gestations of BMI 18.5-35. The mothers' will be assessed at 14-15,
      24-25, and 35 weeks of pregnancy, and at 6 weeks post-delivery. The measurements will include
      anthropometry (weight, height, circumferences, and skin fold thicknesses), and whole body
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The infants' measurements will be anthropometry at birth
      (2-3 days), and approximately 1 and 6 weeks. Infants will also undergo air displacement
      plethysmography (PeaPod) at approximately 1 week and 6 weeks. Biospecimen samples will be
      collected, including: maternal serum, plasma, urine, microbiome, breastmilk, placenta,
      umbilical cord and cord blood, infant meconium and stool. Data will be collected regarding
      mothers' dietary intake and physical activity (questionnaires and accelerometry). Other data
      to be collected include questionnaires on quality of life, socio-economic status, health
      behaviors and intentions. If the woman identifies a partner, the partner will be invited to
      complete questionnaires on health, health behaviors and anthropometry measures.
    
  