
    
      Introduction

      Existing research has revealed that persons with chronic conditions experience decreased
      ability to perform both Personal ADL (PADL) and Instrumental ADL (IADL) tasks. Persons living
      with a chronic condition are offered various interventions. Besides medical treatment
      provided by physicians, to prevent or treat symptoms, persons with chronic diseases are often
      offered physical exercise in order to improve physical and/or mental body functions. Such
      interventions are founded on a belief that enhanced physical and mental body functioning also
      will result in improved ability to perform ADL tasks. However, existing research indicate
      that improvements in body functions not necessarily translate into improved ADL ability.

      Research investigating the outcomes of rehabilitation services designed to enhance
      occupational performance, including ADL task performance, is sparse and insufficient.
      Existing research within this area is characterized by diversity and methodological
      limitations preventing development of clear intervention guidelines for clinical practice.
      Therefore, an occupational therapy program directly aiming at enhancing the ADL ability in
      persons with chronic conditions.

      Aim

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate a) the feasibility and b) the potential outcomes of
      a first version of an occupational therapy intervention program aiming at enhancing the
      ability to perform activities of daily living (ADL) among persons living with chronic
      conditions.

      Methods

      In the study a pre-test - post-test design is applied. That is, 30 participants living with
      chronic conditions are assigned to an eight week occupational therapy intervention program.

      Outcome measures are self-reported and observed ADL ability measured using the ADL-Interview
      (ADL-I) and the Assessment of Motor and Process Skills (AMPS). Furthermore, various
      registrations (made by occupational therapists and participants) related to the feasibility
      of the intervention will be collected and analyzed.
    
  