
    
      The test will be a single group prospective pre/post design. Amputees are a small proportion
      of the general population. The population group specified in the inclusion/exclusion criteria
      is a further subsample of amputees. For practical reasons, i.e. to achieve statistical power,
      it is therefore more feasible to use within-subject comparison rather than creating study
      arms to compare. Furthermore, as mobile amputees generally have and use a prosthetic device
      for their daily activities, within-comparison is feasible comparing to the subjects' previous
      device.

      All investigational activities will be conducted at prosthetic out-patient clinics.

      As stated above the primary endpoint is successful use rate, see Table 2, and the secondary
      endpoints are listed in the table from B-H in that respective order of significance. See
      previous chapter on objectives and hypothesis and Table 2 for rationale.

      Drop-outs and withdrawals will not be replaced.

      Equipment required for each subject:

        -  Pen/pencil

        -  Printed out instruments

        -  Investigational device: Materials for making DS-TF socket o Designated locking or
           seal-in liner to be fitted with the socket

      Additionally, each LPI or LCI will have access to:

        -  Equipment for DS-TF socket manufacturing

        -  iPad with the Össur ProApp installed for data collection The equipment used does not
           require specific monitoring, maintenance or calibration procedures.

      The purpose of the study is to evaluate in a cohort the time it takes to manufacture and
      delivery (lead time) of a definitive prosthesis (definition of finished prosthetic leg is, a
      prosthesis that is individually tailored and able to be used both indoors and outdoors, with
      the maximum weight on the patient equivalent to 160 kg). The existing prosthesis is to be
      evaluated as well as the new socket. The evaluation of function will take place at baseline,
      6 weeks and 6 months after deliverance.

      The following outcome instruments will be used:

      • At all three study evaluation points; initial fitting, 6 wees and 6 months:

        -  OPUS (LEFS, CSD, CSS)
           https://www.sralab.org/rehabilitation-measures/orthotics-prosthetics-users-survey

        -  ProAMP (to test the current function with prosthesis)

        -  EQ-5D (for life quality)

        -  Socket Comfort Score (SCS)

        -  CLASS - socket fit

        -  Plus-M

        -  ABC

        -  TUG

      Cost of fitting, to all parties, will be collected and reported. Whatever the outcome of the
      study will be, it will be very informative for healthcare systems, both payers and providers,
      and manufacturer of equipment for amputees.

      The total time required to implement the full clinical investigation is expected to be
      approximately 26 months. Each individual subject is expected to participate in the clinical
      investigation for a minimum of 6 weeks, up to 6 months. The estimated time needed to include
      the required number (enrolment period) is 20 months.
    
  