
    
      Background and preliminary results: Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus (T1DM) is caused by an
      autoimmune process that progressively destroys the pancreatic β-cells, and leads to
      dependence on multiple daily insulin subcutaneous injections according to glucose
      measurements and dietary restrictions, leading to short and long term complications. The
      autoimmune process is the result of genetic predisposition, immunological defects, and
      environmental factors concurring to development of autoreactive T cells (mostly T cytotoxic).
      Current data demonstrate that even modest preservation of β-cell function and endogenous
      production of insulin (marked by C-peptide) may result in meaningful clinical benefits
      including lower rates of complications, improved metabolic control, reduced insulin
      injections, and improved quality of life. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) is a safe
      modality, consisting of inhalation of 100% oxygen at pressures exceeding 1 atmosphere
      absolute (ATA) in order to enhance the amount of oxygen dissolved in the body tissues. It has
      been demonstrated by our group and others, that the combined action of hyperoxia and
      hyperbaric pressure induces proliferation and mobilization of mesenchymal stem cells, and
      increment in circulating T regulatory cells (Treg). The effect of HBOT on T1DM
      pathophysiology was demonstrated in mouse model, increased number of insulin-positive cells
      compared with controls.

      Hypothesis: management with HBOT at T1DM onset will have a beneficial effect on β cell
      preservation. The difference will be associated with higher mesenchymal cells production,
      increased Treg, and anti-inflammatory cytokine profile. Double blind, randomized, placebo
      controlled study of pediatric patients who have been newly diagnosed with type 1 diabetes
      within 12 weeks prior to randomization (6-8 weeks from screening) and express peak C-peptide
      ≥ 0.2 pmol/ml

      Aims:

        1. To assess the efficacy of HBOT in preservation of β cell function in the pediatric
           population with new-onset T1DM

        2. To assess the efficacy of HBOT in achieving glycemic control parameters in target range
           with lower daily dose of insulin per weight, in the pediatric population with new-onset
           T1DM

        3. To assess the effect of HBOT on Treg, mesanchymal stem cells, and pro-inflammatory
           cytokines ratio in pediatric population with new-onset T1DM

      Subjects will be randomized to hyperbaric oxygen chamber (HBOC) group and to a sham
      hyperbaric chamber (SHBC) group. Both groups will be managed similarly by moderate carbs diet
      and basal bolus insulin administration, based on their interstitial glucose levels by flash
      glucose continuous glucose monitoring system (FG-CGMS) and carbohydrate counting before
      meals.

      The management protocol is divided to 3 periods: 12 weeks of intensive management, 12 weeks
      of maintenance management , and 25 weeks of follow up. Similar in both groups.

      During the intensive management period - for 12 weeks, the HBOC group will receive 100%
      oxygen at 2 ATA for 90 min with 5 min air breaks every 20 min at each session. Intensive
      management period includes 60 daily sessions, 5 days per week within 12 weeks, During the
      intensive management period - for 12 weeks, the SHBC group will receive 21% oxygen at 1 ATA
      for 90 min with 5 min air breaks every 20 min at each session. In order to endure blinded
      sham treatment, in the first 5 minutes of each sessions, atmospheric pressure will increase
      to 1.2 ATA and then decompressed to 1 ATA. Intensive management period includes 60 daily
      sessions, 5 days per week within 12 weeks, During the maintenance management period, each
      group with receive 24 biweekly sessions within 12weeks . Each group will receive similar
      percent of oxygen and ATA as during intensive period.

      During the management periods, patients will attend weekly meetings with the diabetes
      education team including dialectologist, nurse educator, psychologist and dietician. During
      follow-up period they will meet the team once a month.

      All will be instructed not to exceed the amount of 80-120 gram of daily carbohydrates and to
      inject insulin pre-meals according to carbs-counting, and FG-CGMS. Insulin will be
      administered by subcutaneous continuous insulin infusion (SCII) or by InPen only, for
      accurate daily dose of insulin recording.

      Along the 52 weeks of the study several parameters will be assessed at pre-defined time
      points .

        1. Pancreatic β cells function will be evaluated by measurements of blood area under the
           curve (AUC) C-peptide, peak C-peptide, and basal proinsulin/c-peptide ratio.

        2. glycemic control parameters will be evaluated by FG-CGMS data regarding time spent in
           glycemicrange, hypoglycemic and hyperglycemic ranges, total daily dose of
           insulinaccording to InPen, and blood tests for glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and proteins.

        3. Immune system parameters will be assessed by blood levels of T-regulatory cells,
           diabetes auto-antibody and inflammatory cytokines.

        4. Microbiome changes will be assessed by stool samples.

      Subjects ages 8-17 years old, diagnosed with type 1 diabetes in one of the diabetes
      management centers in Israel, up to 12 weeks prior to randomization.

      1. Parent/guardian willing and able to sign an informed consent 2. Participant willing and
      able to sign an assent 3. Diagnosed with type 1 diabetes within 12 weeks prior to
      randomization 4. Treated with insulin by basal-bolus regimen (injections or pump) 5. Peak
      C-peptide ≥ 0.2 pmol/ml 6. At least 1 positive diabetes auto-antibody 7. No significant
      abnormalities in hematology and serum chemistry according to the investigator's judgment,
      taking into consideration the potential effects of the diabetic illness 8. No significant
      abnormalities in urinalysis, taking into considerations the potential effects of the diabetic
      illness 9. For females of child bearing potential: whose screening pregnancy test is negative
      and who are using contraceptive methods deemed reliable by the investigator

        1. Planned major surgery within the study period

        2. Clinically significant inter-current illnesses, including (but not limited to): lung,
           cardiac, hepatic, renal, eye, neurological, hematological, neoplastic, immunological,
           skeletal or other, that in the opinion of the investigator, could interfere with the
           safety, compliance or other aspects of this study. Patients with well-controlled,
           chronic diseases could be possibly included after consultation with the investigator at
           site.

        3. Presence of psychiatric/ mental disorder or any other medical disorder which might
           impair the patient's ability to give informed consent or to comply with the requirements
           of the study protocol

        4. Participation in another interventional clinical trial

        5. Inability to attend scheduled clinic visits and/or comply with the study protocol

        6. Current use of any medication known to influence glucose tolerance (e.g., β-blockers,
           angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, interferons, quinidine anti-malarial drugs,
           lithium, niacin, metformin, sulfonylureas, glinides, thiazolidinediones, exenatide,
           liraglutide, DPP-IV inhibitors or amylin).

        7. Lung disease, middle ear disease, inner ear disease, history of epileptic seizures or
           any other condition that based on the physician clinical judgment is not suitable to get
           the hyperbaric treatment.

        8. Any other factor that, in the opinion of the investigator, would prevent the patient
           form complying with the requirements of the protocol.
    
  