
    
      Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) affects millions of people worldwide. Management of PAD has
      evolved from open surgery to an endovascular first approach leading to increased volume of
      endovascular interventions. Endovascular femoropopliteal intervention has emerged as a
      standard treatment for symptomatic PAD with acceptable patency rates.

      Histologic observation of bare metal stents with early failure shows association with
      platelet rich thrombus, high counts of platelets, and neutrophils associated with stent
      struts. Additionally, high inflation pressures associated with balloon angioplasty often
      causes local tissue damage leading to platelet activation. These findings led to studies
      targeting platelet activation following endovascular treatment showing improved outcomes in
      patients receiving stronger platelet inhibition.

      The current standard of care is prescription of dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) for
      femoropopliteal angioplasty or stenting. DAPT is active use of any two antiplatelet agents,
      often low dose aspirin plus P2Y12 inhibitor (clopidogrel, ticagrelor, prasugrel). There is
      improved stent patency and reduced adverse cardiovascular events in patients taking DAPT
      versus aspirin monotherapy.

      Clopidogrel is the most common additional antiplatelet agent prescribed, but 4-65% of
      patients taking clopidogrel fail to achieve clinically expected platelet inhibition. This
      persistent platelet reactivity despite compliant antiplatelet use is commonly referred to as
      high on-treatment platelet reactivity (HPR), and increases risk of endovascular intervention
      failure and associated adverse clinical events in these patients. Clopidogrel is a pro-drug
      metabolized by CYP2C19 enzyme into its active form. Failure to respond appropriately to
      clopidogrel is largely due to genetic polymorphisms within CYP2C19 enzyme resulting in
      variable metabolization of clopidogrel into the active metabolite.

      Alternative antiplatelet medications can overcome HPR through different metabolic pathways,
      but unfortunately at a significantly higher cost. Of these, ticagrelor is often used to
      overcome HPR for patients taking clopidogrel with favorable outcomes. However, regional cost
      for ticagrelor is $352.50 compared to $1.96 for clopidogrel. Cost and bleeding concerns among
      providers have prevented widespread use. Overall, there is paucity of evidence looking at HPR
      and lower extremity arterial endovascular interventions without consensus or guidelines on
      how to address this problem. Thus, the investigators propose an unblinded, randomized
      controlled trial in patients having femoropopliteal angioplasty or stenting comparing two
      strategies: 1. testing and treating for HPR versus 2. guideline based therapy without testing
      for HPR.
    
  