
    
      Induction Cycles:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in the study, on Days 1-5 of each cycle , you
      will receive clofarabine by vein over 1-2 hours.

      On Days 1-7 of each cycle, you will receive cytarabine by injection under the skin over
      several seconds 2 times a day.

      You may receive up to 3 cycles at this dose and schedule (also called "induction cycles").
      There are 7 treatment days in each cycle but the total length of one cycle (including rest
      and recovery period) is usually between 4 and 8 weeks.

      Consolidation Cycles:

      After you have completed the Induction Cycles, if you show a response to treatment, you can
      then continue with up to a total of 12 more cycles of therapy, which will be called
      "consolidation cycles". Not every participant may be able to receive all 12 consolidation
      cycles. The actual number that you will receive depends on whether or not you maintain the
      response and how you are able to tolerate ongoing therapy. There will be 4-8 weeks between
      each consolidation cycle depending on any side effects you may be having and your blood
      counts.

      During consolidation cycles you will receive clofarabine on Days 1-3 by vein over 1-2 hours.
      You will receive cytarabine by injection under the skin over several seconds 2 times a day .

      Induction and Consolidation Cycles:

      On the days when you receive clofarabine and cytarabine (Days 1-5 during induction and Days
      1-3 during consolidation), the clofarabine will be given about 3-6 hours before the
      cytarabine injections. You can be taught to give cytarabine injections to yourself. In this
      case, you can leave the clinic after receiving clofarabine. You will be required to record
      the injections of cytarabine in a diary unless you receive the treatments while you are in
      the hospital.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of every cycle (+/- 7 days):

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurements of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      About 4 weeks after you started your first cycle, you may have a bone marrow aspirate to
      check the status of the disease. After that, you may have repeat bone marrow aspirates when
      the doctor thinks it is needed.

      It is recommended that you stay in Houston for up to the first 4 weeks of treatment. After
      that, you will need to return to Houston before each induction cycle. If you continue with
      the consolidation you can receive these treatments by your local oncologist. However, you
      have to return to Houston at least every 3 months for your study visits.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for up to 15 cycles. You will no longer be able to
      take the study drugs if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you
      are unable to follow study directions.

      This is an investigational study. Clofarabine is FDA approved and commercially available for
      use in pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Its use in adults and in
      patients with MDS is investigational.

      Cytarabine is FDA approved and commercially available for use in patients with acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML).

      Up to 80 patients will take part in this study. All be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  