
    
      The study is conducted in 2 parts:

      Part 1: lymphocyte attraction. After the screening phase, the patient will receive
      immune-attractant combined with exemestane for six weeks.

      As immune-attractants are added over the course of the study, they will appear as subsequent
      appendices in the full protocol.

      Up to 4 cohorts may be tested sequentially in this design until up to 240 evaluable patients
      have been treated.

      The first cohort of patients will receive tremelimumab (3 mg/kg, single infusion) combined
      with exemestane (25 mg daily). In each cohort, an interim analysis will be performed after 30
      patients in order to potentially stop the cohort (if less than 25% of patients present >10%
      CD8+ cells in the tumor after 3 weeks). If all 4 cohorts are closed and the target number of
      56 patients for part 2 has not been reached, additional patients will be recruited and
      treated with the best performing immune-attractant treatment based on the part I results.
      From the moment 56 patients are included in part 2, no more patients will be entered in part
      1.

      After three weeks (+/- 3 days), a tumor biopsy will be done. Patients who present >10% CD8+
      cells in the tumor after 3 weeks and remain eligible will be included in the second part of
      the trial (patients who do not present CD8+ T cells on the 3-week biopsy will be treated at
      the investigator's choice).

      Part 2: lymphocyte activation (anti-PD1 treatment) Four to six weeks after immune-attractant
      start, patients having >10% CD8+ cells in the tumor will receive durvalumab 1500 mg Q4W
      (equivalent to 20 mg/kg Q4W) IV, combined with exemestane (25 mg daily), for six months.

      Part 2 will include two steps. In the first step, we will include 23 patients. If 2 or more
      pathological complete responses are observed in these 23 patients, the part 2 will move to
      step 2. 33 additional patients will be included in the step 2.
    
  