
    
      Cancer is primarily diagnosed by clinical presentation, radiology, biochemical tests and
      pathological analysis of tumor tissue, increasingly supported by molecular diagnostic tests.
      Molecular profiling of tumor tissue samples has emerged as a potential cancer classifying
      method. In order to overcome limitations of tissue acquisition the use of blood-based liquid
      biopsies has been suggested. Several blood-based sources are currently being evaluated as
      liquid biopsies, including plasma DNA and circulating tumor cells. So far, implementation of
      liquid biopsies for early detection of cancer has been hampered by non-specificity of these
      sources to pinpoint the nature of the primary tumor. It has been reported that tumor-educated
      platelets (TEPs) may enable blood-based cancer diagnostics. Platelets are circulating
      anucleated cell fragments that originate from megakaryocytes in bone marrow, and are
      traditionally known for their role in hemostasis and initiation of wound healing. More
      recently, platelets have emerged as central players in the systemic and local responses to
      tumor growth. Confrontation of platelets with tumor cells via transfer of tumor-associated
      biomolecules ('education') is an emerging concept and results in the sequestration of such
      biomolecules. Moreover, external stimuli, such as activation of platelet surface receptors
      and lipopolysaccharide-mediated platelet activation induce specific splicing of pre-mRNAs in
      circulating platelets. Platelets may also undergo queue-specific splice events in response to
      signals released by cancer cells and the tumor microenvironment -such as stromal and immune
      cells-. The combination of specific splice events in response to external signals and the
      capacity of platelets to directly ingest (spliced) circulating mRNA can provide TEPs with a
      highly dynamic mRNA repertoire, with potential applicability to cancer diagnostics.
      Additionally, the value of other biomarkers that can be derived from a liquid biopsy will be
      tested in this study. In addition, recently a hallmark paper has shown that combinations of
      protein tumor markers and ctDNA analysis could discriminate persons with different types of
      cancer from healthy controls with on average 70% sensitivity (at 99% specificity). In the
      case of ovarium cancer the sensitivity was 98%. Obvious advantages of liquid biopsy compared
      to tissue biopsy is the easy accessibility of the material to be obtained and the fact that
      tumor derived material in blood may cover the cancer heterogeneity where a tissue biopsy is
      limited to the alterations in the tumor punctured. Therefore, this study investigates the
      clinical value of longitudinal assessment of liquid biopsy-derived information in diagnosis
      and monitoring of treatment response in patients suspected of ovarian cancer.
    
  