
    
      Introduction: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) affects thousands of people in the world,
      regardless of gender, race and age. CKD requires dialysis or renal transplant. In the case of
      dialysis, cardiovascular and infectious events adversely impact the survival and quality of
      life despite technological advances. Recently, brain-renal interaction has emerged as a key
      aspect for understanding the neurological disorders-related to CKD, such as cerebrovascular
      diseases, cognitive impairment, and autonomic, sensory and motor neuropathies. In addition,
      patients on chronic hemodialysis develop sleep disorders, like insomnia and central apnea,
      restless leg syndrome, depression, anxiety and stress. Mindfulness meditation practice has
      been reported to positively affect cardiovascular parameters, since that practice contributes
      to the decrease in blood pressure levels and premature heart beats occurrence through
      sympathetic nerve modulation, which collectively may lead to improve the quality of life.
      Objectives: To evaluate the effects of mindfulness meditation practice in patients on chronic
      hemodialysis, in order to verify if this training can improve symptoms of depression, stress,
      quality of life and sleep quality. Methods: fifty patients will be separated in two groups,
      twenty five each group, half of them in the control group (CG) and the other half in the
      intervention group (IG). The IG will be enrolled in the meditation protocol, for 12 weeks, 3
      days a week during the hemodialysis session, while the CG will wait. Then after the
      evaluations, the CG will receive the intervention of meditation, while the IG will not
      receive any intervention. The groups will be evaluate before, 3-and 6-month follow-up
      periods. We will apply the following instruments: ICED (Index of coexistent diseases), KDQOL
      (Kidney Disease Quality of Life), BDI (Beck Depression Inventory), PSQI (Pittsburgh Sleep
      Quality Index), PSS (Perceived Stress Scale), MAAS (Mindful Attention Awareness Scale) and
      SCS (Self-Compassion Scale).
    
  