
    
      The central nervous system (CNS) consists of the brain and spinal cord and serves as the
      collection point of nerve impulses. The peripheral nervous system (PNS) includes all nerves
      not in the brain or spinal cord and connects all parts of the body to the CNS. The autonomic
      nervous system (ANS), which consists mostly motor nerves, controls functions of involuntary
      smooth muscles, glands, and cardiac muscles. The ANS is further divided into the sympathetic
      and parasympathetic systems. In relation to the heart, the sympathetic system controls
      increases in heart rate, blood pressure, and cardiac output. The parasympathetic system
      lowers heart activity and operates during normal situations where the body is not under
      stress1, 2.

      While the influence of the central nervous system on cardiac rhythm and function is well
      accepted, the mechanisms of this control are poorly understood. A preponderance of data
      implicates the autonomic nervous system in the development of many cases of atrial
      fibrillation (AF)3, 4. The importance of investigating the role of the central nervous system
      in the control of the heart rhythm can be appreciated when reviewing the prevalence of
      cardiac arrhythmias. AF alone affects 2.2 million adults in the United States. With the
      growing aged population, this number can be expected to rise to 5.6-10 million by the year
      2050. AF contributes to the development of heart failure and stroke and can precipitate
      angina in some patients. New therapies are needed since both surgical and minimally invasive
      ablative techniques are associated with a substantial failure rate in addition to the
      complications of invasive procedures. Understanding the CNS's role promises to direct new
      therapies to improve treatment success and reduce complications associated with therapy for
      AF and other arrhythmias.

      Direct current (DC) cardioversion (DCCV) is a procedure in which a synchronized electrical
      shock is delivered through the chest to the heart via electrodes that are applied to the skin
      of the chest and back. Most elective cardioversion procedures are performed to treat AF or
      atrial flutter (AFL). The shock causes all the heart cells to contract simultaneously,
      thereby interrupting and terminating the abnormal electrical rhythm of AF without damaging
      the heart. This interruption of the abnormal beat allows the electrical system in the heart
      to regain control and restore a normal sinus rhythm (see Figure 1, Appendix A). Since the
      shock can be painful, the patient is usually sedated. Once sedated, the physician charges the
      defibrillator to a specified energy level and then delivers the shock. Additional shocks at
      higher energy levels can be delivered if the first attempt does not restore sinus rhythm.
      Typically patients are able to go home about an hour after the procedure. DCCV will restore
      normal sinus rhythm in 90% of patients5.

      Newer MRI techniques offer the ability to not only image anatomy, but also to assess brain
      activation patterns. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was developed in the early
      1990s, and is a variation of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The primary purpose of fMRI is
      to observe brain function under varying stimuli in a non-invasive way. fMRI uses a
      conventional MRI scanner. It takes advantage of the magnetic properties of iron in the blood.
      Whenever any part of the brain becomes active, the small blood vessels in that localized
      region dilate, causing more blood to rush into that region of the brain. The blood's iron
      atoms cause small distortions in the magnetic field around them, which causes the MRI scanner
      to be able to read and display an image of the brain's activity. When a region of the brain
      is activated, a large amount of freshly oxygenated blood pours into that structure of the
      brain, thus causing a small change in the magnetic field, and producing an MRI signal in the
      active region6.

      Prior studies have utilized heart rate variation or galvanic skin response as an independent
      measure of autonomic arousal and compared these measures to fMRI to determine regions of the
      brain that are active during sympathetic or parasympathetic arousal 7-11. Studies have
      typically identified activation within the anterior cingulate region and insular cortex
      during sympathetic activation and in the ventral anterior cingulate in parasympathetic
      activation12, 13. Moreover, attenuation of the parasympathetic myocardial innervations by
      myocardial fat pad or ablation of parasympathetic ganglionic plexi have been shown to
      suppress AF in a significant number of patients presenting with this arrhythmia14, 15.
      Whether attenuation of the central autonomic pathways plays a role in initiating AF, or if
      atrial arrhythmias may lead to this central attenuation is an open question. This study is
      aimed at defining the effect of AF on the central autonomic pathways and vise versa.

      Our expectation is that at the end of this study, we will have greater insight into the role
      of the central nervous system and more specifically the autonomic nervous system in
      modulating AF. We expect that understanding the interaction between the central nervous
      system and cardiac arrhythmias will lead to the development of novel therapies that preserve
      and restore normal sinus rhythm.

      This study will serve as a pilot study with the goal of obtaining additional grant funding
      and expanding the study once differences in volumes of activation are demonstrated.
    
  