
    
      After administration of local anaesthesia, the tooth will be extracted by the principle
      investigator without raising flaps, as atraumatically as possible by using periotomes without
      disturbing the papillary tissues (minimal traumatic extraction technique). After the
      extraction of the tooth, the socket will be carefully cleaned to excavate the granulation
      tissue in the marginal and apical regions. The allocation will be revealed to the principle
      investigator for the 3 implant groups after implant placement.

      Group 1: extraction will occur and then followed by immediate implant placement,using
      standard implant system protocol preparation of the osteotomy will take place. Initial drill
      will be placed palatally till final drill reached. Placement of the implant without any
      raising of the flap will be performed in the correct implant position. Primary stability of
      the implant will be measured by rotational insertion torque value, to be ≥30Ncm (37).
      Connective tissue grafts will be harvested from the hard palate and placed at the implant
      sites in a supraperiosteal partial dissection (pouch technique) prepared at the buccal aspect
      without using vertical incisions and without flap elevation. Sutures will be used to
      stabilize the graft in its desired place. Followed by customized healing abutment, the
      temporary cylindrical abutment twill be screwed to the implant and then flowable composite
      will be injected at the gingival margin level to adapt to the abutment that will be
      sand-blasted previously for mechanical retention of the composite, taking the shape of the
      socket at the marginal gingiva. A buccal groove will be made after the polymerization of this
      material for easier application. The abutments will be removed for final configurations of
      the apical part mimicking the emergence profile of the extracted tooth and finishing with
      laboratory discs and burs. The custom healing screw will then be screwed to the implant with
      the correct torque.

      Group 2: Tooth extraction and immediate implant placement as mentioned, followed by
      particulate bone grafts are packed in the gap between the implant and the buccal plate of
      bone till the crest of the alveolar bone, then will be covered by a customized healing
      abutment that will be done as mentioned before.

      Group 3: The extraction will take place and then particulate bone graft will be placed in the
      socket and a fixed temporary ovate ontic (PMMA) extending 3mm inside the socket, with minimal
      occlusal contact (38), will be placed and cemented on the adjacent teeth.

      Group 4 (control group): Tooth extraction and immediate implant placement as mentioned,
      followed by particulate bone grafts are packed in the gap between the implant and the buccal
      plate of bone and the tissue (dual zone), then will be covered by a customized healing
      abutment that will be done as mentioned before but will only seal the socket without
      extending deeper apically in the soft tissue
    
  