
    
      All patients admitted for hysteroscopy were offered participation in the study, and those
      choosing to participate were assessed according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria of
      the study protocol. The investigators included all non pregnant patients who were considered
      medically fit and scheduled for operative hysteroscopy, regardless of age or indication of
      the hysteroscopy. Patients with a positive history of vascular or coronary artery disease and
      patients using other products that could affect the consistency of the cervix such as local
      estrogen or laminaire were excluded from the study. To achieve a mean difference of 0.5 in
      the diffculty of dilation and a mean difference of 0.5 in the First Hegar with a power of 80%
      at 0.05 statistical significance, a sample of 163 patients in each arm is needed. However,
      the investigators patients pool did not permit to recruit more than 70 women so the
      investigators took it as a convenience sample of a total of 70 women that agreed to be
      recruited for the trial. An informed consent was obtained after explaining to the patients
      the benefit and the eventual risk or adverse effects associated with the medication. Studied
      factors were: age, parity, reason for the procedure, history of cervical dilation and history
      of cervical surgery.

      Seventy closed and numbered envelopes, containing a capsule with either 200mcg or 400mcg of
      misoprostol were randomly distributed to these 70 patients. Each envelope was coded randomly
      and only the pharmaceutical department of the hospital knew the content of these envelopes
      and kept a list of their codes.

      The misoprostol was administered by the floor nurse, per-os to the patient one hour before
      hysteroscopy with a small amount of water. The number on the envelope was noted by the nurse
      on the document relative to the patient. Hence, the patient, the physician performing the
      biopsy, the nurse and the research associate did not know the exact dose of misoprostol that
      was ingested by the patient.

      Three physicians contributed to the study. Before beginning the procedure, the operator noted
      by pelvic examination the position of the cervix. He then noted the size/number of the first
      Hegar dilator used, the maximal dilation reached, the difficulty to dilate during the
      intervention (measured by a scale from 1 to 10), cervical injuries, bleeding or uterine
      perforation and the duration of the operation. A rigid hysteroscope (Storz, 27 F) was used
      for all procedures.

      Adverse effects that could be related to misoprostol (uterine cramps, nausea, vomiting,
      diarrhea and fever), were reported before and up to 6 hours after surgery.

      Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS version 18. Means comparison was done using
      t-test for continuous variables such as difficulty in dilation or first Hegar (the data was
      normally distributed). Frequency and percent distribution were compared between the two
      treatment groups using χ2 test when the expected cell count was 5 or more; in cases where the
      expected cell count was less than 5, the Fisher exact test was used instead
    
  