
    
      Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic and relapsing inflammatory condition of the
      gastrointestinal tract. Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are the two principal types of
      IBD. The prevalence of IBD has been increasing worldwide . Extraintestinal manifestations of
      IBD are common, occurring in 6% to 47% of patients involving nearly every organ system .

      Renal and urinary system involvement are common in IBD patients with incidence varying from
      4% to 23% and is greater in patients with more severe and long-standing disease. Apart from
      secondary complications, such as nephrolithiasis, hydronephrosis and amyloidosis, other
      disorders have also been reported. Membranous glomerulonephritis, rapidly progressive
      glomerulonephritis, mesangiocapillary glomerulonephritis, IgA nephropathy, thin basement
      membrane disease and kidney granuloma found to be connected with IBD. In addition,
      non-specific morphological changes in the glomeruli of patients with IBD, like podocyte
      effacement and mesangial deposition of immunoglobulin and complement have been well
      documented. Cases of interstitial nephritis reported to be attributed to the nephrotoxic
      effect of aminosalicylates which used in IBD treatment.

      Alpha one microglobulin is a relatively small protein that undergoes glomerular filtration
      followed by reabsorption and catabolism in the proximal tubules. Increased urinary
      α1-microglobulin concentration therefore provides an index of proximal tubule dysfunction .

      Glomerular filtration barrier related protein changes have not been closely investigated in
      IBD patients . Nephrin is podocyte-associated protein that play key roles in maintaining the
      structural and functional integrity of the kidney's filtration barrier. The shedding of
      nephrin reflects compromisation of podocytes' functional and structural integrity.
    
  