
    
      It is well known that the Type 2 diabetes and vascular disease are preceded by over ten years
      by metabolic dysfunction and anatomic changes that can be quantified. In order to develop
      effective preventive strategies and reduce the cost burden to the health care system,
      recognition of the earliest pathophysiology of Type 2 diabetes and vascular disease is
      clinically relevant. In patients with risk factors for type 2 diabetes and/or vascular
      disease, we have quantified this dysmetabolic state using glucose tolerance testing to
      quantify insulin resistance and beta cell function while measuring vascular biomarkers as
      well as Intima-media thickness and carotid plaque to characterize cardiovascular risk. The
      interval retrospective evaluation of data from patient records, reflect the effectiveness of
      the various treatments implemented in clinical practice.

      Prevalence of "prediabetes" among American adults is estimated to be ~84 million, or one out
      of three Americans. Over a 5-7 year period approximately one third of these prediabetic
      individuals will progress to type 2 diabetes. Prediabetes is a heterogenous group comprised
      of individuals with impaired fasting glucose (IFG), impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), and
      increased A1c (5.7-6.4%). Although different pathophysiologies are present in individuals
      with IFG and IGT, their conversion rate to overt type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is similar.

      Prospective epidemiologic studies have demonstrated that ~40% of subjects who progress to
      T2DM over 5 years had Normal glucose tolerance (NGT) at baseline, suggesting that a large
      group of NGT subjects also are at increased T2DM risk. It has previously been demonstrated
      that a 1-hour plasma glucose concentration >155 mg/dl identifies a subgroup of NGT subjects
      with high future T2DM risk.

      Further, multiple studies have demonstrated that background retinopathy, microalbuminuria,
      and peripheral neuropathy are present in 10-20% of prediabetic individuals. Compared with
      normoglycemic patients, those with prediabetes were associated with a 13-30% higher risk for
      composite cardiovascular disease.

      Insulin resistance is a common causal feature of many of the pathophysiologic mechanisms
      linking macrovascular disease and type 2 diabetes. Because hyperglycemia is the major factor
      responsible for the development of microvascular complications, it logically follows that
      prevention of progression of prediabetes to overt diabetes should retard/prevent the
      development of the microvascular complications. From the measurement of plasma glucose,
      insulin, and c-peptide levels during the oral glucose tolerance test, one can derive measures
      of the two core defects responsible for the development of T2DM, i.e. insulin resistance and
      beta cell dysfunction as well as the degree of dysglycemia.

      The need for improvement in the identification of asymptomatic atherosclerosis is exemplified
      by the observation that nearly 50% of patients suffering a first myocardial infarction have
      either, none or only one of the standard risk factors; smoking, diabetes,
      hypercholesterolemia, hypertension and family history of heart disease. By combining a
      standard medical evaluation with the evaluation of cardiovascular biomarkers, patients at
      intermediate risk of vascular disease can be identified. In these patients, carotid intima
      media thickness and carotid plaque evaluation is offered to attempt to clarify risk.

      Further associations exist between insulin resistance and other medical conditions including;
      fatty liver, epicardial fat, diastolic dysfunction, arrhythmia, dementia and cancer.
      Quantifying insulin resistance may allow advances in preventive strategies.

      Following these evaluations, a discussion of the scientific literature as well as the risk,
      benefits and alternatives available, a personalized treatment plan is generated. Interval
      reassessment is carried out as part of the routine medical care of the patients in the
      practice.

      The hypothesis of this observational study is that the characterization of the physiology and
      anatomy of patients at risk of developing type 2 diabetes and/or cardiovascular disease can
      stratify risk of developing disease and direct treatment strategies tailored to the
      identified physiologic defect, leading to improvements in the delay or prevention of disease.
    
  