
    
      Aim of the study This is a prospective, observational trial to collect samples of SLB,
      extract RNA, analyze transcriptional profiles by microarray, and validate previously
      identified gene expression profiles and individual genes expression levels against the
      diagnosis of IIP (IPF vs. NSIP), defined by multi-disciplinary discussion, and further
      confirmed by subsequent clinical course. There is no experimental drug involved.

      Specific objectives:

        1. Test and validate the reproducibility of gene expression profiles of IPF and NSIP on the
           transcriptome obtained from surgical lung biopsies (lung homogenates), prospectively
           collected.

        2. Test the gene expression profiles of IPF and NSIP, respectively, as predictors of 3-year
           survival from the time of biopsy. .

        3. Test individual gene expression levels (markers of NSIP or IPF) in lung homogenates from
           SLB with real-time RT-PCR, as discriminators of IPF vs. NSIP.

      Although the diagnosis of IPF or NSIP will be established by multi-disciplinary discussion,
      as per guidelines, in order to further validate gene signatures and singles genes as reliable
      discriminators of IPF vs. NSIP, we will prospectively follow the clinical course of patients
      for a period of 3 years, to make sure that the clinical course is consistent with either IPF
      (worse) or NSIP (better). The average clinical courses of IPF and NSIP are clearly
      established by our 6-year interstitial lung disease database experience.

      Assessment of expected outcomes:

        1. Definition of a diagnosis of IPF vs. NSIP by MDD among Respirologist, Chest Radiologist
           and Lung Pathologist, as per current clinical practice. Kappa statistics will be also
           used to evaluate the diagnostic impact of molecular diagnostic techniques.

        2. Comprehensive microarray analysis of all SLB, including significance analysis of
           microarray, principal component analysis, hierarchical clustering and Ingenuity pathway
           analysis. The reproducibility of predefined gene expression profiles of IPF and NSIP
           will be studied on surgical lung biopsies.

        3. Real time RT-PCR to measure the gene expression levels of 6 selected genes that may
           differentiate IPF from NSIP.

        4. Prospective follow-up of clinical course (3 years) to further validate diagnostic
           accuracy.

        5. Study of the predictive power of gene expression profiles of IPF and NSIP (categorical
           variables) and of the expression level of 6 selected genes (continuous variables)
           towards 3-year survival from the time of biopsy.

        6. Assessment of diagnostic accuracy area under the curve, sensitivity, specificity) of
           molecular techniques, after validation of diagnosis with 3-year post-biopsy clinical
           course.

      Subjects After ruling out known causes (rheumatoid disorders, occupational, environmental or
      domestic exposures, drugs) of pulmonary fibrosis, patients being referred for a SLB to
      clarify the diagnosis of IIP (IPF vs. NSIP) will be recruited in the study. Informed, written
      consent will be obtained.

      Demographic characteristics and pulmonary function tests prior to the SLB will be recorded.
      The pre-SLB high resolution chest CT scan will be considered together with the SLB during
      MDD.

      Storage and processing of samples At the time of SLB, an adequate sample of each SLB will be
      snap frozen with liquid nitrogen and stored at -80ºC, until RNA extraction is carried on.

      RNA extraction and Microarray analysis RNA will be isolated, labeled, and hybridized to the
      human gene 1.0 set array by the London Regional Genomic Centre according to the
      manufacturer's protocols (Illumina EpiCentre ScriptSeq).

      Data sets for microarray experiments will be made available at the Gene Expression Omnibus
      repository.

      Partek software (St.Louis, MO) will be used for the preliminary analysis. Probe-level data
      will be pre-processed. This will include robust multi-array average background correction and
      data normalization, which will be performed across all arrays using quantile normalization.
      Background-adjusted, normalized values will then be compiled, or summarized, using the median
      polish technique, to generate a single measure of expression. As an exploratory data
      analysis, principal component analysis mapping and F Ratio analysis (signal-to-noise ratio)
      will also be performed.

      For Significant Analysis of Microarray, 33,297 probe sets will be used. The q value will be
      adopted as a multiple comparison correction and used to identify differentially expressed
      genes. The q value represents the minimal false discovery ratio (FDR) at which an individual
      hypothesis test may be called significant.

      For hierarchical clustering, Cluster 3.0 and Treeview (Eisen's laboratory, Standford Univ.)
      will be used. Unsupervised clustering does not take any of the experimental variables such,
      as treatment, phenotype, tissue, etc., into account while clustering.

      Ingenuity Pathway analysis (IPA) is fundamental role to determine gene expression and
      protein-protein interactions within the context of metabolic or signaling pathways, and to
      understand how proteins operate and form pathways, in the context of the selected expression
      profiles. IPA is a powerful curated database and analysis system for understanding how
      proteins work together to effect cellular changes.

      Gene expression profiles to be considered for validation on SLB were published (Respiratory
      Research 2018 Aug 15;19:153). The gene signature of NSIP consists of 86 genes, while the gene
      signature of IPF consists of 60 genes. Receiver operating characteristics analysis will be
      used to determine the accuracy of gene expression analysis in determining the diagnosis of
      IPF vs. NSIP (area under the curve, sensitivity, specificity).

      RT-PCR Ribosomal protein large P0 will be used as housekeeping gene. Based on our previous
      results on lung explants, 6 genes will be tested as discriminators of IPF vs. NSIP on lung
      homogenates from SLB. All genes were cross checked against normal controls.

      Statistical analysis The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test will be used to assess demographic,
      functional and RT-PCR variables' distribution. For comparison of groups (IPF vs. NSIP),
      either unpaired t-test or the Mann-Whitney test, where indicated, will be used. Cox
      proportional hazard analysis and receiver operating characteristics will be used to determine
      the strength of RT-PCR variables in predicting outcome. Kappa statistics will be used to
      asses diagnostic agreement during MDD. Receiver operating characteristics analysis will be
      used to assess diagnostic accuracy (sensitivity, specificity, area under the curve).

      Definition of diagnosis and post-biopsy clinical course The specific diagnosis of IIP (IPF
      vs. NSIP) will be defined based on multi-disciplinary discussion (MDD) among treating
      clinician, chest radiologist and lung pathologist, taking into consideration clinical
      information chest CT scan radiographic pattern and pathology pattern seen on the SLB. The
      diagnosis will be reached by consensus, as per current standard of practice.

      To validate the diagnosis, patients will be followed for a period of 3 years after the SLB.
      Rate of clinical progression and survival are significantly different in IPF vs. NSIP.

      Clinical progression from the time of diagnosis (SLB) will be defined as either: >10%
      absolute reduction in forced vital capacity (FVC) % pred; >50 m decline in 6-minute walk
      distance (6MWD); admission to hospital for respiratory causes; lung transplantation (LTx)
      assessment; or death.

      Clinic visits take place at 4-6 months intervals, as dictated by the clinician. At each
      visit, MRC dyspnea score, pulmonary function tests and 6-minute walk tests data will be
      collected.
    
  