
    
      Rejection currently represents the major cause of allograft failure worldwide, with immediate
      consequences for the patients in terms of mortality, morbidity and costs for the society. The
      field of transplantation lacks robust assessments for immune monitoring and diagnoses.
      Currently, light microscopy still represents the gold standard, which has clearly been
      identified as imperfect. Given those facts, success of clinical trials is impaired with space
      for improvement of current diagnosis standards that should eventually lead to improved
      outcomes for kidney transplant recipients.

      This study will provide the investigators with prospective data of kidney transplant patient
      that will allow the improvement of rejection diagnosis and individual immune monitoring for
      precision medicine: improvement of rejection diagnosis, stage and assessment of response to
      therapy. In order to estimate for each patient a probability of rejection, The investigators
      will generate algorithms using traditional clinical, biological and histological data that
      will be enriched by tissue as well as blood and urine non-invasive immune biomarkers.

      These algorithms will be encapsulated in a "user-friendly" web-based application with best
      in-class visualisation : the TransplanScreen will display individual information with
      comparative and predictive context for clinicians and patients and better interfacing and
      communication. It will include a comprehensive TransplanScreen report based on the algorithms
      and included in Electronic Medical Record databases (object-oriented). It aims to provide
      visual and contextual information to promote personalised decision making, addressing the
      demand of public health authorities for improving efficiency and quality of care.

      The expected benefit for participants and society will be to reduce the financial burden of
      graft rejection for society.

      The cohort will include n=750 kidney transplant recipients in 8 French centres : 3 Parisian
      ones: Necker hospital, Saint-Louis Hospital and Bichat hospital and 4 regional ones: CHU
      Nantes, Toulouse and Bordeaux, Montpellier and Lyon Hospitals. Bichat hospital will not be
      recruiting but will contribute to the research.

      Vulnerable participants excluded.

      Schedule for the study:

        -  inclusion period: 12 months

        -  participation period (treatment - follow-up): 12 months

        -  total duration of the study: 24 months

      Exclusion period for participation in other studies, and justification: the participation to
      other minimal risks and constraints studies and observational non-interventional studies is
      allowed during this study. There is no exclusion period at the end of study. The
      participation to other interventional and observational non-interventional studies is allowed
      after the end of the study.

      Number of enrolments expected per site and per month :

        -  Necker Hospital: 14 patients / month

        -  Saint-Louis Hospital: 8 patients / month

        -  CHU Nantes: 10 patients / month

        -  Lyon Hospitals: 9 patients / month

        -  CHU Toulouse: 13 patients / month

        -  CHU Bordeaux: 9 patients / month.

        -  CHU Montpelier: 8/month
    
  