
    
      The promoter propose to carry out a monocentric biomedical cohort study, interventional,
      falling within the scope of the law of the public health code of 9 August 2004, for a total
      duration of 15 months including statistical analysis and publication. This analysis will
      involve a total of 20 patients, followed for 1 month during which the study criteria will be
      evaluated.

      The patients concerned are men over 18 years of age (with a favourable onco-geriatric opinion
      if >70 years) with localised prostate cancer who are candidates for treatment by radical
      prostatectomy as first-line treatment. Patients must have a BMI of less than 35 kg/m², an ASA
      score of less than 3 and signed consent. Patients with a history of major abdominal surgery
      or sleep apnea syndrome will not be eligible.

      The success rate of robot-assisted radical prostatectomy on an outpatient basis is defined by
      the absence of admission to a conventional inpatient unit within the first 24 hours after the
      procedure; the admission criterion being a Chung score of >9 (street-readiness score) or a
      complication during the procedure that does not allow the patient to be discharged.

      Concerning post-operative follow-up, on D+1, readmissions and complications will be sought by
      the RAAC coordination nurse. The patient will be seen again at 1 month, during which time
      possible consultations and/or readmissions for events related to the operation will be
      sought. Urinary incontinence will be investigated by completing the ICIQ continence
      questionnaire and early oncological findings (PAS and histology of the surgical specimen)
      will be evaluated. Patient satisfaction with ambulatory surgery will be assessed using the
      SSQ8 questionnaire collected at this visit.

      Investigators are selected on the basis of their surgical experience for this technique and
      must have performed a minimum of 20 personal procedures.
    
  