
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To estimate and compare the complete response/complete response with incomplete recovery
      (CR/CRi) rate of induction therapy with topotecan hydrochloride (topotecan)/carboplatin (T/C)
      with or without veliparib (V) in myeloproliferative disorder associated leukemias and chronic
      myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate and compare the toxicities of T/C/V versus (vs.) T/C. II. To compare the
      2-year disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) in response to T/C/V vs. T/C.

      III. To detect and compare the presence of minimal residual disease (MRD) remaining after
      T/C/V vs. T/C.

      IV. Evaluate predictive biomarkers of response via assessment of pretreatment impaired
      homologous recombination via assessment of:

      IVa. Next generation sequencing (NGS) panel for genes mutated in myeloid malignancies done as
      standard of care per institution.

      IVb. Functional impairment of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage response via assessment of
      pretreatment samples for radiation-induced RAD51 foci.

      IVc. Topotecan-induced stabilization of topoisomerase I-DNA covalent complexes, which has
      recently been observed to be a critical predictor of response to combination of a
      topoisomerase I poison and PARP inhibitor in xenografts.

      V. To evaluate veliparib exposure and contribution to response (efficacy and toxicity).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 and topotecan
      hydrochloride intravenously (IV) continuously over 24 hours and carboplatin IV continuously
      over 24 hours on days 3-7. Treatment repeats every 28-63 days for up to 4 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive topotecan hydrochloride IV continuously over 24 hours and carboplatin
      IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28-63 days for up to 4
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for a minimum of 30 days, or
      longer.
    
  