
    
      Mood and anxiety disorders are among the most common mental health disorder in the United
      States, and these disorders are associated with significant morbidity, mortality and overall
      impairment in functioning. These disorders often have an onset in adolescence, and suicide is
      now the second leading cause of death among 15-29 year-olds. Furthermore, adolescent mood and
      anxiety disorders are increasing, with lifetime prevalence of major depressive disorder for
      adolescents now estimated at 11%. For adolescents and young adults, untreated mood and
      anxiety disorders can impede normal development and attainment of important milestones (i.e.,
      high school or college graduation, transition to employment), in addition to greatly
      increasing the risk of suicide. While there are evidence-based treatments for these
      disorders, 40% of depressed adolescent patients, for example, do not have a substantial
      response to initial treatment and only a third experience remission of symptoms.
      Consequently, there is an urgent need to improve upon current treatments and develop novel
      approaches to care of depression, as well as other mood and anxiety disorders, in
      adolescents, young adults, and adults in general.

      Electronic communication is ubiquitous. Given this, it has been hypothesized that monitoring
      electronic communication, including social media, activity in partnership with patients as
      part of routine clinical care has the potential to prevent negative outcomes of mood and
      anxiety disorders and greatly improve care of these conditions. At the individual level,
      electronic communication activity can reflect the underlying course of these disorders and
      reveal associated risks for worsening course and negative outcomes such as suicide. Automated
      technologies (e.g., natural language processing systems) may assist therapists in assessing
      these conditions and risks, by identifying aspects of language use or other key behavior
      patterns, such as number of friends or time of electronic communication activity, that
      correlate with an individual's mental health status. At the population level, analysis of
      aggregated electronic communications data can illuminate important mental health trends
      across a range of disorders (e.g., depression, bipolar disorder, anxiety, eating disorders).
      In this pilot study, the investigators propose to develop and evaluate a dashboard for mental
      health therapists in alliance with patients to augment the care of patients with mood/anxiety
      disorders and to improve clinical outcomes.

      Of note, changes to primary, secondary, and other pre-specified outcomes were made prior to
      intervention implementation.
    
  