
    
      1. Study Rationale: An open heart surgery (OHS) induces injury of the vessel wall and is
           characterized by post-operative complications. Post-operative atrial fibrillation (POAF)
           is a major cause of morbidity and mortality after cardiac surgery. Both systemic
           inflammation and oxidative stress play a role in the initiation of POAF after a cardiac
           surgery. Consumption of polyphenol-rich foods (PRFs), such as fruits and vegetables, and
           beverages derived from plants, such as cocoa, red wine and tea, may represent a
           beneficial diet in terms of cardiovascular protection. Indeed, epidemiological studies
           demonstrate a significant inverse correlation between PRFs consumption and
           cardiovascular risk, due to antioxidant, vasorelaxant and antithrombotic properties of
           their polyphenolic components. In particular, procyanidins from grape seeds are the
           principal vasoactive polyphenols in red wine and protect endothelial cells from
           oxidative damage. However, there are no studies that have addressed the relationship of
           PRFs consumption with prognosis in patients undergoing an OHS.

        2. Aim of the study. The main objectives of this project are to evaluate the association
           between the effect of polyphenol-rich food supplementation and post-operative atrial
           fibrillation (POAF) in patients undergoing an OHS.

        3. Study design: Multicentre, randomized, placebo-controlled double-blind trial with 2
           parallel arms: soluble corn flour at high content in anthocyanins and placebo. Placebo
           consists of soluble corn flour not rich in anthocyanins. The treatment will start at
           hospital admission until one day before cardiac surgery, and continue (4 days) after
           extubation and when the patients are reallocated to eat.

        4. Study Population and recruitment: A total of 350 consecutive CAD patients undergoing to
           CABG or VR will be recruited. Participants will be identified at the Department of
           Cardiovascular disease of the clinical centers.

           Eligible subjects will be recruited at their first surgical consultation and
           subsequently referred to the research investigators. The research staff in charge of the
           recruitment will pre-screen participants on the basis of inclusion/exclusion criteria
           and will explain the study at this time.

           The main inclusion criteria are :age 18 years or older, presence of sinus rhythm on the
           screening electrocardiogram, first-time elective open heart surgery. Exclusion criteria
           are: absence of sinus rhythm at screening, known allergy or intolerance to gluten or
           anthocyanin compound, regularly consuming of anthocyanin or antioxidant supplements,
           being currently pregnant, existing or planned cardiac transplant or use of ventricular
           assist device, or being unable or unwilling to provide informed consent, known history
           of hepatic or renal disease, cancer and subjects with a history of substance abuse.

           Once signed the informed consent, if the subject is eligible for the study according to
           the inclusion/exclusion criteria, he/she will be included into the trial and randomised,
           using prepared envelopes blinded to the study investigators, to receive daily
           high-anthocyanin supplement or placebo.

           Subjects will start the dietary intervention at hospital admission until one day before
           cardiac surgery. Then they will continue the supplementation as soon they are
           reallocated to eat for the next 4 days after the surgery.

           Each patient will be asked to answer electronic questionnaires to collect personal
           information and medical history (social status, previous disease or surgical
           interventions, risk factors and family history for cardiovascular disease, drug use).
           Other relevant clinical data as well as measures of clinical outcomes will be collected
           by medical records. A 1-year food frequency questionnaire will be used to investigate
           dietary habits. Electrocardiographic, blood pressure, anthropometric measurements will
           be collected using standardized methods. During the hospitalization, time in intensive
           therapy, post-surgical course, specific drug therapy, post-surgical complications, fatal
           and non-fatal cardiovascular events, re-intervention of revascularization and bypass
           occlusion will be recorded.

           Venous blood (max 30 mL) will be collected before PRFs/placebo supplementation and 24 h
           and 72 h after the cardiac surgery.

           The patients will undergo OHS according to the indication and good practice procedures
           normally applied in the Department of Cardio-surgery of participant clinical centers.

           All patients will receive the pharmacological therapy and the lifestyle change advice
           according to the best clinical practice for the specific disease and surgical
           intervention.

        5. Evaluation criteria: The primary end point will be the occurrence of postoperative AF of
           at least 30 seconds' duration and documented by rhythm strip or 12-lead ECG or treated
           with pharmacological or electrical cardioversion.

        6. Power calculation: Fixing alpha=0.05, beta=0.2, the incidence of POAF =38% with a sample
           size of N=350 CABG patients (half of them will be randomize to PRFs supplementation) and
           a 22% of drop-out, we can observe a relative risk <0.64 in reduction of POAF in the
           intervention group.

        7. Statistical analysis. All analyses will be performed using statistical analysis software
           SAS (SAS, 9.1.3 for Windows, Cary, NC: SAS Institute Inc.1989). All individuals enrolled
           will be included in the analysis. Descriptive summaries will be presented for all the
           individuals, and for subgroups of individuals. Statistical tests will be carried out for
           exploratory purposes, as appropriate. The descriptive analysis of nominal/ordinal data
           will comprise tabulation of frequency and percentages. Chi-square test (or Fisher exact
           test in the presence of small frequencies) will be used to compare categories. The
           descriptive analysis of continuous data will comprise the mean, standard deviation,
           median, extreme values, and 95% confidence interval. OHS patients will be randomized to
           receive a short term supplementation of PRFs or placebo (J Nutr 2008), following the
           scheme of a controlled randomised double-blind clinical trial. POAF occurence will be
           compared in PRFs supplemented and control groups to assess the efficacy and safety of
           the intervention. The "intention to treat" principle will be adopted for the analysis of
           the combined endpoints.
    
  