
    
      Implantable pacemaker devices are available with specific atrial pacing algorithms designed
      to prevent atrial arrhythmias (Preventive stimulation). These algorithms work by increasing
      the atrial pacing rate to achieve continuous overdrive pacing or by responding to triggers
      such as premature atrial complexes.

      Different investigation's showed that preventive atrial pacing was associated with a 30 to 50
      % reduction in the risk of recurrence of AF, compared with no pacing. But a complete
      recurrence-free long-term effect is not reached.

      A hybrid therapy consisting of a combination of preventive atrial stimulation and
      pharmacologic therapy maybe useful in restoring sinus rhythm. The HOPE-(Heart Outcomes
      Prevention Evaluation)-Trial showed a overwhelming evidence that, in a broad range of
      high-risk patients, an ACE-Inhibitor (Ramipril) prevents cardiovascular death, stroke, and
      heart failure. AF leads to an activation of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), which seems
      to play an important role in atrial remodeling. Both experimental and clinical data have
      confirmed the pro-arrhythmic role of the RAS and demonstrated an anti-arrhythmic effect of
      ACE- and AT-I-Inhibitors. Madrid et al. showed that a combination of the AT-I-Inhibitor
      irbesartan plus amiodarone decreased the rate of AF recurrences, with a dose-dependent
      effect, in AF patients. ACE- and AT-I-Inhibitors represent new and efficient therapeutical
      options to contrast the nearly inevitable progression of this arrhythmia towards its
      permanent form. Beta-Blockers are a common pharmacologic therapy in AF patients.

      The aim of the BACE-PACE-Trial is to investigate preventive pacing stimulation (PS) vs.
      standard DDD[R]-60-Stimulation (ST) in combination with antiarrhythmic Beta-Blocker or
      ACE-inhibitor therapy on the recurrence of atrial fibrillation in patients with dual-chamber
      pacemakers

      The Responder (patients without AF recurrence, respectively with a significant reduction in
      AF burden) are compared to the standard stimulation. A clinically relevance meant a reduction
      in AF burden of more than 25 % (experts consensus).
    
  