
    
      In the decision-making process of a systemic adjuvant therapy for ER-positive/HER2-negative
      breast cancer, to avoid adjuvant chemotherapy is an attractive but hard choice. On one hand,
      the result of tamoxifen endocrine therapy combined with adjuvant chemotherapy is superior to
      tamoxifen endocrine therapy alone for ER-positive breast cancer patients; on the other hand,
      the benefit that adjuvant chemotherapy provides to breast cancer with high hormone receptor
      expression is not clear and the tolerance of chemotherapy is much lower than that of
      endocrinotherapy.

      St. Galen consensus on adjuvant therapy for early breast cancer recommends adopting simple
      endocrinotherapy and avoiding adjuvant chemotherapy for medium- and low- risk breast cancer
      with hormone receptor highly expressed. However, the results of study P024 and IMPACT suggest
      that hormone receptor expression is insufficient to predict the effect of endocrinotherapy.

      At present, the proven clinical value of neoadjuvant endocrinotherapy is to assist surgery.
      Consensus recommends neoadjuvant endocrinotherapy for the patients with postmenopausal breast
      cancer who plan to receive simple adjuvant endocrinotherapy. The current study results show
      that neoadjuvant endocrinotherapy may be used as an experimental treatment platform, i.e., it
      can predict the results of adjuvant endocrinotherapy through comprehensive analysis of
      multiple indexes of the surgery samples after neoadjuvant endocrinotherapy.

      By using P024 and IMPACT samples, Ellis et al studied the relation between survival and the
      test results of surgery samples after neoadjuvant endocrinotherapy, and obtained PEPI (the
      preoperative endocrine prognostic index). They have preliminarily proved that the PEPI score
      is relative to RFS (relapse-free survival) of postmenopausal ER-positive breast cancer
      treated with simple endocrinotherapy and to BCSS (breast cancer-specific survival).

      A retrospective study，performed by breast prevention and treatment center in Peking
      University Cancer Hospital，shows that RFS in PEPI score ≤ 1 group is superior to the PEPI > 1
      group after 16 weeks of neoadjuvant endocrinotherapy(p = 0.037), and RFS in effective group
      (Miller&Payne G1G2G3) is better than that in ineffective group (p=0.001) in terms of
      pathological evaluation.

      The objective of this study is to prospectively verify the relation of efficacy of
      neoadjuvant hormonal therapy, and preliminarily explore the clinical value of complementary
      adjuvant chemotherapy to predict poor prognosis malignant breast cancer after neoadjuvant
      endocrinotherapy.
    
  