
    
      The aim of this study is to determine if functional muscle stimulation, in addition to
      non-invasive neurostimulation through the tongue (TDU), directed by electroencephalogram
      (EEG) output, can increase the extent of stroke recovery on behavioral measures and induce
      brain plasticity as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).

      Adult stroke patients with upper extremity motor impairments (henceforth "experimental
      group"), healthy controls, and participants with risk factors for stroke, without upper
      extremity impairment (allowing them to serve as controls for patients with upper extremity
      impairments (henceforth "control group")), will be recruited in this study. Half of the
      participants in the experimental group will be randomly assigned to the EEG-BCI
      (brain-computer interface) training ("closed-loop") group and will receive training on the
      BCI task along with muscle and tongue stimulation. The other half of the participants in the
      experimental group receiving traditional rehab will not receive any kind of FES or tongue
      stimulation for the first 8-10 weeks of study period and then will start receiving
      BCI-FES-tongue stimulation rehab therapy.

      All participants without UE impairment in Control group 1 will receive 4-6 (minimum 4, up to
      a maximum of 6) sessions of training on the BCI system and pre- and post MRI and 2 behavioral
      testing sessions.

      Addition of a Control group 2 is consistent with the AHA grants - Twenty four ischemic stroke
      patients with moderate upper extremity (dominant right hand affected) impairment (score of 1
      or 2 on the motor sub-component of the NIH stroke scale (NIHSS) and ARAT score 20-45); no
      upper extremity injury or conditions that limited use prior to the stroke; and pre-stroke
      independence with a Modified Rankin Score of 0 or 1), will be recruited in this arm. All
      participants in this group will receive MR sessions and behavioral testing similar to the
      Experimental group.

      Addition of an Experimental group receiving EEG-BCI-bilateral FES intervention using the
      recoveriX system: recoveriX is a brain driven rehabilitation system for stroke patients that
      pairs mental activities with motor functions. Through the EEG-based recoveriX BCI system, the
      brain receives visual and tactile feedback in real-time, making rehabilitation more
      effective. A stroke patient imagines a hand movement while receiving visual feedback through
      a virtual avatar, and tactile feedback through electrical muscle stimulation paired to the
      patient's imagined movement, with the aim that these patients might regain the volitional
      ability to grasp following therapy. Unlike the current EEG-BCI-FES intervention that involves
      stimulation of only the impaired arm, with recoveriX, both arms are simultaneously stimulated
      during the course of the intervention.

      Specific Aims

      To determine if functional muscle stimulation of the arms, in addition to non-invasive
      neurostimulation through the tongue (TDU), directed by electroencephalogram (EEG) output, can
      increase the extent of stroke recovery as measured by behavioral measures and induce brain
      plasticity as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).

      Primary objective

        -  To examine the effect of EEG guided functional muscle stimulation on improvement in
           upper extremity function

      Secondary objective

        -  To examine plasticity changes as measured by EEG/fMRI measures before and after EEG
           guided functional muscle stimulation.
    
  