
    
      This study will focus on each individual patient from the early point of myeloablative
      conditioning through HSCT and GVHD. The rationale for this individualized approach is to
      account for the anticipated variability in patient age and primary disease, background
      pathology and individual therapeutic course, considering the enormous heterogeneity of this
      condition. To compensate for this limitation, we intend to create an individualized
      algorithm, based on a novel dynamic biomarker, i.e., AAT functionality, individualized per
      patient and placed on a timeline, with the aim of minimizing future occurrences of GVHD, and
      by using readily available laboratory measurements. The study is designed around patient
      sample collection, there is no change in standard of care, therefore there is no intervention
      as well.

      Three types of sample tubes will be collected per indicated time point:

        -  Serum tube for protein levels and enzymatic activity assays.

        -  EDTA tube for isolation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), cells will be
           stimulated and then analyzed by FACS and lysed for RT-PCR

        -  EDTA tube for whole blood stimulation assay for further FACS analysis and cytokine
           production measurement.

      After donor and recipient informed consent forms were signed, a single blood sample should be
      obtained from the donor on the day of transplant extraction. Time points for recipient's
      samples include the day of myeloablation and again immediately prior to HSCT (set as day 0
      and possibly -3 in MUDs). Serum and lysed blood samples will be collected on days 7, 14, 28,
      and every 21 days thereafter, through the development and progression of GVHD (where
      relevant). Blood samples for FACS will be collected by days 0 and 28. Sample collection is
      planned to end within 1 year from HSCT, or two months after appearance of symptoms of GVHD,
      or two months after a change is introduced in the immunosuppressive therapy.
    
  