
    
      This will be a European, multicentre, randomised, open-label, parallel group study. The aim
      of the study is to investigate whether Dutasteride plus Tamulson treatment with lifestyle
      advice is more effective than watchful waiting treatment plus lifestyle advice plus step-up
      therapy with tamsulosin for improvement of symptoms and Acte Urinary Retention (AUR) and
      BPH-related prostatic surgery, in older men (≥50 yrs), with moderate symptoms of BPH (IPSS
      8-19), enlarged prostates (≥30cc) and Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) ≥1.5ng/mL.

      Data from all participating centres will be pooled prior to analysis. Investigative centres
      will be pooled a priori into clusters based on geographic location; these clusters may be
      used in analyses to adjust for site effects. Clusters will be defined once all investigative
      centres have been identified and randomisation has been completed.

      Subjects will be screened for inclusion into the study and eligible subjects will be
      randomised by investigative centre. Subjects will be allocated to one of two treatment
      groups, according to a pre-determined randomisation schedule (in a 1:1 ratio):

        -  Dutasteride plus tamsulosin once daily plus lifestyle advice.

        -  Watchful waiting plus lifestyle advice. Escalation to tamsulosin 0.4 mg once daily at
           any visit from Week 4 if any IPSS measurement shows no improvement or worsening from
           baseline. At any study visit, if the IPSS is the same or greater than the baseline value
           for that subject, tamsulosin 0.4 mg once daily will be initiated. If tamsulosin is
           initiated, it will be continued for the remainder of the study unless the subject elects
           to withdraw from the study. Initiation of tamsulosin will be recorded in the electronic
           case report form (eCRF.) Subjects will self-administer study medication once daily for
           up to 104 weeks, (up to 100 weeks for those on tamsulosin). Subjects will return to the
           clinic at 4 weeks post-randomisation and then at 13-week intervals post-randomisation
           during the 2-year treatment period (i.e. at 4, 13, 26, 39, 52, 65, 78, 91 and 104 weeks)
           for the assessments listed as in Appendix 1 Time and Events Schedule.

      Approximately 760, treatment naive men with symptomatic BPH will be randomised into the study
      in order to achieve at least 592 evaluable subjects. 380 into the Dutasteride plus tamsulosin
      with lifestyle advice arm and 380 into the watchful waiting plus lifestyle advice arm.

      Treatment naïve is defined as a man that has recently been diagnoses with BPH whom has
      received no prescribed therapeutic treatment. For example, medicines such as 5 α-reductase
      inhibitors (5-ARIs) or invasive procedures such as transurethral resection of the prostate
      (TURP) prescribed to directly treat the BPH symptoms are considered therapeutic treatments.
      As per the entry criteria, phytotherapy is allowed unless it was performed less than two
      weeks prior to the screening visit.

      The anticipated recruitment period will be approximately 6 months. The study will be
      conducted in approximately 8 countries within Europe.
    
  