
    
      Since the 1970's, researchers and epidemiologists have documented that patient falls are a
      high-risk, high volume, high cost adverse events contributing to morbidity, mortality,
      decreased quality of life, and premature nursing home placement. Despite thousands of
      research studies published on patient falls, few studies have focused on the effectiveness of
      interventions , and fall rates and associated injuries among the elderly continue to rise.
      Impaired gait and balance (referred to as impaired stability) is one of the most significant
      causes and consequences of falls. Persons with peripheral neuropathy represent one of the
      largest patient populations with impaired stability. Lower limb peripheral neuropathy (LLPN)
      includes sensory and motor impairments that result in impaired gait and balance, jeopardizing
      safe mobility. Emerging evidence suggests that exercise programs can be effective in
      improving gait and balance in general fall risk populations, as well as reducing falls and
      fall-related injuries. Exercise interventions have been designed to reduce fall risk and
      promote successful aging. These interventions come in many forms, but the most common
      interventions are exercise training and Tai Chi, offered individually and in small group
      formats. Further research is needed to gain insight into the underlying mechanisms of
      different type of exercises and their impact on stability in veterans with LLPN. Research is
      needed to determine the type or combination of types of exercise to produce a more normal
      and/or stable gait in this high-risk patient population. Researchers are beginning to
      document that exercise interventions positively influence a person's fall self efficacy, i.e.
      self confidence for avoiding a fall, an important factor in understanding and examining a
      persons' behaviors related to fall risks. The emphasis on functionally based interventions
      has led to inappropriate broad groupings of older persons with mobility disorders. A weakness
      of previous studies was that they aggregated heterogeneous patient populations, resulting in
      neurological and musculoskeletal diagnostic heterogeneity and the confounding of results.
      Focusing on a homogeneous patient population is necessary to distinguish unique sensory, gait
      and balance deficits that contribute to impaired stability and mobility risk, as well as to
      better understand unique responses to treatment that are clouded when diverse patients are
      aggregated. We will target veterans with LLPN--one of the largest groups of patients referred
      to our Falls Clinic, and an understudied population with respect to safe patient mobility.
      This will allow us to design targeted interventions likely to be more effective than those
      tested on heterogeneous elderly populations, where visual and vestibular input to compensate
      for impaired proprioception were not taken into account.

      The goal of this study is to improve successful adaptation to aging and quality of life in
      veterans with lower limb peripheral neuropathy (LLPN). Functional Balance Training and Tai
      Chi, the two exercise interventions tested in this study, have been documented to improve
      gait and balance, and decrease falls and associated fall-related injuries in the general
      elderly population. We are interested in whether one or both of these exercise interventions
      (successful in general elderly populations) would be effective in a special subpopulation of
      elderly, namely persons with LLPN.

      The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of these two exercise interventions
      and an education control group. Effectiveness will be assessed by studying the impact of
      interventions on (1) composite measures of stability (gait and balance), (2) fall
      self-efficacy, and (3) patient acceptance. Given the well-documented links between falls and
      fall-related injuries (ultimate outcomes) our study will focus on stability (intermediate
      outcome). Because falls and fall-related injuries are relatively rare events, examining
      stability as an outcome will allow us to have sufficient power to test our hypotheses with a
      relatively small sample size thereby decreasing the cost and duration of the study without
      sacrificing the rigor of the research design.
    
  