
    
      Critical illness affects more than 100,000 patients per year in Australia and more than
      25,000 per year in Victoria. Although, hospital mortality in Australia and New Zealand has
      decreased over the past decade in all major admission categories, and 90% of these patients
      now survive to return to live in the community, just 28% of previously working ICU survivors
      are currently expected to return to work after discharge. Most ICU survivors suffer from
      post-ICU accelerated neurocognitive decline, prolonged neuromuscular weakness, post-traumatic
      stress disorder, depression, and/or anxiety. The recovery process and long-term outcomes for
      critically ill patients may be poor, and they can be improved by appropriate interventions,
      continual support and tracking of patients post-ICU as they recover, as opposed to being
      discharged to a single general practitioner who may not have the resources to provide
      adequate rehabilitation. Although this method has been previously seen as cost-effective,
      this approach actually carries huge costs for the community of the individuals as they often
      cannot return to work and have ultimately lost independence. By assessing risk factors and
      measuring long-term outcomes of patient's post-ICU, the severity of the community burden
      could be decreased with the application of suitable interventions.

      The PREDICT study follows on from the successful completion of the ICU-Recovery Project (HREC
      Reference Alfred Health 180/14) which found that disability was prevalent in ICU and was
      associated with sepsis and pre-existing mental health problems. The PREDICT study will
      measure disability-free survival, psychological function, cognitive function and quality of
      life with health economic outcomes in critically ill patients 3 and 6 months after ICU
      admission. The study will confirm the predictors of disability-free survival.

      These patients add to the community burden and also influence community and rehabilitation
      costs. Our aim is to improve long-term patient outcomes through: improving sedation
      practices, delirium prevention, neurocognitive stimulation, early mobilisation, post-ICU
      follow-up, and functional and psychological rehabilitation. This study is required for the
      evaluation of hospital and post-ICU rehabilitation practice as there is insufficient evidence
      to alter current clinical practice.
    
  