
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of docetaxel and
           epirubicin when given with pegfilgrastim in women with locally advanced or inflammatory
           breast cancer. (Phase I, group 1 closed to accrual as of 9/13/04 and Phase II, group 1
           closed to accrual as of 5/10/06)

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the clinical and pathological response rate and duration of response in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine drug sensitivity and resistance in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine prognostic and predictive markers in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, multicenter, dose-escalation study of docetaxel and
      epirubicin.

        -  Phase I:

      Group 1 (21-day regimen) (closed to accrual as of 09/13/04): Patients receive epirubicin IV
      over 15 minutes and docetaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and pegfilgrastim subcutaneously on
      day 2. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with objective response after 6 courses may
      receive additional therapy at the discretion of the physician.

      Group 2 (14-day regimen): Patients receive epirubicin IV over 15 minutes and docetaxel IV
      over 60 minutes on day 1 and pegfilgrastim subcutaneously on day 2. Treatment repeats every
      14 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients with objective response after 8 courses may receive additional therapy at the
      discretion of the physician.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of epirubicin and docetaxel until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which 2 of 3 or
      2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Phase II:

      Group 1 (21-day regimen) (closed to accrual as of 5/10/06): Patients receive treatment as in
      phase I with epirubicin and docetaxel at the recommended Phase II dose.

      Group 2 (14-day regimen): Patients receive treatment as in phase I with epirubicin and
      docetaxel at the recommended Phase II dose.

      Patients are followed at 1 month, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and
      then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 90 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  