
    
      DM1 is the most frequent genetic myopathy in the adult. Actually there is no curative
      treatment, and symptomatic cares are essentials. The respiratory impairment is the main cause
      of morbid-mortality at these patients. The median of survival of the patients affected by DM1
      with respiratory failure is of 59 years. Mechanisms of disease are complex implying a central
      and a direct impairment of respiratory muscles. These patients can present an alveolar
      hypoventilation, notably during night, not correlated to the muscular weakness. These
      patients often present a cognitive impairment complicating the interpretation of the clinical
      symptoms and their compliance to treatments. International recommendations for launching
      mechanical ventilation in neuromuscular diseases are the presence: 1) at least a clinical
      sign of alveolar hypoventilation, and one of the following criteria 2) diurnal hypercapnia (>
      45 mmHg), 3) restrictive syndrome (vital capacity < 50 % and\or maximal inspiratory pressure
      < 60 cmH20), 4) the existence of a oxygen night-desaturation (SaO2 < 88 %) of more than 5
      minutes. However, a Cochrane meta analyzes underline the absence of randomised study
      estimating the profit risk in the long term of the night-mechanical ventilation for
      progressive myopathies such as the DM1. The validity of these criteria and the effect of the
      ventilation on the survival and the complications were never estimated in DM1. On a
      retrospective series, the compliance is inferior and the observance is only 20 % a year and
      the incidence of the complications (death or resort to a tracheostomy) was 6 times as
      important in non observant patients.

      Objective (s) of the clinical study To estimate the efficiency and the tolerance of long term
      night-non invasive mechanical ventilation in patients affected by DM1.

      Main judgment criteria:

      Mortality and non programmed hospitalization.

      Experimental plan:

      Multicenter, national, randomized, controlled, study on 2 parallel groups. The subjects
      presenting a theoretical indication following consensual criteria of ventilation will be
      randomized either for a start up of ventilation or for an annual monitoring.

      Hypothesis: Early starting of non invasive ventilation allows a reduction of 20 % of the
      mortality or the number of non-programmed hospitalization compared to the control group for
      which the rate would be 40 %.
    
  