
    
      This is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study.

      A sufficient number of patients will be screened to obtain approximately 150 patients
      randomized to the double-blind portion of the study. This study will consist of at least 6
      weeks of retrospectively documented SRI treatment (prior to screening), 6 weeks of
      prospective SRI treatment after screening (run-in) but prior to randomization, and 12 weeks
      of double-blind treatment with study drug (ondansetron 0.5 mg twice a day, ondansetron 0.75
      mg twice a day or placebo twice a day).

      All patients will have been maintained on a single SRI at the same dose throughout the
      retrospective 6-week period and will continue the same SRI at the same dose throughout the
      run-in and double-blind treatment periods.

      The 12-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study will be the
      "core period" for purposes of efficacy and short-term safety assessment. Patients completing
      all 12 weeks of the core period will be offered an opportunity to participate in an
      "extension period" where they will continue to receive treatment for up to 30 months
      following the core period.

      Treatment assignment in the extension period will be as follows: responders will continue on
      the same double-blind treatment to which they were assigned in the core period (ondansetron
      0.5 mg twice a day, ondansetron 0.75 mg twice a day, or placebo twice a day); non-responders
      will be reassigned to continuing treatment according to their prior treatment assignment in
      the core period (those who received placebo will be assigned to ondansetron 0.5 mg twice a
      day, those who received ondansetron 0.5 mg twice a day will be assigned to ondansetron 0.75
      mg twice a day, and those who received ondansetron 0.75 mg twice a day will continue
      receiving ondansetron 0.75 mg twice a day). Patients will receive treatment under
      double-blind conditions (double-blind phase of the extension study) until the core study is
      completed and the safety and efficacy of an ondansetron dose has been confirmed

      If after the core study data analysis, no treatment differences are found between ondansetron
      and placebo in the primary efficacy variable, the extension study will be terminated. If the
      core study results are positive for the primary efficacy endpoint and safety endpoints, then
      patients participating in the double-blind phase of the extension study will be offered an
      opportunity to continue treatment under open-label conditions with the dose deemed
      efficacious and safe (open-label phase of the extension study). A Data Review Committee will
      be responsible for reviewing the core study analysis results, providing a dose recommendation
      for the open-label phase of the extension study, and for communicating the results and their
      recommendation to the participating institutional review boards/ethics committees (IRBs/ECs)
      and investigators. Patients may continue receiving treatment for up to 30 months or until the
      sponsor provides an alternative.
    
  