
    
      This is a descriptive, pilot study to assess the safety of converting a subset of adult
      sickle cell patients who are on effective disease modifying therapy (on high dose oral
      opioids who are unable to wean off opioids) and who continue to have frequent acute visits
      where parenteral opioids are administered to convert all opioid treatments to buprenorphine.
      Quality of life will be assessed using the Adult Sickle Cell Quality of life Measurement tool
      (ASCQ-Me), the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), two Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement
      Information System (PROMIS) surveys (short-form Pain Interference and Physical Function), and
      frequency of acute pain visits.

      Buprenorphine is a partial mu-agonist and kappa antagonist and has a high affinity for the mu
      receptors with an elimination half-life of 28-37 hours for the sublingual administration. The
      lower risk for misuse, diminished withdrawal symptoms and cravings for opioids as well as the
      reduced risk of overdose make it an appealing alternative. Recent data on successful
      conversion for patients with chronic pain show a decrease in pain scores and increase in
      quality of life measurements after the beginning buprenorphine therapy for more than two
      months.

      The first dose will be determined for each patient by a physician to ensure that the dosage
      of buprenorphine will be appropriate given the patient's current opioid dosage. There is the
      risk of withdrawal induced vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC).

      Within 30 days prior to conversion to buprenorphine, a patient will take the ASCQ-Me, BPI,
      and two PROMIS surveys. Twenty-four hours prior to conversion, the patient will stop all
      opioid intake. The day of conversion, the patient will take a Clinical Opiate Withdrawal
      Scale (COWS) survey to determine whether they are in withdrawal. If so, the patient will
      begin buprenorphine conversion. They will also retake the aforementioned quality of life
      surveys. The patient will return on days 1, 14, 30, 90, and 180 to be evaluated.
    
  