
    
      Systemic fungal infections are a significant and growing public health problem ,Over the past
      few years, major advances in healthcare have led to an unwelcome increase in the number of
      life-threatening infections due to true pathogenic and opportunistic fungi ,These have a
      significant impact on morbidity, mortality, length of hospital stay, and healthcare costs in
      critically ill patients in intensive care unit ( ICU).

      Health care workers encounter at risk patients in ICU in various settings : including
      diabetes mellitus, renal insufficiency, surgery (especially abdominal surgery), the use of
      broad-spectrum antibiotics, parenteral nutrition, hemodialysis, mechanical ventilation, the
      presence of central vascular catheters, and therapy with immunosuppressive agents,Prolonged
      treatment with corticosteroids before ICU admission, liver cirrhosis with prolonged ICU stay
      (.7 days), solid organ cancer, HIV infection and lung transplantation are also considered as
      risk factors ,It can also occur following trauma or invasion of wounds covered with
      contaminated dressings, e.g. in the ICU. One outbreak of gastric mucormycosis in ICU patients
      reported in Spain arose in association with the use of contaminated wooden tongue depressors
      in critically ill patients.

      Candida and Aspergillus species are the most frequent causes of healthcare-associated fungal
      infections in these patients, Although Candida infections are the most frequent fungal
      infections in ICU patients, invasive aspergillosis is associated with higher morbidity and
      mortality rates even in the absence of traditional risk factors,Invasive candidiasis is a
      highly lethal infection associated with mortality rates between 40 and 60 %. The five most
      common Candida species are Candida albicans, Candida glabrata, Candida tropicalis, Candida
      parapsilosis, and Candida krusei.

      Accurate diagnosis of invasive fungal infection is crucial so that appropriate antifungal
      agents can be started rapidly. However, early diagnosis is not always easy. Microscopic
      examination is rapid and can be helpful but a negative result does not exclude infection.
      Blood cultures are positive in only 50-70 % of cases of Candida BSI, Furthermore, it can take
      several days before Candida is identified at the species level and antifungal susceptibility
      data are available but remain the gold stander in diagnosis.
    
  