
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Engage with prostate cancer patients (PCPs) who have received or are currently on androgen
      deprivation therapy (ADT) to develop a computer-based behavior change guide (BCG) for PCPs to
      provide fundamental information about benefits of exercise for their individual capabilities
      and goals and provide a personalized physical activity plan. (Development Phase) II. Engage
      with PCPs to understand what outcomes are most important to them related to becoming active
      (e.g., helped me manage side-effects of treatment, reduced fatigue) and develop measures to
      evaluate these patient-centered outcomes. (Development Phase) III. Evaluate the BCG in a
      study comparing the personalized computer-based BCG with physical activity recommendations
      provided via a passive website (American Cancer Society Guidelines on Nutrition and Physical
      Activity for Cancer Survivors) among PCPs who have received ADT. (Evaluation Phase)

      OUTLINE:

      DEVELOPMENT PHASE: Patients view mock-ups of the BCG web design on a computer, iPad, or
      printed color paper and provide feedback with a one-on-one interview or separately using the
      think/talk aloud method followed by a one-on-one interview. After completion of these design
      rounds, patients use the BCG website and provide individual feedback.

      EVALUATION PHASE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients use the BCG website which will collect personal information including
      individual health priorities/goals, demographics (i.e. age, ethnicity), health information
      (i.e. weight, height, cancer history, other health conditions), individual capabilities,
      physical activity level, and exercise preferences. Patients then receive a report with a
      personalized physical activity plan.

      GROUP II: Patients use a passive website (American Cancer Society Guidelines on Nutrition and
      Physical Activity for Cancer Survivors).

      After completion of study, patients are followed up at 2 months.
    
  