
    
      HIV-related stigma has been identified as a significant reason for loss to follow up in
      prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) programs. Antenatal care (ANC)
      provides a unique and important entry point to address HIV stigma. Stigma-based counseling
      during the first ANC visit can promote readiness to initiate or sustain treatment among those
      who are HIV infected, and can address stigmatizing attitudes and behaviors among those who
      are uninfected. We are proposing to pilot test a brief, scalable intervention called Maisha
      (Swahili for life), to address HIV stigma for women and their partners presenting to ANC in
      Tanzania. The intervention will include: 1) a video and brief counseling for women and their
      partners (if present) that addresses HIV stigma at the start of the ANC visit (prior to HIV
      testing), and 2) two stigma-based counseling sessions for women who are HIV infected,
      building on the video content to provide emotional support, promote acceptance, address
      stigma, and reinforce care engagement, with the opportunity for male partners to attend the
      first follow-up counseling session after testing. The primary intervention outcome is
      engagement in PMTCT care among women who are HIV infected. As a secondary outcome we will
      also look at linkage to HIV care among men who are HIV infected. We will also examine HIV
      stigma outcomes (enacted, anticipated, internalized) among all groups of people, including
      those who are already established on ART and those who are HIV uninfected. The intervention
      content is based on principles of cognitive-behavioral therapy (addressing automatic negative
      thoughts about the self, future and the world) to address and mitigate multiple forms of HIV
      stigma (internalized, anticipated and enacted). We will conduct a pilot RCT of the
      intervention, enrolling all women who attend a first ANC appointment at two clinics in the
      Moshi district. If women come to the ANC visit with a male partner, the partner will be
      invited to enroll as well. Maisha will be compared to the standard of care HIV counseling. In
      addition to a baseline assessment, all participants who are identified as HIV-infected and
      their partners will get a follow-up assessment three months after enrollment. A subset of
      participants who are identified as HIV-uninfected but who report high levels of HIV
      stigmatizing attitudes at baseline will also receive a follow-up assessment three months
      after enrollment. Measures will include health outcomes (care engagement, adherence,
      depression), stigma outcomes, and HIV disclosure. Quality assurance data will be collected
      and the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention and RCT will be described.
      Statistical analysis will examine differences between conditions in health outcomes and
      stigma measures, stratified by HIV status. We hypothesize that 1) among HIV infected
      individuals, individuals receiving the Maisha intervention will report better engagement in
      PMTCT care/linkage to HIV care and lower levels of internalized HIV stigma, as compared to
      individuals receiving the standard of care, and 2) among HIV uninfected individuals,
      individuals receiving the pre-test video and counseling will report lower levels of
      stigmatizing attitudes when compared with the control group.
    
  