
    
      Nicotine is the most common drug of abuse in the United States, and has addiction strength
      comparable to cocaine, heroin, and alcohol. It is the primary addictive component of tobacco,
      and its use markedly increases risk for cancer, heart disease, asthma, miscarriage, and
      infant mortality. Addiction is thought to be caused primarily by the intersection of two
      components: 1) the impact of drug pharmacokinetics on the dynamics of dopamine response, and
      2) dysregulation of the brain's reward circuit. While the term 'dysregulated' tends to be
      used qualitatively within the neuroscience literature, regulation has a precise and testable
      meaning in control systems engineering, which has yet to be addressed in a quantitative
      manner by current neuroimaging methods or models of addiction. Current approaches to
      neuroimaging have primarily focused on identifying nodes and causal connections within the
      meso-circuit of interest, but have yet to take the next step in treating these nodes and
      connection as a self-interacting dynamical system evolving over time. Such an approach is
      critical for improving the understanding, and therefore prediction, of trajectories for
      addiction as well as recovery. These trajectories are likely to be nonlinear (e.g., involving
      thresholds, saturation, and self-reinforcement), as well as highly specific to each
      individual. This study is designed to provide the first step towards addressing this gap:
      integrating ultra-high-field (7T) and ultra-fast (<1s) fMRI with computational modeling, to
      provide a bridge between the dynamics of meso-circuit regulation and the dynamics of human
      addictive behavior. The investigators propose to test the hypothesis that control systems
      regulation, measured by dynamic analyses of fMRI data, can predict-on an individual
      basis-exactly when an addicted smoker will want to take his next puff. This will be achieved
      by first validating a MR-compatible nicotine delivery system, by comparing its
      neurobiological and autonomic effects against those of a cigarette and e-cigarette. Once this
      is achieved, the investigators will then acquire fMRI data from addicted smokers while they
      'smoke.' Using individual subjects' neuroimaging data, the investigators will derive coupled
      differential equations for a control system that predicts craving and behavioral response for
      that individual. Using independent data sets to estimate the parameters and to test them, the
      investigators will assess the model's accuracy in predicting each individual subject's
      cravings, as measured behaviorally by the frequency at which each smoker self-administers
      nicotine. If successful, this approach could then be exploited to develop individualized
      prevention and treatment of addiction by identifying individual-specific amplitude, duration,
      and frequency of dosing in nicotine replacement therapy that is least likely to trigger
      cravings. More generally, the methods proposed have the potential to rigorously examine
      system-wide dysregulation in addiction for the first time, opening the door to exploration of
      other dysregulatory brain-based diseases in humans.
    
  