
    
      This is a randomized (study drug assigned by chance), parallel-group, open-label (all
      involved people know the identity of the intervention), multicenter study in 18 countries. A
      total of 646 patients with multiple myeloma whose disease has progressed after an initial
      response to at least 1 line of prior therapy or was refractory to initial treatment will be
      enrolled. The primary endpoint is time to progression (the interval between the date of
      randomization and the date of disease progression); secondary endpoints are overall survival
      (the interval between the date of randomization and the patient's death from any cause),
      response rate (the proportion of patients in the evaluable population who achieved a complete
      or partial response), and safety. Other study endpoints include patient reported outcomes and
      exploratory pharmacogenics (to identify genetic markers of response). Patients are assessed
      for efficacy and safety every 3 weeks until disease progression is documented or for up to 42
      weeks from the start of the first dose of study drug. Patients, who do not progress after the
      42-week period, are assessed every 6 weeks until disease progression is documented. Efficacy
      evaluations includes: serum protein electrophoresis, 24-hour urine collection for protein
      electrophoresis, skeletal survey (plain films), bone marrow biopsy and aspirate, clinical or
      radiologic assessment of plasmacytomas, and serum calcium. Responses and progressions are
      assessed objectively by a computer algorithm based on the EBMT criteria. Safety evaluations
      include adverse event reports, changes in clinical laboratory findings, and tests for cardiac
      function (multiple gated acquisition scan/echocardiogram and electrocardiogram). Group A:
      VELCADE monotherapy: VELCADE 1.3 milligram per meter square (mg/m^2) to be administered by
      i.v. bolus on Days 1, 4, 8, and 11 of each 21-day cycle. Group B: DOXIL/VELCADE combination:
      treated with VELCADE at the same dose and schedule as specified in Group A. DOXIL/CAELYX 30
      mg/m^2 by intravenous infusion given on Day 4 of every 21-day cycle following the
      administration of VELCADE.
    
  