
    
      Introduction:

      Postamputation pain is highly prevalent after vascular limb amputation. The
      physiopathological basis should be divided in supraspinal, spinal and peripheral mechanisms.
      Supraspinal mechanism involve somatosensory cortical reorganization; spinal reorganization in
      the dorsal horn, occurs after deafferentation from peripheral nerve injury and peripherical
      nerve injury begins with the nerve section in surgery. All this factors seems to end into a
      somatosensory cortex reorganization. In this sense, it seems that our ability to prevent PLP
      depend on the capability to modulate the plasticity of the Central Nervous System (CNS).

      Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation it´s a safe, easy and inexpensive analgesic
      technique acting on the conduction pathways of pain. An adequated program is mandatory:
      balanced symmetrical biphasic pulse, pulse length greater than 250microsg, modulated high
      frequency and electrodes placed over the dermatomes corresponding to lumbar-sacral spine;
      will be used in the intervention patients

      Hypothesis:

      In patients with TENS use during the immediately postoperative of major limb amputation due
      to peripheral vascular disease, phantom limb pain will appear with less frequency than in
      control patients.

      Study population:

      Patients undergoing major limb amputation for peripheral vascular disease.

      Study design:

      A randomized, prospective, blinded (patient, physician, statistician),clinical trial placebo
      versus intervention group study has been design.

      In the intervention arm, TENS should be applied during the 24 hours immediately after limb
      amputation. The placebo arm, also will carry TENS but without an active program.

      All patients should receive the standard analgesic treatment for limb amputation during their
      hospitalization time.

      Evaluation and objectives:

      Before surgery all patients made two test for pain evaluation: The Analogical Visual Scale
      and the DN4 questionnaire for neuropathic pain.

      At 3 days, 1 month and 3 months after surgery, all patients will be evaluated about their
      pain using the recommended test for neuropathic pain:The Analogical Visual Scale and the DN4
      (neuropathic pain 4) questionnaire for neuropathic pain . Also, at month 1 and 3th, two more
      test should be done in order to evaluate quality of life: The SF-12 (short form-12) health
      survey questionnaire about health and the Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) for sleep test.
    
  