
    
      Return of fear is the re-emergence of a partially or fully extinguished fear (Rachman, 1989).
      Due to relatively low treatment response rates for CBT at post-treatment (Loerinc et al,
      2015), this study seeks to assess the efficacy of mental rehearsal (MR) in a different, less
      context-dependent manner than prior efforts (e.g., Mystkowski et al, 2006; Culver, Stoyanova,
      & Craske, 2011). Participants in the MR condition rehearse the new learning contingency, that
      is, that their feared outcome did not occur when they approached a live spider. Violation of
      expectancies engenders new, secondary learning that competes with the older fear memory
      (Craske et al, 2008; Bjork, 2003). As secondary, non-fear learning is repeatedly retrieved,
      the original fear memory is gradually suppressed, rendering it less recallable in the future
      (Bjork, 2011). Thus, repeatedly retrieving non-fear learning acquired from exposures is
      purported to strengthen the non-fear memory and reduce symptoms of arachnophobia. MR is
      conducted between sessions in an effort to reduce short-term return of fear by enhancing
      consolidation of non-fear learning via rehearsal efforts in multiple environments/contexts.

      The overall aim of the current study is to evaluate a method for enhancing the effectiveness
      of exposure therapy, and more specifically, to test the extent to which a novel
      between-session mental rehearsal intervention may optimize treatment outcomes in individuals
      with excessive fear of spiders. An important secondary aim is to better understand cognitive
      and affective mechanisms underlying benefits of mental rehearsal.

      The experiment consists of three sessions, spanning 8-10 days. Session 1 begins with a
      pre-treatment assessment consisting of self-report questionnaires and a behavioral approach
      test (BAT) with a live spider. During the BAT, confidence and distress ratings are obtained
      and psychophysiological responses (i.e., SCR) are recorded. Participants then complete a
      series of exposures with a live spider. At Session 2 (two to three days later), participants
      return to complete a second series of exposures with a live spider. At Session 3 (five to
      seven days later), participants complete a post-treatment assessment with self-report
      questionnaires and BAT, again with concurrent confidence and distress ratings and
      psychophysiological recordings.

      Between sessions, participants are randomized to mentally rehearse information from exposures
      (i.e., MR) or from an unrelated recent academic experience (i.e., Control). MR exercises
      guide participants in retrieving and consolidating learning from exposures, emphasizing the
      inhibitory relationship between the conditioned stimulus (CS) and the unconditioned stimulus
      (US) (i.e., that approaching the spider did not result in their anticipated/feared outcome).

      Measures span self-report, behavioral, and psychophysiological data. Fear of spiders is
      assessed with self-reported symptoms and measures taken during pre- and post-treatment BATs.
      During each BAT, skin conductance response (SCR) serves as a physiological index of fearful
      arousal. Baseline SCR is collected during a two-minute period at the start of pre- and
      post-treatment assessments. At both BATs, anticipatory SCR is collected during a one-minute
      period immediately prior to starting the BAT, and SCR is then continuously recorded
      throughout completion of the BAT. In addition to SCR, number of steps completed (0 to 9) and
      repeated ratings of confidence, anticipatory distress, and maximum distress during the BAT
      serve as important indices of fear.

      Self-reported stress, sleep quality, aerobic exercise, and knowledge of spiders are assessed
      as potential moderators of mental rehearsal and symptom change. Post-exposure ratings of
      surprise, US expectancy, and generalization of non-fear learning will additionally be
      evaluated as treatment mechanisms.
    
  