
    
      We will consent approximately 152 participants, age 18 and older, who have tested tested
      positive for COVID-19 and are currently experiencing mild symptoms. All interactions for this
      study will be conducted remotely by videoconferencing, email, or phone.

      Screening: All participants will first complete a pre-screen to see if they may be eligible
      for the study. Once a participant is confirmed eligible and consented, the study team will
      send the study materials. These materials will consist of study medication and
      self-monitoring equipment, including a pregnancy test (for females of childbearing age not
      using contraception), an oxygen saturation monitor, blood pressure monitor, and thermometer.
      Once the study team has finalized the screening process, the participant will begin taking
      the study medication.

      RCT: Participants will be randomly assigned (1:1) to take either fluvoxamine or a placebo.
      This phase of the study will last approximately 15 days and is double-blinded. Participants
      will take 100mg of fluvoxamine or placebo by mouth three times a day for a daily total of
      300mg. They will continue this dose for approximately 15 days. Depending on tolerability, the
      dose may be adjusted. Participants will also complete short 10-15 minute assessments daily to
      assess symptoms, results of self-monitoring (including oxygen level, blood pressure, and
      temperature) and any adverse events.

      Open-label Phase: After completing the randomization phase, participants will then
      participate in an open-label phase (participant will definitely receive fluvoxamine) that
      will last up to 15 days. Those randomized to placebo will have the opportunity to try
      fluvoxamine during this time. Those randomized to fluvoxamine will continue this medication
      while slowly decreasing the drug. The participant may opt out of this phase. The dosage
      during this time will be 50-100mg two times daily until discontinuing the drug.

      Follow-up Phase: We will follow participants for approximately 30 days after the end of the
      randomized phase. If needed, the study team will review medical records to determine the
      clinical course of participants.
    
  