
    
      Objectives: The study is designed to compare the benefits of discharge health information
      technology versus usual care in high-risk patients recently discharged from acute care
      hospitalization.

      STUDY HYPOTHESES:

      The primary efficacy endpoint is the proportion of patients readmitted at least once within 6
      months after the index admission. Readmission is for any reason and includes observation
      status and full admission status.

      Primary hypothesis: Among high-risk patients recently discharged from acute care
      hospitalization, there is a significant decrease in the primary efficacy endpoint for
      patients who receive discharge health information technology versus usual care discharge
      instructions.

      Secondary hypothesis 1A: In the same patient population, the time to first readmission is
      greater for patients who receive discharge health information technology versus usual care
      discharge instructions.

      Secondary hypothesis 1B: In the same patient population, the mean number of hospital days per
      patient within 6 months after index hospital discharge is lower for patients who receive
      discharge health information technology versus usual care discharge instructions.

      Secondary hypothesis 2: In the same patient population, the mean score for effectiveness and
      satisfaction with discharge process is greater for patients who receive discharge health
      information technology versus usual care discharge instructions.

      Secondary hypothesis 3: In the same patient population, the proportion of patients who report
      their pharmacist needed to clarify the discharge prescription is lower for patients who
      receive discharge health information technology versus usual care discharge instructions.

      Secondary hypothesis 4: In the same patient population, the proportion of patients with at
      least one adverse event within 4 weeks after hospital discharge is lower for patients who
      receive discharge health information technology versus usual care discharge instructions.

      Secondary hypothesis 5: In the same population, the mean satisfaction score with drug
      information will be higher for patients who receive discharge health information technology
      versus usual care discharge instructions.

      Secondary hypothesis 6: Among primary care physicians who provide post-discharge care to
      high-risk patients, the mean score for discharge process effectiveness and satisfaction will
      be greater for patients who receive discharge health information technology versus usual care
      discharge instructions.

      Secondary hypothesis 7: Among hospitalist physicians who discharge high-risk patients, the
      mean score for physicians' satisfaction with the discharge process will be greater for
      physicians assigned to discharge health information technology versus usual care discharge
      instructions.

      METHODS: The trial design is a randomized cluster, single-blind (outcome assessors blind),
      controlled trial. The study design conforms to recent guidelines for randomized controlled
      trials. The test intervention is discharge application of health information technology. The
      control intervention is usual care (hand-written discharge instructions) described below.
      Each patient will remain in the study for 6 months. Enrollment in the study will last
      approximately 18 months. There will be no interim analysis.

      Research personnel will obtain informed consent from potentially eligible inpatients.
      Informed consent from patients will occur during the screening visit.

      Screening visit: Investigators will train research personnel to perform screening and
      informed consent. The screening visit may occur within 2 days of the planned discharge. After
      obtaining informed consent, research personnel will record items in the baseline assessment.
      Research personnel will ask patients about self-rated health, coronary artery disease
      (including angina pectoris myocardial infarction), diabetes mellitus in past year,
      hospitalization in past year, number of doctor visits in past year, presence of an informal
      caregiver able to care for the patient for several days, age, and gender. The screening
      questionnaire was validated. Research personnel will calculate a PRA score during the
      screening visit. PRA scores 0.5 and above define high-risk patients who have a 50%
      probability of being admitted to a hospital two or more times within 4 years. When the PRA
      score is applied to Medicaid beneficiaries followed for one year, 57% of patients with PRA
      0.5 and above will have at least one hospital admission or 0.99 +/- 0.24 hospital admissions
      per person-year survived (mean +/- SE). Research personnel will offer informed consent to
      patients with PRA score 0.4 and above.

      Research personnel will record limited information for patients who are ineligible or who
      refuse consent.

      Baseline Assessment: The baseline assessment will occur after informed consent and before
      discharge. The ten-point clock test will be used as the screening instrument for orientation.
      Research personnel will record patient's name, address, age, stated race, gender, and
      discharge medication prescription. Research personnel will record patient contact information
      and alternate contact information in order to perform post-hospital telephone interviews
      required by the protocol.

      Intervention allocation: The time of random treatment allocation will be after the baseline
      assessment and before discharge. Patients will not receive study treatment if they fail to
      consent or if they fail the inclusion/exclusion criteria. Treatment assignment will be in a
      1:1 ratio to either discharge application of health information technology or usual care
      discharge instructions. The unit of randomization will be the hospitalist physician who
      performs the discharge process. The randomization process is designed to assure random
      allocation by cluster with the cluster determined by the discharging physician. Allocation
      concealment is not possible since all the enrolled patients who are discharged by the
      hospitalist physician will receive the same study intervention.

      Dispense patient logbook: The purpose of the patient logbook is to promote ascertainment of
      study endpoints.

      Patient telephone interview: discharge process effectiveness and satisfaction The purpose of
      the first telephone interview is to acquire data to measure secondary endpoints 2, 3, and 5.
      One week (5 to 9 days) after the hospital discharge date, research personnel will perform a
      telephone interview with the patient. Interviewers will instruct the patient to avoid
      mentioning the random intervention assignment. To address secondary hypothesis 2, interview
      questions will follow the PREPARED text. The PREPARED instrument surveys four key process
      domains: information exchange (community services and equipment), medication management,
      preparation for coping after discharge and control of discharge circumstances. The questions
      in PREPARED measure the patient's overall satisfaction with discharge, whether equipment and
      community service needs were met, and use of health services and health related costs
      post-discharge. The telephone interviewers will ask patients if their pharmacist had to call
      the doctor when attempting to fill the discharge prescriptions. The purpose of the question
      about pharmacists is to address secondary hypothesis 3. The telephone interviewers will ask
      questions from the Satisfaction with Information about Medicines Scale (SIMS). The SIMS is a
      17-item survey with internal consistency and test-retest reliability. The SIMS survey
      instrument addresses secondary hypothesis 5.

      Primary care physician questionnaire: discharge process effectiveness and satisfaction. The
      primary care physician questionnaire addresses secondary hypothesis 6. Within 10 to 18 days
      after the hospital discharge date, research personnel will contact the primary care physician
      to perform a survey.

      Patient interview: adverse event assessment. The purpose of the second patient interview is
      to address secondary hypothesis 4. Approximately 4 weeks (20 to 40 days) after the index
      hospital discharge date, research physician personnel will perform a telephone interview with
      the patient. Physicians trained to assess adverse events will perform the telephone
      interview. Interviewers will instruct the patient to avoid mentioning the random intervention
      assignment. The interview tool is a modification of a validated survey instrument.

      Hospitalist (discharging) physician questionnaire: The purpose of the survey is to address
      secondary hypothesis 7.

      Patient interview: readmission assessment. The purpose of the third patient interview is to
      ascertain the primary endpoint, secondary endpoints (1A, 1B), and tertiary endpoints.
      Approximately 6 months (170 to 190 days) after the hospital discharge date, research
      personnel who are blinded to intervention assignment will perform a telephone interview with
      the patient. Interviewers will instruct the patient to avoid mentioning the random
      intervention assignment. Interviewers will ask the patient to consult their patient logbook
      while answering questions. Interviewers will record the admissions to the hospital, dates of
      admission, duration of hospital stay, number of outpatient physician visits, and number of
      emergency department visits that did not result in hospital admission.

      Guess treatment assignment by blinded observers: The purpose of the guess is to measure the
      effectiveness of the blind.

      Conditions for Early Withdrawal of Treatment: Patients may terminate study intervention at
      any time and return to the standard care if they withdraw their consent. If a patient
      withdraws from the study for any reason, then research personnel will conduct an end-of-study
      visit.

      Sample size determination: The primary analysis is the difference in proportion of patients
      in the two study groups who achieve the primary efficacy endpoint of readmission within 6
      months of discharge. The estimated event rate in the standard therapy group is 37%, which is
      the control group event rate from a systematic review of randomized controlled trials of
      discharge interventions. The minimum clinically relevant difference, 13%, corresponds to a
      standardized increment of 28.2% and is the empirical boundary for quantitative significance.

      The required sample size for the primary analysis is 275 patients in the group assigned to
      discharge application of health information technology and 275 patients in the group assigned
      to control (usual care) therapy. In a previous study of discharge planning, the investigators
      enrolled 28% (363/1296) of potentially eligible patients. In the same study, 72% (262/363) of
      enrolled patients completed the 6-month assessment. Our hospitalist service discharges 297
      patients per month. We estimate we will screen 5456 patients within 18.37 months. We estimate
      50% of screened patients will be potentially eligible according to the Pra criteria. Among
      potentially eligible patients, we estimate 28% will consent to study enrollment. Therefore,
      the number of enrolled patients will be 5456 x 50% x 28% = 764. We estimate 72% (550/764) of
      enrolled patients will continue in the study until the 6-month assessment.

      After 3 months of patient enrollment, we found the rate of enrollment was too low to achieve
      the required sample size. In 2005, we requested and received approval from Agency Healthcare
      Research Quality and Institutional Review Board to lower patient inclusion criterion,
      probability or repeat admission (PRA), from 0.50 to 0.40.
    
  