
    
      The factors that influence HIV disease progression are not well understood. While larger
      amounts of circulating virus (high 'viral loads') predict future adverse clinical events,
      many of the clinical factors responsible for high viral loads and disease progression remain
      unknown. Certain clinical events and defined interventions are associated with increases in
      plasma viral RNA concentrations. One of these clinical interventions is immunization;
      immunization with several vaccines have been shown to increase plasma HIV RNA concentrations.
      Even though vaccination can lead to transient increases in plasma HIV concentrations, certain
      vaccines, including influenza vaccine, are still recommended for HIV patients because the
      risks of the disease targeted by the immunization are held to be greater than the
      immunization itself. Therefore, immunization with influenza vaccine can be considered a
      model, clinically indicated intervention, given at a known time which stimulates HIV
      replication. For influenza immunization, and for other treatments leading to increases in
      viral RNA concentrations, detailed knowledge of the regulatory events that mediate the
      increase in RNA concentrations is not available. We hypothesize that immunization with
      influenza vaccine, and perhaps other immune stimulatory events, lead to an increase in HIV
      replication through a regulatory system involving cytokines, signal transduction systems,
      transcription factors, effects on the cell cycle, and increased expression of additional gene
      products needed for viral replication, such as genes of the nucleic acid biosynthetic
      pathways. While experiments aimed at investigating one or another particular part of this
      regulatory system can be performed with traditionally available technologies, such
      technologies cannot provide comprehensive information concerning a large number of the
      regulatory events that may be involved in mediating the increase in HIV RNA concentration. In
      this protocol, we aim to develop the methodologies needed to determine changes in expression
      of many of the genes which may be involved in mediating the regulation of HIV expression in
      HIV-infected patients using cDNA microarray technologies. Once the methodologies are
      developed, such work may provide new insights into the regulatory systems controlling HIV
      expression in HIV-infected patients may provide new insights into the pathogenesis of HIV
      disease.
    
  