
    
      Rationale: Nemaline myopathy is a group of congenital, hereditary neuromuscular disorders
      with variable symptoms such as muscle weakness, swallowing dysfunction, and dysarthria.
      Respiratory failure is the main cause of death in nemaline myopathy and occurs even in
      ambulant patients who otherwise appear to be only mildly affected; respiratory muscle
      weakness may even be the presenting feature. Inspiratory muscle training has shown to
      increase inspiratory muscle strength in patients with other neuromuscular disorders. It is
      hypothesized that inspiratory muscle training improves respiratory muscle function in
      nemaline myopathy patients with respiratory muscle weakness.

      Objective: The primary objective is to determine the effect of a 8-week inspiratory muscle
      training program on respiratory muscle function in nemaline myopathy patients. The secondary
      objective is to determine respiratory muscle function in nemaline myopathy patients and its
      correlation with clinical severity and general neuromuscular function.

      Study design: The study consist of two phases. Phase 1: A screening phase with an open design
      from which patients will be selected for the second phase. Phase 2: A controlled before-after
      trial of inspiratory muscle training. The 2 conditions tested are sham IMT and active IMT.

      Study population: Nemaline myopathy patients from the local neuromuscular database will be
      recruited. Furthermore, other centres in the Netherlands will be contacted to expand the
      database of nemaline myopathy patients. Phase 2 requires 23 patients.

      Intervention: Active IMT consists of 15 minutes of IMT, twice a day, 5 days per week for 8
      weeks, at a training workload of 30% of MIP using a resistive inspiratory muscle training
      device. Sham IMT consists of similar training regime using a resistive inspiratory muscle
      training device where the resistance has been removed.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary outcome parameter is the change in maximal
      inspiratory pressure (MIP) after active inspiratory muscle training.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The intervention of inspiratory muscle training is not associated with any
      risks, but can be challenging in patients with respiratory muscle weakness to perform. There
      will be three visits to the hospital in 16 weeks. The first visit has a maximal duration of 6
      hours (including breaks) and the other two visits 1.5 hour. During these visits several tests
      and physical examinations will be performed. Some of the tests may cause some physical
      discomfort, but none of them carry any risk. Patients may benefit from participating in this
      study by developing improved respiratory muscle function as a result of the inspiratory
      muscle training.
    
  