
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the feasibility of obtaining serial biopsies in patients receiving
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy for locally advanced breast cancer. II. Assess the feasibility of
      performing assays of apoptosis and of markers that predict response on specimens obtained in
      these patients. III. Correlate the results of the assays with clinical and pathologic
      response rates. IV. Establish a baseline of change in apoptosis rates for future studies. V.
      Obtain serial blood samples and tumor tissue for future biological studies.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified by pre or postmenopausal state
      and T3 or T4 lesions. Arm I: Patients receive single agent doxorubicin by bolus infusion on
      day 1. Dose repeats every 14 days for a total of four courses, provided absolute neutrophil
      count (ANC) and platelet count remain in the appropriate range. Patients then receive
      paclitaxel IV administered over 3 hours once every 14 days for a total of four courses,
      provided ANC and platelet count remain in the appropriate range. Filgrastim (G-CSF)
      subcutaneous treatment is started on day 3 of each course, and continued for 7 days, or until
      ANC is greater than 10,000/mm3. Patients undergo serial core-needle breast biopsies or fine
      needle aspirations prior to starting therapy and on day one of each course. Arm II: Patients
      receive four courses of paclitaxel given once every 14 days. Patients then receive four
      courses of doxorubicin given on day 1 every 14 days, provided ANC and platelet count are in
      the appropriate range. G-CSF subcutaneous treatment is started on day 3 of each course, as in
      Arm I. Patients undergo serial core-needle breast biopsies or fine needle aspirations prior
      to starting and on day one of each course. Arm I and II: Upon completion of eight courses of
      chemotherapy, patients undergo a surgical procedure to evaluate the extent of residual
      disease and number of lymph nodes involved, and to achieve local control. Following surgery,
      patients receive additional treatment at the discretion of the treating oncologist. Eligible
      patients undergo further high dose chemotherapy with peripheral blood stem cell rescue; other
      patients receive cyclophosphamide therapy. Patients receiving lumpectomies receive breast
      irradiation. Patients receiving mastectomies might receive chest wall irradiation. Following
      radiotherapy, hormone receptor positive patients may start tamoxifen therapy for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: An estimated 40 patients (20 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  