
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the response in patients with resectable soft tissue sarcoma of the
      extremity treated with neoadjuvant intra-arterial cisplatin and IV doxorubicin followed by
      limb-sparing procedure or amputation, adjuvant IV cisplatin and IV doxorubicin, and
      radiotherapy. II. Determine the chemotherapeutic response in tumor specimens of patients
      treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy: Patients undergo arterial cannulation followed by
      cisplatin intra-arterially over 4 hours on day 1 and doxorubicin IV (beginning 15 minutes
      after completion of cisplatin infusion) on days 1-3. Treatment continues every 3 weeks for 2
      courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo amputation or limb-sparing
      wide excision, as feasible, approximately 4 weeks after the second course. If surgery cannot
      be scheduled at this time for logistical reasons, a third course may be administered.
      Patients with an estimated tumor kill of at least 50% receive adjuvant chemotherapy as
      outlined below. Patients undergoing limb-sparing wide excision receive post-operative
      radiotherapy as outlined below. Adjuvant chemotherapy: Beginning 3-4 weeks after surgery,
      patients receive cisplatin IV over 4 hours on day 1 and doxorubicin as above on days 1-3.
      Treatment continues every 3 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression, stable
      disease, or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergoing radiotherapy receive the final 3
      courses of chemotherapy after completion of radiotherapy. Post-operative radiotherapy:
      Beginning after the first postoperative chemotherapy course and within 8 weeks after surgery,
      patients receive radiotherapy 5 days a week for 7-8 weeks. An interstitial implant using
      iridium Ir 192 may be used to administer the final doses of radiotherapy.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  