
    
      Up to 31% of frail patients are readmitted to hospital within 30 days post-discharge. Unmet
      needs related to new difficulties in performing activities of daily living (ADL) upon
      returning home increase their risk of readmission. Comprehensive, patient-centered discharge
      planning has been reported to improve older adults' ability to perform ADL and to reduce
      readmission rates. To our knowledge, no such evidence-based discharge protocol is routinely
      used in Canada with the frail population.

      An innovative discharge planning protocol called "HOME" was recently developed in Australia
      and a randomized controlled trial (RCT) was conducted in a large sample of older adults in
      this country. The HOME intervention includes: 1-hospital-based partnership with patient and
      family to establish goal setting and problem solving; 2-pre-discharge home assessment to
      address safety issues and problems with patient and family; 3-post-discharge home assessment
      training to address unmet needs; and 4-Follow-up telephone calls to provide ongoing support
      to patient and family. Using the HOME protocol in a real-world Canadian context is expected
      to yield positive functional and clinical outcomes for this population. This hypothesis needs
      to be verified through a full-scale pragmatic mixed-method (qualitative and quantitative)
      RCT. This innovative method supports the integration of research into care and increase
      understanding of the results. Given the changes we are making to the Australian design and
      the different context in which the research will be done, a feasibility study will first be
      conducted to help circumvent problems that may arise during the full-scale RCT. Thus this
      study aims to assess the feasibility of conducting a fully powered multi-site, pragmatic,
      mixed-method RCT that will evaluate the comparative effectiveness of a Canadian version of
      HOME with respect to (a) functional outcomes: independence in ADL and functional goal
      attainment; and (b) clinical outcomes: unplanned hospital readmissions and emergency
      department visits.

      A pragmatic pilot RCT using a rater-blinded mixed-method design will be conducted over a
      2-year period. Seventy-two frail hospitalized older adults will be consecutively recruited in
      Sherbrooke (Quebec). Participants will be randomly allocated to the intervention group (HOME)
      or the control group (customary in-hospital care). Feasibility data, including recruitment
      and retention rates, will be collected. Quantitative methods will be used to explore the
      effect of the HOME intervention on (a) functional outcomes, measured by the Functional
      Autonomy Measurement System and the Goal Attainment Scale, and (b) clinical outcomes based on
      medical chart data reviews. A qualitative method embedded in the RCT will be used to explore
      how the intervention is experienced by clinicians, patients and families to plan further
      refinements. Measures will be taken at baseline, 1 and 3 months post-discharge.

      With the participation of the Australian research team and a network of patient-caregiver
      representatives, clinicians, and key policy makers (e.g., Quebec Ministry of Health), this
      study will provide clinically-relevant results to support the full-scale RCT. By providing
      evidence on the effectiveness, benefits and potential drawbacks in a real-world context of
      the two options (HOME vs customary care), findings from this RCT will help stakeholders make
      decisions about the best way of delivering discharge planning care for frail patients.
    
  