
    
      Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a prevalent neurodevelopmental disorder
      characterized by age inappropriate symptoms of inattention, hyperactivity-impulsivity, or
      both. The diagnosis of ADHD correlates with several negative outcomes during childhood,
      adolescence and adulthood, creating huge direct and indirect costs for the health system. The
      treatment of ADHD involves the use of pharmacologic and non-pharmacologic approaches, and
      stimulant medications are the most commonly used. Although effective, stimulant medication
      presents several limitations, reducing long-term adherence. Transcranial direct current
      stimulation (tDCS) is a neuromodulatory tool that has been shown to be effective for the
      treatment of various neuropsychiatric disorders. Previous pilot studies applying tDCS in ADHD
      patients showed conflicting results, and were characterized by heterogeneous methodologies.
      This study aims at evaluating the effectiveness and safety of tDCS for improving attention in
      adult ADHD patients by using a more strict methodology, based on a pilot study from our group
      that showed promising results. Besides that, we aim at exploring the mechanisms of action
      involved in the effect by using genomic and neuroimaging approaches. By using a computational
      model, we will also measure the association between clinical response and electric field
      density propagated with the use of tDCS in brain regions involved in attentional tasks. This
      will be a phase II-III, parallel, with two intervention groups, randomized,
      placebo-controlled and double blind study. Only patients without current pharmacological
      treatment for ADHD will be included in order to evaluate the effectiveness of tDCS as an
      alternative treatment for the disorder. Patients will be randomized to receive tDCS
      stimulation with either active or sham home-based devices. The stimulation protocol will
      include one daily stimulation during the first 4 weeks, 2 weekly stimulations for the next 4
      weeks, and one weekly stimulation over the last 4 weeks. After the end of the 12 weeks of
      stimulation, patients will be followed-up during 6 months in order to observe for how long
      the effects last. The primary outcome will be obtained after the first 4 weeks of
      stimulation, with the use of a scale that evaluates inattention symptoms. We hypothesize that
      the active tDCS will reduce inattention symptoms when compared to sham stimulation, and will
      result in an increased activation of brain regions related to attention performance. In
      exploratory analyses, by using genomic approaches, we will observe possible associations
      between treatment response and specific genes, gene pools and polygenic risk scores. In
      addition, a functional magnetic resonance imaging test will be performed at rest and during
      both a sustained attention task (Sustained Attention Test), and a working memory task (N-back
      Test). This will be performed in order to measure the effects of treatment in the activation
      of brain regions related to attention performance before and after the first 4 weeks of
      stimulation.
    
  