
    
      The primary objective of this study is to determine the efficacy of ibuprofen in reducing
      postoperative pain in children recovering from inguinal surgery when compared to morphine.
      Thus, if stated as a research question, the problem to be addressed is: in children (10
      months-5 years) who have recently undergone inguinal surgery, is ibuprofen, when administered
      postoperatively, no less effective in reducing postoperative pain compared to morphine?
      Inguinal surgical procedures (unilateral hernia/ hydrocele repair and unilateral orchidopexy)
      will be carried out under standardized analgesic administration. Anesthesia will be delivered
      to all participants via inhalation induction with air/nitrous oxide and sevoflurane,
      intravenous supplementation with propofol and/or fentanyl 1 to 2 mcg/kg, antiemetic
      prophylaxis with dexamethasone 150 mcg/kg and ondansetron 50 mcg/kg, acetaminophen
      suppository 40 mg/kg, and morphine intravenous 50-100 mcg/kg. Regional block with local
      infiltration of 0.25 % of plain bupivacaine will be performed around the vicinity of the
      ileoinguinal nerve. This anesthesia protocol has been approved by a consensus meeting with
      the Pediatric Anesthesia Group at McMaster University and will be employed consistently in
      all cases in this study. Deviations to this practice will lead to study exclusion.

      Postoperatively, the control group will receive standardized 0.2 mg/ kg morphine syrup
      (maximum 10mg) every four hours as needed, while the intervention group will receive
      Ibuprofen suspension (10mg/kg; maximum 600 mg) every six hours as needed for 48 hours post
      hospital discharge. Tylenol (15mg/kg) can be administered in either group at parental
      discretion every four hours as needed and will be recorded in a standardized medication log
      provided to all parents.

      Parents will be told to follow the instructions on the package of prefilled syringes (i.e. to
      give the medication every 4 hours or 6 hours as needed) by the healthcare practitioner who is
      discharging the patient from the hospital. Parents and will not be told which medication
      their child is receiving in order to maintain blinding. All dosage information will be kept
      and maintained by the research pharmacy staff. Parents will be provided medication
      information through the use of a standardized script and hand out available in both English
      and French which will encompass potential side effects of both trial medications.

      The duration of the treatment period will be following hospital discharge, after the inguinal
      surgical procedure, to 48 hours post-hospital discharge.

      Primary Outcome Measurement Tool: Postoperative pain will be measured at three time the
      evening of the procedure, 24 hours post-discharge and 48 hours post-discharge) using the
      validated Parents Postoperative Pain Measure (PPPM) (See Appendix A).10 Pain scales will only
      be administered by parents once the patient has been discharged home. Patients usually
      recover from surgery for an average of two hours prior to being discharged from hospital.

      Secondary Outcomes Measurement Tool: Secondary outcomes will be measured as follows: 1)
      Analgesic use postoperatively while still in the hospital. This will be recorded by a member
      of the care team on the patient's chart. Parents will record supplemental Tylenol
      administered in a standardized medication log for both arms of the study; 2) Frequency of
      emesis during recovery phase (in hospital and post discharge) recorded on patient case report
      form and recorded from the 48 hour phone call. 3) Time to discharge will be recorded from
      patient discharge sheet by research assistant 4) Adverse reactions (post discharge) will be
      recorded on patient case report form 5) Surgical complications (surgical site infection,
      bleeding, wound dehiscence) will be assessed by a physician or nurse practitioner at 6-8 week
      follow-up visit 6) First bowel movement post-surgery.
    
  