
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum-tolerated dose of gamma-secretase inhibitor RO4929097 (RO4929097) in
      combination with exemestane in pre- and postmenopausal patients with estrogen
      receptor-positive (ER+) advanced or metastatic breast cancer.

      II. Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine
      the progression-free survival of patients treated with exemestane with vs without RO4929097.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the overall tumor response rate in patients treated with these regimens.

      II. Determine the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens. III. Determine
      the safety of these regimens in these patients. IV. Determine the quality of life of patients
      treated with these regimens. V. Identify biomarkers of response to treatment or toxicity.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study of gamma-secretase inhibitor
      RO4929097.

      Patients receive oral exemestane once daily on days 1-21 and oral gamma-secretase inhibitor
      RO4929097 once daily on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17. Courses repeat every 21 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients are stratified according to menopausal status (pre- vs postmenopausal) and visceral
      disease (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive exemestane as in phase I and oral gamma-secretase inhibitor RO4929097
      at the MTD determined in phase I. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive exemestane as in arm I. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      In addition to exemestane, pre-menopausal patients receive goserelin subcutaneously every 28
      days. Patients may undergo blood and tissue sample collection for correlative studies.

      Patients may complete quality-of-life questionnaires at baseline and periodically during
      study using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for Breast Cancer (FACT-B).

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up for 4 weeks and then every 6
      months thereafter.
    
  