
    
      A new pandemic emerged in early 2020, also known as the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic,
      affecting all health systems worldwide. This disease, although it attacks the human
      respiratory system, has greatly affected all health personnel regardless of specialty and the
      reason is that these patients need a high level of care. Medical and nursing staff make every
      effort to treat patients resulting in physical and psychological exhaustion, which is
      exacerbated by the lack of medical and nursing staff, the lack of protective equipment, the
      increased workload. and increased shifts.

      In this context, the surgeons had to contribute in turn, in order to help as much as they
      could in dealing with this new health crisis, as a result of which they find themselves in
      positions that are not on their subject or in their proper training and to handle patients
      with a dangerous and highly aggressive respiratory infection. This brought more psychological
      and physical stress to the surgeons.

      Their presence in aerosol situations (surgeries - intubation, placement of central venous
      catheters) and frequent contact with patients increased the likelihood of disease spread.
      With the increased likelihood of the disease spreading as their exposure to patients was
      high, it began to cause concern to staff living with the elderly or other vulnerable groups.

      The incidence of the Covid-19 pandemic is increasing rapidly, resulting in worldwide
      healthcare systems operating feverishly to adequately meet the demands of this new disease.
      Several countries around the world have converted general hospitals to host hospitals
      exclusively for this disease, as a safety measure and limitation of the spread of Covid-19.

      Front-line health personnel is under stress due to increased workload, lack of protective
      equipment, lack of information, and social isolation from loved ones. This staff includes
      physicians, pulmonologists, intensivists, surgeons.

      In the last decade, there has been a great deal of mobility in the health sciences with
      reference to stress as many studies have linked it to the occurrence of various physical and
      psychological disorders. Undoubtedly, stress is a multifactorial concept, which makes it
      difficult to define clearly.

      Stress, in particular, is a response mechanism, a "fight or flight" reflex in order to
      protect the body from various dangers. It is always activated with the "perception" of danger
      or threat (real or imaginary), where the sympathetic fate of the autonomic nervous system is
      stimulated and aims to prepare the body either to escape from danger or to fight with it.

      The stressors that affect surgeons are many and varied, such as minimal sleep and its
      disturbance with multiple shifts, workplace tension, heavy workload, poor diet, etc.
      Depending on the stressors, the stress axis is activated with the corresponding effects on
      their psychosomatic health (depression, burnout, obesity, cardiovascular and autoimmune
      diseases).

      Based on the above, the present study has not so far looked more broadly at the psychological
      stress of surgeons in relation to their quality of life during the Covid-19 period.

      The design of this research will be observational and quantitative. Quantitative design
      involves the provision of numerically coded and analytical measurements, such as self-report
      questionnaires (social-demographic data, DASS-21, Anxiety Covid-19, Pittsburgh, Healthy
      Lifestyle and Personal Control Questionnaire, Multidimensional Health Locus of Control).

      The purpose of this cross-sectional research is primarily to record the levels of stress,
      anxiety, depressive symptoms of Greek surgeons, and their lifestyle. Secondary to correlate
      the stress levels with socio-demographic data and their lifestyle with other parameters of
      the study.
    
  