
    
      This study is planned as a prospective randomized single blind controlled study. It was
      approved by the Ankara University Faculty of Medicine Ethics Committee and was conducted in
      accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. This study will include 36 patients with CRPS
      type 1 who are referred to the Depart-ment of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Hand
      Rehabilitation Unit at the Medical Faculty of Ankara University. Patients included in the
      scope of the study will randomly be divided into 2 groups as mirror group and control group.
      Random allocation software (RAS) program will be used to assign the patients to the treatment
      groups with "block randomization" method and to create the randomization scheme. In this
      single blinded study, all patients will be evaluated by the same physician (Dr. Elif Can
      Ozdemir). The physician will be blind to patient's assignment. Routine physical therapy and
      exercise program including contrast baths, hot pack, transcutaneous electrical nerve
      stimulation (TENS), desensitization, exercises and occupational therapy will be applied to
      all patients for a total of 4 weeks, 5 days a week, 1 hour/day. Mirror therapy will be
      applied to the mirror group for 30 minutes per day in addition to this routine treatment.
      Mirror therapy will include wrist flexion/extension, ulnar/radial deviation, hand finger
      flexion/extension and ab-duction/adduction, thumb abduction/adduction/opposition, and forearm
      supina-tion/pronation movements as well as various object grasping activities according to
      the status of the patient's hand functions. A total of 20 sessions of treatment will be given
      to each patient. The therapy will be given by the physiotherapists in the Hand Rehabilitation
      Unit. All individuals participating in the study will be assessed before and immediately
      after the treatment and also 1 month at follow-up. Each assessment will include pain
      severity, grip strength, lateral pinch strength, hand circumference measurements, hand
      dexterity, hand function in daily living activities, and health-related quality of life.As
      the primary outcome variable, the difference in pain measured by the Numerical Rating Scale
      between baseline and post-treatment is based. In the mirror group, at least 1 point
      difference in pain according to the control group is evaluated by Mann Whitney U test and it
      is necessary to take a total of 36 patients with 81% power and 5% error in each group,
      assuming 1 as the group standard deviation. Mann Whitney U and Wilcoxon test are planned for
      paired samples. P value of less than .05 is considered as statistically significant.
    
  