
    
      Methods and Procedures This study is designed to evaluate the impact of a narrative medicine
      curriculum on a convenience sample of pediatric residents rotating through MSKCC during the
      2020-2021 academic year. The first block of the study period will be a control group,
      followed by treatment (the second block). Blocks will alternate in this way for the remainder
      of the 12 month period (control-treatment-control-treatment-control-treatment etc).

      The treatment group will be offered three sessions in narrative medicine during their block
      at MSKCC, with sessions taking place during the one-hour afternoon conference time slot. The
      control group will proceed through the standard afternoon conference curriculum, with no
      narrative medicine sessions.

      A session in narrative medicine is defined as a one-hour session in which a pre- selected
      piece of poetry or literary fiction is read, then responded to in written form, with the
      option to share one's responses aloud with the group. It provides opportunity for reflection,
      meaning-making, bearing witness to the stories of doctors and patients, and important
      professional development. Candidate texts have been chosen by experts in narrative medicine,
      English literature, and creative writing, and are grouped around 4 themes: caring for ill and
      dying children and their families, forging connections, coping with uncertainty and
      ambiguity, and mindfulness. The publishers for each piece are currently being contacted and
      permission requested for their use in this study. While the use of works in the context of
      this study meets Cornell University Check.list for Fair Use Criteria, some publishers charge
      a nominal fee, up to approximately $50, for use of a complete work such as a poem. Excerpts
      from books are typically at no charge. The cost of these permissions has been figured into
      the study budget, and is funded by a Pilot Grant from the Dept. of Pediatrics.

      Narrative medicine sessions will be standardized, and will be taught by 5 of the 6
      co-investigator's: two from pediatric emergency medicine, one from pediatric pulmonology, one
      from the office of the chaplain, and one from the Dept. of Child Psychiatry at MSK. All five
      will receive training in facilitating narrative medicine sessions. They will each attend one
      narrative medicine session at the WCMC Liz Claiborne Center for Humanism in Medicine, and
      they will each read relevant chapters of the textbook "Narrative Medicine," by Rita Charon.

      A pre-test, comprised of the Maslach Burnout Inventory-Human Services Survey (MBI-HSS) and
      the Professional Quality of Life Scale: Compassion Satisfaction, Burnout, and Fatigue Scale
      Version V (ProQOL) will be administered to all groups during the first session of each block,
      and demographic information will be collected, specifically post-graduate year,
      self-identified gender, self-identified race and/or ethnicity, previous exposure to narrative
      medicine, and previous rotations in clinical oncology. A post-test, using the same survey
      instruments, will be administered during the final session, along with two open-ended
      questions about their experience with this curriculum. Only the intervention group will
      answer the two open-ended questions.

      Each resident will choose a 4-digit ID number which will be written on their demographic
      intakes and pre-and post-tests, as well as on the sign in sheet for the 2nd narrative
      medicine session during intervention blocks. They will be asked to email their PIN to
      themselves during the pre-test so that they will not forget the number. This identifying
      pin-number is necessary in order to match individual pre-tests to post-tests and assess
      degree of change for individuals over the duration of the study.
    
  