
    
      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a safe, non-invasive neuromodulation
      technique that shows promise as an intervention technique. The primary aim of this study is
      to assess the magnitude of tDCS-induced cognitive and functional change in patients with mild
      traumatic brain injury (TBI). In this double-blind, sham-controlled, pilot study, 24 veterans
      with mild TBI will be randomized to tDCS or sham conditions. Stimulation will be administered
      with a StarStim neurostimulator at 2 milliamps (mA) for 20 minutes. The anodal electrode will
      be placed over the left dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex. Twenty-four sessions of stimulation
      will be administered concurrent with 20 minutes of working memory training. Participants will
      continue with an additional 40 minutes of working memory training post-stimulation.
      Participant experience with neuromodulation will be assessed with a self-report questionnaire
      that lists common reactions to tDCS. Participant perception of the value of neuromodulation
      procedures will be assessed at weeks 4 and 8. A second aim is to identify biomarkers of
      treatment response. Resting state electroencephalogram (EEG) will be collected at three time
      points: prior to the first tDCS training session, immediately after the first training
      session, and post-intervention. This study will provide preliminary evidence of the efficacy
      of providing tDCS as an intervention to enhance cognitive and functional outcomes for
      individuals with mild traumatic brain injury. Furthermore, the results of this study will
      also increase the understanding of the mechanisms by which tDCS enhances cognitive
      performance. This knowledge has the potential to provide insight into the underlying
      therapeutic process as well as to guide development of the next generation of interventions.
      In addition, acceptability of the intervention will be monitored to identify potential
      barriers to administering tDCS in clinical practice.
    
  