
    
      One objective of the Prosthetic Outcomes Research Award (PORA) is to improve the
      understanding of secondary health effects on Service members and Veterans who have undergone
      limb amputation and to advance the adoption and implementation of evidence-based
      interventions. The investigators will address the important secondary health problem of
      excessive residual limb sweating (hyperhidrosis) in amputees.

      Successful use of a prosthesis requires a stable interface between the residual limb and the
      prosthetic socket. Maintaining healthy skin, therefore, is paramount. However, the closed
      environment necessary to provide this stable interface also creates an environment that may
      lead to a multitude of skin problems. Amputees regularly deal with skin problems such as
      sweating, eczematous itching and redness, infections, and mechanical problems such as
      blisters and open wounds. Hyperhidrosis is the single most reported problem. Hyperhidrosis is
      reported in up to 70% of amputee and is associated with reduced quality of life, reduced
      prosthetic fit and function, decreased satisfaction with their prosthesis and skin
      irritation. The investigators own published findings reveal that 66% of prosthetic users
      (both veteran and civilian) experienced residual limb sweating that interfered with
      activities of daily living. Sweating was rated as most bothersome in warm weather or with
      vigorous activity, and the efficacy of treatment strategies was generally reported to be
      poor.

      Despite the frequency and impact of hyperhidrosis in amputees, there is a lack of evidence
      based guidelines for evaluating and treating this problem. A number of knowledge gaps exist,
      including no clear standard for assessing the burden of sweating in amputees, and no evidence
      base from which to inform treatment decisions for either simple or more elaborate
      interventions.

      There is no universally accepted standard for assessing the burden and precise location of
      sweating in amputee patients. Among the several subjective scales of hyperhidrosis severity
      in the dermatology literature, the most commonly used and rigorously validated one is the
      Hyperhidrosis Disease Severity Scale (HDSS). The HDSS provides a qualitative measure for the
      severity of the patient's condition based on the extent to which hyperhidrosis affects daily
      activities. The HDSS is simple to administer and scored as follows:

      Hyperhidrosis Disease Severity Scale

      Condition:

      Score

        1. My sweating is never noticeable and never interferes with my daily activities

        2. My sweating is tolerable but sometimes interferes with my daily activities

        3. My sweating is barely tolerable and frequently interferes with my daily activities

        4. My sweating is intolerable and always interferes with my daily activities

      In the general hyperhidrosis patient population (non-amputee), the HDSS exhibits moderate to
      strong correlations with other quality of life and disease impact metrics, as well as with
      gravimetric sweat production. A 1 point improvement on the HDSS correlates with a 50%
      reduction in sweat production, while a 2 point improvement correlates with an 80% reduction
      in sweat production. The investigators survey data shows the HDSS correlates well with
      amputees' perception of the impact of sweating on their prosthesis fit and function, and is
      therefore a valid outcome measure in the amputee population.

      While the HDSS gives a global, patient-reported outcome of the significance of hyperhidrosis
      in the patient's life, it does not inform the treating clinician on the precise location of
      the problem. Dermatologists treating hyperhidrosis of other regions (i.e. axillary, palmar,
      plantar) use the Minor iodine-starch test to identify the area of hyperhidrosis in order to
      guide subsequent treatments. This test consists of an application of iodine, which is allowed
      to dry and then dusted with cornstarch. Sweat will react with the iodine and starch and
      produce a black/purple color. While this test is primarily used to identify the areas of
      hyperhidrosis, a grading scale has been proposed for test interpretation and monitoring
      response to treatments. There is scant literature describing the iodine-starch test in
      amputees and the investigators early experience suggests that it is insufficient to simply
      apply iodine and starch on a residual limb without then donning the patient's prosthesis. It
      appears necessary to recreate the environment that produces the excessive sweating by donning
      the prosthesis and ambulating. It is not known, however, what method is safe and effective,
      without causing harm to the patient's skin and/or prosthetic materials.

      As part of the scope of the research proposed herein, the investigators have done pilot work
      with 9 subjects and 11 amputation sites, utilizing the iodine-starch test under a variety of
      conditions to assess which method is most feasible to allow the patient to use their
      prosthesis in the test. Preliminary results suggest that plastic wrap is adequate to protect
      the prosthesis from significant iodine stain and does not cause new skin irritation, but is
      more often viewed as uncomfortable. It also appears to induce a very rapid and diffuse
      pattern sweating, raising concern for creating too much of a false positive effect. A
      prosthetic sheath appears to protect the liner from dense stain, though some light iodine
      stain has been observed to seep onto the liner in some cases. This method, though, is
      generally viewed as comfortable to the patient, does not cause new skin irritation, and does
      produce a positive test after 10 - 15 minutes of walking in focal areas more consistent with
      the patient's described experience with sweat and sweat location.

      The investigators believe that applying the iodine-starch combination, donning a prosthetic
      sheath, the patient's own prosthesis, followed by a period of ambulation is the best method
      for future studies.

      Beyond the assessment of hyperhidrosis, treatment guidelines for this problem have not been
      rigorously applied to amputees. In the dermatology literature, guidelines recommend using a
      topical antiperspirant such as Aluminum Chloride (AlCl) as first line treatment. For axillary
      hyperhidrosis, treatment success with AlCl (defined as a post treatment HDSS score of 1, has
      varied from 33% to 72% in clinical trials). However, in the amputee population, there are no
      published clinical trials describing the effectiveness or tolerability of a topical
      treatment, and if it is ineffective or intolerable, when to consider another option such as
      botulinum toxin injections, which are generally considered as second line treatment. The
      investigators found through a survey that 50% of respondents had tried either an over the
      counter or prescription strength antiperspirant. Of those respondents having tried such an
      agent, nearly 50% reported them to have no efficacy, and only about 20% reported them to be
      completely or mostly effective. Clearly this data has limitations, due to subject recall
      bias, and is not the product of an intervention study. It does, however, illustrate that a
      majority of amputees may not have satisfactory options to treat this problem.

      There have been a few case reports and/or case series reporting the use of botulinum toxin to
      treat this problem in amputees. While these preliminary reports suggest that botulinum toxin
      is an effective treatment option, they are limited by the fact that the intervention was
      tried on such a small number of patients. Kern et al used botulinum toxin type B (BTX-B) in 9
      patients while Charrow et al. used botulinum toxin type A (BTX-A) in 8 patients. Both
      reported good effectiveness in treating hyperhidrosis but neither utilized a validated method
      to determine effectiveness, nor did the subjects fail a topical treatment prior to botulinum
      toxin treatment.

      Further, there is no published literature describing the best way to localize botulinum toxin
      application for amputee hyperhidrosis. In considering the feasibility of widespread adoption
      of botulinum toxin as a treatment for amputee hyperhidrosis, one of the biggest barriers
      could be the large surface area involved that needs to be treated.

      Dermatologists use the iodine-starch test to identify the hyperhidrotric area that will be
      targeted with the botulinum toxin injection. For palmar, axillary, and plantar hyperhidrosis,
      it is recommended that every patient be assessed with this method. A single case study has
      reported the successful use of the iodine-starch test to help identify hyperhidrotic areas on
      a residual limb. However, it has not been well studied to know if the iodine-starch test can
      be utilized in amputees to identify potential sites for injection, or even if the pattern of
      sweating can be demonstrated to be a focal, not a global, problem. If the iodine-starch test
      can be used successfully in amputees, it could help direct botulinum toxin injections to a
      focused area, rather than an entire residual limb. This could have significant impact on the
      overall tolerability of the procedure and the willingness of both patients and providers to
      implement it in usual clinical care.
    
  