
    
      Despite advancements in various aspects of orthodontic treatment, patient compliance remains
      a critical factor in attaining a successful treatment outcome. More specifically, patient
      compliance in the use of intraoral elastics is an important component of the treatment plan
      of certain patients. Failure to wear elastics as directed will ultimately result in increased
      treatment time, and imperfect alignment of the teeth.

      Persuading adolescent orthodontic patients to wear intraoral elastics consistently is
      difficult in the short appointment times of a typical practice. Studies have shown that
      adolescents respond at a higher level to a more constant form of communication, as well as a
      method more closely associated with their generation. As smartphones have become an everyday
      appliance for most of the general public, mobile applications (apps) have the capability to
      serve as an effective avenue for communication between doctor and patient. Recent studies in
      both dentistry and medicine have reported that active reminders via mobile phone improve
      appointment attendance, adherence to medication schedules, and positive behaviour changes.

      The investigators will utilise the "Calendar" app to communicate via daily reminders with
      patients undergoing orthodontic treatment with fixed appliances and Class II intraoral
      elastics, and they will measure the improvement in the malocclusion. This will allow study of
      whether or not electronic reminders can significantly increase compliance.

      As more apps are developed, this communication method may have the potential to greatly
      impact the way orthodontists and patients interact outside of the office. If effective, these
      apps could become a cornerstone of the compliance efforts of many orthodontic practices. This
      would benefit both the orthodontist and the patient, as it would decrease time and money
      spent for both parties as well as reduce the overall sense of frustration felt during
      extended orthodontic treatment.
    
  