
    
      This pilot trial will determine the feasibility of a multi-center, randomized, parallel group
      definitive trial. Asymptomatic wait-listed patients will be randomized to routine screening
      for coronary artery disease (CAD) (i.e. Myocardial Perfusion Scintigraphy (MPS) or Dobutamine
      Stress Echo (DSE)) as per the current standard of care versus selective screening based on
      symptoms. Patients enrolled in the pilot will be included in the definitive trial analysis.
      The pilot trial will include four Canadian centres. The definitive trial will aim to
      determine if a strategy of selective use of screening tests (i.e. Myocardial Perfusion
      Scintigraphy or Dobutamine Stress Echo) only in the presence of symptoms (i.e. chest pain,
      dyspnea etc) is non-inferior with respect to the composite endpoint of non-fatal MI and
      cardiac death compared to screening all asymptomatic wait-listed patients at regular
      intervals as described in transplant specific guidelines published by the National Kidney
      Foundation.

      Currently there is no strong evidence for or against using routine cardiac screening of
      asymptomatic transplant patients, more evidence based randomized clinical trials are needed.
      This need is further highlighted by a number of factors such as: wait-listed patients are
      increasing in number and medical complexity; longer wait times and changing donor
      characteristics can increase CAD risk; wait-listed patients are at high risk for CAD but are
      commonly asymptomatic; the standard of care is not evidence based and is expensive; the
      current standard may be harmful. The study will determine feasibility of a definitive trial
      through the measures outlined under 'Outcome Measures'.

      End stage renal disease (ESRD) patients wait-listed for kidney transplantation will be
      randomized to undergo selective screening for CAD, in which patients are only screened if
      they develop symptoms suggestive of CAD or the current standard of care that involves regular
      screening for CAD at fixed time intervals based on the presence of risk factors. Patients
      will remain on the pilot trial protocol until death, non-fatal MI, transplantation, permanent
      removal from the waiting list for any reason, or 24 months after enrolment in the pilot
      trial. During wait-listing, follow-up telephone interviews and chart reviews will be
      performed every six months. After transplantation, an in-person follow up visit and chart
      review will occur at the time of discharge from hospital, and a telephone interview and chart
      review will be performed 3 months after transplantation. Patients will be followed for 24
      months from the date of enrolment. Patients who receive a kidney transplant during the study
      will be followed for 27 months.

      For the pilot trial, descriptive analyses are planned. Feasibility will be summarized with
      proportions, rates, means, and medians as appropriate. Comparison of the definitive trial
      outcomes between treatment groups, will not be done at the end of the internal pilot as these
      patients will be included in the definitive trial. Analyses of enrolment rates and consent
      rates will be done after the enrolment phase of the pilot trial in late 2014. An interim
      analysis of protocol adherence is planned in mid 2016 in support of the definitive trial
      funding application in September, 2016.
    
  