
    
      This is a Randomized Control Trial where English speaking patients undergoing and induction
      of labor at the University of Louisville hospital will be randomly assigned to either receive
      video counseling and verbal counseling or standard verbal counseling alone over the course of
      1 year to obtain the desire number of participants. Participants in the video group will also
      receive standard verbal counseling provided by the resident. Data collection will be Survey
      based and with use of a lichert scale. Treatment randomization will be performed using a
      block randomization approach with block sizes of 10 individuals. Random assignments will be
      made and these will be placed in numbered envelopes to be opened by the intern resident after
      patient consent is obtained to participate in the study. Eligible participants will be
      recruited to the study at the time of presentation for their induction of labor. The intern
      resident will offer them a brief introduction to the project including risks/ benefits to
      participation and go over the consent process after they have been roomed in a private labor
      and delivery room. If agreeable to taking part in the study, participants will be given a
      consent form with an overview of the project with instructions to sign the consent form if
      agreeable to participating in the study. The intern resident will verbally consent the
      patient to participate in the study and discuss the study in detail including risks and
      benefits of participation. All conversations between the subject and co-investigators will
      take part in the privacy of the patient's labor and delivery room. There will be a short
      waiting period between the introduction of the study and the patient signing or declining the
      consent form. This will allow the patient to read the official consent form and ask any
      remaining questions. After informed consent is obtained, the consent form will be placed in a
      binder on labor and delivery, to be uploaded into redcap soon thereafter. This binder will be
      placed in a locked cabinet and only the research personnel identified on this IRB proposal
      will have access to this cabinet. Those who are randomized to video counseling will watch the
      counseling video on a portable iPad. This iPad is used for video interpreting on labor and
      delivery and is on wheels, which will allow for video counseling in any labor and delivery
      room at any time. This iPad device will be brought to the room by the intern resident. It has
      already been provided by the Labor and Delivery unit at the University of Louisville
      hospital. Those randomized to watch the video will watch this video immediately after
      obtaining consent to participate in the survey. A member of the research team will not be
      available during the time the patient is viewing the video. It is 10 minutes long. Its
      content includes introduction to labor and delivery residents, attendings, and staff as well
      as induction methods, pain control options, expectations for discharge, and common labor and
      delivery unit protocols including diet and visitors. The video will only be able to viewed by
      private link to YouTube. This link will be accessible on the iPad homescreen. The video link
      is as follows: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lbb6E-4iizI. Paper surveys will then be
      provided to both groups of patients. Surveys will be completed at the exact same time for
      both groups when official hospital consent is obtained by the resident for cesarean section,
      vaginal delivery, and blood transfusion. This traditionally occurs after patients have
      received standard verbal counseling concerning their induction of labor.Those randomized to
      video counseling will complete the exact survey after completion of the induction of labor
      video and at the time of official hospital consent. This will ensure both groups of patients
      are completing the paper survey at the exact same time. Completed surveys and consents will
      be placed in a binder on labor and delivery in a locked cabinet. The difference in mean
      cumulative Lichert scores (primary outcome) between the counseling groups will be assessed
      using the two-sample t-test. Descriptive statistics (sample proportions, mean, standard
      deviation, etc) will be computed for demographic variables, and comparison between
      randomization groups will be carried out by chi-squared, Fisher exact, and two-sample
      t-tests. Linear regression may be used to measure the relationship between demographic
      variables and counseling experience (primary outcome). Transformations or non-parametrics
      tests may be used to account for non-normality in response variables. Differences in
      individual Lichert questions between treatment group may also be run using the t-test or
      non-parametric Mann-Whitney test. An R Statistical Software will be utilized.
    
  