
    
      AIMS AND OBJECTIVES:

        -  To study GH-IGF1 axis in children with CML having short stature following Imatinib
           therapy.

        -  To administer growth hormone therapy to children with CML on Imatinib in remission
           having GH deficiency.

      STUDY DESIGN: It is an interventional, non-randomized study. STUDY GROUP: one NUMBER OF
      PATIENTS: 20

      ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA:

      CML patients on Imatinib therapy for more than 6 months and in remission will be included in
      the study if there is:

        -  Severe short stature (height SDS <-3 SD)

        -  Severe growth deceleration (height velocity SDS <-2 SD over 12 months)

        -  Height <-2 SD and height velocity <-1.0 SD over 12 months

        -  Height <-1.5 SD and height velocity <-1.5 SD over 2 years

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

        -  Patients with coexisting systemic illness (e.g. kidney disease, liver disease, celiac
           disease)

        -  Patients of CML not receiving Imatinib therapy as prescribed. (e.g. poor compliance)

      MATERIALS AND METHODS:

      Once eligibility criteria are confirmed, after having written informed consent, following
      parameters will be assessed:

        -  Chronological age

        -  Height

        -  Height for age

        -  Height SDS

        -  Target height

        -  Body proportion

        -  Weight

        -  Weight for age

      Following investigations will be done in all patients:

        -  Complete blood count with peripheral smear.

        -  Liver function tests

        -  Renal function tests

        -  Calcium, phosphate, ALP, albumin.

        -  Fasting Blood glucose

        -  Thyroid function tests (T4, and TSH)

        -  Serum Cortisol

        -  Serum Prolactin

        -  Serum Follicular stimulating hormone (FSH) and Luteinizing hormone (LH)

        -  Serum Testosterone

        -  Serum Estrogen

        -  Serum IgA anti-tTG antibodies

        -  Serum IGF-1.

        -  Serum IGFBP-3.

        -  X-Ray of left hand and wrist

        -  MRI Brain focussing pituitary hypothalamic region. Two dynamic growth hormone
           provocation,GHRH + Arginine andGlucagon tests will be performed in all patients having
           no other cause for short stature.Minimum gap of one week will be kept between the two
           GHstimulationtests.Priming will be done prior to each GH stimulation test. IGF-1
           generation test will be performed in all patients.Minimum gap of one week will be kept
           betweenGH stimulation and IGF-1 generation test.

      X-ray of left hand and wrist for bone age and sexual maturity rating (SMR) by Tanners scale
      will be performed for all patients. All GH deficient patients with bone age <14 years will be
      treated with GH therapy for one year. 0.3mg/kg/week GH in seven divided doses will be given
      subcutaneously. Serum IGF-1 will be measured 4weekly and GH dose will be titrated till
      S.IGF-1 is in mid-normal range and then after every 3 months.

      Patients will be monitored for any side effects of GH therapy Growth parameters, Serum T4,
      TSH and complete blood count will be assessed after every 3 months.Cytogenetic and molecular
      remission will be assessed before and after completion of GH therapy.
    
  