
    
      Brain injury (BI) can be a devastating experience for many survivors, resulting in chronic
      difficulties in social, emotional, and physical functioning (Landau & Hissett, 2008).
      Emotional and neurobehavioral challenges of those with brain injuries often have a direct
      relationship with their overall rehabilitation outcome. In order to provide patients and
      caregivers greater support and teach adaptive coping strategies, researchers designed and
      studied a coping skills group specifically for brain injury survivors and their caregivers at
      the Rehabilitation Hospital of Indiana (RHI) called the Brain Injury Coping Skills group
      (BICS). BICS is a 12-session (one session per week), manualized, cognitive-behavioral
      treatment group designed to provide support, coping skills, and psychoeducation aimed to
      improve perceived self-efficacy (PSE) and emotional functioning.

      Perceived self-efficacy (PSE) is the belief or confidence in one's ability to deal with the
      challenges related to a specific situation (e.g., brain injury). PSE has been found to be
      strongly linked to social participation, increased positive regard toward the caregiving
      role, and was found to be the greatest contributing factor to predicting life satisfaction.
      Multiple human functions including thought patterns, decisions, motivations, and resiliency
      are regulated by self-efficacy. PSE also predicts whether an individual can adapt
      successfully in stressful situations. Cicerone and Azulay found that the greatest
      contribution to predicting life satisfaction was the person's PSE for managing their
      cognitive challenges.

      Various self-efficacy measures exist. The General Self-Efficacy Scale (GSE) assesses general
      self-efficacy of the general adult population and adolescents over the age of 12.
      Additionally, the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) General
      Self-Efficacy questionnaire that measures an individual's ability to manage various
      situations, problems, and events, focusing on general life events, as well as social
      interactions and emotions.

      Self-efficacy has been linked with more positive and successful outcomes for brain injury
      survivors. While low PSE often leads to feelings of depression, anxiety, and avoidance, high
      self-efficacy often allows points to feelings of more control over one's environment, as well
      as having a more outward focus on a task, rather than dwelling on themselves and their
      problems/difficulties. Benight & Bandura noted that self-efficacy is often a predictor in the
      ability for trauma-survivors to manage their past traumatic experiences. For instance, in
      combat veterans diagnosed with PTSD, the implementation of self-efficacy exercises reduced
      stress and anxiety; therefore, these veterans were better able to manage more stressful
      situations.

      Brain injury survivors and their caregivers face unique challenges after the injury, often
      experiencing difficulties with coping; therefore, it is important that these survivors and
      their caregivers have positive perceived self-efficacy for better treatment outcomes. Seeing
      this as a need, the authors of BICS developed the Brain Injury Self-Efficacy Scale which
      measures perceived self-efficacy in survivors of brain injury and their caregivers. This
      measure targets this specific population, as they face these unique challenges involving the
      brain injury (e.g., coping with their injury, and understanding and explaining their injury).
      The BI Self-Efficacy Scale provided insight to the needs of BI survivors and their caregivers
      involving self-efficacy; however, it is necessary to validate this measure in order for it to
      be evidence-based for other survivors of brain injury.

      The purpose of this study is to validate the Brain Injury Self-Efficacy Scale as a measure of
      self-efficacy in brain injury by comparing it with other measures of self-efficacy, the GSE,
      and PROMIS self-efficacy.
    
  