
    
      Additionally to the desired treatment of positive symptoms, the administration of typical
      neuroleptics can lead to undesired side effects such as increase of negative symptomatic and
      cognitive deficits. The influence of atypical neuroleptics on cognition is still not very
      well studied. Furthermore there is evidence that some cognitive symptoms seen in
      schizophrenia are related to a disturbance in the prefrontal cortex PFC and involve specific
      subtypes of dopamine receptors, namely D1 subtypes, which predominates in this area. It is
      assumed that patients with this spectrum of cognitive deficits have the worse course and
      prognosis. Furthermore these deficits are more therapy resistant to the conventional current
      therapy approaches. There is however some evidence pointing to a positive influence of
      dopamine agonists on these deficits, but the selective effect of dopamine sub-receptors is
      still not well investigated. The aim of the study is to examine whether cognitive deficits in
      higher cognitive functions of the PFC such as working memory, semantic association and
      executive control improves under dopamine agonistic therapy in schizophrenia and whether this
      is related to selective D1 modulation.

      We predict that the modulation of D1 subtype receptors improve performance in each of these
      tasks. Because there is no D1 agonist available for human research we decided to use a design
      comparing a dopamine agonist with mixed D1 and D2 agonistic properties (pergolide) to placebo
      under a stable D2 antagonistic continuous-therapy with atypical antipsychotics. With this
      design the D2-component of pergolide can be antagonized by the atypical antipsychotics and a
      D1 agonistic effect can be suggested, as well as protecting patients against a psychotic
      re-exacerbation. With this study we aim to bring more insight in the therapy of PFC cognitive
      deficits of schizophrenia by helping to elucidate the role of selective agonists on cognition
      in schizophrenic patients. I
    
  