
    
      Heart disease is the world's leading cause of death in most industrial countries and it
      requires drastic changes in the lifestyle of the patient. Research on social support and
      coping with stress has repeatedly shown that being in a supportive spousal relationship has a
      significant effect on the recovery from a heart disease through alterations in mood, as well
      as through health habits. However, there are interpersonal differences in the abilities to
      receive and to provide support. Most of the literature to date has focused either on the
      experiences of the support recipient or on the support provider; much less research has taken
      both partners' characteristics into consideration (Revenson & DeLongis, 2011).

      The current research aims to broaden the understanding of spousal support among couples
      coping with a life threatening illness- Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) versus general
      population of couples. Two studies were designed. Study 1(control group) will focus on
      general population of couples and its goal is examine the contribution of personality traits
      of the couples to their marital satisfaction and well-being. Study 2 (target group) will
      focus on couples coping with a first acute coronary heart disease and its goal is to examine
      the contribution of personality traits of the couples to their marital satisfaction and
      well-being, and to health promoting behaviors (smoking cessation, medication adherence) and
      physical recovery (change in body mass index, change in cholesterol levels) of the ill
      partners.

      The proposed research is a prospective, longitudinal study. The control group will be 100
      couples who are not coping with a life threatening illness. The couples will complete self
      report questionnaires. The target group will be 127 male patients and their partners. The
      couples will be recruited during the patients' first hospitalization for ACS. The
      participants will complete questionnaires during the hospitalization and again six months
      later. Relevant data will be obtained from their medical files.

      This study's findings could inform clinicians whose goal is to foster better patient-spouse
      dynamics in the context of major medical stressors. Helping couples master the challenge of
      providing and receiving support in such trying times may contribute to enhanced levels of
      adherence among patients which, in turn, would lead to improved health and saved lives.
    
  