
    
      This research will be conducted using pre-post quasi experimental design. Subjects consist of
      only intervention group, who are measured before and after the intervention or program
      period. The SLP program (intervention) in Darussalam Islamic Boarding School consists of:

        1. Balanced Nutrition Education and CHLB for the boarding school students and teachers

        2. Provision of lunch

        3. Food processing training, food sanitation hygiene and food safety for food handlers.

      The location of this activity is determined purposively at the Islamic boarding school, in
      the neighborhood of the IPB (Institut Pertanian Bogor) campus with the following basic
      criteria for the school:

        1. Has apparent nutritional problems among the students

        2. It has a kitchen and dining area for its students in need of improvement

        3. Has a strong commitment to cooperate in running the program. This activity will be held
           at the Darussalam Islamic Boarding School located in Laladon Bogor area. There are 450
           students consisting of both male and female students. This Islamic boarding school has a
           kitchen that is used to process and cook food for the students. The eating area is
           divided into two areas, in the form of a shared dining room for the male students and a
           terrace for the female students. The Islamic boarding school also has a garden area that
           is used for gardening activities for the students but it has not been managed in a
           sustainable manner.

      The overall project period is 18 months (2017/09-2019/03), which includes design, baseline,
      midline and endline data collection (3 times), implementation and reporting activities. The
      implementation of the school lunch program will be for 1 academic year (8 active months after
      the reduction of holidays and examination months), starting immediately after Institutional
      Review Board (IRB) approval of both Bogor University and Ajinomoto co. inc.until the end of
      March 2019. Lunch will be served 7 days per week with the total of 220 days The provision of
      lunch is designed to meet 30% of the daily nutritional requirements of students and contains
      635-776 Kcal of energy with 18-22 grams of protein. The lunch menu is served in the form of a
      full menu consisting of staple food, animal products, plant products, vegetables and fruit by
      utilizing local food. The menu cycle used is a set menu cycle of 10+1 day cycle Hemoglobin
      level and dietary intake data was collected for sub sample of students, meeting the sample
      size calculation, which was 150 subjects. Data will be collected at baseline (before the
      intervention), midline, and endline.
    
  