
    
      Smith-Lemli-Opitz Syndrome (SLOS) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by a metabolic
      error in the final step of cholesterol biosynthesis, leading to cholesterol deficiency and
      accumulation of the cholesterol precursor, 7-dehydrocholesterol.Patients with SLOS display
      complex medical problems including growth failure, intellectual disability, behavioral
      disorders, progressive retinal dystrophy, hearing loss and photosensitivity. Dr Elias was one
      of the original geneticists who discovered the cause of this disorder in 1994, and ever since
      has been treating SLOS patients with cholesterol supplementation. In 2008, a second
      medication called AquADEKS, a mixture of vitamins and other compounds with antioxidant
      properties was added to the treatment regimen. AquADEKS has since been replaced with a
      comparable medication named DEKAS plus.The purpose of the DEKAS plus is to allow treatment
      with antioxidant medications in an effort to prevent retinal degeneration, hearing and skin
      problems associated with SLOS.

      This protocol has been approved by the Colorado Multiple Institutional Review Board and
      supported by the Clinical Translational Research Center (CTRC) since 2001. The following
      updated information is available about the protocol:

      1. recent research has revealed that oxysterols are toxic compounds made from the cholesterol
      precursor, 7-dehydrocholesterol. These oxysterol compounds are severely neurotoxic and toxic
      to the retina, and treatment with antioxidants may help lower their levels, resulting in
      slowing of retinal deterioration. Testing of oxysterol levels in patients with SLOS is now
      ongoing, in collaboration with a laboratory at University of Washington in Seattle (Dr Libin
      Xu). It is hoped that testing of oxysterol levels in blood may help provide more updated info
      to help guide treatment.
    
  