
    
      This is an interventional, open label, randomized controlled study carrying in multi-centers.
      Eighty opioid-naive patients with moderate to severe cancer pain (≥ 4) in outpatient
      department (OPD), who agreed and signed informed consent will be randomly assigned in a 1:1
      ratio to receive CR + IR oxycodone or conventional IR oxycodone groups. The study is to
      compare the titration efficacy and safety of CR with IR oxycodone (experimental group)
      comparing IR oxycodone (control group) in cancer patients suffered with moderate to severe
      pain. The study last 14 days. Patients begin the study by the first day visit of the clinic
      and received the study medication (Baseline). Following visits on cycle 1 (day 3 or 4 depends
      on the available clinics), cycle 2 (day 7±1), cycle 3 (day 10±1), and cycle 4 (day 14±1). In
      the experimental group, 10 mg CR oxycodone tablet will be selected as background dose of
      titration, and patients will be administered once every 12 hrs. Meanwhile, the titration with
      IR oxycodone will be added according to the pain intensity, e.g. if patient receiving 6
      tablets of 10 mg CR oxycodone (giving in Q12H frequency for 3 days), 12 capsules of 5mg IR
      oxycodone will be dispensed for managing acute pain (rescue use) for the first cycle. In the
      control group, the conventional titration with IR oxycodone will be conducted according to
      pain intensity, using 5 mg as initial dose, e.g. 12 capsules of 5mg IR oxycodone (giving in
      Q6H frequency for 3 days), 12 capsules of 5mg IR oxycodone will be dispensed for rescue use
      upon to the first cycle. Patient will record their pain score (4 times in Q6H frequency and
      before taking the drug), 24hr total dose (total tablets/capsule number), number of
      breakthrough pain and PRN time and dosage used onto the patient diary. The background dose of
      each patient will be titrated after cycle 1 by investigators. Titration cycles will be
      recorded and evaluated pain assessments on cycle 2 (day 7±1), cycle 3 (Day 10±1), cycle 4
      (day 14±1). During study, the study nurse will follow patient's daily records, drug use
      condition every second day by telephone or other contact methods to keep close monitor of
      patient's condition. The telephone contact for cycle 1 and cycle 3 is acceptable for this
      study. If the telephone contact is conducted for patient, the 1-week quantities of oxycodone
      should be dispensed to patient.

      The safety for individual patient will be followed during study up to end of treatment (EOT)
      or early termination (ET). All adverse events (AE(s)) and serious adverse events (SAE(s))
      occurred during the study period will be followed until resolution or the event is considered
      stable.
    
  