
    
      Kidney transplantation is widely considered to be the treatment of choice for children with
      End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD). Improvements in surgical techniques, donor selection, and
      immunosuppression practices, as well as the enhanced experience of specialized pediatric
      transplant teams, have all led to marked improvements in patient and kidney graft survival in
      infants and young children ages 1 to 10. However, young children now have more infections
      following transplant previously. Also, improved graft survival is not observed in pediatric
      renal transplant recipients 11 to 17 years of age. Some studies do indicate that the poor
      long term outcome of patient and kidney survival observed in this age group may be caused by
      noncompliance with immunosuppressive medications. Therefore, protocols that minimize the use
      of immunosuppressive medications while retaining kidney function are necessary for improving
      graft and patient survival in children. This study will evaluate the safety of a regimen
      containing alemtuzumab after kidney transplantation, followed by steroid avoidance and
      calcineurin inhibitor withdrawal in pediatric renal transplant recipients 1 to 20 years of
      age.

      The accrual period is scheduled for 18 months. The study follow-up period will last 24
      months. All participants enrolled will undergo this treatment schedule: 1.) All participants
      will receive intravenous alemtuzumab one day before transplantation and 1 day after
      transplantation. 2.) Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) will be administered orally no later than 2
      days after transplantation. 3.) Participants will begin to take oral tacrolimus twice a day 1
      to 3 days after transplantation until Weeks 8 through 12 when 4.) Sirolimus will be
      initiated. 5.) Sirolimus and MMF will be taken orally until Month 24.

      Blood collection will occur at baseline, 1 day before transplant, at Days 1 and 3, at Weeks
      2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and at Months 3 through 24. Scheduled kidney (renal) biopsies will be
      performed at transplant, during Weeks 8 through 12, immediately before conversion to
      sirolimus, and at Months 6 and 24.
    
  