
    
      Following approval of the ethical committee patients who underwent LSG between January 2016
      and June 2018 are retrospectively analyzed. Patients with BMI > 40 were included. Patients
      with a history of previous bariatric surgery and patients who did not attend regular
      follow-up visits (first, 6th and 12 months) are excluded.

      The patients were grouped according to the distance of gastric division as AP group (6cm from
      pylorus) and AR group (2cm prom pylorus). The first 68 patients underwent AP, and the
      following 43 patients underwent AR.

      Patient characteristics and demographic data, including age, gender, BMI, co-morbid diseases
      (hypertension (HT), Type II diabetes, dyslipidemia), biochemical parameters (glucose, HbA1c,
      C-peptide, insulin, , cholesterol, triglyceride, HDL, LDL, and VLDL was extracted from a
      prospectively prepared patient's chart. The 30-day outcomes including postoperative morbidity
      and mortality are taken from patient's folder.

      Weight loss alteration at the end of first, 6th and 12 months are calculated as %EWL and
      %TBWL. The %EWL is calculated as [(preoperative weight - follow up weight) / (preoperative
      weight-ideal weight)] x100, with ideal weight based on a BMI of 25kg/m2. The total body
      weight loss percentile (%TBWL) is calculated as [(preoperative weight - follow up weight) /
      (preoperative body weight)] x100.

      Resolution of co-morbidities was defined as reduction of co-morbidity related symptom and
      signs with change of specific biochemical blood tests to normal ranges.

      The Clavien-Dindo classification scale was used to define the severity of complications:
      Grade I; no requirement of specific intervention, Grade II; antibiotic treatment, total
      parenteral nutrition, and/or blood transfusion is mandatory, Grade III; invasive
      interventions such as endoscopy, percutaneous drainage, or surgery is needed, Grade IV;
      intensive care management for organ dysfunction, and Grade V; as death, respectively [10].

      2.1. Surgical Technique The LSGs were performed by two surgeons. Patients were placed in
      supine position. Antibiotic prophylaxis was started before anesthesia induction by using 2g
      first-generation cephalosporin for patients <120kg, and 3g for patients ≥120 kg. The liver is
      retracted by using Nathanson Hook. The greater omentum is carefully dissected from the
      stomach at a distance of 2cm for the patients with AR, and 6cm for patients with AP. The
      omental dissection was performed using 5mm-abdominal ligature (Ligasure®, Metronic-Covidien,
      Minneapolis, USA), from the antrum towards the angle of His. Transection from the omentum is
      continued until the left crus has been identified. All sleeves are transected using 36 French
      orogastric tubes. Green cartridges (4.8 mm staple height) are used for the first firing and
      blue cartridges (3.5 mm) for the rest. Neither oversewing sutures to the staple line nor
      staple line reinforcement products are used. Homeostatic metallic clips are used for bleeding
      at the staple line. If bleeding persists and cannot be controlled, an interrupted suture is
      performed at the point of bleeding. A leak test with methylene blue is performed to the
      gastric remnant to assess the integrity of the suture line. The gastric specimen is removed
      through the 12mm trocar. The procedure is completed by placing an abdominal drain just next
      to the staple line.
    
  