
    
      The long-term goal of this project is to support rural schools in implementing practices that
      can improve student safety and social-emotional outcomes, through the use of Schoolwide
      Positive Behavior Intervention Supports (SWPBIS). Rural schools experience challenges in
      implementing systems-changes, and the Idaho Rural Implementation Model (I-RIM) is an approach
      specifically designed to improve SWPBIS implementation in rural schools through strategies
      such as capacity-building, regional coordination, online learning modules, and technical
      assistance. These approaches are all designed to meet the unique challenges and strengths of
      schools in rural settings.

      The study uses a cluster randomized design to allocate 40 schools to one of two conditions:
      control or intervention. Schools in the control condition will receive basic SWPBIS training.
      Schools in the intervention condition will receive the basic SWPBIS training plus additional
      I-RIM supports. This trial is designed to address several aims:

      Aim 1: To test the impact of the I-RIM intervention on student-level outcomes, including
      behavioral outcomes, academic test scores, and perceived safety/climate.

      Aim 2. To examine whether changes in student outcomes are mediated by school-level
      improvements in the speed and fidelity with which SWPBIS is implemented.

      Aim 3. To identify school-level factors that are associated with SWPBIS implementation
      (moderators of intervention effectiveness).

      At all schools, baseline data collection will begin in early 2019. The intervention will
      begin in the spring of 2019 with selected elements of the I-RIM intervention (regional
      meetings, and a coaching institute) for schools in the intervention condition. All schools
      will begin SWPBIS implementation in the 2019-20 school year, which will continue through the
      2020-2021 school year. Data collection points will be identical for schools in both
      conditions. Primary student outcome measures include data that are already gathered by
      schools, including: behavioral outcomes including office disciplinary referrals, suspensions,
      and expulsions; academic test scores; and perceived climate.
    
  