
    
      Many researchers have studied the effects of parental alcohol and drug use on child outcomes.
      These studies conclude that parental substance use has the potential to negatively impact
      children's psychosocial development by depriving them of adequate care and supervision,
      impeding their socioemotional and cognitive development and/or influencing them to become
      substance users as well. Considering a bidirectional, systemic model for understanding the
      development, maintenance and recovery of substance use problems, it follows that the child
      impacts parents' behaviors as well. Family therapy has consistently shown that involvement of
      family members in the treatment of substance users is associated with higher levels of
      engagement and retention in treatment. Many studies report pre to post treatment reductions
      in substance use and related problems among those receiving couples and family therapy. While
      randomized clinical trials of family therapy have involved adult identified patients (IPs) in
      couples therapy and adolescent IPs in family therapy, this study will evaluate a family
      systems intervention involving an 8-16 year old child in the treatment plan of the adult
      treatment seeker. In the current study, alcohol and drug treatment seeking adult mothers of a
      child (8-16) living in the home will be engaged. All clients will be randomized to (1)
      ecologically-based family therapy (EBFT) in the home + treatment as usual (TAU), (2) EBFT at
      the office + TAU, or (3) TAU + attention control. The relative efficacy of this approach will
      be evaluated at 3, 6, 12, and 18 months post-baseline. Proposed change mechanisms (mediators)
      for family therapy will be evaluated. Differential treatment response as a function of
      gender, family history of alcohol or drug use, and primary alcohol v. drug abuse (moderators)
      will be investigated to better understand the intervention. The study will also examine how,
      if at all, treatment engagement and retention impact parent and adolescent response to
      treatment. Information gained through this project will help evaluate the utility of
      including adolescent family members in the treatment plan of their adult parents. Finally,
      the study will include an economic evaluation component to estimate the economic cost of each
      intervention and determine which condition is most cost effective. Intervention that includes
      a focus on parent-child interaction has the potential to enhance substance use reductions,
      reduce parent relapse, and improve family and emotional health among adults. Involvement of
      the child offers the opportunity to increase the potential protection of a positive
      parent-child relationship which is shown to be associated with positive developmental
      outcomes.
    
  