
    
      BACKGROUND:

      In 1988, research suggested that high intake of saturated fat increased the risk of
      cardiovascular disease and cancer, and feeding polyunsaturated fatty acids decreased plasma
      lipid values. However, understanding of the roles of specific types of fatty acids in
      nutrition and health remained limited. This was primarily because the technology for analysis
      of fatty acid compositions in human tissue had only recently achieved the required
      specificities and secondarily because application of the technology on the large scale of an
      epidemiologic study had to await recent advances in automation of the chromatography. Also
      intervention studies, aimed at reducing dietary intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids for
      long periods of time, were either impractical or unethical. The study was conducted to
      confirm preliminary results suggesting greater prevalence of low levels of essential fatty
      acids, particularly w3 fatty acids, among people with cardiovascular disease and
      hypertension, and to provide further confirmatory evidence to results that hyperlipidemia was
      inversely associated with essential fatty acid levels.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Subjects were randomly selected from existing lists so that six men and six women were
      selected from each age-year group from 30 to 69 broken down as follows: ages 30-34; 35-39;
      40-44; 45-49; 50-54; 55-59; 60-64; 65-69. Plasma samples for these subjects were retrieved
      from storage in batches and analyzed. The prevailing distribution of fatty acids in the
      general population was calculated. The interrelationships were studied among levels of fatty
      acids, particularly w3 and w6 fatty acids, with lipoproteins and apolipoproteins.
      Relationships among fatty acid compositions of different lipid fractions were explored and
      their relationship with various cardiovascular risk factors were evaluated. Over 60 fatty
      acids were quantitated using capillary gas-liquid chromatography. Tables of reference values
      were produced for the general population and for selected subpopulations. Multivariate
      analysis was used to correlate fatty acids and other biochemical markers.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  