
    
      Twenty-four (24) caregivers, the identified secondary caregiver, and a care recipient will be
      randomly assigned into the active intervention or a control condition: 16 triads in the
      intervention condition, 8 in the control.

      For the primary caregivers: Primary caregivers will attend six weekly intervention sessions
      lasting 2 hours each. Based on previous Randomized Controlled Trials (RCTs) of a successful
      behavior change (i.e., smoking cessation) intervention in Vietnamese using only 2-3 sessions,
      six sessions were chosen as a middle ground. In the first 45 minutes, primary caregivers and
      a secondary caregiver (who the primary caregiver identifies) will participate in family
      psycho-education delivered by a Master's level trained, bilingual facilitator. Each group
      will consist of no more than four dyads (4 different groups totaling 16 dyads). The
      curriculum will be adapted based on what the Alzheimer's Association and REACH II have
      successfully used as well as what the University of California (UC) Davis Alzheimer's Disease
      Center (ADC) has implemented. The sessions will cover the following: a clinical model of
      dementia and helping family members come to a shared understanding of the nature and cause of
      dementia. The innovative component is a discussion of cultural values typical of individuals
      in Vietnamese and American cultures and how this can influence perceptions of dementia and
      caregiving strategies. This is important because it will help family members who disagree on
      the etiology of dementia and strategies for care to empathize with each other's perspective.
      Subsequent sessions will help caregivers learn skills and develop self-efficacy in dealing
      with patient symptoms, accessing resources (e.g., in-home support), and gaining family
      support in culturally-congruent ways. Facilitating the use of formal and informal support is
      a critical piece as Vietnamese caregivers may be looking for basic and concrete assistance
      rather than help in coping with caregiving.

      The last part of the intervention is mindful Tai Chi that was chosen for several reasons. In
      a recent review and meta-analysis, Tai Chi showed beneficial effects on depression, anxiety,
      stress management, and self-efficacy. Second, Tai Chi is rooted in East Asian traditions and
      philosophies that promote balance and healing of the mind and body, thus addressing holistic
      beliefs Vietnamese have about wellness. An RCT of Tai Chi recently was successfully completed
      in Vietnam, demonstrating its growing acceptance in the Vietnamese population. The protocol
      will be adapted to meet caregivers' needs and highlight meditation that involves accepting
      stressful circumstances, thus capitalizing on emotion regulation strategies.

      For the care recipients: Care recipients will receive the Montreal Cognitive Assessment
      (MoCA) measure to assess their mental status at baseline. The purpose of the Quality of Life
      - Alzheimer's Disease (QoL-AD) measure is to assess the caregiver intervention affects the
      care recipient's quality of life. The total time to complete these questionnaires is about 30
      minutes per session.

      Participants not randomized to the active intervention will receive educational
      materials/pamphlets on dementia and occasional phone-calls by research assistants to maintain
      contact, as is the standard of care in most caregiver intervention studies. Including a
      control condition will allow for mirroring of the actual larger trial as closely as possible,
      and also ascertain the feasibility of randomization.
    
  