
    
      The investigators will perform a small prospective non-randomized interventional pilot study
      to assess feasibility of a future full scale RCT to test the hypotheses. Interventional study
      subjects will be compared to controls enrolled simultaneously during the study period who
      meet the inclusion criteria and do not have documentation of one of the exclusion criteria.
      The investigators will enroll subjects 2 controls to 1 intervention to ensure the ability to
      select controls as similar to the intervention population as possible. The study is powered
      for an alpha of 0.9 and an effect size (standardized difference) of 0.2. The total subjects
      needed to enroll is 36 with 18 subjects in each arm of the study. However, in an attempt to
      obtain controls as closely matched to our intervention group as possible 36 controls will be
      enrolled.

      A. Subject Selection

      Intervention subjects will be enrolled as a convenience sample when physicians participating
      in the study are available in the ED. Controls will be enrolled when no study participating
      physicians are available in the ED. Potential subjects will be selected for enrollment by
      research team members directly from the trauma bay or from the tracking board when they are
      identified as having a qualifying fracture. They will be screened for exclusion and inclusion
      criteria by the research assistants. The goal will be to enroll patients within 2 hours of
      arrival in the ED.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  patients 18 years of age or older

        -  presentation to the emergency department with isolated fractures of the hip or proximal
           femur, mid or distal humerus, radius, or ulna

        -  poly-trauma patients with one of the previously listed fractures who do not meet
           exclusion criteria

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  Allergy to upivacaine/ropivicaine or other amide anesthetics

        -  evidence of compartment syndrome on exam by physician

        -  infection over injection site

        -  previously documented opioid abuse or dependence in the last year as documented in the
           EMR or self-reported by the patient

        -  current documented opioid prescription in the EMR

        -  patient is intubated or unable to provide consent

        -  poly-trauma patients with abdominal, thoracic or neurologic injury requiring operative
           intervention at the time of presentation to the ED

           3a. Consent: If the patient qualifies for study inclusion a research assistant will
           obtain patient written consent to: receive a nerve block placed by a trained physician
           participating in the study, allow for access of their medical record for purposes of
           data collection for the study and collect patient contact information for follow up
           communication related to the study after discharge. The patient will be informed that
           should they complete all the follow up information as part of this study they will
           receive a monetary incentive for participation in person at their final follow up, 30
           days after the nerve block.

      After patients are consented either a supraclavicular brachial plexus block or fascia iliaca
      nerve block (determined by site of injury) will be performed by an ultrasound trained faculty
      member, ultrasound fellow or resident who has undergone specific training to perform the
      blocks included in this study. The research team will be given a list of physicians qualified
      to perform the selected blocks for this study.

      B. Interventions

      Prior to administering a nerve block to an enrolled patient a complete neurovascular exam
      will be performed and documented on a paper form that will be kept in the patient's chart for
      review by orthopedic surgery and/or trauma surgery if needed while the patient is admitted.
      Any questionable exam findings will be discussed in conjunction with orthopedic surgery
      and/or trauma surgery prior to block administration.

        1. b. Supraclavicular block Investigators will follow the techniques outlined by Gamo et al
           and NYSORA (New York School of Regional Anesthesia) for placement of supraclavicular
           blocks [9,21]. Patients will be placed in the supine position on a stretcher, with their
           arms by their sides and head rotated to the side opposite to that of their injury, at an
           angle of 45° from the midline. There will be continuous cardiac and pulse oximetry
           monitoring throughout the procedure. Towels may be placed under the shoulder on the side
           of the injection to improve neck exposure for block placement. The neck will be prepped
           with Chlorhexidine antiseptic and sterile technique will be utilized during block
           placement. Blocks will be performed under ultrasound guidance using a high frequency
           linear probe on a Zonare machine with a sterile probe cover. The ultrasound probe will
           be positioned behind the clavicle in the supraclavicular fossa and pointed
           inferior-medially. The subclavian artery will be identified in the short axis by its
           rounded shape and pulsatility. The brachial plexus in this location will be identified
           by its proximity to the subclavian artery as it typically lies superficial and
           posterior-lateral to this vessel. Once the plexus is identified a clip of the plexus
           will be saved and uploaded to QPath for documentation. A local skin wheal of 0.5%
           bupivacaine will be made with a 27-guage needle 2 cm lateral to the US probe at the site
           of entry for the nerve block. An 'in-plane' technique will be used for visualizing the
           needle for block placement. A 20 or 22-gauge non-cutting needle will be introduced from
           lateral to medial and placed in-line with and parallel to the probe. The needle will
           inserted deep between the subclavian artery and the first rib, inferior to the brachial
           plexus; subsequently, 2 ml to 3 ml of 0.5% Bupivacaine will be injected very carefully
           to avoid accidental intravascular injection. The needle will be redirected from deep to
           intermediate and superficial levels in order to allow maximum spread of local anesthetic
           around the nerve bundle. By the end of the procedure, a total of 20 ml to 25 ml of 0.5%
           bupivacaine local anesthetic will be injected. A second clip will be saved on the Zonare
           and uploaded to QPath after completing the block to demonstrate the area of anesthetic
           introduced. Following block application patient will receive care for their injury as
           determined by their EM physician while in the ED and/or their admitting physician if
           admitted to the hospital.

        2. b. Fascia Iliaca block Investigators will follow the techniques outlined by Beaudoin et
           al and NYSORA for placement of Fascia Iliaca blocks [13, 22]. There will be continuous
           cardiac and pulse oximetry monitoring throughout the procedure. Patient will be
           positioned supine on a stretcher in slight trendelenberg. Blocks will be performed under
           ultrasound guidance using a high frequency linear probe on a Zonare machine with a
           sterile probe cover. The inguinal region on the corresponding side of injury will be
           prepped with Chlorhexidine antiseptic and sterile technique will be utilized during
           block placement. The US probe will be placed 1 cm distal to the inguinal ligament on the
           side of the injured lower extremity to identify the femoral vessels and the nerve in
           cross section. The nerve will be identified as an isolated hyperechoic structure
           approximately 1 cm lateral to the pulsatile femoral artery. A clip of the identified
           nerve will be saved and uploaded to QPath for documentation. A local skin wheal of 0.5%
           bupivacaine will be made with a 27-guage needle 2 cm lateral to the US probe at the site
           of entry for the nerve block. At the skin wheal site, a 20 or 22-gauge noncutting spinal
           needle will be introduced at a 45° angle in-plane to the US probe and 20-25 mL of 0.5%
           bupivacaine will injected along the nerve sheath. The needle will be directly visualized
           throughout the procedure to ensure there is no vascular puncture and that spread of 0.5%
           Bupivacaine is administered in the correct fascial plane. A second clip will be saved on
           the Zonare and uploaded to QPath after completing the block to demonstrate the area of
           anesthetic introduced. Following block application patient will receive care for their
           injury as determined by their EM physician while in the ED and/or their admitting
           physician if admitted to the hospital.

        3. b. Procedure Risks The possible risks associated with placement of nerve blocks while
           low in incidence, include possible risk of injury to vascular or nerve structures or
           accidental intravascular deposition of anesthetic [8,9,13,21,22]. Additional risk with
           the supraclavicular block includes a slight chance for pneumothorax. By placing these
           nerve blocks with ultrasound guidance it significantly reduces the risk of the
           aforementioned complications as the needle tip location is constantly visualized on
           screen [8,21,22]. This including decreasing the risk for pneumothorax with the
           supraclavicular block as the lung pleura and needle tip can be continuously visualized
           by ultrasound and thus help avoid accidental puncture [8,9,21]. Additionally,
           investigators will utilize non-cutting spinal needles for this study as this measure has
           been noted in previous nerve block studies to reduce the risk of accidental venous or
           arterial puncture and lessens the chance of injury to the epineurium of nerve bundles
           [9,13,21,22]. There is always the risk of allergy to bupivacaine though this is rare.
           Investigators will attempt to avoid allergic reactions by patients undergoing blocks by
           screening for allergy to amide anesthetics (the family of drugs that Bupivacaine belongs
           to) at time of enrollment.

      C. Subject Follow Up

        1. c. First 24hrs All study patients will have a reported pain score assessed using a
           validated pain score tool (VAS) by the research team once prior to leaving the ED. A
           research assistant will obtain a patient reported pain score at 24hrs after block
           application. While patient is admitted their utilized opioid pain medications will be
           tracked in the EMR and their daily MME usage will be calculated and recorded. The
           investigators will evaluate patient opioid usage by calculating Morphine Milligram
           Equivalents using CMS guidelines for conversion.

        2. c. Follow up at 1 week At 7 days after block placement patients will be contacted by
           phone by the research team or in person if they are still hospitalized. Assistants will
           ask patients to report a pain score for their injury, any new injuries requiring opioid
           pain medication since discharge, and current opioid usage via prescribed narcotics or
           illicit drug use. The patient will be asked to report a pill count of their current
           opioid prescription (if any). Pharmacy reported prescriptions will be pulled for each
           patient at 7 days after initial block placement using the "External Rx History" tab
           under power orders in the EMR. The investigators will evaluate patient opioid usage by
           calculating Morphine Milligram Equivalents using CMS guidelines for conversion. At that
           time subjects who received a nerve will also be asked questions regarding their
           satisfaction with their pain control and care after receiving the nerve blocks. Subjects
           who did not receive a nerve block will be asked the same questions about satisfaction
           with pain control and will be asked about satisfaction with their care. All subjects
           will be asked if they have scheduled any doctor's appointments or presented to an urgent
           care or emergency department for the sole purpose of obtaining care for pain control for
           their injury.

        3. c. Final follow up at 30 days At 30 days after block placement patients will be
           contacted by phone for a final survey by the research team. If subjects are still
           hospitalized they will be assessed by a research assistant in the hospital. Assistants
           will ask patients to report a pain score for their injury, any new injuries requiring
           opioid pain medication since discharge, and current opioid usage via prescribed
           narcotics or illicit drug use. The patient will be asked to report a pill count of their
           current opioid prescription (if any). Pharmacy reported prescriptions will be pulled for
           each patient at 30 days after initial block placement using the "External Rx History"
           tab under power orders in the EMR. Investigators will evaluate patient opioid usage by
           calculating Morphine Milligram Equivalents using CMS guidelines for conversion. At that
           time subjects who received a nerve will also be asked questions regarding their
           satisfaction with their pain control and care after receiving the nerve blocks. Subjects
           who did not receive a nerve block will be asked the same questions about satisfaction
           with pain control and will be asked about satisfaction with their care. All subjects
           will be asked if they have scheduled any doctor's appointments or presented to an urgent
           care or emergency department for the sole purpose of obtaining care for pain control for
           their injury. At the time of this final follow up participating patients will receive an
           incentive gift card for participation. Transportation to this final follow up visit will
           be arranged and paid for by the research department.

      D. Data Collection and Interpretation

      Data on each subject will be collected by research assistants and stored in a secure,
      de-identified REDCap database/spreadsheet. Data points collected will include: age, sex,
      fracture type, history of opioid abuse or opioid prescription, history if IV drug use, type
      of nerve block administered, and location of block placement. At follow up points data will
      be collected on patient reported pain scores using the VAS scoring system. Self reported
      opioid use, pill counts and reported healthcare visits for pain from initial injury will be
      recorded and stored. Data will be collected at follow ups on patient satisfaction using
      surveys that have Likert scaled questions. Data will be collected directly from the EMR at
      previously outlined points documenting each subjects opioid prescriptions and opioid use.

      A statistician from the Wayne State Research Department will be utilized for data
      interpretation after collection of data from subjects.

      E. Study Timeline

      This pilot study will be conducted over a span of 12 months. The initial 6 weeks will be
      utilized providing study training to the participating research assistants. This time will
      also be spent providing block training, skills assessments and teaching to participating
      physicians. The following 8 months will be spent enrolling subjects and collecting data. The
      remaining 2 months and 2 weeks will be used for data interpretation and creation of a
      manuscript for submission detailing findings from this study.
    
  