
    
      One or two among a thousand new-born will require hearing device or cochlear implantation
      before the age of 4 years to correct a hearing loss. Without any appropriate hearing
      stimulation, some brain area, including temporal voice area (TVA), will remodel. But this
      remodeling process is a deleterious phenomenon in case of future cochlear implantation.
      Therefore it seems to be crucial to better understand the impact of hearing loss on
      neurologic development of TVA in infant.

      Main aim and outcome:

      Main aim of the research is to compare cortical activation in the TVA at 24 months of age
      (+/- 1 month), by means of the measure of hemoglobin and/or desoxyhemoglobin concentration in
      the TVA during listening of human voice sound compared to non-voice sound (environmental
      sounds) (fNIRS method):

        -  in normally hearing infants

        -  in profound congenital deaf infants who received a standard auditory device before the
           age of 10 months and who were implanted between 12 and 18 months of age.

      Comparison of the results in these two groups at 24 months +/- 1 month will allow to evaluate
      the impact of hearing loss and of its rehabilitation by means of standard hearing device and
      then by cochlear implant on neurologic development of the TVA in infant.

      Main outcome is the recording of a difference in the measure of hemoglobin and/or
      desoxyhemoglobin concentration during listening of human voice sounds compared to
      environmental sounds in the TVA, in both groups of infants at 24 months old (+/- 1 month). A
      difference in localization of activations in the "deaf" group would suggest a modification of
      the neuro-development of the TVA due to the hearing loss. On the contrary, a similar
      localization of activated areas would suggest a "picking up" of the neuro-development of TVA
      due to the correction of hearing loss by means of an auditory device.

      Secondary aims and outcomes

      Compare cortical activation in the TVA at 12 months of age (+/- 1 month) by means of the
      measure of hemoglobin and/or desoxyhemoglobin concentration in the TVA during listening of
      human voice sounds compared to environmental sounds:

        -  in normally hearing infants

        -  in profound congenital deaf infants who received a standard auditory device before the
           age of 10 months and who were implanted between 12 and 18 months of age.

      Secondary outcome is the recording of a difference in the measure of hemoglobin and / or
      desoxyhemoglobin concentration in the TVA during listening of human voice sounds compared to
      environmental sounds in both groups of infants at 12 months of age (+/- 1 month).

      Comparison of the results in these two groups at 12 months +/- 1 month will allow to evaluate
      the impact of hearing loss and of its rehabilitation by means of standard hearing device and
      then by cochlear implant on neurologic development of the TVA in infant.

      Comparison of results obtained at 12 months (+/- 1 month) and 24 months (+/- 1 month) of age
      in both groups will allow the study of neurological development of TVA in normally hearing
      infants and in deaf infants wearing an auditory device for a period of one year.

      Study association between development of oral communication, measured by means of
      questionnaire of evaluation of communication development and of comprehension of oral
      language in infant, and activation of TVA at 24 months of age by means of fNIRS.
    
  