
    
      SAMPLE SIZE ESTIMATION:

      Power analysis was performed with the SIMR package in R which estimates power for generalized
      linear mixed models using Monte Carlo simulations. The main analysis will compare the
      evolution through time of the primary outcome variable between the two within-subject
      conditions placebo and active intervention. Power was estimated as a function of the number
      of patients who complete the entire study protocol and as a function of the number of
      assessment moments per patient. In addition, the power analysis was run under the assumption
      that the measurement error (residual variance) would be equal to 0.20 SDs. The latter implies
      that the outcome variable must have a reliability of at least .80. The power analysis
      revealed that 8 patients need to complete the entire study protocol (per-protocol sample
      size) - when the study protocol involves a 1-day in-between assessment schedule - to detect a
      moderate effect size (SD = 0.5) with a type I error rate of 1% and a power of 80%. Thus, for
      each counterbalancing group a minimum of 4 patients is needed. Assuming that 50% of all
      patients allocated to a counterbalancing group drop-out at some time point during the study,
      a total of 16 patients will be recruited to obtain a large enough per-protocol sample size.

      MISSING DATA HANDLING:

      Missing data can occur when patients do not take part in one or more visits throughout the
      study protocol (non-monotonous missing data) or when patients drop-out from the study and
      there is no data available of a patient after drop-out (monotonous missing data). The
      frequency of occurrence of these two types of missing data will be reported. If inconsistent
      data occurs on an individual level this will not be considered to be missing data.
      Out-of-range results for most behavioral outcomes are not likely to occur because
      computerized assessment tasks guarantee accurate data acquisition. For the behavioral
      observation scale the inter-rater reliability will be evaluated as a quality check. If the
      inter-rater reliability across all assessments made in the context of the study is lower than
      .70 this measure will be reported as insufficiently reliable to be used as a meaningful
      outcome variable. Only eye tracking data that was sufficiently accurately measured will be
      considered to be used as an outcome measure. Meaning that, if eye tracker calibration is not
      good to excellent according to the software delivered with the eye tracker after 5 repeated
      calibrations the eye tracking data for that assessment will be considered as missing data.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

        1. MAIN ANALYSIS: The data will be analyzed using Bayesian mixed models in R. Mixed models
           are the recommended approach to combine data of single cases and are increasingly
           acknowledged as a more powerful data analysis approach for clinical trials compared to
           classic ANCOVAs since mixed models can accurately model time-unstructured data. A
           Bayesian approach to analyze data is preferred above a classic null hypothesis
           significance testing because the Bayesian approach allows to quantify the strength of
           evidence in favor of the null hypothesis. The latter is a valuable attribute in the
           context of clinical trials as these studies often require proof for no difference
           between groups on covariates that can be assumed to affect response to treatment.

           The main analysis of interest will compare the effect of the within-subject conditions
           placebo and active intervention. The model to estimate this effect will include the main
           effect of time since start of intervention condition, intervention and the
           counterbalancing group. In addition, the pairwise and three-way interactions of these
           predictors will be included. A random intercept and random slope for time will be
           included in the model. This model will be used to predict the primary outcome variable
           and the secondary outcome variables.

           In addition, the association between the different outcome variables will be reported as
           a means to estimate to what extent treatment effects may have affected 1 specific
           outcome or to what extent symptom evolution across different outcome variables was
           associated.

        2. EXPLORATORY ANALYSES: In addition to these analyses, the experience of patients with the
           VR game based intervention will also be reported. The vocal responses made by patients
           during gameplay will be rated by two independent raters as expressions of negative or
           positive emotions. The number of negative and the number of positive expressions
           relative to the total number of expressions will be compared to each other. If the
           proportion of positive expressions is higher than the proportion of negative expressions
           this is taken as evidence suggesting that the patients had a positive experience with
           the game and vice versa. In addition, since not all patients will spontaneously make
           vocal responses during gameplay, the mean score of patients on the questionnaire that
           gauges their experience with the VR-game based intervention will be reported. Given the
           exploratory nature of this part of the study descriptive statistics will be reported,
           but no statistical analysis on this outcome variable will be performed. The results of
           the safety checklist will also be reported. These data are valuable since it can inform
           other researchers on whether VR is safe to use within the stroke population. These data
           will be reported in the form of descriptive statistics. All exploratory analyses will be
           performed on the intention-to-treat sample.

        3. SIGNFICANCE LEVEL: The Bayes Factors will be interpreted according to the following
           interpretation rule: a Bayes Factor of larger than 3.2 suggests substantial evidence in
           favor of the alternative model, a Bayes Factor larger than 10 suggests strong evidence
           in favor of the alternative model and a Bayes Factor larger than 100 is decisive for the
           alternative model. All effects will be evaluated against a threshold of a Bayes Factor
           of 10. Bayes Factors that are in between 1/10 and 10 will be interpreted as inconclusive
           evidence. Evaluating effects at a threshold of a Bayes Factor of 10 is comparable to the
           approach of evaluating effects at a significance level of .01. The primary outcome
           variable and 5 secondary outcome variables should lead to a maximum Type I error rate of
           6% in a worst-case scenario where all 6 outcome variables are completely uncorrelated.
           This type I error rate is obtained through the formula: 100 [1- (1- α)^k ] where α
           stands for the significance level and k stands for the number of independent measures.
    
  