
    
      Corpus callosum is the main midline brain structure connecting homologous cortical areas of
      both hemispheres. Corpus callosum agenesis or dysgenesis (CCA) can be diagnosed antenatally,
      either isolated or associated with other cerebral or extra-cerebral malformations. With an
      incidence of 1.8/10,000 newborn, CCA is often associated with chromosomal anomalies and
      mendelian syndromes. Even when CCA appears to be isolated, the neuro-developmental outcome is
      uncertain, with many children developing normally, and others having moderate learning
      disabilities or even severe ID. The genetic heterogeneity of complex CCA is large (CCA can be
      observed in more than 300 entities), but for many patients, no etiological diagnosis is
      known. Therefore, genetic counselling remains challenging in many cases. Recurrence is
      observed in almost 5% of cases, and for most patients with no etiological diagnosis, the
      disease is sporadic. These data suggest both recessive and dominant de novo inheritance.

      This study aims, in a prospective cohort of 120 patients with CCA and intellectual
      disability:

        1. To determine the nature and the frequency of characterized genetic abnormalities.

        2. To determine the phenotypic spectrum of complex CCA

        3. To perform SNP-array analyses (i) for patients without etiological diagnosis and (ii)
           for patients with an identified syndrome without molecular basis to clarify the genetic
           basis of CCA and to evaluate the contribution of this technique in these patients

        4. To describe new clinical- genetic entities

      Patients are recruited through pediatric neurology and genetics consultations in the
      reference and competence centers " intellectual disabilities of rare cause" and associated
      network called "DéfiSciences".

      The workup will include for all patients :

        1. a clinical examination by a neurologist and a clinical geneticist, and a child
           psychiatric care if needed

        2. a blood sample for patient and his parents 2.3. a neuropsychological assessment if
           needed 3.4. Cerebral MRI using new technologies (diffusion, tracking fiber spectroscopy
           ... ) , if not available Central reviews of brain MRI are performed by a referent
           neuroradiologist in order to classify the type of CCA, morphological features and
           associated brain abnormalities.

      4.5. Several additional tests could be performed if necessary:

      a. in search of associated malformations i. renal ultrasound ii. echocardiogram iii. bone
      x-rays iv. ophthalmological examination b. in search of neurological/sensorial dysfunction:
      neurophysiological assessment (electroencephalogram, brainstem evoked auditory potentials,
      somatosensory evoked potentials, electroretinogram and visual evoked potentials) c. Karyotype
      d. Molecular biology: ARX(for boys) XFRA e. Metabolic tests comprising at least plasma CK,
      chromatography of plasma amino acids, chromatography of urine organic acids, a redox cycle,
      urinary creatine and guanidinoacetic acid assay and a Bratton-Marshall test ;

      After this initial assessment, investigators of the core clinical/research team will discuss
      all cases to validate proposed diagnoses and to determine whether a secondary assessment or
      complementary genetic studies are needed. Patients without established diagnosis will benefit
      from a study using whole genome chips (Illumina SNP-array) to be conducted at the end of the
      recruitment period for the second year of the project. This work will improve the essential
      clinical and genetic knowledge of CCA, which is necessary to improve the assessment of the
      prognosis in prenatal diagnosis and genetic counseling. It is also expected to expand the
      understanding of the complex development of the corpus callosum and its function.
    
  