
    
      The rationale of this study is that Transcutaneous Laryngeal Ultrasonography (TLU) may be a
      relevant and reliable tool in assessing vocal folds (VF) paralysis secondary to endocrine
      surgery (thyroid and parathyroid surgery). According to the literature and to our own
      publications, subjective impression of VF (im)mobility seems sufficient to diagnose a
      paralysis. However, the investigators think that objective measures, based on a dedicated
      semi-automatic software, may offer a much powerful implement and needs to be compared to the
      gold standard technique, i.e. the nasofibroscopy (NF), in a large prospective multicentric
      cohort.

      In a preliminary study, the investigators described TLU anatomical landmarks first in an ex
      vivo study and secondary in a prospective study based on 50 patients with VF paralysis
      compared to 50 controls. These three landmarks, the two arytenoids and the anterior insertion
      of the two vocal folds on the thyroid cartilage, are easy to recognize, and independent of
      the postoperative delay and the person performing TLU. They define two symmetrical
      hemi-larynges in healthy subjects. The investigators designed an original software, aiming at
      offering two quantitative criteria of laryngeal mobility and symmetry, taking into account
      motion symmetry (symmetry index) and amplitude (mobility index) of the two hemi-larynges.
      When a subject presented with a unilateral VF paralysis, the mean symmetry index was
      significantly larger compared to the control group (20.4% ±13.8% versus 6.7% ±4.7%, p<0.0001)
      and the mean lower mobility index was significantly smaller (2.2% ±17.4% versus 20.5% ±14.8%,
      p<0.0001). The sensitivity and specificity of this first version of our automatized protocol
      were 82%.

      The aim of the present study is to validate TLU as an alternative to NF in a large
      independent cohort of patients operated on endocrine surgery. The main goal is to improve the
      sensitivity and specificity of the objective measures and implement new parameters in the
      software. By a ready to use tool, the investigators would like to offer the opportunity to
      any practitioner to assess and quantify VF (im)mobility with their usual US machine.

      The subjects will be recruited in the three different clinical centers, highly specialized in
      endocrine surgery. The aim of 500 subjects included seems feasible thanks to the high
      activity of these centers. Moreover the latter already have sufficient and qualified staff
      and technical tools to perform clinical follow up, US, and NF.

      The technical acquisition is as follow. The TLU is performed with a 7-14 MHz linear probe,
      using a portable machine. Subjects are lying on the back, neck slightly extended, with the
      probe placed over the laryngeal prominence of the thyroid cartilage, including the arytenoids
      in the axial view. The images are acquired in B-mode, during normal breathing at rest.
      Typical values for acquisition are: frequency 10 MHz, depth of field of view 4 cm, mechanical
      index 0.6, gain 45%, dynamic range 85 decibels. A video clip of 10 seconds (30 images per
      second) is recorded in order to include 5 to 6 complete respiratory cycles. Two images
      corresponding to physiological abduction and adduction during the same breath cycle are
      selected. The landmarks, previously described, are selected on the images and tracked by the
      software.

      All patients operated on endocrine surgery in the three referral centers and responding to
      the inclusion criteria will be included after obtaining their writing consent. The gold
      standard NF will be performed between D1 and D15, as usually performed after these surgeries.
      TLU will be performed during the same time period by an investigator blind to the NF results.
      The subject will be his own control, NF and TLU being compared. When facing VF immobility,
      the subject will benefit from the usual clinical follow up: consultation with NF at 6 weeks
      and 6 months. TLU will be added to these appointments.
    
  