
    
      Background:

      Among ambulatory individuals with incomplete spinal cord injury (iSCI), residual balance
      deficits are common and are a primary factor limiting participation in walking activities.
      There is broad recognition that effective evidence-based interventions are needed to enhance
      dynamic balance following iSCI. However, improving dynamic balance after iSCI has proven to
      be very challenging. Experimental interventions that amplify self-generated movements (e.g.
      error augmentation) may accelerate motor learning by intensifying sensory motor feedback and
      facilitating exploration of alternative motor control strategies. These features may be
      beneficial for retraining dynamic balance after iSCI. The investigators have developed a
      cable-driven robot to create a movement amplification environment during treadmill walking by
      applying a continuous viscous force field to the pelvis that is proportional in magnitude to
      a participant's real-time range of motion (ROM) velocity. The purpose is to investigate if
      locomotor training performed in a movement amplification environment can effectively improve
      dynamic balance and increase participation in walking activities of individuals with iSCI.

      Specific Aims:

      Aim 1: To evaluate if locomotor training performed in a movement amplification environment is
      effective for improving dynamic balance of individuals with iSCI. The investigators' pilot
      data found that following locomotor training performed in a movement amplification
      environment three individuals with iSCI each improved dynamic balance by more than 30%. These
      improvements were accompanied by faster over ground walking speeds and improved reactive
      balance. Thus, the investigators hypothesize that improvements in dynamic balance during
      walking will be greater when locomotor training is performed in a movement amplification
      environment when compared to locomotor training performed in a traditional treadmill
      environment.

      Aim 2: To evaluate the impact of locomotor training performed in either a movement
      amplification environment or in a traditional treadmill environment on participation in
      walking activities. Based on evidence identifying a strong relationship between balance and
      steps per day in ambulatory individuals with iSCI, the investigators hypothesize that
      training in the movement amplification environment will positively impact dynamic balance,
      and in turn increase participating in walking activities.

      Approach:

      The investigators will conduct a two-arm parallel-assignment intervention and will enroll 36
      ambulatory participants with chronic motor incomplete spinal cord injury. Participants will
      be randomized into either a Control group receiving locomotor training or an Experimental
      group receiving locomotor training performed in a movement amplification environment. All
      participants will receive 20 training sessions. The investigators will assess changes in
      dynamic balance using measures that span the International Classification of Functioning,
      Disability and Health (ICF) framework including; 1) clinical outcome measures of gait,
      balance, and quality of life, 2) biomechanical assessments of the capacity to control COM
      motion during walking, and 3) data collected from activity monitors to quantify changes in
      participation in walking activities as evaluated by number of steps taken per day.

      Impact:

      Training dynamic balance of individuals with iSCI by amplifying their own self-generated
      center of mass motion during walking is a radical departure from current practice and may
      create effective new clinical strategies for addressing balance impairments of individuals
      with iSCI. Successful outcomes from the proposed trial would motivate development of
      clinically-feasible tools to first replicate and then to evaluate the movement amplification
      environment within the VA's clinical care settings. Knowledge gained from this study will
      expand the understanding of how individuals with iSCI learn dynamic balance and how targeted
      dynamic balance training impacts participation in walking activities.
    
  