
    
      1. Purpose To study the Effect of Experience and Training on the Accuracy of CT (Computed
      Tomography) Colonography in Comparison with Optical Colonoscopy in the Detection of Colonic
      Neoplasia

      2. Hypotheses

        1. The accuracy (sensitivity and specificity) of interpretation of the CTC images will
           improve with each 100 scans examined. Less time will be required to interpret the CTC
           images after each successive 100 scans. The accuracy of each of the observers will be
           similar.

        2. The sensitivity and specificity will be similar for CTC and OC for the last 100 patients
           undergoing both examinations.

        3. Patients will prefer CTC to OC based on comfort and ease of the procedure.

        4. CTC will have the added benefit of identifying extra-colonic findings which will not be
           found on OC. CTC will be performed at a lower cost per patient with a lower complication
           rate than for OC and will take a similar amount of time to perform.

      3. Justification Screening is believed to decrease the incidences of colorectal cancer and
      death as a result of the detection of both precancerous lesions and cancers at early
      stages4-6. Fecal occult blood testing and flexible sigmoidoscopy can miss a substantial
      number of significant lesions7. Despite its risk, inconvenience, and cost, optical
      colonoscopy is the primary screening tool for colorectal cancer when performed every 10
      years, beginning at 50 years of age in people who are at average risk8,9. Screening is also
      recommended at a younger age for populations at increased risk10.

      Virtual colonoscopy is a rapidly evolving technique in which data from computed tomography
      (CT) is used to generate both two-dimensional and three-dimensional displays of the colon and
      rectum. This minimally invasive method for the examination of the colon, also referred to as
      CT colonography (CTC), is a promising alternative to optical colonoscopy for use in
      widespread screening, as it requires no intravenous administration of sedatives or analgesia
      and little recovery time.

      Many studies have sought to compare the utility of CTC and optical colonoscopy (OC) in the
      detection of colonic polyps and adenocarcinomas in various patient populations.

      Before CTC can be used in usual practice the training required by those interpreting the
      studies needs to be further studied so that guidelines can be created defining requirements
      necessary prior to implementation of this screening strategy.

      4. Study Objectives: To determine the effects of previous training and experience on the
      accuracy of polyp and cancer detection for CTC in patients at above average risk for
      colorectal cancer.

        1. To assess the learning curve of GI radiologists (experienced and not experienced with
           CTC interpretation), a GI fellow and a family physician as they acquire experience in
           reading CTC datasets by measuring the detection rates, miss rates and the amount of time
           needed to read images for the 1st, 2nd and 3rd set of 100 CTC's which they interpret.

        2. The study will also determine the sensitivity and specificity of CTC compared with OC
           for the detection of colonic polyps (of various sizes) and adenocarcinoma in patients at
           high risk for colorectal cancer (those over 45 years of age with a family history of
           colorectal cancer, those with positive screening tests and those with suggestive
           symptoms).

        3. Patient satisfaction with both CTC and OC will be evaluated by means of a patient
           questionnaire.

        4. The two procedures will be compared in terms of complication rates, the time required to
           perform each test, extra-colonic findings and the cost to perform each procedure per
           patient.

      5. Research Method A non-randomized, evaluator blinded study of 300 consecutive patients at
      high risk for colonic neoplasia referred for colonoscopy. Each patient is to undergo standard
      colonoscopy preparation on the day prior to CT Colonography (CTC) followed within 2 hours by
      optical colonoscopy (OC). Patients will be men and women aged 19 - 65 years who were
      scheduled to undergo elective colonoscopy referred from a suburban primary care setting.

      Study population The study participants will consist of two main populations. The first will
      include patients at average to high risk of colonic neoplasia who are eligible for screening
      colonoscopy. Average risk patients are those aged 45-65 who wish to undergo screening for
      colorectal cancer. High risk patients include those with a family history of colorectal
      cancer, previous colorectal cancer or neoplasia, positive screening tests (Fecal Occult Blood
      (FOBT), flexible sigmoidoscopy, digital rectal exam or air contrast barium enema) and
      patients with gastrointestinal symptoms and signs (abdominal pain, rectal bleeding, anemia).
      Patients will be recruited from a suburban primary care medical clinic in Coquitlam, B.C.
      (North Road Medical Centre) and referred to a gastroenterology clinic in downtown Vancouver
      (Pacific Gastroenterology Associates) or recruited from the gastroenterology clinic directly.

      Ethical approval will be obtained from the University of British Columbia and the St. Paul's
      Hospital Institutional Review Boards. A study investigator will obtain informed consent from
      potential study participants.

      Design After obtaining informed consent, participants will be instructed to consume a clear
      liquid diet for the 24 hours prior to the exam. Patients will receive detailed instructions
      regarding bowel preparation using oral Picosalax and Bisacodyl suppositories to be taken on
      the day prior to their procedures (see Appendix 2). Instructions will also be provided
      regarding the intake of oral barium and gastrograffin which will be used as stool tagging
      agents (see Appendix 2). As both CTC and OC will take place on the same day, the preparation
      will be identical for both procedures. No sedative agents will be administered during CTC.
      Colonic distention for CTC will be achieved with automated low-pressure delivery of carbon
      dioxide. Patients will be allowed sips of clear fluid on the morning of the examinations and
      will then be kept without oral intake until after both CTC and OC are completed.

      CT Colonography Patients will be given an appointment time for presentation to St. Paul's
      Hospital radiology department. After reporting, they will be asked to change into a hospital
      gown and CT scanning will be performed. Images will be acquired using the GE Lightspeed 64
      row multidetector CT scanner. Slices will be obtained at 0.75mm resolution and will be
      reconstructed using GE Healthcare software at a resolution of 1.25mm. Scans will be obtained
      during a single breath hold using a low radiation exposure protocol (~30-50 mAs which
      corresponds to an absorbed radiation dose of 3-5 mSv). The quality and adequacy of the images
      will be assessed before patients leave the radiology department to await colonoscopy which
      will be performed within 2 hours.

      Interpretation There will be 2 radiologist readers both experienced in gastrointestinal
      imaging and one of whom is experienced in CTC interpretation. The Radiologists will review
      the scans and record their findings in 4 separate envelopes, one for each section of the
      colon (rectum and sigmoid, descending, transverse and right colon). The size of lesions found
      will be recorded from the optimum view using electronic callipers. Finally, the radiologists
      will review the films for any extra-colonic findings that will be recorded separately.
      Similarly, a GI Fellow and a Family Physician will review the scans recording their findings
      in the same manner. However, at least one Radiologist will review the films at the time of
      the examination to ensure that they are of adequate quality and to provide their
      interpretation prior to OC. The amount of time taken to read the films for each reviewer will
      be recorded as a total time to read all views for each patient. Observers will be made aware
      of optical colonoscopy results after each 100 procedures.

      Optical Colonoscopy Within 2 hours of finishing the CTC imaging, participants will undergo OC
      with conscious sedation using a combination of midazolam and Demerol or fentanyl to achieve
      patient comfort. An experienced gastroenterologist using an Olympus colonoscope will perform
      the colonoscopies. The endoscopist, blinded to the CTC results will examine the colon on
      withdrawal of the endoscope, recording findings for each of the four segments of the colon.
      Each segment is then to be sequentially unblinded allowing the endoscopist to review the
      Radiologists findings for each colonic segment on CTC. Polyps detected at endoscopy will be
      removed using standard techniques (biopsy forceps or snare cautery) and submitted for
      pathological assessment.

      Advanced neoplasms will be divided by pathology into adenocarcinomas and polyps. Polyps will
      be further categorized according to size (≤5mm, 6-9mm and ≥10mm). Morphologic characteristics
      of the lesions will also be recorded by viewers as sessile, pedunculated or flat. Lesion size
      is to be determined by measurement of removed lesions (before fixation) or estimated at
      endoscopy by comparison to the biopsy forceps, for those lesions that are not removed.

      Patient Questionnaires Following endoscopy, patients will be transferred to recovery area
      where they will undergo monitoring of their vital signs following standard practice
      guidelines, until they are ready for discharge. Immediately prior to discharge, patients will
      be given a 10 question written survey, for self-completion (see appendix 1). The recovery
      room nurse will give this to them after final consultation with the Gastroenterologist while
      in the recovery room. Patients will be given as much time as necessary to complete the survey
      and instruction to seal the survey in an envelope and return it to the nurse prior to leaving
      the recovery room.

      In order to assess the test/retest reliability of the survey, a random sample of patients
      will be mailed a second survey (identical to the first) 3 - 4 weeks after the day of
      examination. Enclosed will be instructions for self-completion of the survey and a self
      addressed, postage paid, return envelope to allow for its return.

      6. Statistical Analysis The reference standard of polyp detection will be the results of OC
      after each colonic segment is re-examined once the CTC results are known. Tests of accuracy
      will be sensitivity, specificity, true positive and true negative results with comparison to
      the reference standard. ROC curves for CTC and OC will be derived after all tests are
      completed. The AUC for each tests' ROC curve will be used to compare accuracy between these
      two tests. ROC curves and the AUC statistic will be derived from the dataset once divided
      according to each 100 CTC performed and by each reader to evaluate the learning curve of this
      test. Tests of significance will be McNemar's test, paired t-tests, and chi-square tests as
      appropriate. Interobserver reliability will be reported as a kappa statistic.
    
  