
    
      Lichen planus, a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory disease affects the skin and mucous
      membranes. Oral lichen planus is the mucosal counterpart of cutaneous lichen planus. It was
      reported first described in 1866 as white papular eruptions in the oral cavity. The
      prevalence of OLP varies from 0.1% to 4%. OLP mostly occurs in middle aged and elderly
      patients, with female to male ratio of 3:2. OLP is characterized by lesions consisting of
      radiating white, grey, velvety, thread-like papules in a linear, annular and retiform
      arrangement forming typical lacy, reticular patches, rings and streaks. The lesions are most
      common on buccal mucosa, tongue, lips, gingiva, floor of mouth, palate. Clinically OLP has
      six clinical presentations namely reticular, erosive, atrophic, plaque-like, papular,
      bullous.

      Reticular form, the most common clinical form presents as fine, asymptomatic intertwined
      lace-like pattern called "Wickham striae" in a bilateral symmetrical form. It mainly involves
      the posterior mucosa of the cheek. Erosive OLP represents symptomatic lesions. Atrophic
      lesions may resemble the combination of two clinical forms, such as the presence of white
      striae characteristic of the reticular type surrounded by an erythematous area. Plaque-like
      form mainly found on dorsum of the tongue and the mucosa of the cheek reveals whitish
      homogeneous irregularities similar to leukoplakia. Papular form presents with small white
      papules with fine striae in its periphery. Bullous form is the most unusual clinical form,
      exhibiting blisters that increase in size and tend to rupture, leaving the surface ulcerated
      and painful.

      The pathogenesis of the disease is characterized by cytotoxic CD8+ T lymphocytes migration to
      the epithelium inducing apoptosis of basal keratinocytes. A number of etiological factors in
      OLP have been proposed such as local and systemic inducers of cell-mediated hypersensitivity,
      drugs, dental materials, infectious agents, and stress. The existence of a local
      cell-mediated immune disorder has been postulated as a factor underlying development of the
      lesions specifically, a delayed cellular hypersensitivity response probably triggered by some
      exogenous agent. Periodontal diseases are the most prevalent oral microbial infections that
      lead to chronic inflammation of the supporting tissues of teeth. Periodontal disease has a
      complex pathogenesis involving host microbiome interactions. It has an impact on both local
      and systemic health. The pathogenesis of periodontal disease involves a local inflammatory
      reaction and the activation. Thus, it is possible to speculate that some interference could
      exist and that the potential effect arising from these shared mechanisms⁄ mediators could be
      localized to sites where OLP lesions are present and alteration of host immune response in
      OLP may have an impact on periodontal health. With this consideration, the present study is
      aimed to assess periodontal status in systemically healthy individuals with and without oral
      lichen planus.
    
  