
    
      The research will be conducted at Baylor College of Medicine (BCM) and Baylor St. Luke's
      Medical Center (BSLMC).

      All patients will receive standard of care treatment for their pancreatic cancer. Standard of
      care treatment will be gemcitabine in combination with nab-paclitaxel given on days 1, 8, and
      15 of a 28 day cycle.

      Arm 1: LOAd703 treatment will be initiated at day 15 of the first cycle and given every other
      week for 6 doses. Depending on the location of the tumor the injection of LOAd703 can be
      given in different ways. The most common route of injection is ultrasound-guided percutaneous
      injection, but endoscopic ultrasound-guidance will be used for some patients as appropriate.
      All patients will receive anti-anxiety drugs or sedation as needed for comfort during the
      procedure. This study evaluates different doses of LOAd703. All patients will receive six
      injections of LOAd703. If patients in either phase of the study are judged by the
      investigator to be deriving clinical benefit from LOAd703 once all scheduled injections have
      been administered, they will be eligible to receive up to 6 additional biweekly doses of
      LOAd703.

      Arm 2: the same procedures as arm 1 in regard to LOAd703. In addition, the arm 2 patients
      will receive atezolizumab at a fixed dose, every chemotherapy cycle day 1. The treatments can
      continue until the final follow-up visit.

      Follow-up visits: Besides visits to receive treatments, patients will continue to visit
      BCM/BSLMC or their local doctor for evaluation of health status and side effects. At some
      visits blood samples will be obtained. Some of the blood samples being obtained are
      considered standard of care to ensure patient safety for standard of care treatment and the
      LOAd703 injection. However, some blood and biopsy samples (in applicable patients) will be
      collected to be analyzed for the presence of LOAd703, atezolizumab tumor markers and
      immunology markers. The extra blood will be 5-15 ml (3 teaspoonfuls) of blood collected at
      the screening visit and at eight different time points both during treatment and after
      treatments are completed. Imaging of the tumor to determine tumor size will be done every two
      to three months, which is routine for the monitoring of patients with pancreatic cancer.
      Patients will actively participate in the study for about 9 months when the final follow-up
      visit will be scheduled (or 12 months if additional doses of LOAD703 are given). After their
      active participation is completed patients will continue to receive routine care and will be
      contacted by the study team every 3 months to provide follow up on the status of their
      disease.
    
  