
    
      Historically, many interventions have been studied to improve the quality, safety, and
      effectiveness of medical care, particularly through the new focus on comparative
      effectiveness research. Unfortunately, sustained provider and system uptake of these
      interventions has been severely lacking, to the serious detriment of patient health. The most
      commonly tried tools to increase uptake, including pay-for-performance, have substantially
      fallen short of expectations. Moreover, often these interventions are created in highly
      artificial settings, and we have not come up with ways to implement them in the long-term.
      The challenge, therefore, is to create sustainable change that impacts care in meaningful
      ways.

      In contrast, behavioral economics represents a powerful tool by which to influence provider
      and systems behavior in a large-scale, meaningful, and sustainable way. Briefly, behavioral
      economics recognizes that individuals often are not fully "rational" in the purely economic
      sense, but are subject to the influence of various social, environmental and cognitive
      factors in their decision making. And, one can take advantage of these findings to "nudge"
      individuals, in our case physicians, towards more optimal choices. While the application of
      behavioral economics has been incredibly successful in altering behavior outside the health
      sphere, surprisingly little attention has been given to health.

      We have chosen to focus on physician behavior in prescribing HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors
      (statins) to patients with elevated cardiac risk and elevated low density lipoprotein
      cholesterol (LDL-C) as recommended by cholesterol management guidelines. In a cluster
      randomized trial at several private, community-based, multispecialty practices, we propose to
      compare usual care to a system of automated, default, opt-out clinical decision support that
      prescribes statins as appropriate.

      We propose to use a cluster randomized trial design in several multispecialty private
      practices to examine the comparative effectiveness of an EHR-based lipid management protocol
      based on ATP III guidelines vs. usual care. Cluster randomization of participating physicians
      is useful when blinding is impossible and "contamination" might be a problem, i.e. more
      aggressive management among a physician's non-intervention patients as a result of experience
      with intervention patients. Of an estimated 150 primary care physicians at the recruited
      private practices, we expect at least 100 to consent to participate. Physicians will be
      clustered for randomization based on the number of patients in their panel that meet ATP III
      guidelines for statin. Physicians in each cluster will then be individually randomized to the
      intervention or control arm.

      Physicians randomized to usual care will not get the intervention or decision support.
      Physicians randomized to the automated clinical decision support "nudge" will see the new
      "optout" prescribing procedure as part of their EHR interface. This will include initially
      prescribing the guideline-based medication, simvastatin 20mg. Nearly six months after this
      visit, physicians will receive a reminder via EHR to schedule a follow-up fasting lipid
      profile as recommended by ATP III guidelines.
    
  