
    
      VR-NECKPAIN is a monocentric, single-blind, randomized controlled trial in Neck Pain
      patients.

      Subjects will receive rehabilitation treatment twice a week, for six consecutive weeks.
      Subjects will be evaluated ad baseline (T0) and after six weeks of rehabilitation (T1). Also
      there will be a 3 months Follow-Up assessment (T2).

      The total duration of study participation for each subject will be approximately 19 weeks,
      including evaluation at T0, treatment and evaluation at T1 and T2.

      Individuals in the experimental group (VRT) will undergo a virtual reality-based sensorimotor
      rehabilitation. Control group (CT) subjects will undergo the same rehabilitation of VR
      subjects, in terms of intensity, time and type, but with the virtual reality turned off.

      The study is conducted from March 2019 and the conclusion is planned to March 2023.

      Patients with Neck Pain will be enrolled at the Department of Rehabilitation and Functional
      Recovery of San Raffaele Hospital, via Olgettina 60, Milan.

      The treatment will last 45 minutes, 2 sessions per week for a total of 6 weeks. The first 15
      minutes of treatment will consist, for each group, in manual therapy treatment, such as
      mobilization, manipulation, trigger-points treatment, tailored on the individual.

      Subjects in the experimental Group (VRT) will undergo 30 minutes of motor control exercises
      using a virtual reality-based sensorimotor rehabilitation provided using the Virtual Reality
      Rehabilitation System (VRRS) of Khymeia Group. The equipment includes a computer workstation
      connected to a 6 degrees of freedom (DOF) motion-tracking system (Polhemus G4, Vermont, US),
      a high-resolution LCD displaying the virtual scenarios on a large screen and a software
      processing the motion data coming: from the receiver of the sensors end-effectors placed on
      the sternum and on the head through a helmet. The system has been found to reliably record
      head position and cervical range of motion among asymptomatic people as well as persistent
      neck pain patients.The VRRS allows the participant to perform the requested motor tasks,
      while the movement of the system's end-effector is simultaneously represented in a virtual
      scenario.

      Control Group (CT) subjects will undergo the same treatment of VRT subjects in terms of
      intensity, time and type, but with the VR turned off.

      In addition, all subjects will be educated in emphasizing self-management and return to
      normal function.

      A blind assessor will be present in our study. In order to maintain him/her blind, treatments
      on patients will never take place in presence of the assessor.

      Forty healthy subjects, matched for age and sex to the studied population, will also be
      enrolled in order to obtain normative data to compare with neck pain subjects.
    
  