
    
      VENTANA is a phase 0 multicenter, window of opportunity, three-arm, randomized clinical trial
      of oral metronomic vinorelbine (VNB) and letrozole versus either treatment alone in
      postmenopausal women with newly diagnosed untreated HR+ and HER2-negative, stage I-III
      operable breast cancer. Other eligibility criteria include primary tumor size 1 cm (cT1-3)
      and N0-1, ECOG PS 0-1 and evaluable diagnostic tumor sample.

      Primary objective is to test if Oral Metronomic Vinorelbine and Letrozole induce a superior
      anti-proliferative effect than either drug alone in patients with early breast cancer defined
      as Luminal by PAM50/HER2-negative. This will be evaluated by measuring the expression of 11
      proliferative genes contained in the PAM50/Prosigna® array (BIRC5, CCNB1, CDC20, CDCA1,
      CEP55, KNTC2, MKI67, PTTG1, RRM2, TYMS and UBE2C), as surrogate biomarker of its anticancer
      activity. By evaluating other breast cancer-related gene signatures (560 genes), the
      antiangiogenic and immunogenic potential of treatment arms will be compared and other genes
      regulated in a treatment-specific manner identified. These analyses will be performed in
      different PAM50-defined subtypes (Luminal, LuminalA or LuminalB). Clinical efficacy and
      safety of treatments will also be evaluated.

      Patients will first undergo screening and mandatory collection of core tumor biopsies for
      study analysis. Patients are randomized (1:1:1) to receive Letrozole 2.5mg daily, oral
      Vinorelbine 50mg 3 days a week or Letrozole 2.5mg daily and oral Vinorelbine 50mg 3 times a
      week. After 3 weeks of treatment, patients will undergo surgery, and both pre-treatment and
      post-treatment surgery samples will be analyzed. Alternatively, if surgery will be delayed, a
      tumor core biopsy will be collected. Anyway, post-treatment sample should be collected within
      5 days after end of treatment in order to observe the biological response.

      Axillar and mammary surgery will be done according to local standards; however, sentinel
      lymph node biopsy previous to surgery is not permitted. Following surgical excision, adjuvant
      treatment will be as per investigator´s choice and local standards of care outside the scope
      of this protocol. End of study is 28 days (±3 days) after last study drug dose with a safety
      follow-up visit.
    
  