
    
      Hypertension (HBP) has long been correlated with risk of stroke and other adverse
      cardiovascular outcomes. Randomized controlled trials of blood pressure lowering have
      demonstrated at least 30% reductions in stroke incidence and improved mortality. Despite
      being such a readily modifiable risk, HBP remains under diagnosed and under treated. To
      address this gap, the A-CHAMP (Airdrie Community Hypertension Awareness and Management
      Program) was successfully piloted in Airdrie, a community of 20,000 north of Calgary,
      Alberta. Trained volunteers held BP screening sessions for seniors in local pharmacies and
      referred hypertensive participants to their GP's and trained pharmacists for blood pressure
      management. Of the 408 screened participants (40% of all Airdrie seniors), 36.5% had
      uncontrolled HBP. By program end, systolic BP was decreased by 16.8 mm (+/- 14.6. P <.05) and
      56.2% of hypertensive participants had reached the 2006 Canadian Hypertension Guideline
      targets. Airdrie now holds annual blood pressure screenings organized and run by volunteers,
      demonstrating the sustainability of this approach to population screening and risk factor
      management in this setting.

      In order to fully realize the benefits of cardiovascular risk reduction, U-CHAMP will be
      expanded to include a more global risk assessment and management protocol including
      assessments for dyslipidemias and diabetes in an urban setting.

      The purpose of this project is:

        -  To expand the rural scope of A-CHAMP into a larger urban setting (Calgary).

        -  To include a more global risk assessment (for both coronary artery disease and stroke)
           and management including: cholesterol (total and HDL cholesterol) and diabetes
           (capillary HgA1c when appropriate).

        -  To effect fully sustainable practice change in the management of hypertension, diabetes
           and dyslipidemias by establishing collaborative partnerships between pharmacists,
           Calgary Health Region (CHR) physicians (Primary Care Networks: PCN's), the CHR Chronic
           Disease Management Program (CDM), and selected hypertensive patients.

      Components of U-CHAMP are as follows:

        -  Screening Clinics:

             -  Visit 1: The pharmacist determines if the participant has diabetes then performs a
                BP assessment using a BpTRU device (VSM MedTech, Vancouver, BC). The participant is
                invited to sign the consent then six BP readings are taken 1 minute apart in the
                non-dominant arm, and the last five readings averaged. If the average reading is
                ≥140/90 mmHg (≥130/80 for diabetics), the participant is invited to return to a
                second BP clinic within the next 2 weeks.

             -  Visit 2: BP is taken as above. If the average BP from both visits is ≥140/90 mmHg
                (≥130/80 mmHg for those with diabetes), The client is invited to participate in the
                program.

        -  Intervention:

             -  Visit 2 continued: The pharmacist completes the assessment form which includes:
                age, personal or family history of cardiovascular disease, known diabetes,
                hypertension or dyslipidemia, lifestyle issues, medication list, medication
                allergies, adherence history, adverse events experienced and non-prescription
                medications used including herbs, vitamins, and supplements.

             -  Baseline random capillary Total Cholesterol, HDL (Cholestech -LDX ® (Manthomed) and
                HgA1c (DCA 2000) are obtained and with all the above information, the Framingham
                global cardiovascular risk score is calculated (for those without known vascular
                disease and those without diabetes). If the readings are above target (according to
                the most recent Canadian Guidelines for hypertension, dyslipidemias and diabetes),
                participants are encouraged to have their full lipid profile and HgA1c done by
                their family physician and to record the results in a wallet card provided to them.
                Counseling about global cardiovascular risk, medications (if applicable), lifestyle
                information, a hypertension education pamphlet (CHEP 2007 public education) and a
                wallet card are provided.

             -  Participants are referred to their primary care physician for further
                assessment/management. Assessment information with BP, lipid and HgA1c results and
                any recommendations (according to latest Canadian Guidelines) including the least
                expensive drug alternatives, are faxed to the participant's primary care physician.

        -  Follow-up:

             -  Participants are asked to return for follow-up several times during the 6 to 12
                month program. Participants are encouraged to follow up with their GP's after each
                pharmacy visit (if appropriate).

             -  At each visit the participant's BP is re-checked. Medication counseling, lifestyle
                and other information is reinforced and the BP handbook is updated. If appropriate,
                any lipid, diabetes and global cardiovascular risk assessment data is recorded in
                the participants' wallet card and is reviewed with them. Counseling about the
                appropriate target levels is provided. Results of the assessment including
                recommendations and the pharmacist's comments from each visit are faxed to the
                participant's physician.

        -  Final Visit:

             -  Participants are encouraged to obtain a full lipid profile through their family
                physician (if appropriate) just prior to their final pharmacy visit (and bring the
                results to this final visit) so that their Framingham global cardiovascular risk
                can be recalculated.

      The participant's BP, random capillary Total and HDL cholesterol and HgA1c (if appropriate)
      are measured. Their current medication list is confirmed and adherence information is
      reviewed and recorded. The final lipid and diabetes lab data (recorded in the BP handbook) is
      assessed and the global cardiovascular risk score is re-calculated to assess any changes. A
      copy of the final assessment is faxed to the participant's primary physician. Participants
      are encouraged to follow up with their GP.
    
  