
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a leading cause of liver cancer and HCV-related liver disease is
      among the most common causes of non-AIDS related death among people living with HIV (PLWH).
      One quarter of PLWH in the U.S. are co-infected with HCV, which leads to a 3-fold increase in
      progression to end stage liver disease and liver cancer. HCV can be cured, but less than half
      of PLWH with chronic HCV in the U.S. have linked to HCV care, and about 7% initiated
      treatment. Poor treatment initiation rates historically have been due to low efficacy among
      PLWH, but HCV care now is at a turning point. The investigators have the ability to
      substantially decrease HCV-related morbidity and mortality in PLWH with the availability of
      effective all-oral treatment. As patients are funneled into HCV care, improving the process
      of linkage to care and treatment preparation related to HIV medication modifications
      necessary for current HCV regimens is essential to maximize the lifesaving potential of
      available therapies among PLWH.

      There are several barriers to linkage to HCV care and treatment. HCV is a "silent epidemic"
      often presenting no symptoms for 20 years. Knowledge about HCV and its available therapies is
      also low and lags behind new advancements in HCV treatment. Competing work, school and
      caregiving demands has also historically led to low motivation to engage in HCV care. For
      PLWH who are linked to HCV care, drug interactions between new HCV therapies and HIV
      treatment regimens introduce a new barrier to HCV treatment initiation. Up to 88% of PLWH
      will need to switch their HIV treatment regimen to avoid contraindicated drug interactions.
      The April 8, 2015 Guidelines for the Use of Antiretroviral Agents in HIV-1-infected Adults
      and Adolescents emphasize the need to modify HIV regimens to treat HCV in many PLWH. But
      modifying HIV treatment regimens can have severe negative consequences, including decreased
      quality of life, increased symptom burden, and loss of viral suppression.

      Interventions that both increase HCV knowledge and support HIV treatment modifications in the
      setting of drug interactions are needed to improve linkage to HCV care and decrease time to
      treatment initiation. In similar settings and populations, nurse case management
      interventions have been shown to improve these outcomes. However, few of these interventions
      have been rigorously tested in the context of HCV.

      This study is a randomized, single-blinded controlled trial to test whether a nurse case
      management intervention will improve the HCV treatment cascade among PLWH in an HIV primary
      care setting compared to usual care.

      Specifically, this study aims to:

        1. Test whether a nurse case management intervention will increase linkage to the Viral
           Hepatitis Clinic among persons with HIV/HCV co-infection compared to usual care;
           Hypothesis: A higher proportion of those who are randomized to the intervention arm will
           attend the Viral Hepatitis Clinic within 60 days of randomization compared to those who
           receive usual care.

        2. Determine if a nurse case management intervention will decrease time to HCV treatment
           initiation among persons with HIV/HCV co-infection compared to usual care; Hypothesis:
           Those who are randomized to the intervention arm will have a decreased time to HCV
           treatment initiation from the point of randomization compared to those who receive usual
           care.

        3. Describe the characteristics associated with uptake of HCV care among people living with
           HIV, controlling for covariates; Research question 2.1: What patient-level
           characteristics are associated with increased uptake of HCV care?; Research question
           2.2: Compared to the known historical barriers to engaging in HCV care, what factors
           continue to be associated with uptake of HCV care in the new paradigm of HCV treatment
           for people living with HIV?
    
  