
    
      We have previously demonstrated that thermal injury depletes plasma vitamin E in pediatric
      burn patients. However, plasma changes reflect short-term vitamin E changes, whereas adipose
      tissue alpha-tocopherol concentrations reflect long-term vitamin E status. We reported last
      year that burn injury depleted vitamin E stores in adipose tissue in children by nearly half
      within one month following injury. Our long-term goal is to improve the quality of life of
      burn patients by preventing pulmonary and hepatic dysfunction that may occur from vitamin E
      depletion. The objectives of this application are to a) attenuate alpha-tocopherol depletion
      in burned patients by vitamin E supplementation, b) prevent or reverse oxidative stress in
      these patients, and c) collect pilot data on the effect of vitamin E supplementation on lung
      and liver function. Our central hypothesis is that the administration of high doses of
      alpha-tocopherol will prevent or restore levels of vitamin E in adipose tissue and reverse
      the oxidative state in burned patients. The rationale of the proposed studies is that in
      severe cases of vitamin E depletion, oxidative stress, fatty liver and lung dysfunction have
      all been reported in our patients. We will administer vitamin E supplements (300-1200 IU
      RRR-alpha-tocopherol) to burn subjects (n= 20 per group, 6-70 years, ≥20% total body surface
      burns) for fifteen days. The subjects will be randomly assigned into two groups: an early
      treatment group who will receive vitamin E for days 1-15 of the study, and a delayed
      treatment group who will receive vitamin E for days 16-30 of the study. Both groups will be
      studied for a total of thirty days. We will test the following aims: Aim 1: determine the
      degree that supplemental Vitamin E will attenuate alpha-tocopherol depletion. Aim 2:
      determine if supplemental Vitamin E reduces markers of oxidative stress in burned patients.
      Aim 3: collect preliminary data to establish the relationship between oxidative stress and
      pulmonary pathophysiology and fatty liver after burn injury. We will measure plasma and
      adipose tissue alpha-tocopherol and urinary and plasma markers of oxidative stress, prior to
      supplementation and then weekly. The proposed research is innovative because the oxidative
      stress of burn injury causes a severe depletion of an essential nutrient, vitamin E.
      Supplementation of vitamin E is a novel concept that may mitigate the complications of burns,
      including lung injury, fatty liver and peripheral neuropathy.
    
  