
    
      Asian ginseng (Panax ginseng) and its close relative American ginseng (Panax quinquefolium)
      are perennial aromatic herbs that are widely used in Asian medicine. Ginseng root is used as
      a tonic thought to increase the body's resistance to stress and fatigue, to increase
      endurance under heavy physical activity, and to improve well-being in age-related
      debilitation. Most of the ginseng consumed, even in Asian populations, is American ginseng,
      and the majority of American ginseng is grown and processed in Wisconsin, with quality and
      standardization overseen by the Ginseng Board of Wisconsin. Furthermore, in Asian medicine,
      Asian ginseng (Panax ginseng) and American ginseng (Panax quinquefolium) are common
      components in herbals used for cancer prevention and treatment. Indeed, retrospective studies
      have shown that patients who consumed ginseng on a regular basis experienced cancers at a
      reduced rate, however, breast cancer was not considered. Ginseng has been used medicinally
      for over 2000 years and there are no substantiated serious adverse effects, and few, if any,
      non-serious adverse effects. The World Health Organization lists ginseng as a traditional
      medicine with very low toxicity. Clinical trials have also demonstrated an anti-hyperglycemic
      action of American ginseng. These studies utilized capsules containing dried, ground
      Ontario-grown P. qinquefolius L. root. The ground AG root preparation had an onset of action
      of 40 minutes. They found no significant increase in anti-hyperglycemic action after 40
      minutes and no significant increase in anti-hyperglycemic action using 1 gram versus 3 gram
      dosing.

      LEAG is a standardized preparation of lyophilized water-extract of American ginseng root in
      250-mg gelatin capsules. The ginseng was purchased through the Ginseng Board of Wisconsin and
      the lyophilized extract has been certified for percentage of each and total ginsenoside
      content and screened for safe levels of minerals, metals, and pesticides by ConsumerLab.com,
      a leading testing service company of dietary supplements.
    
  