
    
      People with substance use disorders (SUD) have a high prevalence and rate of smoking with
      little success in quitting, so stronger approaches are needed to encourage attempts to quit
      smoking. Brief advice (BA), to motivate cessation, produced some benefit but low abstinence
      rates for smokers with SUDs while adding free transdermal nicotine replacement therapy (NRT)
      improved short-term cessation rates. Varenicline has been found to produce higher rates of
      short and long-term abstinence than bupropion or placebo. However, a comparison between the
      efficacy of varenicline and NRT has not yet conducted with people with SUDs. Given the lack
      of effectiveness for standard smoking treatments for this population, what needs to be known
      is whether varenicline would increase the smoking abstinence rates relative to NRT when all
      receive motivational counseling.

      The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of 12 weeks of varenicline as
      compared to NRT, using a two-group randomized placebo-controlled design on smoking cessation
      rates for 12 months among 274 outpatients in treatment for SUD. The counseling incorporates
      BA (adapted slightly for sobriety settings by directly addressing barriers and concerns
      expressed by substance abusers), skills training and medication management. Confirmed
      point-prevalence and sustained abstinence will be assessed at 3 and 6 a months after the
      start of treatment. Secondary aims will examine potential mediators of effect including
      within-treatment abstinence, craving, and nicotine withdrawal levels.

      The potential significance is to add to knowledge about the most effective ways to maximize
      smoking cessation among substance abusers, important given that no methods are known to work
      with this difficult population. No study published to date has compared varenicline to NRT
      for efficacy with patients with SUD.
    
  