
    
      The investigators conduct an open label randomized clinical trial with cross-over between the
      groups. The study will be performed in all the intensive care units (ICU) at the Heart
      Institute and the Cancer Institute, both hospitals related with the University of São Paulo
      Medical School, at the city of São Paulo, Brazil.

      All inpatients over 18 years in the ICU with acute kidney injury (AKI) who are arranged for
      extended hemodialysis will be invited to participate in the study. After signing an informed
      consent formulary, the patients went to randomization between two groups: citrate or control
      therapy. The research team randomly drawn the patients using a box with twenty entries for
      each group, totalizing forty units. Thus, after the inclusion of forty patients, it is
      guaranteed that half of them will start in the citrate group and the other half in the
      control group. Afterwards, the box is refilled to its maximum capacity of forty units for the
      next draw.

      The randomization process determine the type of anticoagulation that the patient will be
      submitted in the first dialysis session. Subsequently the subject will participate in the
      other group, alternating between the two modalities until the maximum of six extended
      dialysis for the protocol.

      In the control group, the decision on the use of heparin or continuous saline infusion as an
      anticoagulation method will be based on the presence of contraindications to the heparin use,
      which would be I) platelet levels <150,000/mm3; II) active or recent bleeding; III) reduction
      in hemoglobin levels of more than 2.0g/dl in less than 24 hours; IV) invasive procedures or
      surgeries realized in the last 7 days or scheduled to the next 24 hours.

      There may be a change in the choice of method (citrate versus control), if the nephrologist
      consultant team deems it necessary, due to demands of care, particularly if there is early or
      repeated coagulation of the system. The proper functioning of the hemodialysis catheter will
      be evaluated before the dialysis initiation, and in case of malfunction, it will be properly
      replaced before the procedure starts.

      The study foresees the inclusion of 800 dialytic procedures. Half of them are expected to be
      performed in the citrate group and half in the control group. As each patient can perform up
      to six procedures, it is estimated that approximately 200 patients will participate in this
      study. Data in the other intermittent dialysis not included in this trial and performed in
      the intensive care setting during the same period will be registered.

      Patients will be excluded if they present: I) acute liver failure; II) hemorrhagic stroke in
      the last 30 days; III) platelet levels below 20,000/mm3 and IV) active bleeding requiring
      transfusion of two or more red blood cell packs within 24 hours.

      Decisions about the need for renal replacement therapy, modality and time will be made by the
      nephrologist attendant. Intermittent methods are preferred performed in stable patients with
      no vasoactive drug, or with low doses of these drugs (norepinephrine <0.2 mcg/kg/min and
      dobutamine <5 mcg/kg/min).

      All slow extended dialysis (SLED) in this trial were performed in 6 to 8 hours using a
      single-pass batch machine (Genius 90 Therapy System® Fresenius Medical Care, Bad Homburg,
      Germany), initiated by a nephrology specialized nurse and managed by an exclusive attendant.
      In this device, blood and dialysate flow rates are equal and set in 180 ml/min. We used only
      high-flux polysulfone filter (Ultraflux® AV 600S, Fresenius Medical Care). In the SPB device,
      the dialysate is stored in an air-free 90 liters glass container (batch system). Dialysate
      solution after proper reconstitution has sodium 138 mEq/l, bicarbonate 32.6 mEq/l, magnesium
      1.0 mEq/l, chloride 111 mEq/l, potassium 2.0 or 3.0 mEq/l and calcium 2.5 mEq/l (5.0 mg/dl).
      Dialysate temperature was set in 36-37°C.

      Citrate dose was tailored to achieve 3 mmol per filtered blood liter using a citric acid
      solution 2.2% 800 ml bag (each 100 mL of the solution contains 730 mg of citric acid, 2.45 g
      of dextrose and 2.2g of sodium citrate). Calcium replacement began if the patient has a serum
      ionized calcium less than 4.4 mg/dl (or 1.10 mmol/l) before it starts or during the session.
      We obtained blood samples at every two hours to adjust the calcium infusion rate targeting
      serum calcium from 4.4 to 5.3 mg/dl (or 1.10 to 1.32 mmol/l), using a calcium solution with
      10% calcium chloride solution (concentration at 0.133 mmol/ml). The post filter ionized
      calcium addressed was 2.4 to 2.8 mg/d (or 0.6 to 0.7 mmol/l). Furthermore, in the control
      group, the equipment receive continuous saline in a infusion rate of 180 ml per hour or
      unfractionated heparin 1,000 units in bolus at the initiation of the procedure and maintained
      at 500 units per hour in a specific syringe pump in the device.
    
  