
    
      Aim of the research To describe macular retinal vascular changes in patient with retinal
      vasculitis secondary to Behcet's disease both qualitatively and quantitatively.

      Research design Type of the study: cross sectional analytical study Study Setting: Assuit
      University Hospital (Ophthalmology Department)

      Study subjects:

        1. Inclusion criteria:

           • Patients diagnosed with Behcet's disease with or without active uveitis

        2. Exclusion criteria:

             -  Patients less than 18 years old

             -  Hazy media precluding clear fundus view.

             -  Patients with very poor fixation.

        3. Sample Size Calculation:

      We will aim at recruiting all patients diagnosed with Behcet's disease in outpatient clinic
      who will meet the inclusion criteria within one year from the start of our project.

      Methods Subject recruitment and obtaining consent Study subjects (Behcet's patients) will be
      recruited from patients attending uveitis and retina clinic of the ophthalmology Department,
      Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University. Written informed consent form will be obtained from
      each patient.

      Baseline evaluation:

        1. Full ocular examination including slit lamp and dilated fundus examinations. Also,
           measurement of the best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) using Snellen's chart will be
           done.

        2. Thorough clinical history and review of other systems involvement as well as full drug
           history including use of topical and systemic medications.

        3. Retinal vasculitis will be diagnosed by fundus examination. Additionally, fluorescein
           angiography may be done according to the discretion of the investigators to confirm the
           diagnosis.

      Optical coherence tomography angiography imaging OCT imaging will be performed after
      pupillary dilatation using Topcon DRI OCT Triton platform which utilizes invisible 1050 nm
      light and obtains images at a speed of 100,000 A scans/sec.

      First, B scans of the macula will be obtained and anatomical alterations of retinal
      architecture will be noted. Next, OCT angiography scans in a 4.5x 4.5 mm circle centered on
      the fovea will be then obtained. Analysis and interpretation of the enface images of the
      superficial and deep retinal capillary plexus as well as choriocapillaries will be performed.
      Areas of capillary dropout, abnormalities of retinal capillaries and vessels such as looping,
      dilated segments, microaneurysms as well as FAZ area will be documented.

      Research outcome measures:

      A. Primary (main):

      1- Qualitative description of the retinal capillary plexus changes in the macular area

      B. Secondary:

        1. Quantification of the extent of macular ischemia by measuring the area of foveal
           avascular zone (FAZ).

        2. Correlation between extent of macular vascular changes and visual acuity

      Data management and analysis:

      Data collection data will be recorded in the form of excel spreadsheets Computer software
      SPSS and Prism graphpad Statistical tests chi square test and Pearson correlation coefficient
    
  