
    
      Background: Schizophrenia (SCZ) is frequently associated with marked working memory (WM)
      deficits whose pathophysiology is closely related to dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      (DLPFC)-dependent dysfunction[1]. These deficits predict disease outcome and poor response to
      antipsychotic treatment[2]. Consequently, elucidating the physiology of DLPFC-dependent WM
      deficits in SCZ is key in better understanding this illness and its treatment.

      Patients with SCZ display an unusually high prevalence of smoking and high rates of smoking
      cessation failures are commonly associated with WM deficits[3]. The central nicotinic
      acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) is the main target for nicotine. Several lines of evidence
      strongly suggest that the nAChR system is a promising target for treating cognitive deficits
      in SCZ. These include the following observations: (1) expression of nAChRs receptors is
      abnormal in several brain regions, including the PFC, in post mortem brains of patients with
      SCZ, (2) genes coding for nAChR subunits are candidate risk genes for SCZ and nicotine
      addiction, and (3) smoking abstinence produce deficits of WM, which correlate with blood
      levels of nicotine, are alleviated by smoking re-instatement and are blocked by nAChR
      antagonists in patients with SCZ, but not in healthy control smokers (e.g.,[4]). However, the
      underlying mechanism through which nicotine and nAChRs affect DLPFC-dependent memory in SCZ
      are still unknown. Nicotine-induced increases in neural plasticity may represent one such
      mechanism.

      Neuroplasticity, which includes long-term potentiation (LTP), is a proposed physiological
      mechanism for memory formation. LTP is dependent on an optimal interaction between the
      glutamate (GLU), dopamine (DA) and γ-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) systems and perturbations in
      these systems likely explain why patients with SCZ demonstrate deficits in WM and
      neuroplasticity[5,6]. nAChR are present on GABA, GLU and DA neurons and nicotine could
      potentially improve cognition by modulating these systems. Studies have demonstrated that
      acute nicotine administration potentiates neural plasticity in the motor cortex of healthy
      human subjects. One of these studies used Paired Associative Stimulation (PAS), a powerful
      paradigm to index LTP in the motor cortex, to assess the effects of nicotine on LTP in
      non-smokers[7]. The results demonstrate that nicotine enhanced LTP-like mechanisms induced by
      PAS in the motor cortex[7]. To date, however, there has been no direct measure of LTP-like
      plasticity from the DLPFC in humans. To overcome this challenge, the investigators group has
      developed a novel PAS technique of combined transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and
      electroencephalography (EEG)[8] to directly index LTP from the DLPFC.

      Conventional methods of applying PAS involves the repetitive delivery of two paired
      stimulations: the first being an electrical peripheral nerve stimulation of the right median
      nerve of the hand and 25 ms later a second TMS pulse delivered to the contralateral motor
      cortex (hence PAS-25). Through repetitive pairing of these two stimulations, PAS-25 results
      in increased activation of output neurons that represents a direct measure LTP in humans[9].
      The investigators lab has recently recorded PAS-LTP in the DLFPC using a novel technique of
      TMS-EEG[8]. Here, PAS is applied to the DLPFC by repetitive delivery of: (1) a peripheral
      nerve stimulation to the right side, followed 25 ms later by; (2) a TMS pulse delivered to
      the left DLPFC. PAS-induced potentiation of cortical evoked activity is then measured
      directly from the DLPFC and represents LTP in this region as interneurons activated from
      cortical stimulation and peripheral stimulation, in turn, activate DLPFC output neurons
      contemporaneously and increase their activity when repeated over 30 min. Thus, the activation
      of the somatosensory cortex by peripheral nerve stimulation will propagate to the DLPFC and
      arrive there simultaneously with the TMS pulse resulting in LTP. The validity of this
      technique relies on the observation that there are strong correlations between TMS induced
      evoked potentials in the motor and DLPFC (r=0.8-0.85, p<0.001)[8]. LTP is quantified as
      change in DLPFC cortical evoked activity from baseline (pre-PAS) to different time points
      following PAS-25 (post-PAS). Preliminary data from the investigators ongoing study using
      these novel methods, demonstrate that PAS-25 induces significant LTP in the DLPFC. For
      example, in healthy controls cortical evoked activity in the DLPFC was facilitated by 56%
      post-PAS (maximal point of facilitation) while in patients with SCZ the cortical evoked
      activity post-PAS was only increased by 16% (Cohen's d=0.80). This is to the investigators
      knowledge the first time LTP has ever been demonstrated in-vivo in the DLPFC of humans and
      the first time that LTP deficits in the DLPFC have been reported in patients with SCZ. The
      aim of this proposal is now to assess whether enhanced WM by nicotine is mediated by
      potentiation of LTP in the DLPFC.

      Hypothesis:

        1. Patients with SCZ will have reduced DLPFC LTP and impaired WM compared to healthy
           controls.

        2. Acute nicotine gum challenge will attenuate the DLPFC LTP and WM deficit in patients
           with SCZ.

        3. Plasma nicotine levels will correlate with improvement in DLPFC LTP.

        4. Reversal of the DLPFC LTP deficit in patients with SCZ will be associated with
           improvement in WM.

      Methods:

      Subjects: Fourteen healthy non-smokers and 14 non-smokers with SCZ will complete this
      exploratory study. This sample size is based on a previous study that used the TMS-EEG method
      and demonstrated a significant difference in cortical inhibition between healthy controls and
      SCZ patients[10], and will be sufficient to detect a medium effect size (Cohen´s d=0.72;
      α=0.05, 1-β=0.80) of nicotine treatment. Only patients that are treated with a stable dose of
      antipsychotic medication (≥1 month) will be enrolled in this study. This could potentially
      confound the results as the investigators are using healthy non-medicated controls for
      comparison. However, the within- subjects design is an effort to control for such effects.
      Study design: The study will be a double-blinded, placebo-controlled, crossover study
      consisting of two PAS-25 testing sessions one month apart, followed by a 7 day post-PAS
      follow-up test session each. Pharmacological treatment: Nicotine (4 mg) or matching placebo
      gum will be administered on each of the two test days before baseline TMS-EEG recording.
      Maximum nicotine blood concentration is reached after 30 min, at which point blood samples
      will be drawn to assess nicotine levels. WM assessment: The N-back task measures the ability
      to maintain active information online (i.e. WM) and is dependent on DLPFC functioning.
      Letters are presented in a continuous sequence and the subject is asked to respond if they
      recognize the present letter as the same letter appears that appeared as the N (0, 1, 2 or 3)
      letters back, i.e. "N-back". The N-back will be administered at the pre-test training session
      (to control for training effects), baseline, 120 minutes and 1 week post PAS. Paired
      Associative Stimulation (PAS): The pairings will occur over a 30 min period and the
      peripheral nerve stimulation and TMS to the DLPFC will be delivered at 0.1 Hz. To assure the
      DLPFC localization, neuronavigational techniques using the MRIcro/reg software and a
      T1-weight MRI scan will be used. Quantifying LTP: To assess DLPFC LTP, change in cortical
      evoked activity will be measured using pre- and post-PAS TMS-EEG recordings. TMS pulses will
      be generated using two Magstim 200 stimulators (Magstim Company Ltd., UK) connected to and a
      7 cm figure-of-eight coil via a Bistim module. A train of 100 pulses (0.1 Hz) will be
      administered together with EEG recordings; (1) before PAS in order to assess baseline
      cortical evoked activity and (2) at different time points (0, 15, 30, 60,120 min and 7 days)
      following PAS-25. EEG will be recorded using the DLPFC-corresponding electrodes of a
      64-channel Synamps 2 EEG system. Cortical evoked activity will be defined as the area under
      the rectified curve for the averaged EEG recordings (50-275 ms post-stimulus) and LTP will be
      quantified as the change in cortical evoked activity from baseline. Statistics: Within and
      between subjects comparisons will be carried out using repeated measures, mixed-factorial,
      ANOVAs when appropriate. Relationship between LTP and nicotine levels will be assessed using
      Pearson correlations. P-values will be set to 0.05 and multiple comparisons will be
      Bonferroni corrected.

      Significance: The results of this study will provide important new knowledge about mechanisms
      underlying cognitive enhancement strategies in SCZ. That is, the investigators intend to
      decipher the complex pharmacological mechanisms that underlie nicotinic cholinergic
      enhancement of plasticity in the DLPFC. Such findings will also help to generate important
      biomarkers through which cognitive enhancing strategies may be measured biologically that can
      potentially lead to the development of more personalized treatments of cognitive deficits in
      this debilitating disorder.
    
  