
    
      BACKGROUND

      Clinical investigators in the Center for Human Immunology, Autoimmunity, and Inflammatory
      Diseases (CHI) study the pathophysiology of a wide variety of immune-mediated and
      inflammatory diseases. One of the goals of the CHI is to better understand these diseases and
      to refine therapeutic approaches used in their management based on knowledge of the
      underlying pathophysiologies. This requires samples from patients with immune-mediated and
      inflammatory diseases for such clinical and laboratory assessments. Collection of samples
      from family members is necessary to identify genetic components of specific conditions.

      We expect the great majority of publications from the Center for Human Immunology,
      Autoimmunity, and Inflammatory Diseases (CHI) over the next several decades will be generated
      from exploratory laboratory research studies done using blood and bone marrow and other
      tissue samples from such patients and their family members. These publications are expected
      to number in the hundreds. Ongoing and future research projects depend on the ready
      availability of samples of blood, tissue, leukapheresed cells, and bone marrow from patients
      for in vitro studies.

      OBJECTIVE

      To provide a mechanism for collection of blood, bone marrow, leukapheresis cells, urine,
      stool, buccal mucosa and/or tissue samples from patients with immune-mediated and
      inflammatory diseases, as well as from family members for ongoing exploratory research
      studies.

      STUDY DESIGN

      This study is not a treatment protocol. This is a sample and clinical data procurement
      protocol.

      All subjects with conditions of interest seen at the NIH Clinical Center will first be
      enrolled onto CHI protocol 09-H-0201 Screening protocol for subjects being evaluated for
      Center for Human Immunology, Autoimmunity, and Inflammatory Diseases (CHI) protocols.
      Patients who require specific medical intervention will be enrolled on and receive treatment
      under another NIH or CHI Clinical Center protocol or will be under the care of their home
      health care provider. In exceptional cases in which it is not possible for patients to travel
      to the Clinical Center, they may be allowed the option of giving consent to provide samples
      for research studies, including genetic analyses, performed on blood, buccal mucosa, bone
      marrow, and tissue samples sent through their local physician without enrolling onto
      09-H-0201. Information will be obtained retrospectively by review of medical records and
      examination of archived materials and/or prospectively by clinical examinations and
      laboratory tests. The protocol is written for an indefinite period of time with subject
      accrual to occur both at the NIH Clinical Center or through home health care providers (off
      site).
    
  