
    
      A total of thirty-three participants (age range 18-65) who had lower extremity amputation due
      to traumatic injury and were followed up in tertiary amputee clinic were included in this
      cross-sectional trial. The study was conducted between April 2019 and April 2020.
      Participants were totally volunteers and informed about the nature of the study. Written
      informed consent was obtained prior to assessment from all individuals. The study was
      conducted by the latest version of the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki protocol.
      All procedures were in consistency with the Helsinki Declarations of 1975. The study was
      approved by the local ethical committee.

      All patients had completed stump healing. Patients with any disease affecting the peripheral
      nerves (eg, diabetes mellitus, infections, metabolic problems, inherited causes, and exposure
      to toxins) were excluded.

      Demographic and clinical characteristics of the participants including age, gender,
      amputation findings (etiology, time since amputation, level, and side), prosthesis use
      findings (time since prosthesis use, daily use time, type, type of liner, prosthetic foot
      type), and functional K level of activity after amputation were recorded.

      The presence, etiology, and duration of pain were questioned, and the intensity of pain was
      assessed by visual analog scale (VAS). Leeds Assessment of Neuropathic Symptoms and Signs
      (LANSS) was used to evaluate neuropathic pain for the residual limb. The patient's
      satisfaction with the current prosthesis was evaluated numerically between 0 (not satisfied
      at all) and 10 (completely satisfied).

      All ultrasonographic examinations were performed by a single physiatrist experienced in
      musculoskeletal sonography. A 5-12 MHz linear transducer (Logic e portable; GE Healthcare,
      China) was used. To optimize image quality, minimal pressure was applied to the transducer.
      Each examination was performed bilaterally while patients were in the prone position. The
      full course of the sciatic nerve (SN), tibial nerve (TN), and common peroneal nerve (CPN) was
      assessed in a craniocaudal direction starting from the subgluteal fold to the popliteal
      fossa. The probe was placed axially on the nerves (perpendicular to the nerve) and the
      cross-sectional area (CSA) was measured at the same level proximal to the bifurcation for the
      SN (Figure 1), and at a point distal to the bifurcation of the SN for the TN and CPN (Figure
      2). The values from the normal sides were accepted as controls. The presence of a neuroma was
      also evaluated throughout the nerve, particularly at the distal ends.
    
  