
    
      Exercise training has long been recommended as a means of improving cardiac function and
      reducing morbidity and mortality in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). One
      mechanism of benefit may be through improved endothelial function and enhanced nitric oxide
      bioactivity. Such an effect may augment blood flow to exercising skeletal muscle and to the
      myocardium. In this regard, studies in both animals and humans have shown that frequent
      exercise improves endothelial function as well as blood flow to ischemic myocardium.
      Exercise-induced improvement in endothelial function is believed to result from up-regulation
      of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) transcription due to repetitive shear stress
      associated with exercise. However, not all patients show improved endothelial function or
      myocardial perfusion despite compliant participation in cardiac rehabilitation programs. We
      hypothesize that endothelial function before and following structured exercise programs may
      be determined by the presence and function of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) that are
      released from the bone marrow and circulate in the blood stream. Thus, patients who have low
      baseline or post-exercise EPC levels or function may have limited capacity to improve
      endothelial function, exercise duration, and myocardial perfusion and function following
      participation in cardiac rehabilitation programs with repetitive exercise. On the other hand,
      patients with higher levels of EPCs at baseline or following repetitive exercise, with
      preserved capacity of EPCs to form endothelial cells, may show improved endothelial function,
      exercise duration, and myocardial perfusion and function as a result of repetitive exercise.
      The primary endpoint of this study will be improvement in endothelial function as determined
      by flow-mediated dilator responsiveness of the brachial artery at 2-3 months of repetitive
      exercise in the program compared with baseline measurements. Secondary endpoints include
      treadmill exercise duration and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-determined regional cardiac
      perfusion by gadolinium distribution during pharmacologic stress at 2-3 months compared with
      baseline measurements. EPCs will be identified by characteristic cell surface markers and by
      colony-forming ability at specific time-points of the study, with correlations determined
      between EPCs at baseline or the increase in EPCs following repetitive exercise, and the
      primary and secondary endpoints. We propose that patients most likely, and least likely, to
      benefit from a cardiac rehabilitation program may be identified on the basis of circulating
      EPCs.
    
  