
    
      Background. Alterations in retinal metabolism are associated with blinding conditions and
      vision loss. We propose to apply a non-invasive in vivo retinal imaging system to investigate
      key physiologic processes affecting retinal metabolism. The imaging system is designed to
      quantify and characterize the topology of retinal metabolism in 3-dimensional space across
      40--130 picosecond time periods and allows dynamic measurement of physiologically relevant
      events.

      Objectives. The primary objectives of our study are to: (1) evaluate the utility of this
      system in a clinical setting; and (2) examine variation in retinal metabolism within retinal
      cell subtypes under environmental conditions optimized to support this metabolism. The
      working hypothesis of our first objective is that the imaging system will be easily and
      efficiently implemented in a clinical setting and will yield stable and repeatable results.
      The working hypothesis for our second objective is that people with or at high risk for
      progression to sight threatening retinal disease will exhibit different metabolic profiles
      than an age- and sex-matched disease-free comparison group. Their peers with less severe
      disease may exhibit differences with severe diseased and non-diseased groups. The long-term
      goal of the project is to address the following research questions: Are metabolic profiles
      generated by the imaging system effective for determining presence and severity of retinal
      diseases?; and if so, are these metabolic profiles useful in identifying people at risk for
      progression to sight threatening forms of retinal diseases?

      Study Population. We will first apply the systems in 3 groups of 10 people exhibiting a range
      of severity in retinal diseases that influence retinal metabolism; these diseases are:
      age-related macular degeneration (AMD); diabetic retinopathy (DR); and von-Hippel-Lindau
      (VHL) disease.

      Design. Cross-sectional sampling design. If the system yields accurate, stable, and
      repeatable results it will be applied in longitudinal studies to evaluate prognostic utility
      for estimating the risk of progression to sight-threatening AMD, DR, or VHL disease.

      Outcome Measures. The magnitude and 3-D topographic profile of fluorescence anisotropy values
      across physiologically meaningful time periods for a 20 degree field centered on the macula.
      Fluorescence anisotropy of our system provides a measure of retinal metabolism.
    
  