
    
      Bevacizumab is a new research drug that may help to stop or slow the growth of blood vessels
      in your tumor. These blood vessels are needed by the tumor to grow. Rituxan is a commercially
      available drug that is commonly used to treat relapsed and refractory lymphoma.

      Before treatment starts, you will be asked questions about your medical history and about any
      surgeries you have had. You will have a complete physical exam including blood (around 3
      tablespoons) and urine tests. You will have a sample of bone marrow collected to learn if the
      lymphoma has spread to the bone marrow. To collect a bone marrow sample, an area of the hip
      or chest bone is numbed with anesthetic and a small amount of bone marrow is withdrawn
      through a large needle. You will have either a CT scan or a MRI of the neck, chest, abdomen,
      and pelvis, and you will have a gallium or PET scan. You will be asked about any medications
      that you are taking, including over-the-counter medications. Women who are able to have
      children must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

      Additional blood samples (2 tablespoons) will be collected from you before starting therapy
      and every 2 months during this study for tests to help your doctors and researchers to learn
      more about how Bevacizumab works.

      During the study, you will be given a dose of rituximab by vein once a week for 8 weeks in a
      row, and a dose of Bevacizumab every other week. The drugs will be contained in a bag and
      will be given to you through a needle in one of your veins. This method of giving the drugs
      is called an infusion. The infusion of Bevacizumab may take 1 to 2 hours, and the infusion of
      rituximab may take up to 3 to 6 hours. This method of giving a drug is called an infusion. In
      the first week, infusions of rituxan and Bevacizumab will be given on the same day.

      During the infusion of each drug, you will have your vital signs checked often and you will
      be watched for any side effects. If you experience side effects, the infusion may be slowed
      down or stopped until the symptoms have gone away.

      Within 2 weeks after your 8th dose of rituximab, (4th dose of Bevacizumab) you will have a
      follow-up visit scheduled to evaluate the status of the disease. During the follow-up visit,
      you will have a physical exam and blood (around 4 tablespoons) will be collected for lab
      tests. You will have a CT scan or a MRI, gallium or PET scan, and bone marrow biopsy (if
      needed). If the disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side effects, you will
      be taken off the study. If you are taken off the study or your doctor decides that you should
      stop study treatment, you will be asked to return to M. D. Anderson for all of the scheduled
      follow-up visits to check for long term side effects of the drug and to check on the status
      of the disease.

      If the disease remains stable or shrinks after 8 weeks of therapy, you may continue to
      receive Bevacizumab treatments every 2 weeks for a maximum of a total of 6 months. Even if
      the treatment is shown to be of benefit to you, your doctor may not continue to give you
      additional treatments with Bevacizumab beyond the total of 6 months.

      After treatment, you will have follow-up visits scheduled to check on the status of the
      disease. These visits will be scheduled every 3 months for 1 year, then every 4 months for 1
      more year, then every 6 months until the disease gets worse. During these visits, you will
      have a physical exam, blood tests (around 2 tablespoons), and either a CT scan or a MRI. You
      will also have a sample of bone marrow collected.

      This is an investigational study. Bevacizumab has been authorized by the FDA for use in
      research only. Rituximab is FDA approved and is commercially available. There will be no cost
      for Bevacizumab or for any tests and procedures that are not considered part of standard of
      care. Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All patients will be enrolled at M. D.
      Anderson.
    
  