
    
      Atherosclerosis is a condition in which deposits of fat, cholesterol, and other substances
      build up along the inner walls of arteries; these deposits are known as plaque. As plaque
      builds up, it increases the risk of heart attack. Previous autopsy studies have shown that
      vulnerable plaques, a type of atherosclerotic plaque, are commonly found in people who have
      had a heart attack. Until recently it has been difficult to identify vulnerable plaques in
      people prior to their death. Many people who have coronary artery disease and are at risk of
      having a heart attack undergo angioplasty, a procedure that opens a narrowed or blocked blood
      vessel. During angioplasty, imaging devices are often used to take pictures of the inside of
      blood vessels. The most commonly used imaging device, an intravenous ultrasound (IVUS)
      catheter, is threaded through the blood vessels and uses sound waves to take pictures. An
      OFDI is a new type of catheter that takes more detailed pictures of blood vessel walls and
      plaques. The additional detail provided by OFDI images may improve detection of vulnerable
      plaques, which may help physicians identify people who are at high risk of having a heart
      attack. This study will use standard IVUS imaging and OFDI to examine vulnerable plaques
      within blood vessels of the heart and to evaluate any changes that occur over time in heart
      blood vessels and plaque.

      This study will enroll people with coronary artery disease who are undergoing angioplasty. At
      a baseline study visit, participants will first undergo an angiography procedure, in which
      x-ray pictures will be taken of the heart blood vessels. Participants will then be randomly
      assigned to undergo either the IVUS procedure followed by the OFDI procedure or vice versa.
      Repeat angiographies will occur after each imaging procedure. Next, participants will undergo
      angioplasty and a stent will be placed at the area of the blood vessel that is narrowed or
      blocked to keep the blood vessel open. Finally, participants will undergo repeat IVUS and
      OFDI procedures. For some participants, the study physician may perform the IVUS and OFDI
      procedures only after the angioplasty. Every six months and for a period of two years,
      participants will complete questionnaires about medication history and heart problems that
      may have occurred since the baseline visit.Blood collection will occur if this is done during
      office visit.
    
  