
    
      Phase 1 will be a prospective evaluation of patients with the conditions listed. After
      consent, participants will complete PROMIS CAT questionnaires on their mobile phones to
      assess health status. During enrollment, participants will choose a method of completing the
      surveys throughout the duration of the study. The participants will either 1) receive a short
      message service(SMS) with a secure weblink to complete these PROMIS CAT questionnaires on a
      secure website, or 2) engage in two-way SMS communication by answering the survey questions
      individually by texting back their answers. The investigators will explain that the desired
      method of participation is by weblink due to privacy issues associated with two-way texting.
      The frequency at which the questionnaires will be sent is condition-specific. All patients
      will be seen in clinic at standard follow up time-points and will be asked to complete PROMIS
      questionnaires during each clinic visit, identical to the delivery of surveys while at home.
      The PROMIS measures collected over a 1-year period will be used to develop patient-based
      recovery curves.

      Phase 2 will begin at the end of Phase 1 and compare each participant's recovery (based on
      the PROMs) against the established recovery curve that was generated in Phase 1 for their
      orthopedic condition. The investigators will right-size in-person clinic visits based on
      individual recovery as compared with expected recovery. Earlier clinic appointments will be
      given to participants at risk for a poor outcome (defined as any PROMIS score ≥1 standard
      deviation below the mean). All other participants will receive a phone call to make sure that
      participants feel they are doing well and to have any issues addressed. If it is felt that a
      visit is warranted, it will be recommended, and if a subject wishes to have a visit it will
      be scheduled. If the subject is happy with their progress, then that in-person clinic visit
      will be deferred until the next standard follow-up visit and the same process will occur.
      Some in-person visits will be mandatory when a physical exam or x-ray is required for optimal
      care. These are condition specific. For all participants, a final in-person follow-up visit
      will occur unless the subject is happy and does not want to be seen in person.
    
  