
    
      In general, patients with Human Papilloma Virus Oropharynx Cancer (HPVOPC) are young and will
      live for prolonged periods. They are at high risk for long-term toxicity and mortality from
      radiotherapy. While the long-term consequences of chemotherapy for head and neck cancer are
      relatively constrained, high-dose radiotherapy (RT) and chemoradiotherapy (CRT) substantially
      impact on local tissues and organ function and result in a significant rate of late mortality
      and morbidity in patients. Studies are now being designed to reduce the impact of RT and CRT
      for patients. Identifying appropriate endpoints and study arms which will allow an early
      assessment of outcomes will be problematic, particularly for equivalence studies wherein
      survival differences are small, and where prolonged time periods and large patient numbers
      are necessary to accurately assess outcomes. For Sequential Therapy as given with TAX 324,
      3-year PFS may be an appropriate endpoint. The same may not be possible for CRT. The best
      example of changing outcomes in CRT trials would be R91-11, in which a premature negative
      conclusion regarding the efficacy of induction therapy was published with the early analysis.
      Late toxicity and morbidity, a hallmark of upfront cisplatin-based CRT trials, led to
      equivalence between induction therapy and CRT for laryngectomy-free survival at 5 years, and
      more importantly a non-significant relative 10% improvement in overall survival in the PF
      induction arm compared to the CRT arm which included an every 3-week bolus cisplatin for 3
      cycles during radiotherapy.

      The survival results in HPVOPC achieved in TAX 324 and preliminary data from ECOG 1308
      strongly suggest that it might be possible to reduce long-term morbidity in HPVOPC and
      preserve survival perhaps by better patient selection and by reducing radiotherapy intensity
      in the context of ST for more advanced cases. Best approach of HPV-negative disease might be
      with novel therapies and more aggressive Sequential Therapy (ST) or CRT.

      Current radiation dose reduction trials are under way in ECOG, RTOG and other radiation based
      groups. The data from TAX 324 suggest that it is possible to reduce the radiation dose
      because of the superior progression free survival and the ability to select risk based CRT.
    
  