
    
      Background There is scientific evidence that rehabilitation has a positive influence on
      patients'recovery after total knee arthroplasty (TKA). According to the literature,
      conventional rehabilitation aims to improve knee range of motion, lower limb strength, gait,
      activities and pain. Although swelling is a systematic consequence of TKA surgery, less focus
      is put on swelling reduction. Patients develop swelling due to periarticular edema, hematoma
      and joint effusion. Inflammation, pain, stiffness, alteration of gait pattern, quadriceps
      contraction inhibition and slowing of rehabilitation are reported as consequences of
      swelling. Accordingly, it is likely that a therapy that would promote resorption of swelling
      would decrease the negative impact of swelling on patients'recovery. Manual lymph drainage
      (MLD) could possibly accelerate edema resorption after TKA surgery. Several authors advise
      MLD after TKA, and physiotherapists currently apply MLD to reduce postsurgical swelling. Its
      positive effect on chronic lymphedema resorption is largely accepted. Results on pain and
      range of motion seem interesting from an empirical point of view but, to our knowledge, no
      scientifically driven studies have confirmed these positive effects after orthopaedic
      surgery.

      Aim This study aims to evaluate the effect of MLD on swelling, and parameters possibly
      influenced by swelling (pain, knee range of motion, knee objective and subjective function
      and gait pattern).

      Methods This study is a randomized controlled clinical trial. Patients will be blinded from
      goals of the treatments and evaluators will be blinded from the treatment delivered to the
      patient. The effects of MLD (5 treatments of 30 minutes from the second to the eighth
      postsurgical day) will be compared to those of a placebo (relaxation sessions). MLD or
      placebo will be added to the conventional rehabilitation program of our Orthopaedic
      Department. Assessments will be conducted one day before surgery, two days, 8 days and 3
      months after surgery. Evolution and differences between groups will be statistically assessed
      at each step.

      Significance This project aims to improve knowledge on the efficiency of rehabilitation
      treatments following TKA. It will contribute to effective evaluation of the effects of a
      widely applied treatment. The results will help physiotherapists and medical doctors to take
      clinical decisions based on documented evidence. This will make a contribution to better
      quality of care and better allocation of resources to rehabilitation.
    
  