
    
      The proposed study is a prospective, randomized, active control, open label between subjects
      design. One hundred sixty subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two groups (n = 80 per
      group): the oxytocin protocol group or the standard practice group. The following is a
      summary of the procedures used in this study:

        1. All patients scheduled for an elective cesarean section will be prescreened by the
           investigator that is assigned as the student registered nurse anesthetist (SRNA) for
           that case. After obtaining informed consent and a HIPAA authorization, a full screening
           for eligibility will be conducted by the investigator. If determined eligible, subjects
           will be enrolled in the study and assigned a unique study code. Study codes will be
           assigned sequentially (001, 002, 003, etc.). Subjects will then be randomly allocated to
           one of the two groups with the use of a computer generated random number program.

        2. Prior to the scheduled cesarean section investigators will record subject's age, height,
           weight, body mass index (BMI), parity, and gestational age. Baseline vital signs will be
           obtained before the start of anesthesia (blood pressure, mean arterial pressure, heart
           rate, respiratory rate, pulse oximetry, and temperature). A pre-operative complete blood
           count (CBC) will be drawn in order to obtain baseline hematocrit concentration.
           Procedures in this section are part of standard clinical care.

        3. All subjects will have an 18-gauge IV catheter placed in the left and right upper
           extremity and Lactated Ringer's solution will be administered at the anesthesia
           provider's discretion. Standard monitors will be applied with blood pressure set to
           cycle at 3-minute intervals. Procedures in this section are part of standard clinical
           care.

        4. Neuraxial anesthesia will be administered at the anesthesia provider's discretion based
           on patient assessment. A T4 sensory level will be established prior to beginning the
           cesarean section. Procedures in this section are part of standard clinical care.

        5. Heart rate, ECG rhythm with ST-segment analysis, end-tidal carbon dioxide (CO2),
           temperature, and pulse oximetry will be monitored continuously throughout the procedure.
           Blood pressure and mean arterial pressure will be measured at three-minute intervals. A
           Foley catheter will be inserted and used to measure urine output. Procedures in this
           section are part of standard clinical care.

        6. Throughout the procedure vasopressor drugs, crystalloids, and colloids will be
           administered at the anesthesia provider's discretion. Procedures in this section are
           part of standard clinical care.

        7. Immediately after delivery of the placenta, oxytocin will be administered per the
           allocated group (see below). The surgeon will be blinded to the treatment group.

        8. The surgeon will assess uterine tone at 3, 6, and 9 minutes following the first dose of
           oxytocin and deem it adequate or inadequate.

        9. Subject complaints of nausea or chest tightness/pain at any time after the first dose of
           oxytocin will be recorded.

       10. At the conclusion of the cesarean section, the amount of time required to establish
           adequate uterine tone following the delivery of the placenta and the total dose of
           oxytocin required to establish adequate uterine tone will be recorded.

       11. Estimated blood loss as agreed upon by the surgeon and the anesthesia provider, need for
           additional uterotonic drugs, total fluid requirement (crystalloids, colloids, and blood
           products), total urine output, and surgical time will also be recorded at the conclusion
           of the procedure.

       12. A post-operative CBC will be drawn 24 hours after the procedure and will be used to
           calculate blood loss based on the change from the pre-operative hematocrit
           concentration. Procedures in this section are part of standard clinical care.

       13. Data will be recorded manually on a data collection sheet during the procedure and
           transferred to an electronic data spreadsheet. No identifying patient information will
           be used on data collection sheets or the electronic data spreadsheet; subjects will be
           identified by their unique study code.

       14. Data collected will be statistically analyzed. Means, standard deviations, and
           covariances will be calculated for the groups. Patient characteristics such as age,
           weight, parity, prior cesarean section, gestational age, and baseline hematocrit will be
           analyzed using a multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) in order to determine if
           groups are equivalent on these parameters. An independent t-test will be used to analyze
           differences between the groups for continuous variables: time to adequate uterine tone,
           total oxytocin dose, estimated blood loss, and calculated blood loss. A Fisher's exact
           test will be used to analyze differences between the groups for categorical variables:
           uterine tone at 3, 6, and 9 minutes (adequate/inadequate), use of additional
           uterotonics, incidence of nausea, incidence of chest pain/tightness, and incidence of
           ST-segment changes. A repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) with groups as the
           between-subjects factor and times as the within-subjects will be used to analyze
           differences between the groups relative to mean arterial pressure. If significance is
           detected, a post hoc comparison will be made using the Tukey honestly significant
           difference test.

      Oxytocin Protocol Group Upon delivery of the placenta with confirmation from the surgeon, 3
      international units (IU) of oxytocin will be administered via slow intravenous (IV) push over
      30 seconds and an oxytocin infusion will be initiated at 3 IU per hour (50 mL/hr regulated by
      an IV pump). Investigators will wait three minutes to reassess uterine tone. If uterine tone
      is inadequate, an additional 3 IU bolus of oxytocin will be administered via slow IV push
      over 30 seconds and the oxytocin infusion will be increased to 6 IU per hour (100 mL/hr).
      Investigators will then wait an additional three minutes to reassess uterine tone. If uterine
      tone continues to be inadequate, another 3 IU bolus of oxytocin will be administered via slow
      IV push over 30 seconds and the oxytocin infusion will be increased to 9 IU per hour (150
      mL/hr). The investigators will again wait an additional three minutes to reassess uterine
      tone. If uterine tone continues to be inadequate, an alternative uterotonic will be
      administered at the surgeon's discretion (methylergonovine 0.2 mg intramuscular [IM],
      carboprost tromethamine 0.25 mg IM or intramyometrial, or misoprostol 600 mcg buccal or
      800-1000 mcg rectal). In the event the surgeon determines additional uterotonics are required
      prior to the third dose of oxytocin, the subject will be excluded from the study and
      additional uterotonics will be administered as necessary. Similarly, in the event the surgeon
      determines supplementary oxytocin is required and the protocol cannot be followed, the
      subject will be excluded from the study and additional oxytocin will be administered as
      necessary.

      Standard Practice Group Upon delivery of the placenta, a free-flowing ("wide-open") oxytocin
      infusion will be initiated. The oxytocin infusion will be regulated at the anesthesia
      provider's discretion with a standard IV tubing roll-clamp and adjustments will be made as
      necessary after conferring with the surgeon. If adequate uterine tone is not achieved in a
      reasonable timeframe, the surgeon may request for an additional 20 units of oxytocin to be
      added to the infusion, thereby increasing the total dose of oxytocin in the 500 mL bag from
      30 units to 50 units. Additional uterotonics may be requested at any time at the surgeon's
      discretion (methylergonovine 0.2 mg IM, carboprost tromethamine 0.25 mg IM or
      intramyometrial, or misoprostol 600 mcg buccal or 800-1000 mcg rectal).
    
  