
    
      A cluster randomized controlled trial will be conducted at the National Cancer Centre
      Singapore (NCCS) over a period of 2 years. Eligible participants and their caregivers where
      applicable will be recruited and followed-up for a period of 12 months. Patients in the
      intervention arm will receive routine distress screening and referral to a supportive care
      nurse service where necessary; whereas patients in the control arm will receive usual care.

      Patients' quality of life will be assessed by the European Organization for Research and
      Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) and compared longitudinally
      between both study arms at a 3-months interval. Additionally, physical and psychological
      symptom distress levels will be compared using the Rotterdam Symptom Checklist (RSCL).

      For patients who receive symptom-specific services, additional questionnaires will be
      completed before and after they have received the service. They include the following:
      Multi-dimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form (MFSI-SF) for fatigue, Patient
      Neurotoxicity Questionnaire (PNQ) for neuropathy, Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy-Cognitive Function (FACT-Cog v3.0) for cognitive function, and Patient-Reported
      Arthralgia Inventory (PRAI) for arthralgia.

      An economic evaluation will be conducted using healthcare resource utilization and cost data
      gathered from health records and surveys including the Work Productivity and Activity
      Impairment (WPAI) questionnaire. Process outcomes of the program delivery will also be
      obtained to assess its feasibility by monitoring the referral patterns to supportive care
      nurse and adherence to screening or appointments. Lastly, patient satisfaction and clinicians
      acceptability of the program will be assessed via questionnaires.

      Results from this study on the program's feasibility and effectiveness among breast and
      gynecological cancer patients are crucial to highlight potential implementation barriers and
      utility for patients before extending to other cancer types. Furthermore, results can shed a
      light on the program's scalability for future integration into routine care. This compelling
      initiative will contribute to the institution of integrated and coordinated rehabilitative
      and specialized clinics services to address supportive and survivorship needs of cancer
      patients across the continuum in the long run.
    
  