
    
      Aim of the study The aim of this work is to study the effect of preoperative Colchicine,
      Dronedarone or Amiodarone for prophylaxis against postoperative atrial fibrillation in
      patients undergoing on-pump CABG.

      Patients and Methods

      Type and site of the study:

      This randomized double blinded clinical study will be carried out at Beni-Suef university
      hospital, after approval by the department of Anesthesiology, Pain management and Surgical
      ICU, the local ethics and research committee and other involved departments, faculty of
      medicine, Beni-Suef University.

      Study population:

      The study population will include inpatients of the cardiothoracic department scheduled for
      CABG surgery, both sex, selected randomly according to American Society of
      Anesthesiologists(ASA) grade II and III, between the ages of 40 -60ears.

      Exclusion criteria:.

        -  Liver dysfunction, pregnancy.

        -  History of allergic reaction to any drug used in this study.

        -  Emergency procedure

        -  Preoperative dialysis

        -  A.F.

        -  Patients on antiarrhythmic medications

      Sample size estimation:

      As considered the primary outcome, sample size calculation was done using the comparison of
      the rate of occurrence of postoperative AF in cases undergoing on-pump CABG pretreated with
      colchicine, dronedarone or amiodarone. As previously published 19 , the rate of postoperative
      AF among amiodarone group was 25%, while in colchicine, it was 7% 20. investigators assumed
      that dronedarone treatment will differ about 20% from amiodarone and selected the least
      excepted difference to do the calculation. Therefore, the calculation was done based on
      comparing 2 proportions from independent samples using Chi test, the α-error level was fixed
      at 0.05 and the power was set at 80%.

      Accordingly, the optimum sample size should be 48 cases in each arm. Sample size calculation
      was done using PS Power and Sample Size Calculations software, version 3.0.11 for MS Windows
      (William D. Dupont and Walton D. Vanderbilt, USA).

      Sampling Technique:

      The patients will be randomly divided into three groups, as follows: Group c: Colchicine will
      be used at the dose of 1 mg orally, twice daily, preoperatively (1 days), and of 0.5 mg,
      twice daily, until hospital discharge ; Group D: Dronedarone (200 mg twice daily starting
      from day before operation till 5 days after) ; Group A:-amiodarone (200 mg three times per
      day)21 administered 6 days prior to surgery through 6 days after surgery Randomization
      assignment of patients to Groups C, D and A will be performed with a list of random numbers
      generated by a computer program's random function. The allocation into the groups and the
      preparation of the study drug will be performed by an individual who as unrelated to the
      study. Personnel, patients, and the individual participating in the data collection and data
      analysis will be blinded to the treatment assignments.

      Anesthesia Management The patients will be evaluated preoperatively 1 day before surgery.
      Electrocardiogram (ECG), pulse oximetry, cannulation of the invasive arterial pressure (20
      gauge) from the left radial artery, and peripheral venous access (18 gauge) from the right
      arm will be inserted into the patient, who will be taken to the operating room on the day of
      the surgery. After induction of anesthesia and intubation, an 8F central venous catheter will
      be inserted from the right internal jugular vein. Midazolam (0.05 mg/kg), propofol (2 mg/kg),
      fentanyl (5 mcg/kg), and rocuronium (0.6 mg/kg) will be used for the induction of anesthesia.
      Anesthesia will be maintained with a mixture of 2% sevoflurane, 60% oxygen, and 40% air.

      All patients will be ventilated with positive pressure. Ventilation parameters will be set as
      a tidal volume of 8ml/kg and a respiratory rate of 10-12/min, which will be assessed by
      arterial blood gases. All patients will receive 500 ml ringer lactat before the induction of
      anesthesia. Thereafter, IV ringer lactate solution will be infused to keep the central venous
      pressure (CVP) at 10-12 mmHg.

      Cardiopulmonary Bypass Management Before cannulation for CPB, 3 mg/kg of heparin will be
      administered for all patients. When the activated coagulation time will be > 400/sec, it will
      be passed to the pump.

      Nonpulsatile CPB flow rates of 2-2.4 L/min/m2 will be applied, and the mean arterial pressure
      (MAP) will be kept at 50-60 mmHg. Hematocrit concentration will be maintained at 25-28%.
      Moreover, mild hypothermia (28-30°C) will be reached during CPB. Myocardial protection will
      be achieved with intermittent antegradecardtemperature of 37°C will be achieved after
      surgery, and the patient will be removed from CPB. Following this, coagulation will be
      provided with protamine; once hemodynamic stabilization (MAP 70-90 mmHg) will be achieved,
      patients will be brought to the intensive care unit.

      Data Collection Methods:

      The following parameters will be evaluated and recorded by senior anesthesiologist unaware of
      the study protocol:

        -  Demographic data (age, sex, and weight)

        -  Perioperative data (operation time, cross-clamp time, EF ).

        -  Post bypass and post operative AF

        -  Hospital stay and death

      Statistical analysis Continuous variables will be summarized as mean ± SD and categorical
      variables Will be expressed as proportion (%). Univariate analyses will be performed by
      chi-square, student's t-test, Fisher exact test, Mann Whitney test and One-way ANOVA (will be
      used for comparison between the three groups). SPSS for Windows (version 17; SPSS Inc.,
      Chicago, IL., USA) will be used for statistical analysis. Results will be considered
      significant if P values are less than 0.05p
    
  