
    
      The taxanes are a class of anticancer agents that interfere with microtubule disassembly.
      They have been an integral part of adjuvant breast cancer treatment since the early 2000s.
      Taxane-induced arthralgia and myalgia syndrome (TAMS) is one of the most common side effects
      of taxane chemotherapy. It is characterized by muscle and joint pain that often starts 24-48
      hours after taxane-based chemotherapy, and lasts for 5-7 days. TAMS can significantly impact
      the level of functioning and quality of life of early-stage breast cancer patients and can
      occur in up to 87% of women during their chemotherapy.

      Many studies have been conducted looking at medications to prevent TAMS. Unfortunately, these
      are primarily small retrospective or case series studies, and no standard of care has been
      established. Results from studies looking at antihistamines, corticosteroids, opioids,
      amifostine, glutamine, Shakuyaku-Kanzou-to (a Japanese herbal medicine), are conflicting
      and/or inconclusive.

      Gabapentin, a structural analog of gamma amino butyric acid (GABA), is a second-line
      antiepileptic and is also widely used to treat neuropathic pain syndromes. Many oncologists
      already use prophylactic gabapentin in an attempt to prevent TAMS, however this is supported
      primarily by small case series and retrospective data, and is not considered standard of
      care. Unfortunately, a systemic review found no randomized controlled trial evidence
      supporting these findings.

      This prospective randomized controlled trial will be conducted to evaluate the efficacy of
      gabapentin administered prophylactically on days -2 to +5 during the taxane-portion of
      chemotherapy for adjuvant breast cancer patients on reducing TAMS. The hypothesis for this
      study is that prophylactic gabapentin is more effective than observation in reducing the
      severity of taxane-induced arthralgias and myalgias syndrome in breast cancer patients
      undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy.
    
  