
    
      Background:

        -  Metastatic brain tumors occur more frequently than primary brain tumors and occur in
           approximately 25 percent of patients who die of cancer each year.

        -  The Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) developed three prognostic classes using a
           recursive partitioning analysis (RPA) of a large database. Theses classes are based on
           Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS), age and disease status.

        -  The RTOG RPA classes do not include neuropsychological function as a measure of outcome.

        -  There is no consensus of standardization of test selection to measure changes in
           neuropsychological functioning in this patient population.

        -  Neuropsychological function has an important effect on quality of life and should be
           included when determining prognosis and treatment options for patients.

        -  Neuropsychological functioning is important when determining the effects of treatments
           and for measuring outcomes in clinical trials.

      Objectives:

        -  To identify the neuropsychological test scores which detect significant change in
           neuropsychological functioning in patients receiving radiation therapy for brain
           metastases.

        -  To examine the relationship between neuropsychological function and survival in patients
           receiving radiation therapy for brain metastases.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients age 18 years and older.

        -  Pathologically confirmed primary malignancy with at least one intraparenchymal brain
           metastasis as identified on brain MRI scan with intravenous contrast.

        -  The patient must communicate in English in order to complete the neuropsychological
           evaluations.

      Design:

        -  This is a longitudinal study that will administer serial neuropsychological assessments
           to patients with brain metastases who receive radiation therapy.

        -  Patients will undergo a battery of neuropsychological tests prior to radiotherapy (WBRT
           or WBRT followed by SRS), and then after radiation at one month post-baseline
           (approximately 2 weeks after completion of radiation therapy), then at 3, and 6 months,
           and then every 3 months for up to 12 months after baseline.

        -  The test battery will involve approximately 40 minutes of direct cognitive testing and
           15 minutes of questionnaires.

      There will be three cohorts of 20 patients each for a total of 60 patients. The three cohorts
      will be made up of differing histologies and will be sorted on the basis of their RTOG RPA
      Class.
    
  