
    
      The study will be conducted on patients with alcohol dependence admitted or coming to the out
      patient department. The enrolled subjects will be divided into two groups randomly using
      computer generated randomization system. Informed consent shall be taken from the
      patient/nearest relative of the patient for enrollment in the trial.

      The study will be conducted in 2 independent groups in the ratio of 1:1 (each consisting of
      100 patients). By taking the rate of sustained abstinence of 4.1% in placebo and 17% in 1800
      mg arm and an odd's ratio of 4.8, the sample size needed is 88 patients in each arm. at 80%
      power and an alpha level of 0.05. Investigators will use an uncorrected chi-squared statistic
      to evaluate this null hypothesis.

      Study Methods

      Enrollment of patients, assessing eligibility and obtaining informed consent will be carried
      out by one of the study investigators. Breath Test analyzer will be use for detecting the
      blood alcohol content from the breath sample.

      Study Intervention

      The patients will be randomized to either

      Arm A, Total subjects 100 (Alcoholic liver disease:Alcoholics with no liver disease= 1:1)
      each will receive Gabapentin 2000mg/day divided in two doses for 24 weeks.

      All patients will receive standard of care treatment.

      or

      Arm B, Total subjects 100 (Alcoholic liver disease: Alcoholics with no liver disease= 1:1))
      each will receive Placebo 2000mg/day divided in two doses for 24 weeks.

      All patients will receive standard of care treatment.

      Concurrent with study medication, study clinicians will provide participants with 20 minutes
      of weekly manual-guided counseling designed to increase motivation, abstinence, and
      medication compliance.

      Laboratory tests

      Hemogram, biochemical tests including blood glucose, liver function tests, prothrombin time,
      serum electrolytes, blood urea and serum creatinine will be done at baseline and subsequently
      at the end of 1 month, 3 months and 6 months.

      Alcohol Breath Test

      All the participants will undergoing alcohol breath-testing at monthly for 6 months. A
      breath-test will be considered positive if a participant submits a test greater than 0.01%
      Blood Alcohol Concentration. If a result greater than 0.01% Blood Alcohol Concentration is
      returned the test will be re-administered (the second testing) 15 minutes after the initial
      test. A proforma including the date, time of breath-test, breath-test reading and signature
      and name of person administering the breath-test will be maintained.

      Follow-up

      All patients will be followed up to 6 months or until death. The status alive or dead will be
      assessed by telephoning a family member or by contacting the death registry at the patient's
      birth place or place of residence.
    
  