
    
      Dexamethasone intravitreal implant (DEX implant; OZURDEX, Allergan, Inc., Irvine, CA) and
      Ranibizumab (Lucentis, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, CA) as needed group:

        -  Patients will receive a dexamethasone intravitreal implant injection at day 0. Injection
           procedure will be identical to those previously described.8,19,20 Topical tetracaine
           drops will be given, a lid speculum inserted, and then 5% povidone iodine drops will be
           given. After subconjunctival injection of 2% lidocaine, the 0.7mg DEX implant will be
           inserted through the pars plana using a customized, single use, 22-gauge applicator.
           Patients will be treated with topical ophthalmic antibiotics four times daily for three
           days after the procedure.

        -  During monthly visits 1,2,3, and 5, patients will receive a ranibizumab intravitreal
           injection if the macula SD-OCT during that visit shows mean central foveal thickness ≥
           250 μm or the best-corrected visual acuity is 20/40 or worse. The injection procedure is
           described in the next section.

        -  During monthly visit 4, patients will receive a dexamethasone intravitreal implant
           injection if the macula SD-OCT during that visit shows mean central foveal thickness ≥
           250 μm or the best-corrected visual acuity is 20/40 or worse.

      Monthly Ranibizumab (Lucentis, Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, CA) group:

        -  Patients will receive a ranibizumab intravitreal injection on day 0. During each other
           visit, patients will receive a ranibizumab intravitreal injection. The protocol will use
           the term "monthly" to represent a 30 day interval between treatments. The minimal
           interval between treatments may be 25 days.

        -  Injection procedures will be identical to those previously described.8,19,20 Topical
           tetracaine drops will be given, a lid speculum inserted, and then 5% povidone iodine
           drops will be given. After subconjunctival injection of 2% lidocaine, a 30-gauge needle
           will be inserted through the pars plana, and 0.5 mg (0.05mL) of drug injected.
    
  