
    
      At Severance Hospital, patients with cholelithiasis with symptoms of indigestion are divided
      into the Motilitone® and Gasmotin® groups. Provide sufficient oral and written explanation of
      the clinical trial and obtain consent from the patient who has revealed his willingness to
      participate. Randomization uses random numbers, and patient assignment by random numbers is
      managed by a third party who does not have direct contact with the patient or clinical
      history, and after obtaining consent, the group according to the random number is given and
      medication is given. It is provided to. Each drug is prescribed for 6 months. The symptom
      score check should be completed at the first outpatient visit(3 months after administration).
      We will Check the following items through abdominal ultrasound examination 6 months after
      administration.

      : Gallbladder wall thickening presence and extent, number of gallstones, maximum diameter of
      gallstones, presence or absence of sludge. The general blood test (CBD) and general chemical
      test (SMA) are conducted three times at the first outpatient visit(3 months after
      administration), and the research expenses for 3 months and 6 months are supported by the
      research fund. In the final analysis, we compare the symptom scores between the two groups
      through the Student T-test, and compare the blood test and ultrasound using the Chi-square
      test. We want to confirm the following three things through this study. ① In patients with
      cholelithiasis with symptoms of dyspepsia, prospective data on the degree of symptom
      improvement following motilitone administration can be obtained. ② It is possible to evaluate
      the degree of relief or exacerbation of gallstones through ultrasound examination. ③ It is
      expected that it will be effective in improving symptoms and alleviating cholelithiasis in
      patients with dyspeptic cholelithiasis due to increased gallbladder contractility of
      motilitone.
    
  