
    
      Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a debilitating psychiatric disorder that can develop
      after a person experiences a traumatic event, such as sexual assault, war, or any other
      life-threatening event. PTSD is a worldwide health problem that severely reduces a person's
      quality of life and is associated with high rates of psychiatric and medical comorbidity,
      disability, suffering, and suicide. At least a third of PTSD patients fail to respond to
      established PTSD psychotherapies. A wider array of effective treatments for PTSD are needed.

      3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)-assisted psychotherapy may be a potential treatment
      option for PTSD. MDMA is a monoamine releaser that affects serotonin, norepinephrine, and
      dopamine. MDMA is capable of inducing unique psychopharmacological effects such as decreased
      feelings of fear, increased feelings of wellbeing, increased sociability and extroversion,
      increased interpersonal trust, and an alert state of consciousness. In the U.S., MDMA was
      used as an adjunct to psychotherapy by a considerable number of psychiatrists and therapists
      before it was placed in Schedule I in 1985 as a result of non-medical use.

      This multi-site, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized Phase 3 study will assess the
      efficacy and safety of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy versus psychotherapy with placebo control
      in participants diagnosed with at least moderate PTSD. The study will be conducted in N ≈ 100
      participants. Participants will be randomized into one of two groups (MDMA or placebo) in a
      1:1 ratio. A flexible dose of MDMA or placebo, followed by a supplemental half-dose unless
      contraindicated, will be administered during the Treatment Period with manualized
      psychotherapy in three monthly Experimental Sessions. This ~12-week Treatment Period will be
      preceded by three Preparatory Sessions with the participant and therapists. Initial doses in
      each Experimental Session will be 80 mg or 120 mg of MDMA compounded with mannitol and
      magnesium stearate or placebo alone (mannitol and magnesium stearate), followed 1.5 to 2
      hours later by a supplemental half-dose (40 or 60 mg, respectively). Total amounts of MDMA to
      be administered per Experimental Session range from 80 mg to 180 mg. Each Experimental
      Session will be followed by three Integrative Sessions of non-drug psychotherapy to help the
      participants process and understand their experiences during the Experimental Sessions.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of MDMA-assisted
      psychotherapy for PTSD compared to identical psychotherapy with inactive placebo, as measured
      by change in Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale for DSM-5 (CAPS-5) Total Severity Score from
      Visit 3 (Baseline) to Visit 19 (18 weeks post Baseline) (Blake et al., 1995). The key
      secondary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy
      for PTSD compared to identical psychotherapy with inactive placebo in clinician-rated
      functional impairment, as measured by the change in Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) item
      scores from Visit 3 (Baseline) to Visit 19 (18 weeks post Baseline) (Leon et al., 1997).
    
  