
    
      This project will involve recruitment of 30 adolescents with ADHD and a control group of 30
      healthy adolescents without psychiatric diagnoses. Participants will participate in 3 phases:
      Screening visit, Washout/In-Home Sleep Study, and Neurocognitive Assessment visit. To ensure
      consistency in sleep schedules, the three nights of the sleep study will occur on weeknights
      during the school year. The neurocognitive assessment will occur during the afternoon
      following the final night of sleep assessment.

      The 2-hour screening visit will be conducted at the Duke ADHD Clinic at 2608 Erwin Road,
      Pavilion East, Suite 300, Durham, NC 27705. During the screening visit, participants will
      undergo screening to evaluate eligibility for the study.

      Eligible participants will enter the 48-hour Washout from stimulant medication (if
      applicable) and/or a 7-day washout from melatonin (if applicable). Following this washout,
      subjects will enter a 3-night Sleep Study Phase (At Home). Subjects not taking stimulant
      medication or melatonin will initiate 3 consecutive nights of ambulatory (in-home) PSG
      recording, beginning on the a Monday evening within 4 weeks of the screening visit. Subjects
      will be instructed to maintain usual sleep routines/behaviors for all study nights. In
      addition, subjects will be asked to complete a "sleep diary" each morning.

      If subject is currently taking stimulant medication, they will be instructed to initiate a
      48-hour washout period. If subject is currently taking melatonin, they will be instructed to
      initiate a 7-day washout period. Subjects will be instructed to discuss this option with
      their prescribing physician prior to initiating the study.

      Subjects will be asked to return for a three hour neurocognitive assessment on the afternoon
      directly following the final night of the sleep study. In order to reduce interference with
      school attendance, this visit will be scheduled in the afternoon. Subjects will take breaks
      throughout the assessment.

      Subjects will restart their ADHD medications on the morning following the neurocognitive
      assessment (if applicable).
    
  