
    
      Platelets are a major component of clot formation which can lead to thrombotic events.
      Antiplatelet agents have been found to reduce cardiovascular events in different clinical
      settings. The commonest agent that has been used is aspirin which works by inhibiting the
      cyclooxygenase pathway within the platelet and consequently preventing the release of
      tromboxane A2. A second group of agents called thienopyridines can inhibit platelets by
      blocking the P2Y12 receptor. Clopidogrel (Plavix) is currently a widely used thienopyridine
      that has been used for the treatment of patients presenting with the acute coronary syndrome
      and patients undergoing percutaneous coronary angioplasty (PCI). Antiplatelet therapy has
      reduced the occurrence of thrombotic events following PCI, including myocardial infarction
      and stent thrombosis. However, despite dual therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel, a
      significant number of patients continue to experience cardiovascular events. There is a now
      growing body of evidence that recurrence of ischemic complications may be attributed to poor
      response to clopidogrel and that persistence of enhanced platelet reactivity despite the use
      of clopidogrel is believed to be clinically relevant.1 The mechanisms leading to poor
      clopidogrel effects are not fully explained.

      Our pilot study will use the VerifyNow device as an ex vivo method to measure platelet
      inhibition in patients treated with clopidogrel in the setting of STEMI. Since July 2004, the
      standard of care at the University of Ottawa Heart Institute for the treatment of STEMI has
      been primary PCI in which all patients receive aspirin 160 mg po either in the field or on
      arrival in the emergency department and clopidogrel 600 mg po given on arrival to the
      hospital. Little is known of the pharmacokinetics of clopidogrel in the setting of STEMI.
      Clopidogrel must be absorbed and activated by the liver to be effective. The physiological
      mechanisms for these steps may be greatly disturbed in patients presenting with STEMI.
      Therefore, the purpose of this study will be to examine the degree of platelet inhibition at
      various time points in this select patient population using the current 600 mg dose of
      clopidogrel and comparing this dose to other doses of clopidogrel to determine the optimal
      loading dose in the context of STEMI.
    
  