
    
      Psychological models of suicidality emphasize the role of social factors in the development
      and intensification of suicidal thoughts and behavior, including feeling like a burden on
      family and friends, feelings of isolation and not belonging, and perceptions of diminished
      support from one's family and social network. Despite the critical role of family factors in
      protecting against suicidality, families lack education on how their behavior can help avert
      or unwittingly aggravate suicidal thoughts/ behavior. Families worry about their relative but
      feel uncertain of how to help and need professional guidance. Family worries about
      suicidality are associated with compromised family physical and mental health and
      consequently, diminished ability to offer needed support. Because suicide safety plans rely
      on mobilizing support in times of crisis, families need to be equipped to provide needed
      support.

      Family recommendations from the VA Behavioral Health Autopsy Program (BHAP) Annual Report
      6/30/15 based on interviews with 114 family members highlighted the importance of:

        1. educating families about suicide warning signs:

        2. improving communication between the veteran and family member

        3. involving the family in the veterans' treatment to enhance support and trust

        4. providing families with coaching on how to assist their loved one to seek help.

      Management of suicidal behavior is covered in comprehensive family psychoeducation programs,
      but there is an urgent need for a brief family-based intervention specifically focused on
      suicide prevention that can be used in conjunction with the currently mandated SSP and as a
      part of routine care.

      Despite the enrichment of VA suicide prevention services and implementation of the national
      suicide hotline, Veteran suicide completions have risen to 22 per day and suicide attempts
      numbered over 15,000 in 2012. These data underscore the urgency of developing additional
      interventions targeting suicidal Veterans. One potential avenue to further suicide treatment
      and rehabilitation efforts is to develop strategies that maximize family support, however
      almost no family interventions exist for suicidal Veterans. The construction of a Suicide
      Safety Plan (SSP); a "best practice," is mandated throughout the VA system, and a vital
      component of the VA's coordinated effort at suicide prevention and recovery. The pilot data
      on patterns of SSP use in suicidal Veterans highlighted the importance of sharing the plan
      with family or close friends. However, respondents also noted significant obstacles in their
      ability to reach out to others when in distress. To the knowledge of Investigators, there are
      currently no recommended guidelines or mechanisms for involving family in safety planning,
      despite its inclusion as a step of the plan. "Safe Actions for Families to Encourage
      Recovery" (SAFER) a novel suicide safety planning family intervention has been designed to
      fill this critical gap and provide a mechanism to communicate about safety planning. SAFER, a
      4-session, family intervention, combines education about suicide and suicide safety planning
      with communication skills training from evidence-based practices. The aim is to facilitate
      communication about suicide safety planning and to develop both a Veteran and family member
      safety plan.

      Data from this project will test the intervention's feasibility, acceptability and
      preliminary efficacy in a Stage II small-scale randomized clinical trial in 60 moderate
      suicide risk Veterans and their family members. The comparison condition will be safety
      planning without family involvement plus weekly check-in phone calls. Primary Veteran
      outcomes include reducing suicidal ideation/behavior. Secondary Veteran outcomes include
      reducing suicidal cognitions (hopelessness, perceived burdensomeness, thwarted belongingness)
      and depression and improving subjective social support. Family member primary outcomes
      include reducing caregiver burden and secondary outcomes of improving suicide-related coping
      and family empowerment.
    
  