
    
      The total time commitment estimated per participant 18 study visits. This is broken down
      below:

      Visit 1: Questionnaires, Screening, and Orientation: During this visit the potential
      participant will learn about the study procedures, sign the informed consent documents, and
      fill out a packet of forms that ask about his or her race and ethnic background, use of drugs
      and alcohol and physical and mental health.

      Visit 2: Pre-Treatment Behavioral Tests and and Magnetic Resonance (MR) Scan: During this
      visit the participant will complete several computer tasks, and the study staff will be
      measuring reaction time and psychophysiological measures.The tasks that the participant will
      perform will show three different images and an aversive stimulus (e.g. loud burst of noise
      or animated snake) may follow one image most of the time, while the other images may never be
      followed by the aversive cue. The participant will need to try to predict whether the
      aversive cue will occur or not based on which image is shown and will be asked to repeatedly
      rate on a scale how likely it is that he or she thinks an aversive cue will occur after each
      image. Lastly, during the session the participant will also be asked to report his or her
      level of anxiety on a scale from 0 to 100.

      Visit 3: Pre-Treatment Behavioral Tests and MR Scan: This visit will be very similar to Visit
      2. Participants will participate in the same type of task inside the MR scanner, while the
      study staff measures reaction time and psychophysiological responding and brain activation.
      Participants will view the same images he or she did previously, and may experience the same
      aversive stimulus as during Visit 2. Participants will again be asked to rate how much they
      expect to experience the aversive stimulus after each image and will also be asked to report
      their level of anxiety on a scale from 0 to 100.

      Visits 4 & 5: Prolonged Exposure (PE) Sessions 1 & 2: These sessions will consist of
      psychoeducation that includes discussion or reactions to trauma , treatment rationale,
      breathing retraining, and review of SUDS to assess level of distress from 0 to 100
      (100=extreme anxiety/distress) when facing fears. One session occurs weekly across 2 weeks.

      Visits 6-14: PE Sessions 3-11: These sessions will consist of repeated exposures to trauma
      memories (imaginal exposure) and avoided situations (in vivo exposure). As is standard,
      patients will also practice exposures (e.g., listen to tapes of imaginal exposure, carry out
      in vivo exposure) outside of PE sessions as "homework". At exposure-focused sessions
      (Sessions 3-11) either THC or PBO will be administered just before the session. One session
      occurs weekly across 8 weeks.

      Visit 15: PE Session 12 [Post-treatment Assessment]: This session will include a review of
      therapeutic gains/relapse prevention/assessments.

      Visit 16: Post-Treatment Behavioral Tests and MR Scan: This visit will be very similar to
      Visit 2. Participants will participate in the same type of task inside the MR scanner, while
      the study staff measures reaction time and psychophysiological responding and brain
      activation. Participants will view the same images he or she did previously, and may
      experience the same aversive stimulus as during Visit 2. Participants will again be asked to
      rate how much they expect to experience the aversive stimulus after each image and will also
      be asked to report their level of anxiety on a scale from 0 to 100.

      Visit 17: Post-Treatment Behavioral Tests and MR Scan: This visit will be very similar to
      Visit 3. Participants will participate in the same type of task inside the MR scanner, while
      the study staff measures reaction time and psychophysiological responding and brain
      activation. Participants will view the same images he or she did previously, and may
      experience the same aversive stimulus as during Visit 3. Participants will again be asked to
      rate how much they expect to experience the aversive stimulus after each image and will also
      be asked to report their level of anxiety on a scale from 0 to 100.

      Visit 18: 3-Month Follow-Up Treatment Assessment: This session is similar to Visit 15 and
      will include review of therapeutic gains/relapse prevention/assessments.
    
  