
    
      The aging process is characterized by reductions of lean mass simultaneously to increases in
      visceral adipose tissue. Metabolically, this is related to insulin resistance and higher risk
      to develop cardiovascular diseases. Functionally, loss of strength and cardiorespiratory
      fitness may lead to early muscle fatigue onset, which may limit the performance of daily
      activities, and eventually lead to loss of independence with aging. Dancing has been used as
      a form of exercise to improve functional and metabolic outcomes during aging. However, the
      field lacks of randomized controlled trials (RCT) evaluating metabolic outcomes related to
      dance interventions, as well as comparisons of dancing with other types of exercise on
      functional performance and metabolic health of older adults. Therefore, the goal of this
      randomized controlled trial is to investigate the effects of a dance intervention on
      cardiovascular risk factors and functional capacity of older women, comparing dancing to a
      walking exercise intervention and to an active control condition (stretching). Additionally,
      we aim to investigate the acute cardiorespiratory responses of a dance session. The
      participants will include women between 60 and 80 years old, with body mass index inferior to
      35 Kg /m2 and independent for performing daily activities. They should not be engaged in any
      type of regular physical activity in the past 6 months. Exclusion criteria will include type
      2 diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular complications and neurodegenerative diseases. The main
      outcome of this study is the peak oxygen consumption (VO2peak), as it has been associated
      with both, cardiovascular risk and functional performance in aging individuals. The secondary
      outcomes are: (1) cardiovascular risk associated factors: C-reactive protein, TNF-alpha,
      triglycerides, total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, fasting glucose and
      insulin, and homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR). (2) Functional
      performance: muscle strength and power, balance, gate ability and muscle quality. The
      experimental design will include 3 parts: 1) Pre-intervention assessments: medical
      evaluation, fasting blood exams, maximum exercise test, assessments of body composition,
      balance, gate ability, muscular strength and power. 2) Period of interventions: patients will
      be randomized in blocks (randomization.com), in accordance to their VO2peak , to one of the
      three following groups: dance, walking or control. The duration of the dance and walking
      interventions will be 8 weeks, including 3 sessions per week, each lasting 60 min. Dance
      classes will be performed in group in a dance studio, including a variety of rhythms such as
      salsa, jazz and aerobics. Walking sessions will be performed individually or in groups of two
      people, in a treadmill, at the gym. The control group will have 60min stretching classes once
      a week, also for 8 weeks. 3) Post-intervention assessments: the same protocols of testing of
      the pre-interventions assessments will be repeated. All the assessments and interventions
      will be held at the Laboratory of Research in Exercise (LAPEX-UFRGS).
    
  