
    
      A four-week randomized, double-blind, cross-over, placebo-controlled trial was planned.
      Ethical approval was obtained from the Institutional Review Board (IRB) at the University of
      Washington before the start of the study, participants agreed to participate in this study
      had to sign a written informed consent. The present trial was also registered (#NCT03509675).
      The research was conducted in accordance with the ethical principles stated in the World
      Medical Association's Helsinki Declaration.

      A coin was flipped to decide which medication would be used first to start the randomization.
      Based on the coin toss, drug A was chosen for the first block of two participants. Then,
      block randomization was further assigned by blocks of two, alternating the drugs. The
      medicines were distributed in identical plastic containers, packed by an external pharmacist
      who was unaware of the protocol and successfully labeled as A and B containers.

      During the intervention, neither investigators nor the participants knew which of the
      treatments they were using.

      Population and Study Sample

      Potential participants were screened through the Oral Medicine patient registry at the
      University of Washington. Prospective patients aged 18-80 were examined by the attending at
      the Oral Medicine Clinical Services (OMCS) faculty. All potential study participants with a
      clinical diagnosis of symptomatic oral lichenoid mucositis with or without a biopsy were
      identified. Individuals were eligible for inclusion if they met the following criteria:

        -  Speak English

        -  Have a symptomatic form of the disease, pain level of 3 out 10 on VAS

        -  At least 18 years of age

      The exclusion criteria were as follows:

        -  The occurrence of dysplasia in the histopathological specimen

        -  Known or suspected sensitivity to NSAID medication

        -  History of asthma

        -  History of gastrointestinal ulceration

        -  History of bleeding disorders

        -  Pregnancy

      The patients were asked to participate in the research at their first or follow-up visits at
      the OMCS.

      Sample Size and Sample Selection

      The most similar study to the present one was done by Saxen et al., in which a 45% change in
      VAS scores between the treatment groups was found. With the assumption of a 45% difference in
      VAS scores, a standard deviation of 0.69, a two-sided significance level of 0.05, and a
      statistical power of 80%, a sample size of 36 was calculated. When accounting for the effect
      of a cross-over trial and analyses, a sample size of 36 should be able to show significance
      with a change in VAS scores between 25% and 30%, significantly less than that found in the
      work of Saxen et al.

      Collection of Data

      The data collected included the following:

        -  VAS at baseline, end of day 4 and following the end-of-the-week application of the
           active intervention and the placebo

        -  Gender

        -  Race and ethnicity

        -  Duration of the primary chief complaint

        -  Medication trials for the condition

        -  Current medical conditions

        -  Current prescription drugs

        -  Current OTC drugs

        -  Known allergies to drugs or food substances

        -  Clinical diagnosis of the disease

        -  Classification of the OLP (if noted): reticular, erythematous, erosive, bullous Topical
           Formulation

      The topical suspension of the topical NSAID was 100 mg per 5 ml concentration of ibuprofen,
      with similar ingredients as OTC children's ibuprofen and was compounded by an external drug
      service. Another placebo suspension was also compounded with the same taste but without the
      active ingredient.

      Assessment

      We used tracking forms for the participants to record both their daily usage and VAS scores
      at baseline, day 4, and day 7. (see Appendix A). Participants were asked to mark their pain
      level before starting the first bottle in the morning of day one. 100mm VAS scales were used
      with the anchors of (non-intense) on the right side and (extremely intense) on the left. The
      patients were seen for a free assessment to evaluate their condition during the intervention
      and report any adverse reactions.

      Intervention

      After we obtained written consent from the patients regarding their participation in the
      research, they received a research packet with the relevant data forms, the consent form, and
      two bottles; each bottle had an individual label marked wither "A" or "B". The coding which
      identified the contents of A and B was sealed by the pharmacy and was kept with one of the
      committee members as well as with the pharmacy

      The participants were asked to record their baseline score of spontaneous pain on a
      horizontal 10 cm VAS before commencing the use of the provided rinses. If the participants
      were already on active treatment at the time of enrollment, they were asked to discontinue
      for 7 days prior for a wash-out period before starting the research protocol.

      All participants were instructed to use the first suspension four times a day for 7 days.
      They were instructed to rinse before the meals; breakfast, lunch, dinner and also before
      bedtime. After every application of the rinse, they were asked to check a box in order to
      record their use of the rinse. The instructions included rinsing with 5 ml of the suspension
      for 1 minute without swallowing it, and then expectorating. The patients were instructed not
      to eat or drink for the following 20 min after the application of the drug. At the end of
      days 4 and 7, the participants were asked to record their spontaneous pain level on the VAS.
      After the first week, they discontinued any treatment for 7 days (wash-out) before starting
      the second suspension.

      All participants were instructed to use the second suspension on the same schedule as the
      first, and with the same instructions. The participants were contacted initially after the
      first day of the intervention to discuss any concerns or questions they may have. Every week,
      reminder phone calls were made for them to fill out the forms from the investigator and to
      check for any side effects from the intervention.

      Data We protected the patients' information by assigning each individual with a study number
      that was correlated with the medical record number on a master list. The master list was
      secured in a password-protected file on a password-protected computer stored in a locked
      office. The collected data were stored separately. The list was not placed on a portable
      device. Only the research committee members and the personnel required for the statistical
      analysis had access to the files.

      The study data will be kept indefinitely but will only be linked until December 31, 2019.
      Only the investigators will have access to the identifiable data unless otherwise required by
      law.

      Data Analysis Strategies

      The VAS results were measured in millimeters and entered as whole numbers. T-tests for means
      were used to compare VAS scores at the following time points: baseline, days 4 and 7 of
      treatment condition # 1, at baseline #2 (following the wash-out period), and at days 4 and 7
      of treatment condition #2.

      Multiple linear regression was used to determine the difference in effect between the active
      medication and placebo groups by including the difference between reports at baseline, day 4
      and at day 7. Both univariate models and models including age and duration of chief complaint
      were used to assess the effect of these variables. There was insufficient variance in both
      gender and race to assess for these effects. Although randomization of the treatment order
      should eliminate order effect, tests for order effect were performed using regression
      analyses.

      For drug effect assessment, in addition to using VAS scores themselves, percent change in VAS
      scores was used to normalize distributions.

      Ethics and Human Participant Issues

      All experimental protocols were reviewed and approved by the institutional review board IRB
      and Committee on human participant research at the University of Washington.
    
  