
    
      (i) Subjects: Sixty subjects who will be undergoing third molar surgery (hereafter known as
      'cases') will be recruited from The Queen Mary Hospital and The Prince Philip Dental Hospital
      and sixty, aged and sex matched controls who will not be undergoing surgery in the next 3
      months, nor have undergone surgery in the past year (hereafter known as 'controls') will also
      be recruited from the Outpatients department of the same hospital.

      (ii) Methods: The study aims and details will be explained to each subject and informed
      consent will be sought from each of them. A pain diaryquestionnaire developed by our group
      will be adapted for the use of assessing pain experienced by each subject pre and post
      surgery. Research personnel will accompany each case subject, and fill out the pain
      diaryquestionnaire with them during the visit when the patients' blood is taken.

      The following health questionaires will be completed by the subjects recruites:

      SF-36: 8-scale profile of functional health and well-being scores as well as
      psychometrically-based physical and mental health summary measures HADS: Assessment of the
      psychological status of the subjects (anxiety & depression)

      Pain assessment:

      Pain at rest and during opening will be assessed using a numerical rating scale (NRS, 1= no
      pain, 10 = most severe pain) at the following time points:

        1. Before surgery

        2. 4 hourly after surgery for 16 hours

        3. At 24th, 48th and 72nd after surgery

        4. 1 month after surgery by telephone interview.

        5. 3 month after surgery by telephone interview. If pain is present, questions about
           neuropathic pain will be asked.

      Venous EDTA blood (10ml) on each occacasion will be drawn from each case one hour prior to
      surgery, 1 hour and 3 hours post surgery. Then they will be asked to return to the hospital 3
      to 5 days post surgery for one more blood taking, and macrophages will be separated from the
      blood and total RNA will be extracted as soon as possible after blood taking from half the
      total cells. The remainder of the cells (macrophages) will be stored at -80oC and batched for
      DNA extraction. Venous EDTA blood (20ml) will be drawn from each control subject at a time
      convenient to them and again, 3 to 5 days post first blood taking. The blood taken from the
      control subjects will be treated in exactly the same way as with blood taken from the case
      subjects. Therefore, four samples in total will be obtained from each case and control
      subject.

      The size of the IL-6 and TNF-α promoter regions spanning the sequences upstream of the
      transcriptional start site as well as part of the first exon will be determined from
      literature search and using a database for reference, CpG islands will be first identified
      for primer design (http://www.cpgislands.com/). For analysis of methylation, a commercial kit
      will be used (EpiTect Plus LyseAll Bisulfite Kit from Qiagen, Hilden, Germany).

      Samples will undergo bisulfite-conversion, and unmethylated cytosines will be deaminated,
      forming uracils. Methylated cytosines will remain unchanged. The location of the methylated
      cytosine of the gene sequence and the amount of methylated cytosine will be identified and
      quantitated by Pyrosequencing using established techniques. Results will be expressed as %
      methylation in the promoter region of IL-6 and NF-ĸB.

      Note: The pyrosequencing technique can only analyse fragments of DNA of up to 50 base pairs
      in one reaction. According to data from CpG Island Searcher, and when the % GC was set at
      55%, observed CpG/expected CpG set at 0.65 and gaps between adjacent islands set at 100bp, no
      CpG islands can by found in either the IL-6, or the TNFα promoter. Therefore, the methylation
      status of the whole promoter region in both genes will be studied using 40 pairs of primers
      for each gene (in order to cover 2kb of the promoter region). This approach is adopted as it
      is the most sensitive and reliable for determination of site specific DNA methylation in an
      extended region such as a promoter region.

      (iii) Study design: This is a case-control study. The samples used in this study will be
      whole blood samples taken pre- and post- surgery from the cases, and at a matched time, from
      the controls.

      Power calculations: No data exist on the level of DNA methylation in the promoter region of
      IL-6 and TNF-α in normal healthy subjects. Power calculations reveal that 51 subjects in each
      group are required to have an 80% power to detect a true difference in the variable of
      interest at 5% significance level (calculations using G*Power software, version 3.1). A total
      of 60 subjects will be recruited into each group to take into consideration drop out rates.

      (iv) Data processing and analysis: Paired t-test (or non-parametric equivalent) will be
      performed to investigate differences in level of DNA methylation pre- and post- surgery.
      Unpaired t-test will be used to investigate difference in the level of DNA methylation
      between cases and controls. Correlational analysis will be used to investigate relationships
      between methylation status and IL-6 and TNF-α expression. Descriptive statistics will be
      employed to describe the changes in methylation status (i.e., if different sites in the CpG
      island are methylated) in the promoter region of IL-6 and TNF-α B, pre-post surgery and in
      the two different sampling time points of the control subjects.

      Purpose and potential: This is a pilot, exploratory environmental-epigenetics study on the
      effect of bilateral third molar surgery on DNA methylation changes in the promoter region of
      IL-6 and NF-ĸB, and the influence of methylation status on gene expression. The results will
      provide insight and promote understanding into the molecular mechanisms through which the
      methylation status of inflammatory genes can affect the experience of pain post surgery.
    
  