
    
      The Study Drug:

      Sorafenib is designed to block the function of important proteins in cancer cells. These
      proteins, when active, are in part responsible for the growth and behavior of cancer cells.

      Study Drug Dose Escalation:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study
      group based on when you joined this study. Up to 4 groups of 3-6 participants will be
      enrolled in the Phase I portion of the study.

      Enrolled in the Phase I portion, the dose of sorafenib you receive will depend on when you
      joined this study. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level of
      sorafenib. Each new group will receive a higher dose of sorafenib than the group before it,
      if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose
      of sorafenib is found.

      All participants will receive the same type and amount of radiation.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will take sorafenib capsules 1-2 times every day beginning on Day 1 of radiation therapy.
      If you are in the first group on study, you will take the study drug 1 time. If you are in
      any other groups, you will take the study drug 2 times a day. You will take the study drug
      without food (1 hour before or 2 hours after eating).

      Radiation Therapy:

      Before receiving radiation therapy, you will have a "marking session". At this visit, you
      will have a computed tomography (CT) scan that will be used to help to plan out the radiation
      therapy. This will take about 45 minutes.

      Before receiving radiation, you will also have a single photon computed tomography (SPECT)
      scan of your lungs.

      You will be given 15 radiation treatments, once a day, 5 days a week, Monday-Friday. Each
      treatment will take about 30 minutes. You will sign a separate consent form for radiation
      therapy and the procedure will be described to you in more detail.

      Clinical Visits:

      You will have routine clinical visits every week while receiving radiation therapy. The
      information collected during these clinical visit will be used for the study. At these
      visits, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your blood pressure and weight.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be experiencing and any new drugs you
           may be taking.

        -  You will be asked how well you are able to perform the normal activities of daily living
           (performance status evaluation)

        -  Blood (about 3-4 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have any tests that doctor feels medically necessary

      Urine will be collected every week while you are taking sorafenib and receiving radiation
      therapy for routine tests.

      Length of Study:

      You will remain on study for 6 weeks after you complete radiation therapy. You will be taken
      off the study early if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      You will have an end-of-study visit 4-6 weeks after you stop receiving radiation. At this
      visit, you will have a CT scan to check the status of the disease.

      Follow-Up Visits:

      Your first follow-up visit will be at 6 weeks (+/- 7 days) after radiation therapy and the
      second follow-up appointment will be at 10 weeks (+/- 7 days) after radiation therapy. You
      will then have follow up visits every 3 months. At these visits, you will go though the
      following:

        -  Your complete medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and blood pressure.

        -  You will be asked how well you are able to perform the normal activities of daily living
           (performance status evaluation).

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking.

        -  Blood (about 3-4 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will also have chest x-ray.

        -  You will have a computed tomography (CT) scan of your chest area.

        -  The location, type, and size of all measurable lesions will be recorded.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is necessary, you will have a positron emission
           tomography(PET)/CT scan.

        -  If your doctor thinks it is necessary, you will have an electrocardiogram (ECG -- a test
           that measures the electrical activity of the heart).

        -  You may have a lung perfusion scan to see if all regions of your lung are equally
           functional or not. This is called lung SPECT scan.

        -  You will have a lung functional test (PFT) if your doctor thinks it is necessary.

      All these tests are routine examinations as you would have without participating in this
      study in order to know the status of the disease.

      This is an investigational study. Sorafenib is FDA approved and commercially available for
      renal cell carcinoma. The radiation therapy schedule used for this study is standard
      treatment for lung cancer patients. The use of sorafenib with radiation therapy is
      investigational.

      Up to 64 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  