
    
      Central Appalachian women in same-sex relationships experience health disparities. Higher
      rates of smoking, other substance use, and obesity are risk factors that contribute to health
      disparities in Central Appalachia women, and these health risk factors have been also been
      implicated in the health disparities faced by women who are same-sex partnered. In a national
      probability sample, lesbian and bisexual young adult women, compared to heterosexual young
      adult women, reported higher rates of smoking and heavy drinking, had significantly higher
      BMIs, and were significantly more likely to report an illness in the previous two weeks. The
      intervention in this pilot study is based on minority stress and relationship theories and
      current empirical findings reviewed below.

      Stigma-related stress, a chronic form of social stress, largely accounts for health
      disparities.

      Stigma affects health by creating conditions of chronic stress in those with stigmatized
      identities. This chronic (minority) stress has been linked to diminished mental and physical
      health. Specifically in rural LGB samples, stigma-related stress has been linked to higher
      levels of psychological distress (e.g., depression and anxiety), increased substance use, and
      overall poorer physical health, Same-sex couple members experience stigma-related stress
      because of experiences of discrimination and prejudice that targets them as individuals, as a
      couple, and, as a stigmatized social identity group. In their daily interactions, Central
      Appalachian same-sex couples experience discrimination and prejudice at work, in schools and
      churches, and in their families and communities. Even though same-sex couples in Central
      Appalachia can legally marry, stigma and discrimination persist. No state law in this region
      protects same-sex couples from discrimination in services, employment or housing.

      The theory of minority stress as applied to LGB individuals describes a psychological process
      in which chronic experiences of prejudice and discrimination lead to fear and expectations of
      rejection, concerns about possible consequences of disclosing or concealing one's sexual
      minority identity or same-sex relationship, and internalized negativity or shame about one's
      relationship and one's identity. Minority stress among LGB-identified people appears to be on
      the increase nationally due to recent political events that threaten hard-won progress toward
      full equality of same-sex partnered individuals and their families.

      Coping responses are an important mechanism that links stigma-related stress and health. To
      manage these chronic stigma-related stressors, LGB individuals use positive and/or negative
      coping responses that may buffer or exacerbate their effects of these stressors on health.
      Findings suggest that coping responses are an important mechanism linking stigma-related
      stress to poorer health outcomes. Therefore, helping this population to cope more effectively
      with stigma-related stress can buffer its negative health effects.

      Same-sex couples share minority stress and strengths. Same-sex couples' relationships can
      simultaneously be the target of discrimination and prejudice and also the primary source of
      support for coping with that discrimination and prejudice. Conceptual models based in
      relationship science and minority stress theory and recent empirical evidence suggests that
      same-sex couples share minority stress. For example, when one couple member experiences
      discrimination at work, the minority stress that it triggers also affects the minority stress
      level of the other couple member. In other cases, the couple relationship itself is the
      target of discrimination, for instance, when extended family members refuse to accept the
      couple. Shared minority stress can take a toll on relationship quality unless couples find
      effective ways to cope. Distressed couples who rely on inadequate or unhealthy coping
      strategies are at risk for mental and physical health problems.

      On the other hand, specific strengths and resiliencies enable same-sex couples to create
      satisfying and stable relationships even in the context of stigma-related stress. For
      example, female couples have demonstrated strengths in forming egalitarian partnerships that
      include sharing responsibility for the emotional climate of the relationship household and a
      commitment to supporting each other's health-related behaviors. Together these findings
      suggest the importance of intervening at the dyadic level by using couple-level strengths to
      enhance relationship skills and positive health-related coping behaviors to address
      stigma-related (minority) stress. Helping female same-sex couples to develop their
      relationship skills and use them to cope effectively with stigma-related stress in ways that
      support each other's health and well-being will help to address mental and physical health
      disparities in this population.

      Relationship education (RE) programming is a potentially effective approach to increasing
      dyadic-level coping skills that support health-related behavior. Compared to different-sex
      couples, married/partnered sexual minority women receive less social support for their
      relationship from their families and communities, and as a result they tend to rely more
      heavily on their relationship for support. In addition to a lack of family and community
      support, same-sex couples in Central Appalachia often lack friendship networks that include
      other same-sex couples who could serve as role models and resources. Thus, Central Appalachia
      female same-sex couple can benefit from an accessible, evidence-based intervention that
      supports their relationship well-being, an important foundation for health.

      In general, the purpose of RE is to increase knowledge and teach skills that will circumvent
      the development of severe problems in the future. RE programs have been shown to benefit
      married and unmarried different-sex couples across racial/ethnic and socio-economic
      backgrounds by effecting reliable change in communication and relationship satisfaction.
      Optimal RE programs should be tailored to the specific client population, accessible,
      grounded in theory and research, and directed at reducing risk factors and increasing
      protective factors at the individual and couple level. To date, RE programs have been limited
      to different-sex couples. Yet, prominent RE researchers have proposed the RE approaches that
      use same-sex couples' relationship skills and strengths to cope effectively with
      stigma-related stress are well-suited to support the health and well-being of these couples
      and their families. The current project builds upon and extends an RE workshop for female
      same-sex couples, which is based in relationship science and minority stress theory and has
      demonstrated post-intervention effects on relationship quality. In this randomized wait-list
      control trial, same-sex female couples achieved significant improvement in their relationship
      quality and communication skills that was maintained three months after the conclusion of the
      program. However, there was no evidence of program effects on stress or perceived support.
      Further, participants reported that the units on stress and social support were only somewhat
      helpful and could benefit from the inclusion of more specific strategies and skills. The
      current project will build upon and address limitations of previous research by piloting and
      testing the effectiveness of a revised program that uses newly developed modules to teach
      couples to use their relationship skills to cope with stigma-related stress in ways that
      support their long-term health and well-being (Aim 1).

      Some evidence suggests that web-based relationship interventions (for different-sex couples)
      are superior to no treatment. In distressed different-sex couples, a web-based couple
      intervention significantly improved relationship quality and reduced pre-intervention
      symptoms of anxiety, depression, and physical health problems when compared to wait-list
      controls. The current project will extend previous work by adapting the revised RET to a
      web-based format to make it more accessible to rural female same-sex couples and evaluating
      feasibility, acceptability, adherence, and satisfaction (Aim 2).
    
  