
    
      This protocol is designed as a phase I dose-escalation study. In each treatment group (A and
      B), patients will be enrolled to one of the following TAA-CTL dose levels:

      Dose Level One: 1 x 107 cells/m2 Dose Level Two: 2 x 107 cells/m2 Dose Level Three: 4 x 107
      cells/m2

      Patients will receive cells due to the presence of refractory disease and/or high risk for
      disease relapse and/or residual detectable disease following HSCT or conventional therapy at
      the time of the infusion. Group A and Group B patients will use the dose escalation strategy
      described above. Ideally, patients should not receive other systemic antineoplastic agents
      for at least 45 days after the infusion of TAA- CTL (for purposes of evaluation), although
      such treatment may be added if deemed critical for patient care by the attending physician.

      Two to four patients will be enrolled at each dose level until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined at which point to ensure safety a total 8 patients will be treated at the
      MTD. Each patient will receive at least one TAA-CTL infusion and may receive a maximum of 8
      doses total. Dose escalation will occur once at least 2 patients have completed the 45 day
      follow up period following their first TAA-CTL infusion. The first and second doses will be
      administered 45 days apart then additional doses will be spaced every 28 days. The expected
      volume of each infusion is 1 to 10 cc.

      Expansion cohorts of Group B patients with Wilms tumor, neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma,
      adenocarcinoma and esophageal cancer will be permitted to enroll up to 6 additional patients
      in each disease group, to be treated at the MTD.

      Within group B, a cohort of patients with relapsed or refractory Wilms tumor will be enrolled
      and receive a lymphodepleting chemotherapy regimen followed by TAA-T.

      If patients with measurable or evaluable disease have a response of stable disease or better
      by RECIST criteria at the day 28 evaluation after dose 2 or subsequent evaluations they are
      eligible to receive up to 6 additional doses of CTLs at 28 day intervals. Each subsequent
      doseis expected to be at the enrollment dose level (i.e. no subsequent dose escalation).
      Following dose 1, if a patient's T cell supply is insufficient for subsequent doses at the
      enrollment dose level, further treatments may be administered at a lower dose level at the
      treating physician's discretion.
    
  