
    
      Antimicrobial resistance is evolving globally. The latest 'superbug', plasmid mediated
      colistin resistant E.coli (MDR-1), identified in North America highlights this. Previously,
      colistin was the drug of last resort that could be used for organisms resistant to all other
      antibiotics. Current projections are that by 2050, there will be 10 million deaths annually
      from antimicrobial resistant infections, and this will exceed deaths from cancer.

      Antibiotic overuse is considered a main factor in promoting antimicrobial resistance.
      Countries with high volumes of antibiotic use have higher levels of resistant organisms.
      After a single antibiotic course, a person's risk of acquiring an antimicrobial resistant
      infection is increased. Recognizing the need for action to address this crisis, governments
      in the United States and Canada have issued recent policy statements calling for, among other
      actions, reductions in antibiotic overuse. Over 80% of antibiotics in Canada are prescribed
      in the community for common respiratory and other infections. Currently, this amounts to one
      antibiotic prescription issued for every 6 Canadians each year.

      In an ongoing 2014-15 Innovation Fund grant (Community ASP-Phase 1), a team of infectious
      disease experts and pharmacists with hospital ASP experience, community family physicians
      working in primary care clinics, and researchers with expertise in community infections
      collaboratively developed a Community-Based Primary Care Antimicrobial Stewardship
      Program(CB-ASP). Preliminary results (presented below) show positive effects on key
      antibiotic utilization parameters. What is needed now is a strategy to 'scale' this program
      up to similar clinics province wide. This will be necessary to achieve the reduction in the
      volumes of antibiotic use needed to reduce resistance. Exactly the optimal way to do this and
      what resources will be needed is not known. Providing the answers to these questions are the
      objectives of this proposal (CB-ASP -Phase 2).

      Objectives - This study will seek to determine the best way for the developed CB-ASP to be
      successfully scaled up to other family medicine clinics, by testing strategies that are
      resourced with different intensities, utilizing an innovative primary care research platform.

      Study Design - This study will be a 9-month cluster randomized trial over one winter of a
      less resource intensive and more resource intensive scaling strategy for disseminating a
      Community-Based Antimicrobial Stewardship Program (CB-ASP) in 6 clinics within a network
      (UTOPIAN) of linked primary care practices, stratified by small verses large urban center.

      This study will test different levels of support (resources provided) in delivering a
      clinic-based, educational, community-focused ASP intervention directed at family physicians
      and nurse practitioners. These health professionals are licensed to prescribe antibiotics in
      these settings.
    
  