
    
      Background:

      Undernourished children who fail to grow in height and weight as other normal children can be
      underweight, stunting or wasting. In fully urbanized area such as Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia,
      the consequences of undernutrition are more detrimental in urban poor young children. Since
      young children are generally depending on maternal feeding for daily diet, alternative
      intervention that focus on encouraging positive change in maternal behaviour when feeding
      children might be efficient in reducing childhood undernutrition. The positive deviance (PD)
      approach is one such alternative intervention. This approach emphases the identification of
      positive deviant, individuals who successfully discover a way to solve a problem by
      performing some uncommon but advantageous actions or behaviours in the same underprivileged
      environment as their peers. In the context of child nutrition, positive deviance is more
      frequently referred to as adaptive child care practices, positive hygiene practices and
      feeding practices that enable children to develop appropriately in a harsh environment with
      limited resources. The nutrition program developed using this approach helps to discover
      positive deviant, spread local wisdom from mothers of well-nourished children to mothers of
      undernourished children, and initiate positive behavioural change as a preliminary step to
      promote healthy weight gain in children.

      Methods:

      This is a mixed method study which will be carried out in two phases. Phase I of the study
      will involve focus group discussion (FGD) with semi-structured interview to explore maternal
      feeding practices and also foods being fed to children. Mothers of children aged 3 to 5 years
      old will be recruited through purposive sampling or until saturation point is reached. Phase
      II of the study will involve a two-armed randomized controlled trial to evaluate
      effectiveness of nutrition program. A total of 164 mother-child dyads will be recruited, in
      which 82 of them will be recruited separately and randomly from different PPR flats with 1:1
      allocation to form intervention and comparison groups. Ethical approval will be obtained from
      the Ethics Committee for Research Involving Human Subjects Universiti Putra Malaysia
      (JKEUPM). Permission to conduct this study in PPR flats and the list of PPR flats in KL will
      be obtained from the Kuala Lumpur City Hall. Intervention group will need to participate in a
      nutrition program for 3 months that consists of education session with peer-led cooking
      session and rehabilitation session. The comparison group will be given all the materials used
      in the program for reference after the last data collection. The height and weight of
      children will be measured by researcher. Mothers will be interviewed on the dietary intake of
      their children. Mothers will also need to answer a Malay language self-administered
      questionnaire to obtain information on socio-demographic characteristics, nutrition knowledge
      and food security status. These measurements will be taken at the baseline (before
      intervention), immediate post-intervention and 3-month post-intervention for both
      intervention and comparison groups.
    
  