
    
      Even with the best evidence-based treatments, one is often unsuccessful in stopping
      intergenerational transfer of trauma, abuse, and neglect. The implications for the next
      generation are severe, affecting physical and emotional health, cognitive development, and
      relational functioning. The perinatal phase may provide a window of opportunity in efforts to
      prevent intergenerational transfer of risk factors associated with adverse childhood events.
      There is a great need for more knowledge about how generational patterns develop and are
      affected by psychotherapy during pregnancy, infancy and early childhood. Little is known
      about patients' experiences with prenatal psychotherapy and such knowledge can inform better
      tailoring of treatment. The present study is the first step of a planned longitudinal study
      to explore the role of mothers' adverse childhood experiences and child development.

      The primary aim of the study is to explore patients' experiences with prenatal psychotherapy
      provided to pregnant women with adverse childhood experiences and their perspectives of what
      promotes or hinders change in treatment. Second, aims of the study are to explore a)
      therapists' experiences with psychotherapy for mothers with adverse childhood experiences,
      and b) explore the development of intergenerational risk factors. Additionally the
      investigators will explore the mothers' reflective function during the course of treatment,
      the role of adverse and benevolent childhood memories, and mother-infant interaction when the
      infant is four months old. Reflective function seems to be a key factor associated with
      quality of care in spite of adverse events. Understanding factors associated with possible
      change in reflective function is thus highly important. Up to 20 clinically referred women in
      gestational week 20-30 will be recruited. Participants will be assessed at the beginning of
      therapy and when the child is four months old. A combination of quantitative measures and
      qualitative interviews will be used. The infant will be assessed with the neonatal
      assessement scale at age 4-8 weeks and the quality of the mother-infant relationship will be
      assessed using Parent-Child Relation Assessment at four months. In addition, seven therapists
      will be interviewed about their experiences providing psychotherapy for this group of high
      risk patients.
    
  