
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that will enroll subjects with a
      clinical diagnosis of COVID-19 confirmed by laboratory testing and who are in severe or
      critical condition as indicated by life-support measures. Prior to protocol procedures,
      informed consent will be obtained from the subject or a legally authorized representative.
      Subjects will undergo a screening evaluation to determine eligibility based on the protocol
      inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      The primary objectives of the study are to determine the safety and effectiveness of
      intravenously infused CAP-1002 in improving clinical outcomes in severely or critically ill
      patients with COVID-19.

      Eligible subjects will be randomized to either the CAP-1002 or placebo group (1:1 ratio) and
      undergo baseline safety and efficacy assessments approximately 1 to 5 days prior to the
      administration of investigational product (IP). Treatment administration consists of IP
      consisting of 150M CDCs or matching placebo on study Day 1. Background standard of care
      treatment and practices will be maintained for all patients enrolled in the study.

      Subjects will complete Screening followed by a Treatment and Follow-up phase. A detailed
      medical history will be collected, including the presence of any co-morbidities and risk
      factors believed to be associated with COVID-19 outcomes or emergent factors since the time
      of infection. Eligibility must be reviewed and confirmed on Day 1 prior to the infusion of
      IP.

      Subjects will be observed during the index hospitalization and monitored for outcome and
      safety with vital signs (heart rate, blood pressure, respiratory rate, and oxygen
      saturation), physical examinations, electrocardiograms, clinical laboratory testing including
      complete blood count and comprehensive metabolic panel, inflammatory markers and adverse
      events. Blood samples will be collected and submitted to a central laboratory for future
      proteomic assay assessment. Use of any concomitant medications to treat COVID-19 will be
      documented.

      Follow-up will be conducted on Days 2, 3, 7, 15, 30, 60, and 90 either in the inpatient
      setting or by telephone if the subject has been discharged. All subject participation will be
      a maximum of 13 weeks from Screening.
    
  