
    
      The study protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of The First Affiliated Hospital of
      Nanjing Medical University. This randomized parallel group trial enrolled lung cancer
      patients scheduled to receive thoracoscopic anatomic segmentectomy at The First Affiliated
      Hospital of Nanjing Medical University. The allocation sequence was generated using a
      computer program by a staff member not otherwise involved in the trial. Electrocardiogram
      (ECG), pulse oximetry (SpO2), heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), respiratory rate (RR),
      and end-expiratory carbon dioxide (PetCO2) were monitored routinely after admission. A
      superficial vein in the forearm was opened, and sodium lactate Ringer's solution was infused
      intravenously. Parallel radial arterial catheterization was performed to monitor invasive
      arterial blood pressure. All patients received pure oxygen ventilation for at least three
      minutes during the induction of anesthesia. Anesthesia induction was achieved with midazolam
      0.1-0.4mg / kg, etomidate 0.2-0.4mg / kg, cisatracurium 0.15-0.2mg / kg, fentanyl 4-6ug / kg,
      dexamethasone10mg, double-lumen tracheal tube intubation under the laryngoscope, and
      adjustment of the position of the double-lumen tube under fiber bronchoscope, Give double
      lung ventilation with pure oxygen. After turning over to lateral position, adjust the
      position of the double lumen under the fiber bronchoscope again, clamp the non-ventilated end
      of the double lumen tracheal tube and connect the distal end with the atmosphere to perform
      single lung ventilation. Mechanical ventilation was performed with pure oxygen on the side.
      Anesthesia was maintained with continuous infusion of propofol 120-200μg/kg-1min-1 ,
      cisatracurium 1-2μg/kg-1min-1 ,remifentanil 0.25-4μg/kg-1min-1 and
      dexmedetomidine0.2-0.7μg/kg-1h-1 as deemed necessary. Tidal volume was 6-8 mL/kg ideal
      bodyweight (male: height -100, and female: height - 105) without positive end expiratory
      pressure,and the breathing rate was set to 10-18 beats / min,PetCO2 is maintained at
      30-40mmHg). After the surgeon has finely dissected the target artery, vein, and bronchi,
      accurately judged and processed it, the sputum suction operation was performed on the healthy
      and surgical lungs, and the patient with the end-of-breath carbon dioxide sampling tube on
      the monitor was terminated to a portable nitrous oxide concentration detector
      (TD600-SH-N2O)to measure the test gas concentration (express in vol%), by adjusting the
      adjustable pressure limit valve ( APL) of the anesthesia machine to 0 in advance to exhaust
      the residual gas in the airbag, change the anesthesia machine to manual control mode, adjust
      the oxygen flow rate and N2O flow rate of the ventilator (group A is 100% O2, group B is 75%
      N2O (set N2O: O2 = 3: 1 ), Group C is 50% N2O (set N2O: O2 = 1: 1)), adjust the APL valve to
      20cmHg, so that the storage gas bag is filled with test gas, adjust the APL valve to 0 again,
      exhaust the residual gas, adjust the APL valve to 20, make the N2O concentration detector
      reach the predetermined gas concentration, and test the gas through the dual-lumen tracheal
      tube to positive pressure ventilation with high frequency and low tidal volume to expand the
      lungs, the pressure is limited to 20cmHg, after the lungs is completely expanded, performing
      pure oxygen mechanical single lung ventilation, waiting for clear presentation of the plane
      between segments .(The starting point of intraoperative expansion and collapse observation is
      the time when the lung tissue is completely expanded after blocking the relevant structure of
      the target segment; the end point is when a clear demarcation is formed between the target
      segment and the immediately-reserved lung segment, and this boundary does not follow
      significant changes over time).
    
  