
    
      To improve dosing convenience of the current formulation of galantamine, a new once daily
      dosing Extended Release (ER) formulation was developed. In a different large study, in which
      approximately 900 patients with Alzheimer's disease participated, efficacy of the Extended
      Release formulation was confirmed. During the first 8 weeks of treatment, nausea and vomiting
      occurred less frequently with the Extended Release than Intermittent Release formulation.
      This suggests that patients might better tolerate a rapid dose escalation to the initial
      maintenance dose of 16mg daily, thereby improving the risk/benefit ratio during the first 4
      weeks of therapy, i.e. receiving more drug sooner. The trial objectives are: 1) to
      demonstrate the safety and tolerability of galantamine Extended Release 16 mg daily when
      titrated from 8 mg daily after one week; 2) to evaluate the effect of galantamine Extended
      Release on cognition as measured by the Mini Mental State Examination. Results from prior
      trials show that galantamine Intermittent Release (twice a day dosing) has a high rate of
      adverse events when dose escalations occur at one-week intervals. Therefore, current
      galantamine labelling recommends that the drug dose be escalated once every 4 weeks. The
      study hypotheis is that the rapid dose escalation of the Extended Release formulation in
      subjects with Alzheimer's disease is safe and well tolerated. Comparison of adverse event
      rates will be made to the first 8 weeks Reminyl Extended Release group of another trial in
      which the Extended Release formulation was titrated from 8 mg daily to 16 mg daily at 4
      weeks. Subjects will receive galantamine Extended Release capsules by mouth starting at 8 mg
      daily and after one week will be titrated up to 16 mg daily. This dose will be maintained for
      11 additional weeks.

      8 mg of Galantamine Extended Release Capsules once daily for one week. After one week will be
      titrated up to 16 mg daily for 11 weeks.
    
  