
    
      This is a single center, single arm, non-randomized prospective study. We plan to enroll
      persons between 50 and 74 years in age, who had cigarette smoking of at least 30 pack-years,
      and, if former smokers, had quit within the previous 15 years. Persons who had previously
      received a diagnosis of lung cancer, had undergone chest CT within 18 months before
      enrollment, had hemoptysis, or had an unexplained weight loss of more than 6.8 kg in the
      preceding year were excluded.

      All the participants should complete a questionnaire that covers many topics, including
      demographic characteristics and smoking behavior. We also plan to collect additional data for
      planned analyses of cost-effectiveness, and smoking cessation. Lung-cancer got by biopsy and
      other biospecimens are available to researchers through a peer-review process All screening
      examinations are planed to perform in accordance with a standard protocol, developed by
      medical physicists associated with the trial, that specified acceptable characteristics of
      the machine and acquisition variables. All low-dose CT scans are acquired with the use of
      multidetector scanners with a minimum of 16 channels.

      IDEALCAP radiologists are certified by appropriate agencies or boards and has completed
      training in image acquisition; radiologists also has completed training in image quality and
      standardized image interpretation. Images are interpreted first in isolation and then in
      comparison with available historical images and images from prior IDEALCAP screening
      examinations.

      IDEALCAP primary analysis is the detection rate of lung cancer. Secondary analysis include
      the detection rate of lung nodule, 5-year survival rate of persons with lung cancer who
      receive standard surgical treatment, 5-year survival rate of persons with lung cancer who
      receive alternative treatment other than standard surgical treatment (ex. Radiotherapy,
      chemotherapy or target therapy), the correlation of CT images and cigarette smoking history,
      the correlation of CT images and pulmonary function.

      Key Word： low dose computed-tomography (LDCT), lung cancer screening
    
  