
    
      The use of miniscrew implants as an anchorage device in orthodontics has gained a widespread
      acceptance in recent years. There prevailed use has been attributed to its ease in insertion
      and removal at a relatively low cost with no need to wait for a long time between miniscrew
      insertion and force application. In this regard; clinical studies have suggested that
      miniscrew implants may provide stable anchorage during the orthodontic treatment without
      requiring patient cooperation. These studies proved many successful applications in
      orthodontics involving; retraction of anterior teeth, correction of open bites,
      distalization, mesialization, and intrusion of teeth.

      In dentistry, various materials are used in implant systems. The implant material must be
      nontoxic, biocompatible, mechanically sufficient, and having high tension and corrosion
      resistance. Commercially pure titanium (cp Ti) is the most used material in prosthetic
      implants because of its; high biocompatibility, high corrosion resistance in body fluids, not
      allergic, high specific strength, and low elastic modulus when compared with other metallic
      biomaterials.

      On the other hand, orthodontic miniscrew implants are smaller than conventional prosthetic
      implants and should resist high orthodontic loads. These factors contribute to the possible
      fracture of cp Ti miniscrew implants during placement, use, and removal. To avoid such
      fracture, Ti alloy implants, composed with aluminum (6Al) and vanadium (4V), (Ti-6Al-4V), for
      adding strength and fatigue resistance than cp Ti, are required. Unfortunately, this alloy
      has a low corrosion resistance and can result in corrosion of the orthodontic miniscrew
      implants in body fluids.

      Any metal or alloy implanted in the human body is a potential source of toxicity. In an oral
      envelope, miniscrew implants are exposed to a number of potentially destructive physical and
      chemical agents. Evaluation the potential of conventional dental implants to release metallic
      ions into the body have been done. However, little attention has been given to metallic ion
      released from orthodontic miniscrew implant systems and the potential toxicity of these
      released metal on oral tissues. The concern about this has been limited to orthodontic
      brackets and wires.

      One of the studies concerned with the biocompatibility of different metals used in vivo of
      different fixed orthodontic appliances and evaluating the presence of metal ions in oral
      mucosa cells, their potential cytotoxicity, and genotoxic effects. This study concluded that
      nickel and cobalt metals released from fixed orthodontic appliances could induce DNA damage
      in oral mucosa cells.

      Literature review in this topic listed an expanding area of articles dealing with orthodontic
      miniscrews. The in vivo studies of cytotoxic effect of metal ions released from orthodontic
      miniscrew implants in body fluids are limited compared to in vitro studies.

      In view of the above review of literature, it will be of great value in clinical orthodontics
      to investigate the biological effect of commercial orthodontic miniscrew implants on the oral
      investing tissue.
    
  