
    
      Background Information Scoliosis in patients between 10 and 18 years of age is termed
      adolescent scoliosis. The most common type of scoliosis is one of which the cause is not
      known. This is called "idiopathic" or "adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS)". The main risk
      factors of curve progression could be skeletal immaturity, female gender and large curve
      magnitude. It has been found that nearly 10% of all adolescents have some degree of spinal
      curve or deformity after their tenth year. The health of patients, such as cardiac and
      pulmonary functions, may be affected if their spinal deformity is very serious. Hence, the
      most ideal way is to monitor and control spinal curvature once AIS has been found.

      Treatment options for scoliosis In general, patients are suggested to undergo different types
      of treatments according to their spine situations and stage of scoliosis. Surgery is
      suggested for patients with spinal curves that are greater than 41-50 degrees, while bracing
      is a non-invasive treatment suggested for those with spinal curves between 21-40 degrees.
      Thoraco-lumber-sacral-orthosis (TLSO) or cervico-thoraco-lumbo-sacral orthosis (CTLSO) braces
      are the most commonly prescribed and used braces. The 3-point pressure system is primarily
      applied by all TLSO braces in order to correct the spinal curve and reduce the curve
      progression. The plaster cast is tailor-made according to the body shape of each patient. The
      upper torso of the wearer needs to be tightly compressed by this non-breathable material for
      23 hours every day. The duration of the treatment duration will be for years until the bones
      are fully mature.

      Aside from the fact that newer types of flexible brace products in the market are not
      available in large numbers, their effectiveness continues to be controversial and there is
      much room for improvement. The SpineCor Dynamic brace is one of the flexible braces used to
      treat AIS. The theory behind the SpineCor system is known as spinal coupling. Spinal coupling
      corrects deformities by reversing abnormal posture and body shape into their opposite
      position so that the abnormal alignment of the spine can be corrected. As the spinal curve of
      each patient is different, thus appropriate positions and tensions of the elastics will be
      respectively placed and adjusted by a professional before the patient wears the brace. It has
      been found that the curve progression rate of those who wear the SpineCor Dynamic brace is
      significantly higher than those who wear the rigid brace. It is believed that the
      ineffectiveness of the flexible brace may be caused by the shifting of the elastic bands. The
      elastic bands present on the brace are not fixed to the body of the wearer, and may easily
      shift to other areas during movement. Hence, the corrective force will no longer be exerted
      onto the correct position for posture and body shape correction.

      A summary of the research rationale is listed below. Research rationale 1: Low treatment
      compliance Treatment through the use of a hard brace has low compliance due to discomfort and
      psychological issues, such as an awkward and bulky appearance. Flexible braces have other
      issues, such as discomfort caused by the elastic bands, inconvenience when going to the
      toilet, and unusual designs, which also result in low compliance. New designs that aim to
      improve compliance are therefore extremely important.

      Research rationale 2: Limited product choice for adolescents with early scoliosis Hard brace
      treatment is overly excessive for adolescents with early scoliosis due to the high corrective
      force which nearly constrains all movements. The flexible brace treatment is an alternative
      option; however, its efficacy remains controversial. Intimate apparel that has a specialized
      design for teenagers with scoliosis is limited and a large majority can only provide some
      improvement for poor postures, such as hunchback. A scientific approach should be used to
      design and develop functional intimate apparel as a treatment option for adolescents with
      early scoliosis.
    
  