
    
      Voluntary Medical Male Circumcision (VMMC) is a one-time, low cost intervention that shown to
      reduce men's risk of HIV infection by 53%-60% and by up to 73% in post-trial observation.
      Numerous papers on the topic have been published over the past two decades to elevate HIV
      prevention awareness, especially in sub-Saharan countries.

      The World Health Organization (WHO) and the Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS)
      have endorsed innovative approaches to VMMC uptake in settings where HIV prevalence and
      incidence is high but male circumcision (MC) prevalence remains low in 14 target countries.
      Recent modelling commissioned by President's Emergency Plan For AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) and
      UNAIDS have agreed on an action plan to reach 80% coverage of VMMC in the 14 countries by
      2015, this will entail performing roughly 20 million adult VMMC by 2015, averting
      approximately 3.36 million new HIV infections and saving US$16.5 billion.

      The PrePex became the first medical device for adult male circumcision to receive WHO
      prequalification as an alternative to the conventional surgical circumcision methods already
      recognized by WHO. The PrePex VMMC procedure is bloodless and requires no injected
      anesthesia, suturing, or sterile setting, it applies controlled radial elastic pressure to
      the foreskin between a rigid Inner Ring and an Elastic Ring to cut off distal blood flow.
      After 7 days, the necrotic foreskin and the device are removed.

      The Government of Rwanda was the first country to implement the PrePex and acts as the
      leading Center of Excellence providing trainings and formal guidelines. As part of the
      Government's efforts to improve the PrePex implementation, it made efforts to improve the
      psychology acceptability of the PrePex by men and thus to increase the uptake with VMMC in
      sub-Saharan Africa.

      PrePex researchers from Rwanda have assumed that there is a possible relation between the
      level of odor from the foreskin to the foreskin hygiene technique. It was speculated that
      when a patient follows an appropriate foreskin hygiene technique while wearing the device,
      the odor before device removal (day 7) will be significantly lower than the odor of the
      foreskin of a subject who follows a less effective foreskin hygiene technique.

      Providing scientific evidence of the direct relation between odor and specific foreskin
      hygiene technique, will allow VMMC implementing bodies to create a comprehensive and
      effective PrePex related hygiene guidelines and reduce the potential of complaints from men
      therefore, increasing the acceptability rate. A randomized, controlled, blinded study to
      assess the effectiveness of 3 different foreskin hygiene techniques was conducted at Rwanda
      Military Hospital Kigali, Rwanda during November 18th to December 4th, 2013.
    
  