
    
      Recruitment of study participants:

      A total of 60 patients with indication for 24-hour BP measurement will be recruited from our
      tertiary hypertension clinic at Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark. Patients will be
      eligible for inclusion if they are 18 years or older and have indication for ABPM with an
      automated oscillometric device. Exclusion criteria will be as follows: Known significant
      arterial abnormalities in the upper extremities, known cardiac arrythmia, upper arm
      circumference >16,5" or <6", or extreme uncontrolled hypertension (i.e. resting office BP >
      230/140 mmHg). To enable testing of the device at both normal and elevated BP-levels, we will
      aim at including at least 15 patients in each of the following categories: Normal BP, stage 1
      hypertension and stage ≥2, based on NICE guidelines for ABPM17. Informed consent will
      obtained from all patients prior to inclusion in the study. At inclusion, a simultaneous
      bilateral BP-measurement will be performed with three consecutive measurements using an
      automated oscillometric device (Microlife WatchBP Office®) after 5 minutes of rest. If the
      difference in Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) between the arms is found to be >5 mmHg, the
      patient will not be included in the study.

      24-hour BP measurements: All staff related to the project are familiar with the SOMNOtouch
      NIBP™ (SomBP) device, which has been used in our clinic for selected patients with high
      cuff-based BP and at the same time symptoms of hypotension, since 2015. Mounting and
      calibration of both devices will be conducted according to manufacturers' instructions. With
      the patient sitting in an upright position with back-support, a conventional oscillometric
      BP-device (Spacelabs 90217 / 90207, OscBP) will be fitted on the right arm, while the SomBP
      will be fitted on the left arm. The SomBP will be calibrated with a single BP measurement
      with a cuff-based sphygmomanometer. The OscBP will record BP three times every hour during
      daytime and two times every hour during nighttime, while the SomBP will measure BP
      continuously. The patients will be instructed to engage in normal activities but refrain from
      strenuous exercise and, at the time of cuff-inflation, to stop moving and talking, while
      keeping the arm still with the cuff at heart level. Pulse wave velocity (PWV) as well as
      pulse wave analysis (PWA) will be performed in duplicate with the SphygmoCor system (version
      8.2, Atcor Medical, Sydney, Australia). A small questionnaire on device-related pain and/or
      discomfort as well as sleeping habits will be provided to all participants. As per ESH
      guidelines, a minimum of 70% useful measurements on the oscillometric device during the ABPM
      will be required for the data to be considered useful. Assessment the acceptability of
      data-quality of SomBP will be made on the basis of discussion between the primary
      investigator and KLC, who, at the time of evaluation will both be blinded to the
      corresponding OscBP measurement. No SomBP measurements will be accepted with more than 50%
      failed measurement in the report. Data from both devices will be excluded from the study if
      data-collection from either device is deemed to have insufficient quality to be usable. For
      these instances, patients will be asked to repeat examination with both devices. SomBP1 data
      will extracted ad hoc using Domino Light 1.4.0 software.

      Statistical analysis:

      All statistical analysis will be performed using STATA software. A p-value of 0.05 will be
      prespecified as statistically significant. Variables will be checked for distribution through
      histograms and QQ-plots. Means will be compared using paired t-test. Standard regression
      analysis will be performed to test for association in continuous variables. Categorical
      variables will be compared using chi-squared tests.
    
  