
    
      Delirium affects 50-70% of patients in Intensive Care Units (ICUs) with respiratory failure
      or shock.1-8 ICU delirium predicts death,2,8 length of stay,3 cost,9 and acquisition of
      Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementia (ADRD).10-14 Alzheimer's disease and related
      dementias" or "ADRD" refers to a diverse range of cognitive impairments that may specifically
      reflect Alzheimer's disease or, alternatively, may reflect any number of conditions that fall
      broadly under the rubric of dementia. The relationship between delirium and ADRD must be
      studied in ICU survivors.10-13,15-23 The risk factors, diagnostic tools, mechanisms,
      phenotypes, and histopathology of this ADRD are ill-defined.

      Our NIA-funded, NEJM published, PAR-18-029 cited original BRAIN-ICU-1 Study10,14 of 821
      subjects showed over one-third of ICU survivors (without preexisting dementia) emerged with
      new ADRD by 1 year.10-12,17,19,24-27 Our pilot data found that many patients have a
      progressive ADRD phenotype. Some demonstrated transient decline followed by cognitive
      recovery. Our limited work indicates that cognitive rehabilitation may induce recovery,28 but
      we must discover which ADRD phenotypes are responsive to intervention.29,30 We must
      understand neurodegenerative and pathoanatomic risk factors for ADRD in survivors. Our pilot
      MRI data show acute ICU delirium is associated with atrophy of the whole brain, frontal
      lobes, and hippocampus.21,22 Specifically, a higher ventricle-to-brain ratio (VBR) appears
      linked with ADRD.20 We lack information on neuroinflammation, microvascular injury, white
      matter disease, and amyloid/tau-related neurodegeneration pathways.

      In ICU survivors with/without delirium, the BRAIN-ICU-2 Study will define phenotypes, risk
      factors, diagnostics, mechanistic pathways, and histopathology of ADRD (in direct response to
      PAR-18-029). We will characterize which patients show cognitive reserve, recovery, and ADRD
      progression, and in so doing, address knowledge gaps between delirium and ADRD and facilitate
      future interventions.

      Our overarching hypothesis:

      Delirium results in neurodegenerative and neuropathological changes that can be measured with
      imaging biomarkers, plasma/cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, and autopsy measures of
      neuropathology, all of which ultimately drive post-ICU ADRD phenotypes, which we will
      characterize in BRAIN-ICU-2.

      1.2. Specific Aims (Figure 1) Aim 1: To test the hypothesis that ICU survivorship and
      mortality over a decade is associated with unique clinical ADRD phenotypes. With our extended
      BRAIN-ICU-1 and new cohort (with/without delirium), we will amass survivor follow-up data at
      3mo & 12mo (original + new cohort, below), 4y & 6y (completed), and now 12-14y data. Clinical
      ADRD Consensus Diagnosis will include Repeatable Battery for Assessment of Neuropsychological
      Status (RBANS) 31-33, and tests of memory, executive function, functional outcomes, & quality
      of life. We will conduct trajectory analyses to define phenotypes (reserve, recovery,
      progression).

      Aim 2: To test the hypothesis that global brain atrophy as assessed by structural MRI will
      mediate the association between delirium duration and clinical ADRD phenotypes at 12-month
      follow-up. We will enroll a new ICU cohort of 567 patients from Vanderbilt & Rush and engage
      3mo & 12mo ADRD follow-up. In-hospital, we will assess delirium (Confusion Assessment
      Method-ICU), baseline risk (e.g., education, frailty, comorbidity, ApoE), neuroinflammatory
      plasma biomarkers (e.g., HMGB1, S100B, PAI-1), and clinical risks (e.g., sepsis, drug
      exposures, immobility). In addition to enrollment MRIs, we will also obtain 3T MRI, plasma,
      and CSF biomarkers at discharge and 12-month. Our primary analysis will assess if the change
      in ventricle-to-brain ratio (VBR) mediates the association between delirium and clinical
      ADRD. Secondary analyses will evaluate MRI measures of brain structure (white matter
      integrity) & function (perfusion), and plasma/CSF biomarkers for AD neuropathology,
      inflammation, & synaptic/axonal integrity as additional mediating paths.

      Aim 3: To test the hypothesis that microvascular pathology underlies post-ICU ADRD. We will
      establish a repository at Rush and analyze decedents' brains from both the extended
      BRAIN-ICU-1 and new ICU cohort. We will assess the association between delirium and autopsy
      measures of neuropathology focusing on cerebrovascular disease (e.g., microinfarcts due to
      endothelial activation in sepsis). We will also fully characterize the presence of other
      common neuropathologies (e.g., plaques, tangles, TDP-43).
    
  