
    
      According to statistics in Taiwan, two to four percent the elderly of aged more than 65 years
      old have dementia. As the decreasing birth rate and the advancement of medical care making
      life expectancy getting longer, the society in Taiwan is aging with a fast pace, leading to a
      tremendous increase of patients suffering dementia. Many studies have shown that Tai Chi
      Chuan can improve quality of life, cardiopulmonary function, pain control, mentality,
      endurance, flexibility, balance, can decrease the possibility of incidental, and enhance
      immunity and sleep quality in the elderly. Many studies showed that higher physical activity
      or mental training is associated with reduced risk for Alzheimer Disease. However, Tai Chi
      Chuan could be a little difficult for elderly people with dementia because they can't
      remember so that the investigators have designed Tai Chi 6-Form sports apparatus and the
      clinical trial was done for health and stroke elderly people. Also, the investigators have
      developed a mental training program for patients with Alzheimer Disease. The objective of the
      present project is to develop complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) for The Chang Gung
      Dementia Center to alleviate the symptoms and signs of patients with Alzheimer Disease, an
      approach aiming at decreasing the burden on family, society and nation.

        1. Study aims during the first year: the investigators investigate the effect of Tai Chi
           6-Form accompanied with music rhythm for patients with dementia to remember in
           behavioral and general health, functional and cognitive decline as well as family
           caregiver's satisfaction, the use of health care services, and recommendation for other
           people among patients with mild and moderate Alzheimer Disease.

        2. Study aims during the second year: the investigators investigate the effect of mental
           training with computer mind training games on behavioral and general health, functional
           and cognitive decline as well as the use of health care services and family caregiver's
           satisfaction and recom mendation for other people among patients with mild and moderate
           Alzheimer Disease.

        3. Study aims during the third year: the investigators investigate the effect of tele-Tai
           Chi 6-Form and mental training on line which are to combine to physico-mental
           rehabilitation Wii (PM Wii) on behavioral and general health, functional and cognitive
           decline as well as the use of health care services and family caregiver's satisfaction
           and recommendation for other people among patients with mild and moderate Alzheimer
           Disease. According to Tai Chi 6-Form, the investigators will develop the software to
           watch Tai Chi 6-Form exercise on computer on line. The patient can copy Tai Chi 6-Form
           movement accompanied with previous music rhythm at home. Therefore, Tai Chi 6-Form and
           mental training which are a great benefit to patients with dementia will be popular at
           home or in the community. Patients with dementia return back to the community.
    
  