
    
      The GM1 and GM2 gangliosidoses are lysosomal storage disorders that primarily affect the
      brain and are uniformly fatal. The glycoproteinoses sialidosis and galactosialidosis are
      ultra-rare disorders involving predominantly the skeletal and central nervous systems that
      are likewise fatal or severely debilitating. No effective therapy for patients with these
      diseases has yet been demonstrated. Historically, since these disorders are fatal very little
      natural history information or disease characterization using modern medical techniques has
      been collected. This information is vital in order to establish the pattern of disease
      progression and to identify clinical, biochemical and biophysical markers that can be used as
      endpoints in future therapeutic trials.

      This protocol aims to study the natural history of the GM1 and GM2 gangliosidoses in affected
      individuals of all ages, races and genders using medical technologies including MRI/MRS,
      hearing evaluation and auditory evoked response testing, and EEG, as well as subspecialty
      evaluations in rehabilitative medicine, ophthalmology, speech language pathology, neurology,
      and psychology. Biomarkers of disease progression will be explored in CSF and blood samples
      for correlation with disease staging. Fibroblast cultures will be established for testing
      potential therapeutic agents. Some fibroblast lines will be used to create induced
      pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) for differentiation into neural tissues, more relevant for the
      study of these disorders that primarily affect the central nervous system (CNS).We
      hypothesize that relevant biomarkers will correlate with disease progression and will shed
      light on the pathophysiology of disease progression in these devastating disorders.

      As a means of acquiring additional information, subjects or their parents may also be asked
      to complete a questionnaire regarding their medical and developmental history, initial
      clinical presentation of the disease and steps toward diagnosis. At their request, the same
      questionnaire may be sent to families who do not wish to undergo clinical evaluation at the
      NIH, who are medically fragile and unable to travel, or whose affected member(s) are already
      deceased.

      We know that children with infantile GM2 gangliosidosis develop increasing macrocephaly as
      part of their disease. No normal curves for head circumference vs. age currently exist for
      this disorder. In an attempt to provide such curves to the clinical community parents may
      also be asked to provide head circumference data on their children whether they are being
      seen at NIH or whether a clinical questionnaire is being completed for children too medically
      fragile to travel or already deceased.

      We know that for infantile onset disease the storage of ganglioside in neurons begins during
      the second trimester of pregnancy. In rare situations where carrier couples learn from
      prenatal diagnosis that they are carrying a fetus with infantile disease and have decided to
      terminate the pregnancy, we will accept samples of fetal tissue for analysis of biomarkers
      including gene expression analysis that may lend clues as to the underlying pathogenesis of
      disease. This may lead to increased understanding of the early events in disease pathogenesis
      and suggest possible therapies.

      We anticipate that information obtained from the small population of patients with
      glycosphingolipid and glycoprotein disorders evaluated in this study will have a broader
      impact on patients with other neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disorders and perhaps more
      common disorders of neurodegeneration.
    
  