
    
      This study is a randomized, evaluator-blind, single dose, two-arm, crossover, PK study, to be
      conducted in ~18 healthy, male and female, adult volunteers. PK will be studied using E004-d3
      at 125 mcg per inhalation (Arm T). A previously marketed Epinephrine CFC-MDI, labeled "For
      Investigational Use Only" will be used as a Reference Control (Arm C).

      The main features of the study design are:

      (1) All candidates must be screened and must satisfy all enrollment criteria. All enrolled
      subjects will participate in two Study Visits, corresponding to two randomized treatments.
      Each Study Visit consists of a pre-dose baseline assessment and a post-dose evaluation for 6
      hours.

      (2) It is important to minimize physical and psychological disturbances to the endogenous
      epinephrine concentrations in the study subjects, before and during the study visits. All
      subjects must maintain a reclining or recumbent resting position during the entire Study
      Visit, with physical activities restricted to a minimum necessity for bathroom trips and
      study activities. Caffeine-containing (including de-caffeinated) foods or beverages are
      prohibited. Physical exercise, unnecessary physical activities, and video games are
      prohibited throughout the study visit.

      (3)At the Screening Visit and the beginning of each Study Visit, each subject will be trained
      on the correct self-administration of MDI, using a simulation MDI unit that contains no
      active drug. The following two randomized treatments will be self-administered at two Study
      Visits:

      Treatment T: Two (2) inhalations of E004-d3 (125 mcg/inhalation), totaling 250 mcg of
      epinephrine-d3;

      Treatment C: Two (2) inhalations of Epinephrine CFC-MDI (220 mcg/inhalation, totaling 440 mcg
      of epinephrine base equivalent).

      (4) PK blood samples will be taken from a vein in a hand or arm via an indwelling
      anticoagulated IV catheter, or by venipunctures, at scheduled time points of predose baseline
      (within 30 minutes of dosing), and at 2±1, 5±1, 7.5±1, 10±1, 12.5, 15, 20, 25, 30, 45, 60,
      90, 120, 240 and 360 minutes postdose. The total volume of blood taken per subject shall not
      exceed 500 mL in any 30-day period. Study visit schedule may be adjusted to avoid overdrawing
      blood in any 30-day period.

      (5) At each PK sampling point, blood samples (~ 5mL), will be collected in ice-chilled
      potassium-EDTA sample tubes, each containing pre-added 1% (V:V) of a 1.0 M sodium
      metabisulfite solution as an antioxidant. Sample tubes will be labeled with a sample ID#
      (consisting of subject ID#, Study Visit#, and sample#). The sample tubes will be kept on ice
      or refrigerated, and will be centrifuged within 60 minutes of collection. The harvested
      plasma from each sample tube will be transferred to, and stored in, 2 storage tubes,
      respectively, and frozen at NMT -20 degrees C until analysis.

      (6) PK samples will be analyzed with an established LC/MS/MS method, with a quantitative
      detection limit of 5 pg/mL, for both epinephrine-d3 (MW=186) and epinephrine (MW=183).

      (7) Safety parameters and adverse drug events, if any, will be monitored and documented at
      each study visit. An End-of-Study (EOS) safety evaluation will be conducted at the end of, or
      within 7 days after, Study Visit-2.
    
  