
    
      Despite the promise of phone-based interventions to effectively support diabetes
      self-management (DSM), little is known about their impact on the outcomes of highly
      vulnerable populations such as low-income, inner-city, racial/ethnic minorities. And while
      phone-based interventions have generally been successful at reaching and engaging adults with
      diabetes, they have failed to do the same with family members/friends (FF) whom are a
      promising source of ongoing support for DSM. The objective of this study was to investigate
      the feasibility, perceived usefulness, and potential effectiveness of a short text or voice
      message (ST/VM) intervention to activate 1) physical activity (PA) behavior change among
      low-income, urban, Latino patients in diabetes management and 2) supportive behaviors by FF.
      The investigators conducted a 12-week pilot study in which participants were randomized into
      one of three study arms: control, phone messaging (PM), and phone messaging plus social
      support from FF (PM+FF). Participants were recruited in person from a diabetes management
      program at a safety-net ambulatory care clinic. All participants were given a pedometer and
      walking log for self-monitoring. Participants in the PM and PM+FF arms received ST/VMs as
      reminders to review daily step goals and to self-monitor; explaining the benefits of regular
      PA, importance of regular PA to daily life, and ways to overcome commonly identified barriers
      to PA; asking participants to report on PA performance; providing feedback based on
      responses. Participants in the PM+FF identified a FF to receive ST/VMs with suggested
      behaviors that are perceived as supportive by individuals making PA behavior changes.
      Participants received semi-structured assessments in person at baseline, 6 weeks, and 12
      weeks. Participants were asked about the extent to which the program enhanced the
      participant's ability to make PA behavior changes. The primary outcome measures were daily
      step counts and perceived FF social support.
    
  