
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most frequently diagnosed malignancies in some
      regions of the world, particularly Africa and the Asian portion of the Pacific rim. However,
      it is an uncommon malignancy in the United States, with less than 14,000 cases diagnosed
      annually. Malignancies of the gallbladder and biliary tree are also uncommon. As with most
      solid tumors, unless either neoplasm can be resected completely, the prognosis is grim. A
      variety of agents have been utilized in the therapy of HCC and cholangiocarcinoma, both as
      single agents and in combination regimens. However, despite response rates which exceed 50%
      when hepatic arterial therapy is utilized for HCC, response rates for cholangiocarcinoma and
      for systemic treatment of HCC are considerably lower. Long term survival remains uncommon.
      For this reason, new therapeutic approaches must be evaluated.

      Trisenox (arsenic trioxide) is a newly-approved pharmaceutical grade arsenic compound
      antineoplastic agent which has demonstrated clear activity in anthracycline- and all-trans
      retinoic acid-resistant acute promyelocytic leukemia. Trisenox also has US Compendium listing
      for acute leukemia, chronic myelogenous and lymphocytic leukemias, myelodysplasia, multiple
      myeloma, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Similar to the taxanes and vinca alkaloids,
      Trisenox appears to interfere with microtubule function, which triggers cell differentiation,
      and induces programmed death, or apoptosis. The mechanism of this is unclear, but appears to
      involve activation of caspases and the down-regulation of the BCL-2 oncogene. Trisenox also
      interfere with the function of NF-kappaB, leading to inhibition of cellular proliferative
      signals, apoptosis, and inhibition of tumor angiogenesis.

      Trisenox was shown to be effective in a pivotal trial consisting of 40 subjects, ages 5 to
      72, at a nine-institution multi-center trial led by Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
      With Trisenox, 70% of the subjects achieved a complete remission, and 79% of the complete
      responders achieved a molecular remission as measured by reverse transcriptase-polymerase
      chain reaction (RT-PCR). Complete remission was achieved on average within two months after
      initiation of Trisenox. Sixty-eight percent of subjects who achieved complete remission were
      still alive and 58% were disease free, at a median follow-up time of 16 months.

      To date, an optimal dose and schedule of Trisenox has not yet been defined. This agent has
      been administered on daily, twice a week, and weekly doses. As there is no evidence that one
      regimen is clearly superior to any other, for the sake of convenience, participants on this
      trial will receive Trisenox on the weekly schedule. Administration of chemotherapy on a
      weekly schedule is commonly utilized across a broad spectrum of regimens and tumor types. On
      this trial, subjects will receive a dose of intravenous Trisenox 0.35 mg/kg on days 1, 8, 15,
      and 22 over two hours. Each cycle will be 28 days in length. Subjects will receive two
      treatment cycles (8 weeks) and then undergo objective radiographic tumor assessments. On this
      study, subjects may receive up to a maximum of 12 such treatment cycles. As the outlook for
      subjects with advanced primary liver cancer is so poor, new regimens and treatment strategies
      must be evaluated.
    
  