
    
      This program compares progressive strength, flexibility, toning and balance (FlexToBa)
      activities delivered via home-based DVD intervention compared to an attention control group
      to determine the program's effects on functional limitations, functional performance in
      everyday activities, balance, and quality of life (QOL) in sedentary older adults over 65
      years of age. The principals of REAIM (Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, and
      Maintenance) will be implemented into the design and evaluation of the program in order to
      determine the generalizable cost-effectiveness and potential public health impact of
      delivering physical activity to older adults via DVD media. Measurements assessed at
      baseline, six months, and 12 months include: functional performance and functional
      limitations, self-efficacy, physical activity, and measures of health status and well-being.
      We propose to recruit and randomly assign 250 older (65+) adults from across Central Illinois
      to the FlexToBa condition or to an attention control condition. The former will receive the
      activity program DVD and the latter will receive a healthy aging DVD (with no physical
      activity instruction). The control group will be offered the FlexToBa program following
      6-month follow-up assessments. The health relevance of this project is considerable as it
      targets a population that is largely sedentary and suffers from unprecedented levels of
      functional limitations, factors that have significant implications for compromised quality of
      life and independent living. By adopting broad recruitment strategies with few exclusionary
      criteria, we will be able to effectively improve the physical activity behavior of a diverse
      class of older adults. Offering this as a DVD-based physical activity program will provide a
      convenient opportunity for older adults to become and stay physically active. We intend to
      provide a limited number of DVD players to those interested participants who do not already
      own one.

      In 2014, investigators will study the comparative effectiveness of the FlexToBa DVD trial as
      compared to a DVD-only intervention.Researchers will provide the exercise DVD to an entire
      wave/group of participants with half receiving the motivational telephone calls and feedback
      (as with earlier waves) and the other half receiving no motivational communications.

      The procedures for the Support Group, who receive the motivational support, will be identical
      to earlier waves. Both groups will receive the FlexToBa DVDs and equipment at the initial
      testing and orientation meeting but the Effectiveness Group will not receive the motivational
      feedback. Testing at month six is identical to earlier waves and both groups will be asked to
      evaluate the program at the end of the intervention.

      There is no plan for follow-up testing at month 12 or month 24 for this wave of participants.
    
  