
    
      A randomized-controlled-double blinded pilot study. Twenty Inflammatory Bowel Disease
      patients, suffering from mild disease will be randomized to undergo either a set of specific
      physical exercises for Inflammatory Bowel Disease or a control set of unrelated exercises.

      Patients will be randomized to either interventional or control groups by a computer
      automatized randomization program. Patients will be sent an email with the link to an
      internet site where they will be able to watch the exercise program.

      The interventional exercise regimen will include specific exercises postulated to increase
      blood flow to the intestine and colon and thereby promote normal peristaltic and decrease
      inflammation. The control arm will practice generally recommended exercises, without
      particular attention to the abdomen.

      Videos of sets of exercise will be available online which patients will be able to watch and
      follow from their home computer. The exercise regimens (both interventional and controls)
      will be sequenced and performed by a trained and experienced instructor, which will provide
      these to the PI. Each video will include explicit instructions and examples for each of the
      exercises. Patients will be asked to watch the videos and preform the exercises individually
      every day. Patients in the interventional arm will be asked to complete 3 different videos
      repeatedly, as many days a week sets as possible. This repetition is to be maintained even if
      a patient missed one day of training to perform sets of 15 minutes/ day, 6 times a week.;
      Compliance will be documented by patients through emails to the study coordinator. Patients
      in the controled arm will also be asked to practice generally recommended exercises in 3
      different videos repeatedly, as many sets as possible.

      Patients will answer questionnaires once every two weeks(week 0, 2, 4). Patients will answer
      QOL(quality of life), PROMs(Patient Reported Outcome Measures),disease activity , Sleep
      questionnaire and Morningness eveningness questionnaire. Also, before and after the
      intervention (week 0 and week 4) patients will visit the clinic for anthropometric
      measurements and to give serum, stool and urine sample which will be analyzed for
      inflammatory markers, microbial composition and function.
    
  