
    
      CABY1 is a clinical trial to study the reduction of C-reactive protein (CRP) by therapeutic
      apheresis (CRP apheresis) in patients undergoing elective primary coronary bypass surgery.

      The term therapeutic apheresis describes therapeutical procedures whose effect is based on
      the elimination of blood components with a pathogenic function within the disease process.
      Elimination takes place in adsorbers outside the body in an extracorporeal circuit. To remove
      the pathogenic substances, blood plasma is separated from the circuit and passed through an
      adsorber. The purified blood plasma is then reunited with the solid blood components and
      returned to the patient.

      The "PentraSorb® CRP" adsorber used for CRP apheresis is CE-certified. It serves for the
      selective depletion of the C-reactive protein from human plasma.

      As a cause of the damaging effect of the C-reactive protein it is assumed that the CRP as an
      inflammatory mediator favours the destruction of cardiac muscle tissue (in conjunction with
      complement) and has a negative influence on the regeneration of the traumatized tissue.

      The aim of the CABY1 study is to investigate if the tissue damage of the heart can be reduced
      by depletion of the C-reactive protein after elective coronary bypass surgery. A possible
      protective effect of CRP apheresis will be determined from laboratory biomarkers (e.g.,
      troponin I, CM-MB, IL-6) and cardiac events.

      20 randomly selected patients receive apheresis treatments with a duration of 4-6 h each the
      following 2-3 days after bypass surgery, the 20 patients of the controls do not receive
      apheresis. The biomarkers required for the evaluation of the treatment success are determined
      over a period of 4 days after surgery on the basis of the routine blood tests. Cardiac events
      are documented until the patient is discharged.
    
  