
    
      Schizophrenia is associated with poor social functioning, which is perturbed by deficits in
      social interaction including nonverbal communication. The use of hand gestures is critical
      for nonverbal communication, but the majority of schizophrenia patients has severe gesture
      impairments. Today no intervention may ameliorate gesture impairments.

      Patients with gesture impairments have altered structure and function of the gesture network,
      particularly the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and also the left inferior parietal lobe
      (IPL). Noninvasive brain stimulation techniques may alter local brain function. Transcranial
      direct current stimulation (tDCS) for 10 mins is a very safe method to alter brain states
      locally for a period of 1-2 hours. Indeed, facilitatory stimulation of the left frontal
      cortex by tDCS demonstrated improved gesture perception and interpretation in healthy
      subjects. Furthermore, patients with apraxia identified gestures better after facilitatory
      tDCS over the left inferior parietal lobe (IPL). Thus, the investigators hypothesize that
      local changes of brain activity within the gesture network would change gesture
      performance.Particularly, anodal (facilitatory) stimulation of the left IFG would improve
      gesture performance. The investigators will test single sessions of tDCS in healthy subjects
      and schizophrenia patients. If one of the protocols proves to have superior effects, this
      result will help to plan interventional trials targeting social interaction deficits in
      schizophrenia.

      The aim of the study is to determine the effect of one 10 min session of anodal tDCS over the
      left IFG on gesture performance compared to three active and one placebo tDCS sessions. This
      is a randomized, double-blind, cross-over, placebo-controlled single-center trial in 20
      patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders and 20 healthy controls. After baseline
      assessment of gesture performance, participants will receive one 10 min tDCS protocol each
      day, immediately followed by assessments of gesture performance and dexterity. Gesture
      performance will be measured with video recorded Test of Upper Limb Apraxia, which is rated
      blindly according to a manual. Active comparisons are cathodal tDCS over left IFG, anodal
      tDCS over left IPL and cathodal tDCS over left IPL.
    
  