
    
      Neurocognitive difficulties are a common problem in the older adult population. Previous
      research has shown memory complaints are higher in older adults with depression or anxiety
      versus those without these diagnoses. This suggests that mood symptoms, or a diagnosis of a
      mood disorder, may represent significant predictors of cognitive impairment. If left
      untreated, symptoms of depression and memory complaints may lead to greater cognitive
      impairment i.e. Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and diagnosis of dementia . Therefore, early
      interventions are urgently needed to prevent decline in memory and cognitive function in
      individuals with MCI, depression, and/or anxiety.

      This will be a randomized study design. Uo to 24 individuals (n=8 per group) will be
      randomized to receive a combination of 8-weeks of in-class group MBSR + active or sham tDCS
      and daily at-home MBSR + tDCS (active or sham). Each individual must be: (1) 60 or above; (2)
      present with cognitive complaints but not frank cognitive impairment (at a level of mild
      dementia or greater); and (3) present with a diagnosis or symptoms of depressed mood and/or
      anxiety.

      Symptoms related to cognition, memory, and mood symptoms will be assessed at baseline (T0),
      throughout the study, as described in the MBSR protocol, and upon completion of the 8-week
      treatment course (Tx). Each study participant will have a clinical assessment at both T0 and
      Tx. Clinicians, participants and assessors will be blinded to the tDCS condition. These
      assessments will confirm any diagnoses and monitor clinical stability, including possible
      progression of participants to a diagnosis of a mood and/or anxiety disorder(s) or dementia.
      Any participant that progresses into a clinical diagnosis of dementia will be excluded from
      the study and referred to an appropriate level of care based on the severity of their
      symptoms.

      To train participants on the tDCS intervention, each individual will attend one-week of
      in-class training sessions prior to initiating the 8-week study. Participants will come to
      the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH) for 5 days leading up to the initiation of
      the MBSR treatment for tDCS self-administration training. On the final day of tDCS training,
      participants will attend a 2.5 hour in-class MBSR orientation session. Following this, the
      8-week course of daily MBSR + tDCS will begin with an initial orientation session. The
      remaining 8 weeks of the at-home MBSR + tDCS intervention will be self-conducted at each
      participant's place of residence, with the exception of the weekly MBSR class each
      participant will be required to attend at CAMH. The study coordinator will be available by
      phone to the participants throughout the study.
    
  