
    
      Epilepsy affects about 1% of the population, with a peak incidence in childhood, and
      persistent seizures on antiepileptic therapy in approximately 30% of patients. Over the past
      two decades, many antiepileptic molecules have emerged, raising the question of their optimal
      use, especially in pediatrics, where pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics are different from
      adults and largely influenced by age and development.

      The pharmacokinetics of antiepileptics have been little studied in pediatric populations. In
      children, it is important to know if a maturational effect (of age) has to be taken into
      account in addition to the physiological effect (of the weight) to adapt the doses. Moreover,
      these molecules are often used in combination and lot of enzyme interactions make their use
      delicate. All of these factors explain the existence of significant inter-individual
      variability in the pediatric population.

      The implication of the demographic and medicinal factors mentioned above, as well as the
      balance of efficacy / undesirable effects, justify the interest of a pharmacological
      monitoring of these drugs in a pediatric population. The use of population pharmacokinetics
      is particularly interesting in children because it requires only a small number of samples
      per patient and can be used to describe the predominant inter-individual variability in this
      population.

      The main goal is to develop population pharmacokinetic models for the following antiepileptic
      drugs in children: valproic acid, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin, levetiracetam,
      lamotrigine, topiramate, oxcarbazepine, stiripentol, clobazam, brivaracétam, felbamate,
      lacosamide, rufinamide, gabapentine, pregabaline, sultiame, tiagabine, vigabatrine,
      mesuximide, primidone, perampanel, ethosuximide, zonisamide and cannabidiol. The interest of
      these models is multiple:

        -  describe the pharmacokinetics of these molecules in children and explain the
           interindividual variability of concentrations through covariates such as weight, age,
           co-treatments, genetic polymorphisms and renal function;

        -  estimate maximum, minimum and exposure concentrations from the individual
           pharmacokinetic parameters for each patient;

        -  propose adaptations of doses for certain classes of children (according to age, weight
           etc.) and individualize the doses.

      The secondary objectives of this work are:

        -  Build models jointly with several antiepileptic drugs, accounting for the strength of
           interactions between them during multiple therapies.

        -  Link antiepileptic concentrations to the effects of treatment (reduction or cessation of
           seizures): pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic study with concentration / efficacy and
           concentration / toxicity relationships.

        -  The evaluation of preexisting models in the literature and the comparison of the data
           with the results of these models (external validation).

      Pharmaco-statistical analysis will be carried out on the retrospective data of patients
      treated with one or more antiepileptic molecule (s) and whose blood dosage of the drug(s) as
      part of their therapeutic follow-up is available. The study of genetic polymorphisms will be
      carried out from available blood samples, collected and stored as part of therapeutic
      follow-up of patients.
    
  