
    
      Patients will follow a preoperative preparation:

        -  Routine pre-surgical skin hygiene with soap or antiseptic agent

        -  Groin shaving with a machine

        -  Preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis with cefazolin 2 gr ev. single dose or clindamycin
           900 mg ev. in case of allergy to beta-lactams 30 min before the start of the
           intervention. In case of prolongation of the intervention (> 4h), a second antibiotic
           dose will be administered

        -  Surgical field antisepsis using a sterile swab soaked in 2% chlorhexidine solution in
           70% isopropyl alcohol, except for contraindications (such as potential contact with
           mucosa or open wounds, in which case 10% povidone-iodine solution will be used); usual
           sizing.

      At the end of the revascularization surgical procedure, the inguinal wound will be closed
      using 2-0 or 3-0 Vicryl subcutaneous absorbable suture (Ethicon Inc, Somerville, NJ, USA) in
      two independent planes and skin closure with metal staples (B / Braun Manipler® AZ). The
      opaque randomization result allocation envelope will then be opened and the surgical area
      nurse will cover the wound with one of the two assigned dressings:

        -  Group 1 (intervention group): The surgical wound will be covered in a sterile manner
           with prophylactic TPN (PICO-7, Smith & Nephew, UK).

        -  Group 2 (control group): The surgical wound will be covered in a sterile way with the
           usual dressing (waterproof sterile dressing OPSITE Post-Op Visible, Smith & Nephew, UK).

      During admission, regular follow-up will be carried out. On the 7th day, the dressings of
      both groups will be lifted. From this moment, if the wound allows it, air healing will be
      carried out without new dressings. After discharge from the hospital, the surgical wound
      evaluation will be carried out by the nurse responsible for Outpatient Consultations at 14
      and 30 days postoperatively.
    
  