
    
      The BioNIR is a prospective, multi-center, single-blind, two-arm, randomized clinical trial.
      The population will consist of subjects undergoing PCI for angina (stable or unstable),
      silent ischemia, NSTEMI, and recent STEMI. Complex lesions are allowed. There is no limit to
      the number of lesions per vessel or individual lesion length; however, the total planned
      stenting in the coronary tree cannot exceed 100mm.

      Randomization will be stratified by the presence of medically treated diabetes vs. no
      medically treated diabetes, acute coronary syndrome (ACS) vs. non-ACS, and by site. Lesions
      planned to be treated must be declared and recorded at time of randomization. Planned staged
      procedures, if necessary, must be declared immediately post procedure.

      Clinical follow-up will be performed at 30 days, 6 months, and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 years post
      randomization. 200 patients at participating North American sites will be consented for
      planned angiographic follow-up at 13 months after enrollment, with 100 of these patients
      consented to undergo planned IVUS at baseline and at 13 months following randomization.

      The primary endpoint is Target Lesion Failure (TLF) at 12 months, defined as the composite of
      cardiac death, target vessel-related myocardial infarction, or ischemia-driven target lesion
      revascularization.

      Clinical Secondary Endpoints to be evaluated at 30 days, 6 months, and 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5,
      except as noted:

        -  Device, Lesion, and Procedure Success at time of baseline procedure

        -  TLF at 30 days, 6 months, and 2, 3, 4 and 5 years defined as the composite of cardiac
           death, target vessel-related MI, or ischemia-driven TLR.

        -  Major adverse cardiac events (MACE; the composite rate of cardiac death, any MI or
           ischemia-driven TLR)

        -  Target vessel failure (TVF; the composite rate of death, target vessel related MI or
           ischemia-driven TVR)

        -  All-cause mortality

        -  Cardiac death

        -  Myocardial Infarction

        -  Target Vessel Related MI

        -  Ischemia-driven TLR

        -  Ischemia-driven TVR

        -  Stent Thrombosis (ARC definite and probable)

      Angiographic Sub-Study Secondary Endpoint to be evaluated at 13 months:

      • Angiographic in-stent and in-segment late loss

      IVUS Sub-Study Secondary Endpoint to be evaluated at 13 months:

        -  In-stent percent neointimal hyperplasia

        -  Stent mal-apposition

      A key component of this trial will be a prospective assessment of health care resource
      utilization, costs and cost effectiveness. A separate cost effectiveness assessment plan
      describes the data collection and analysis.

      Sample Size Consideration: From recent US trials of best in class DES (Xience V, Promus
      Element and Resolute), the 1-year TLF rate in patients with non-complex lesions not
      undergoing routine angiographic follow-up is approximately 3.8%. Using the assumption of the
      more-comers' design, the 1-year event rate will be conservatively increased by 50% (assuming
      enrollment rate for complex patients/lesions is 50% with double the standard event rate) -
      thus 5.8%. Therefore, with a one-sided 95% upper bound of the confidence interval of 3.3% (a
      relative 57% margin) and 1:1 randomization, enrolling 1810 patients (905 per group) provides
      90% power to demonstrate non-inferiority. Assuming 95% follow-up rate at 1 year,
      approximately 1906 patients will be enrolled (953 in each group).
    
  