
    
      Deficits in skeletal muscle function exist during aging and muscular dystrophy, and
      suboptimal function has been related to factors such as atrophy, excessive inflammation and
      fibrosis. Sarcopenia is the age-related loss of skeletal muscle mass and function. It is now
      recognised as a major clinical problem for older people and research in the area is expanding
      exponentially. This interest stems from the fact that sarcopenia is both common and
      associated with serious health consequences in terms of frailty, disability, morbidity and
      mortality. The age-related loss of human skeletal muscle mass is due to a decrease in
      myofibre size and number with the loss of both fast and slow type myofibres, although the
      loss of fast myofibres tends to start earlier, at ∼70 years. Many factors influence the
      decrease in muscle mass. A significant contributor is an anabolic resistance of older
      skeletal muscle to protein nutrition as seen during immobilisation which can be ameliorated
      at least in part by resistance exercise and dietary supplementation. Other intensive areas of
      research are related to the loss of innervation and oxidative damage. Moreover, ineffective
      muscle regeneration underlies each condition and has been attributed to a deficit in myogenic
      potential of resident stem cells or satellite cells. It is now widely accepted that satellite
      cells, and generally adult stem cells, are normally quiescent and tend to reside in hypoxic
      areas of the tissue to preserve their undifferentiated state. To govern these processes,
      cells have developed a very complex machinery that is mainly regulated by a group of
      transcription factors known as hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs). In particular, several
      observations support the idea that oxygen deprivation and HIF-1a may play a key role during
      ischemia to activate the regeneration process, which, after an initial hypoxic insult, needs
      to proceed under normoxia. On these bases, in this study we will investigate the role of
      HIF-1a in skeletal atrophy during aging.

      In particular, we will isolate satellite cells from muscular biopsies harvested from old
      sarcopenic patients and from young patients. The, we will measure HIF-1a levels and we will
      compare them.
    
  