
    
      Fetal cells can be recovered from maternal blood, suggesting that noninvasive prenatal
      diagnosis is possible. However, recovery and analysis of fetal cells from maternal blood is
      complex and sensitivity is low because of the rarity of these cells in the maternal
      circulation. This study was designed to develop a noninvasive, safe, relatively inexpensive,
      and accurate technique for the prenatal diagnosis of genetic disorders in the first
      trimester.

      The study included a systematic evaluation of variables involved in separating and enriching
      fetal cells isolated from maternal blood through fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS)
      and magnetic activated cell sorting (MACS) followed by fluorescent in situ hybridization
      (FISH) with chromosome-specific DNA probes. The results of these tests were compared to those
      obtained from amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling (CVS) on the same women. No clinical
      decision was made based on the results of the experimental diagnostic/screening technique.

      Even if the biological risks associated with reproductive genetic technologies are reduced,
      it is possible that other risks (or benefits) are associated with the procedures. Some of
      these factors may be: increased or diminished maternal anxiety, increased adjustment or
      maladaption to the pregnancy, increased feelings of coercion to undertake the procedure, and
      increased or decreased comfort with reproductive decision-making. The study also assessed
      whether there were any nonbiological or psychological effects on the women undergoing
      prenatal diagnostic testing.

      After the first five years of the study, preliminary analysis of the data showed that the
      sensitivity of aneuploidy detection using fetal cell analysis from maternal blood is
      comparable to single marker prenatal serum screening, but technological advances are needed
      before fetal cell analysis has clinical application as part of a multiple maker method for
      noninvasive prenatal screening. Target cell recovery and fetal cell detection were better
      using MACS than with FACS. The detection rate of finding at least one aneuploid cell in cases
      of fetal aneuploidy was 74.4%.
    
  