
    
      This is a prospective, randomized (1:1 DFT vs ULV testing), controlled clinical research
      trial. Patients undergoing ICD implant or device change out will be candidates for this
      study. Medical records for these patients will be screened prior to enrollment to ensure
      eligibility for the study. Each patient who is a candidate and who agrees to participate in
      the study will undergo the standard of care pre-procedure evaluation including a complete
      medical history evaluation, a complete physical examination and routine laboratory testing
      including chemistry panel, hematology panel, coagulation panel, a 12-lead electrocardiogram,
      and a urine pregnancy test (all females of child-bearing age). A candidate patient will be
      randomly assigned to either the standard DFT testing method group or the ULV testing method
      group.

      For the standard DFT testing group, per routine standard of care, the patient will be
      admitted to the hospital. The study requires a pre-procedure blood test of 3 ml for
      Troponin-T (TnT) which will be drawn prior to any DFT testing. The blood sample will be sent
      to the University of California, San Diego (UCSD) central laboratory for processing. The
      patient will then undergo the scheduled ICD implant procedure in a standard fashion. The
      standard defibrillation threshold testing will be performed using a low energy shock
      delivered on T-wave to induce ventricular fibrillation (VF). If VF is induced, the first
      shock is 25 Joules (J). If success, we will wait 5 minutes and repeat the process. If the 2nd
      shock yields success, the DFT testing is complete and a 10J safety margin achieved (device
      shock energy is set at 35J or as clinically indicated determined by treating Cardiac
      Electrophysiologist). A back-up external defibrillator will always be immediately available
      in case transvenous shocks fail. Blood pressure will be monitored before and immediately
      after each shock. After 4 hours, 8 hours and 16 hours post DFT testing, blood samples (3 ml
      for Troponin-T) will be drawn and sent to the UCSD central laboratory for processing.

      For the ULV testing group, per routine standard of care, the patient will be admitted to the
      hospital. The study requires a pre-procedure blood test (3 ml for Troponin-T.) which will be
      drawn prior to any ULV testing. The blood sample will be sent to the UCSD central laboratory
      for processing. The patient will then undergo the scheduled ICD implant procedure as is
      standard clinical care. The ULV testing is performed as follows: for single coil device, a
      18J shock will be delivered at 0msec, +20 msec, -20msec and -40msec measured from the peak of
      the T-wave; for dual coil device, a 18J shock will be delivered at 0msec, -20msec, +20msec,
      and +40msec measured from the peak of the T-wave. If VF is not induced with any of the above
      mentioned shocks, the ULV will be considered as 18J and the ICD will be implanted with the
      first shock strength set at 30 joules or as clinically indicated determined by treating
      Cardiac Electrophysiologist. If VF is induced, a 25J rescue shock will be delivered as is
      standard and if successful, the device will be programmed to the maximum output of 35 joules
      or as clinically indicated determined by treating Cardiac Electrophysiologist. Blood pressure
      will be monitored before and immediately after each shock. After 4 hours, 8 hours and 16
      hours post ULV testing, blood samples (3 ml for Troponin-T) will be drawn and sent to the
      UCSD central laboratory for processing.

      Other than the blood tests for Troponin-T, there is no change in routine post-operative
      management. Patients will be followed every three months, as is standard management for
      patients with ICDs.

      The TnT blood draws at 4-hour, 8-hour and 16-hour post implantation will not require longer
      hospital stay than is standard for patients undergoing ICD implantation. The results of
      Troponin-T measurement for the study patients will be reviewed by the cardiac
      electrophysiology (EP) research staff. If myocardial injury is noted (any TnT value >0.1 as
      per current assay at the UCSD laboratory), the patient will be monitored as is deemed
      clinically necessary by treating Cardiac Electrophysiologist, including possible repeat TnT
      measurements for evaluation of myocardial infarction. We will follow standard of care for
      management of myocardial injury as recommended by the American Heart Association and the
      American College of Cardiology. Elevated TnT measurements may delay hospitalization, if
      determined to be clinically necessary. If the repeat TnT measurement is <0.1, then myocardial
      injury is most unlikely and the positive TnT value is likely due to DFT shocks.
    
  