
    
      European population aging has increased in the last several decades: 19.1% of Europeans are
      currently older than 65, and 39.2% are over 50. Depression and dementia are some of the most
      prevalent conditions in older adults, and both have high socioeconomic costs. In this
      context, the World Health Organization has pointed out the importance of active aging
      promotion programs to help older adults maintain their independence and health for longer. In
      addition, healthy life habits such as physical activity and eating a balanced diet also help
      prevent disease and preserve mental and physical functions.

      However, the lack of health care services for older adults, especially in rural areas which
      tend to have more older people, may limit access to active aging programs targeting
      depression, cognitive decline, and healthy habits. One way to overcome these barriers is
      through online video games that are accessible at home at any time with a low cost. However,
      the efficacy of video games in promoting active aging from middle to late adulthood has
      received very little attention in the literature.

      A meta-analysis of 21 randomized controlled trials about video game-based interventions
      administered to healthy adults over 44 found that video game-based interventions produced
      positive effects on negative affect, objectively measured physical and social health with
      small effect sizes. However, the reviewed studies used non-standardized measures, and
      follow-ups were scarce. There was only one video game designed to prevent depression in older
      people. Furthermore, none of the reviewed studies involved integral interventions for
      emotional wellbeing, cognitive stimulation, or healthy life habits, even though a review of
      modifiable risk factors for dementia estimated that 51% of population-attributable risk was
      associated with cognitive inactivity, depression, physical inactivity, and obesity; and these
      midlife risk factors could be tackled early to prevent or delay the onset of dementia.

      This study will assess the efficacy of an interactive, online, video game-based cognitive
      behavioral intervention to promote active aging from an integral health perspective,
      targeting emotional well-being, cognition, healthy life habits (sleep hygiene, physical
      activity, and eating habits), and social support.

      Randomization will occur after screening and baseline assessments. An independent researcher
      (allocation concealment) will make allocation cards using computer-generated random numbers.
      He will keep the original random allocation sequences in an inaccessible location and will
      work with a copy. The randomization sequence will be communicated to the researchers in
      sealed numbered envelopes, one for each participant, with instructions to use them in
      numerical order.

      Sample size calculation: We estimate that a sample size of 78 participants per group will be
      required, based on a previous meta-analysis of video game-based interventions for active
      aging reported effect sizes for mood and objectively measured physical health of 0.26 and
      0.34, respectively, and another meta-analysis of video games for training cognition in older
      adults reported an effect size of 0.37, and assuming 80% power at a 0.05 (two-tailed)
      significance level and a mean of 8% attrition. To safeguard against an estimated 12% to 15%
      loss to follow-up, a minimum of 180 participants (90 in each group) must be recruited.

      Ethics: Ethics approval has been obtained from the Bioethics Committee of the University of
      Santiago de Compostela (Spain), and the project complies with the Declaration of Helsinki.
      The confidentiality of all participants will be guaranteed. Participants will have to give
      their informed consent, which has been approved by the Bioethics Committee of the University
      of Santiago de Compostela (Spain).
    
  