
    
      Background

      Upper urinary tract infections (UTI) are common in children, especially when functional and
      anatomical abnormalities of the urinary tract co-exist, such as vesico-ureteral reflux (VUR),
      urinary tract obstruction uropathy and bladder dysfunction. They are associated with the risk
      of long-term complications, including permanent renal damage (renal scarring), which occurs
      in 15% of cases. The objective of the diagnosis and medical treatment of UTI in children is
      the prevention of such complications. Medical treatment includes long-term antimicrobial
      prophylaxis to be continued for periods ranging from 6 months to 2 years. Recent studies have
      revealed the emergence of therapy-induced resistance. A review of the literature has
      highlighted the lack of properly designed, large clinical trials, demonstrating the efficacy
      of long-term low-dose antimicrobial prophylaxis in terms of reduction in UTI recurrence.

      Methods and design

      The study is a controlled, randomised, open-label, 3-armed, parallel-group clinical trial
      comparing no prophylaxis (group 1) with prophylaxis with co-trimoxazole 15 mg/kg daily (group
      2) and with amoxicillin + clavulanic acid 15 mg/kg daily (group 3) for 12 months.

      Assuming that the incidence of recurrences is 20%, defining efficacy as an incidence of 10%
      per group and setting  error = 0.05 and power = 90%, 220 patients per group (i.e. a total of
      660 patients) are required The study population will consist of children aged between 2
      months and 6 years, with normal renal function (creatinine clearance  70 ml/min/1.73m2) and
      a first episode of documented UTI, who presents at least one of the following: an acute
      pyelonephritic lesion at the DMSA scan and/or a VUR at the baseline micturating cystography.

      Patients will be followed-up for 12 months. Urinalysis and urine cultures will be performed
      every month and clinical examinations after 6 and 12 months; both will be performed whenever
      UTI is suspected. Sonography, Doppler sonography (optional) and DMSA scintigraphy will be
      performed at baseline and at the end of the study.
    
  