
    
      This study is comparing two different diets. The cooked group will be allowed to eat only
      cooked food and cooked fruits or vegetables. The raw group will be able to eat cooked food
      and the addition of fresh fruits and vegetables. Patients will be monitored for infection in
      both groups. There are still certain foods that you are restricted from eating while
      receiving chemotherapy and you will be given a list of these restrictions.

      Study Groups:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a
      coin) to 1 of 2 groups.

      Group 1: Raw group: You will be asked to eat at least 1 raw fruit or vegetable every day you
      are on study.

      Group 2: Cooked group: You will eat only cooked foods while on study. The study doctor will
      give you a list of the foods that you are allowed to eat.

      Your medical chart will be monitored while you are on study to check how often you need
      antibiotics to treat fever. or if you have an infection.

      Diet Questionnaire:

      You will be asked to fill out a diet questionnaire every week. The questionnaire will have 5
      questions about the foods you have been eating. If you have been released from the hospital,
      you can return the questionnaire during your scheduled hospital visits,which typically take
      place 3 times per week. You will have no additional visits during this study. The
      questionnaire should take about 1-2 minutes each time.

      Length of Study:

      You will be taken off study if your white blood cell count returns to normal. If your white
      blood cell counts do not return to normal, the maximum time that you may be on study is 6
      weeks.

      This is an investigational study. There has not been enough research to prove if raw fruits
      and vegetables can increase your risk of infection. Many hospitals allow neutropenic patients
      to eat raw fruits and vegetables and other hospitals restrict fresh fruits and vegetables
      but, this has not been adequately investigated.

      Up to 128 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  