
    
      Since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic worldwide, there have been over 50,000 deaths and
      over 1million infections in the UK alone. It has been widely reported that infection with
      COVID-19 leads to large variation between individuals, a large number appear asymptomatic or
      mild flu-like symptoms compared to a percentage requiring intensive care support and for
      some, the infection is ultimately fatal. The reason behind this variation is not yet fully
      understood.

      With COVID-19 likely to have a lasting impact within the UK and on the NHS, any research that
      improves our knowledge upon the effect of the infection has the possibility to improve
      therapy targets and hopefully improve patient outcomes.

      With how novel the COVID-19 pathogen is, little is currently known about the potential
      long-term impacts of infection upon individuals. There are currently many reports of
      longer-term syndromes following infection with COVID-19 including loss of smell and myalgia.
      The researchers hope that investigating the impact upon patients over the 12-months following
      their infection will gather information on the long-term impacts and potentially find
      evidence of the reason for these longer-term symptoms.

      With skeletal muscle being one of the largest components of the human body, any impact upon
      its function is likely to have a significant impact upon an individual. With it being vital
      for not only locomotion but also in energy production for the body. The researchers
      hypothesize that changes within the skeletal muscle may account for some of the impacts of
      COVID-19 infection. The investigators hope that by investigating changes in muscle structure,
      muscle mitochondrial function, and neurological supply to the muscle they can identify a
      future therapy target to improve outcomes from COVID-19 infection.

      To investigate this, this study plans to recruit participants with confirmed COVID-19
      infection requiring varying levels of oxygen support (Oxygen therapy only n=12, Non-invasive
      ventilation n=12) and a control group of non-covid community-acquired pneumonia requiring
      oxygen therapy (n=12).

      All groups will undergo the same investigations, and no interventions will form part of the
      study. Investigations will be carried out at 24-72hours of acute hospital admission, with
      follow-up assessments at 6-months and 12-months post-discharge.

      The assessments performed will include: muscle biopsy of the vastus lateralis muscle, an
      ultrasound scan of the vastus lateralis muscle, voluntary and stimulated iEMG of VL, and
      hand-grip strength analysis.
    
  