
    
      1. Rationale and objectives

           To assess the influence of celecoxib on relapse-free survival in completely resected
           patients with poor prognosis indicated by metastatic involvement of intrapulmonary/hilar
           (pN1) or ipsilateral mediastinal (pN2) lymph nodes. Celecoxib, a selective oral COX-2
           inhibitor, was found to exert significant anti-proliferative activity against a variety
           of tumor cell lines in vitro, including NSCLC. COX-2 is frequently up-regulated in NSCLC
           cell lines and archival tumor samples. Its high expression was also correlated with poor
           prognosis of the patients. Proposed mechanisms of action of selective COX-2 inhibitors
           include inhibition of angiogenesis, inhibition of matrix metalloproteinase-2 expression
           and induction of apoptosis. A clinical trial addressing the role of celecoxib as
           adjuvant treatment in radically operated patients with high risk of relapse is
           warranted.

        2. Study design

           A multicenter, international, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled phase III
           clinical trial

        3. Primary endpoint

           The primary endpoint will be relapse-free survival (time to local or distant relapse)
           during the study.

        4. Other endpoints

           Secondary end-points will include:

             -  overall survival (time to death of any cause)

             -  the safety of the long-term administration of celecoxib

        5. Statistical methods

           The primary objective, i.e. relapse-free survival (RFS), will be recorded as time from
           randomization to date of local or distant relapse (date of radiological imaging
           demonstrating relapse or date of histological confirmation of relapse or date of relapse
           on clinical examination, if above data are not available) or death of any cause,
           whichever occurs first. Patients alive without relapse at the end of their follow-up
           will be considered censored observations.

           The study aims at the verification of the null hypothesis Ho : RFS in the control group
           = RFS in the treated group vs. the alternative HA : RFS in the control group ≠RFS in the
           treated group Primary and secondary efficacy analyses will be performed using
           intention-to-treat principle.

           The distribution of RFS and OS in the compared treatment arms will be summarized
           graphically using the Kaplan-Meier method and compared by the log-rank test. The result
           of the test will be assessed using the 5% significance level (two-sided).

           The effect of the treatment on the distribution of RFS and OS will be evaluated by the
           score test based on the Cox proportional hazards model, which will include
           stratification and other relevant clinical factors as covariates.

           The proportion of patients experiencing any AE, any serious AE, and specific types of
           AEs and proportion of withdrawals will be compared between the treatment arms using the
           chi-square test at the 5% significance level (two-sided).

        6. Translational research A research project evaluating immunohistochemical expression of
           COX-2, VEGF and CD34 as a marker of vascular density will be performed. These parameters
           will be analyzed in a central laboratory by two independent pathologists involved in
           angiogenesis research. Immunohistochemical methods will be carefully validated before
           commencement of translational research part of the study.

           The study centers will be requested to provide post-operative tissue samples
           (paraffin-embedded blocks or 5 unstained slides) from the primary tumor.

        7. Medication

      Trt.groups Drug Form Route Dose interval Dosing No. of patients

        1. Celecoxib tablets p.o. 400 mg 12 h 271

        2. Placebo tablets p.o. 400 mg 12 h 271
    
  