
    
      Objective: To compare the effect of bupivacaine wound infiltration with placebo during
      caesarean section in terms of mean pain scores, analgesic requirement, and duration of
      hospital stay

      Introduction:

      Over the last several decades, the rate of caesarean has increased rapidly.According to the
      data collected from 150 countries, almost 18.6% of the total births occur by
      caesareansection, with rates ranging from 6% to 27% in different regions. In Egypt and
      Turkey, the rate of caesarean section is more than 50%. In Pakistan, caesarean section rate
      was found to be 15.8% in 2013, with a rate of 11.5% in rural areas and 25.6% in the urban
      population.

      Caesarean section is the most commonly performed surgical procedure nowadays and is
      associated with moderate to severe pain after the surgery. Pain after caesarean section
      occurs due to inadvertent damage to parietal peritoneum and nerve supply of skin.According to
      a survey done in America in 2003, it was found that upto 70% of the patients will experience
      severe pain postoperatively. Severe pain after caesarean section specifically affects
      mother-baby bonding, lactation, and patient recovery. It also leads to a prolonged hospital
      stay, reduced mobility, and consequently increasing the risk of thromboembolic disease in the
      postoperative period. Severe pain aftercaesarean delivery has also been found to be
      associated with postnatal depression and pain persisting after 8 weeks of
      delivery.Incaesarean delivery, the provision of effective postoperative analgesia is of key
      importance to facilitate early ambulation and infant care. It is also very important that the
      type of analgesia providedis safe, effective,and has minimal side effects for the mother and
      her baby.

      The most appropriate method of analgesia for postoperative pain after caesarean section
      remains uncertain.Different methods have been used for this purpose. Parenteral opioids are
      the most commonly used method but associated nausea, vomiting, sedation, and risk of
      respiratory depression in mother and baby limits its use. Continuous epidural analgesia or
      patient-controlled analgesia also provide effective analgesia and have fewer adverse effects
      butare expensive and require special equipment and expertise.Infiltration of local anesthetic
      into subcutaneous tissue around the incision site has also been thought to relieve pain after
      caesarean section. Local anesthetic drugslike lignocaine and bupivacaine inhibit nerve
      impulses from the site of injury thus providing an analgesic effect. However,in this regard,
      there is no consistent evidence.Some studies show high efficacy while others report no
      benefit.

      This study is being conducted to assess the effectiveness of wound infiltration of 20ml of
      0.5% bupivacaine after the caesarean section on postoperative pain scores and analgesic
      requirement. If found effective this regimen can be implemented locally as it is cheap and
      simple to use.

      Method: This will be a a double-blind randomized controlled trial. It is being conducted at
      the Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Pak Emirates Military Hospital from 10th January
      2020 and will be completed till 10th april 2021. Pregnant women at term, with ages between 20
      to 40 years, who are planned to undergo elective caesarean section, will included in the
      study. Patients are divided into two groups by a computer-generated lottery method. In group
      A, 20 ml of sterile water is infiltrated in the subcutaneous tissue around the incision site
      while 20 ml of 0.5% bupivacaine injection is infiltrated in patients of group B. The primary
      outcome measure is to asses the difference in postoperative pain among the two groups in
      terms of average pain score measure with help of visual analogue scale (VAS) and total dose
      of analgesia required in the first twenty four hours after the surgery. Secondary outcome is
      the average duration of hospital stay in patients of the two groups All the data will be
      entered and analyzed with help of SPSS version 16. For quantitative variables like mean pain
      score, average dose of opioid required, and average duration of hospital stay, the
      investigators will calculate mean and standard deviation and for qualitative variables like
      indication of the caesarean section, frequency and percentage will be calculated. To compare
      the quantitative variables between the two groups, unpaired T-test and for comparison of
      qualitative variables, chi-square test will be used. A p-value of <0.05 will be considered
      significant.
    
  