
    
      Background: Bronchiectasis is a common disabling and heterogeneous disease that has been
      neglected in terms of basic and clinical research. Recent controlled trials have failed to
      achieve their primary end-points, likely because the optimal patient population to benefit
      from antibiotic, mucoactive and anti-inflammatory drugs has not been identified. This study
      aims to explore the clinical, microbiological, inflammatory and functional heterogeneity of
      the disease with the aim of identifying patient endotypes for stratified medicine.

      Study aims and objectives

        1. To determine the molecular endotypes of bronchiectasis during stable disease

        2. To determine the causes and inflammatory profiles of bronchiectasis exacerbations

        3. To validate candidate biomarkers of stable and exacerbation endotypes to use in
           stratified medicine

        4. To perform in-vivo or in-vitro proof of concept studies using phenotypic data to
           identify patient populations likely to benefit in future randomized controlled trials
           Study Design: Observational Cohort study

      Study methods:

      Patients with bronchiectasis will be recruited into an observational study, the objectives of
      which will be to:

      Aim 1 will define and validate endotypes of stable bronchiectasis by studying up to 1000
      patients with bronchiectasis. Clinical data, sputum microbiome, sputum proteomics, and
      systemic and sputum inflammatory marker measurement will be incorporated for analysis. A
      sub-study (n=200) will be performed using air liquid interface culture of primary airway
      epithelial cells. Patients will have brushings of the inferior nasal turbinate with
      assessment of % ciliation, ciliary beat frequency and pattern by high speed video microscopy
      before and after culture.

      Aim 2 will replicate the phenotyping approach to stable patients with 160 patients during
      exacerbation. This will identify changes from baseline in microbiota, proteomic and other
      markers associated with onset of exacerbation and allow classification of clusters of
      exacerbation.

      Aim 3, we will externally validate candidate phenotype/endotypes in registered ethically
      approved external biobanks and aim to demonstrate that validated markers to be linked to
      potential treatment responses for use in stratified medicine trials.

      In total we will recruit 1000 patients for study. These patients will attend the Clinical
      Research Centre at one of the participating study centres at least once and undergo sampling
      along with collecting of clinical data. Patients will be asked to consent for their samples
      to be linked to data held on the EMBARC registry.

      Nature of outputs and outcomes/results expected:

      This study will aim to establish detailed endotypes in bronchiectasis which can guide
      response to treatment.
    
  