
    
      Severe traumatic injury occupied the sixth leading cause of death in Taiwan, especially in
      young adults. In 2013, there were accidental deaths in every 76 minutes. Not compared with
      the malignancy, heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, diabetes mellitus, or pneumonia Since
      1995, Taiwan replaced a previous patchwork of separate social health insurance funds with one
      single-payer, National Health Insurance (NHI) scheme that is administered by an agency of the
      central government's Department of Health. NHI supported the cost of Critical Illness and
      Injury that numerous patients with major trauma were eligible for preference. However, the
      national medical cost of trauma care, especially in poly-trauma or major trauma were
      impressive: the adjusted national inpatient trauma yearly costs were estimated at
      $37,511,328,659 US dollars; the national insurance cost provided by Bureau of National Health
      Insurance, Department of Health for trauma was over $20,000,000,000 new Taiwan dollars till
      1999 with increasing yearly.

      Recently it flashed bulletins nationwide and overseas for catastrophes, such as aircraft
      accident, wrecks, or underground gas explosions. There was a stirring of interest in life
      support system for major trauma related rescue from dying. Death to trauma is caused by
      costly damages on scene, hemorrhage shock or trauma and massive transfusion related acute
      respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Extra-Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) can rescue
      life from severe cardiopulmonary failure, but coexisting complication as bleeding and
      coagulopathy restricting the utilization the use in trauma patients. Besides, there were more
      portable ECMO sets making a debut, especially for air transportation. It act now the medical
      transferral for trauma patients under ECMO support. The portable ECMO sets launched with
      possibility, accessibility, and convenience. The issue of life support system utilization,
      long-term outcome, and medical cost-effectiveness for major trauma patients was worth
      discussing no matter in National Taiwan University Hospital (NTUH) trauma database or
      National Health Insurance Research Database (NHIRD).

      Immune system alteration was previously considered the mechanism of post-traumatic stress
      disorder (PTSD). Moreover, an externally experienced traumatic event induces downstream
      alterations in immune function by reducing methylation.
    
  