
    
      Of note, TGR-1202 has not been associated with treatment related pneumonitis, transaminitis,
      colitis, PCP-infection nor CMV-reactivation which distinguishes TGR-1202 from idelalisib's
      toxicity profile.

      Once the maximum tolerated dose has been safely reached the study will open an expansion
      cohort to enroll 18 patients with a patient group in which a clinical signal is detected.
      Another 7 patients (up to a total of 25 patients in the expansion cohort) may be enrolled
      after an interim analysis. The duration of therapy will be 2 cycles of TGR-1202 followed by 8
      cycles with pembrolizumab and TGR-1202. Thereafter patient will continue on TGR-1202 at the
      MTD until disease progression. Subjects who experience disease progression while on TGR-1202
      maintenance may be eligible for re-treatment with pembrolizumab for up to 6 cycles at the
      discretion of the Local Investigator if the patient experienced at least disease
      stabilization during the initial treatment with pembrolizumab, the subject meets the safety
      parameters listed in the inclusion/exclusion criteria, and the trial is still open. Subjects
      will resume therapy at the same dose and schedule at the time of initial discontinuation. If
      safety and feasibility of the combination is confirmed in this dose expansion cohort, a
      randomized phase II trial comparing TGR-1202 with pembrolizumab versus TGR-1202 could be
      considered in a larger patient population, possibly within the cooperative group setting for
      patients with relapsed/refractory B-cell NHL and CLL

      The primary objective of the dose expansion cohort will be CR rate. Secondary endpoints will
      include safety and feasibility, PFS, OS and clinical response (SD, PR, PD).

      Patients will be monitored for disease response, adverse events and survival for a minimum of
      2 years following enrollment. During and after treatment, patients will be evaluated for
      toxicities, particularly immunologic adverse events including pneumonitis, autoimmune
      colitis, dermatitisetc. Peripheral blood, lymph node and bone marrow samples will be
      collected before and during the treatment course for the correlative studies outlined below.
      Complete blood counts and differential counts with a complete metabolic panel will be
      obtained at the time intervals. If the patients are confirmed to have disease progression or
      intolerable toxicities the patients will be offered alternative treatment at the physicians'
      discretion. All of the patients will be followed for survival. All patients will receive HSV
      prophylaxis with acyclovir 400mg po bid or per institutional standards.
    
  