
    
      Background and Rationale:

      T cells play a critical role in antiviral immunity, their level was dramatically reduced in
      COVID-19 patients. There is a negative correlation between T cell numbers and cytokines serum
      level in COVID-19 patients. In those patients, there is up-regulation of inflammatory
      cytokines including interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and interferon
      γ. This makes the use of tramadol reasonable in such patients because it has
      anti-inflammatory effect decreasing plasma level of TNF-α after treatment with a dose of 100
      mg every 12 hours for 10 days, which may result in a subsequent increase in T cell numbers.

      Besides, COVID-19 patients with acute respiratory failure present with severe
      hypercoagulability due to hyperfibrinogenemia resulting in increased fibrin formation and
      polymerization that may predispose to thrombosis. It has been reported that tramadol has a
      hypocoagulable effect in the blood of women with gynecologic malignancies. Consequently,
      tramadol may be useful for patients who have a tendency toward a hypercoagulable status and
      thromboembolic complications. Moreover, tramadol could affect hemostatic parameters in favor
      of bleeding tendency in rats.

      On the other hand, the severity and mortality risk of COVID-19 have been associated with the
      age. This age-related mortality is attributed to the shortage of antioxidant mechanisms and
      increased oxidative damage. Tramadol increased the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase
      and glutathione peroxidase while diminished the oxidative stress marker malondialdehyde in
      testicular ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats. Owing to its antioxidant properties, tramadol
      could reduce complications in COVID-19 patients.

      Moreover, tramadol was reported to significantly lower lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level and
      to provide a cardio-protective effect. This property of tramadol seems beneficial since it
      was found that, about 60% of COVID-19 patients are presented with elevated LDH levels.
      Tramadol has also antitussive property. Tramadol is a unique analgesic offering moderate,
      dose-related pain relief through its action at multiple sites. In contrast to pure opioid
      agonists, it has a low risk of respiratory depression, tolerance, and dependence. Previous
      studies confirmed that tramadol dependence may occur when it is used daily for more than a
      few weeks/months.

      More interestingly, patients infected with COVID-19 may experience intense emotional and
      behavioral reactions, such as fear, loneliness, anxiety, insomnia, or anger. These conditions
      can be especially prevalent in quarantined patients. Tramadol is a centrally acting analgesic
      drug with a dual mechanism of action: binding to μ-opioid receptors and the inhibition of
      serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake. Through its ability to inhibit serotonin and
      norepinephrine reuptake, tramadol may exhibit antidepressant activity. In this context, the
      analgesic and antidepressant effects of tramadol may favor its use for COVID-19 patients.
      Tramadol also was found to have dose- and time-dependent bactericidal activity against
      Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, and Pseudomonas
      aeruginosa pathogens in vitro.
    
  