
    
      Objective: This investigation has two main objectives: 1) combine two child-friendly brain
      imaging techniques and stochastic modeling to determine the neural basis for the development
      of imitation and mimicry in human infants and 2) use machine learning to identify brain
      activation patterns that predict impairment in imitation and mimicry in infants at risk for
      social communication disorders.

      Study Population: This study will focus on two groups of infants. The first group includes 60
      typically developing infants, who will complete the imitation and neuroimaging paradigm
      between the ages of 9-12 months (+/- 2 weeks) and again at 12 months of age

      (+/- 2 weeks). The second group includes 60 infants at increased risk for social
      communication disorders, including those with motor delay, language delay, preterm birth, or
      a sibling with an autism spectrum disorder. These infants will complete the imitation and
      neuroimaging paradigm at 12 months of age (+/- 1 month) as well as a follow up evaluation of
      social communication skills and developmental status at 24 months of age (+/- 1 month).

      Design: We propose to conduct longitudinal studies of changes in EEG and fNIRS correlates of
      mirror neuron network activity in typical development and infants at risk for social
      communication delay. We will measure both EEG mu suppression and hemodynamic change over the
      motor cortex during an established infant action/observation paradigm. At all study visits,
      infants will also complete developmental assessments that measure abilities in cognitive,
      motor, language, and social domains.

      Outcome measures: Both neuroimaging measures and developmental status will serve as outcomes
      for this study. For the typically developing infants, change in the neuroimaging metrics
      (i.e., percent mu suppression, percent oxyhemoglobin change) will be used to

      characterize development of the mirror neuron system, while the relation between neuroimaging
      variables, their trajectories, and developmental ability will be used to develop hypotheses
      about the role of the mirror neuron network in development of social communication skills.
      For the infants at risk for social communication disorders, the main outcome will be
      developmental status, with neuroimaging metrics used as predictors.
    
  