
    
      STUDY DESIGN, LOCATION AND PATIENTS This study will be a single center phase II one arm
      clinical trial. It will be conducted at King Faisal Specialist Hospital &Research Center
      (Gen. Org.)-Jeddah. The decided sample size will be between 12 to 18 participants.
      Participants will be recruited from orthopedic clinics. Each patient will receive 1.0× 108
      stem cells in 3 mL of normal saline.

      All patients who are potentially eligible to be included in the study, and agreed to
      participate will be evaluated medically. Baseline assessment will involve complete general
      and orthopedic physical examination. Complete laboratory investigations and radiological
      investigations including diagnostic MRI of the knee to confirm the diagnosis will performed
      to each patient.

      Inclusion Criteria In this study, participants will be considered as having Knee
      osteoarthritis if the patient's x-rays showed grade 2 or higher Kellgren and Lawrence scale.
      He/she will be potentially eligible to be included in the study if his/her age is between 45
      and 65 years and diagnosed by orthopedic consultant as having idiopathic osteoarthritis of
      the knee and had an average pain intensity of grade 4 or more on a 10-point visual analog for
      at least one year.

      Exclusion Criteria Patient will be excluded if she/he had history of chronic rheumatic or
      inflammatory diseases, poorly controlled diabetes, or currently on OA treatments.

      Data collection Potentially eligible participants will receive verbal and formal written
      information about the study and invited to participate. Eligible participants who provide
      written consent to participate will be asked to fill out a well known reliable and valid
      Musculoskeletal Pain Questionnaire (The Orebro Musculoskeletal Pain Questionnaire).

      Procedures The procedure of KOA stem cell therapy will be done in four stages, harvesting,
      separation, activation, and treatment stage. In summary, Participants in this phase II one
      arm clinical trial will be exposed to simple abdominal liposuction procedure under local
      anesthesia for stem cells harvesting. Stem cells will be separated from fat cells in the
      adipose tissue then activated in Tissue Culture Lab at Research Center- JEDDAH after that the
      activated stem cells will be injected into the knee joint via 22G spinal needle. The
      intra-articular stem cells injections will be performed under Ultrasound guidance at the
      theater under spinal anesthesia.

      Personnel Simple abdominal Liposuction will be performed by accredited plastic surgeon.
      Qualified scientist and qualified and trained technicians will perform stem cells separation
      and activation under good manufacturing practice conditions, and orthopedic surgeon will
      perform intra-articular stem cells injections.

      Outcome Measures Participants will be followed for one year after the date of stem cells knee
      joint injection and monitored and evaluated for serious adverse events, clinical outcomes,
      the size, depth and histological assessment of regenerated cartilage.

      Statistical Analysis Categorical data will be summarized by measuring the frequency and
      percentage and measures of central tendency and dispersions will be used summarize numeric
      data. Paired t test and Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare the changes from
      baseline in parametric and non-parametric data respectively. The analysis will be performed
      using SPSS version 16
    
  