
    
      This is a before-after, retrospective and prospective monocentric study. Patients in the
      "before" group were part of another study which are currently in the process of publishing
      and were retrospectively included, whereas patients in the "after" group will be
      prospectively included.

      In the "before" group, the investigators retrospectively included 405 patients who had a
      dinoprostone vaginal insert for cervical ripening before induction of labor, between January
      2015 and September 2016. The main outcome of the previous study was to evaluate the time
      interval between placing the dinoprostone vaginal insert and delivery. One of the secondary
      objectives was to determine the factors that would impact the time to delivery. Multivariate
      and regression analysis showed that the factors significantly increasing the time to delivery
      were: Nulliparity, obesity, a closed cervix on initial examination, and intact membranes at
      the time of insertion. The investigators also described a regression equation that allows to
      calculate the mean time from insert placement to delivery for each patient:

      Y = 961,188 - 80,346 x parity + 21,437 x Body Mass Index (BMI) - 165,263 x cervical dilation-
      241,759 x Premature rupture of membranes.

      Following this study, the investigators decided to modify the routine procedures on the
      maternity ward and incorporate the equation when scheduling patients for cervical ripening
      with vaginal dinoprostone insert. The aim is to have a more personalized insertion schedule
      that would lower the number of deliveries occurring between midnight and 6 a.m., since it has
      been proven that there is a higher risk of obstetrical morbidity with night-time labor and
      delivery.

      The investigators will prospectively include all eligible patients with a vaginal
      dinoprostone insert for cervical ripening during the next two years, starting on April 1st,
      2018. At Angers hospital, there are around 600 cases of dinoprostone vaginal inserts per
      year, so 400 to 500 patients will be included during the study's duration. The investigators
      will then compare the outcomes in these patients that will comprise the "after" group, to the
      outcomes of patients in the "before" group, who delivered before the implementation of the
      new scheduling process. The investigators will thus be able to able to assess whether the
      mathematical model they suggested to estimate time to delivery and the personalized insertion
      timings have been confirmed. Then, subsequently, the objective is to analyze whether the use
      of the personalized scheduling based on the mathematical model they described would decrease
      the rate of nocturnal deliveries (between midnight and 6 a.m.).

      The research project has been approved by the ethics committee of Angers university hospital
      on January 31st, 2018.
    
  