
    
      COPD is a leading cause of death, disability and hospitalization in Canada. In addition to
      the primary lung impairment, secondary effects of the disease are well established including
      impairments in muscle function, mobility and exercise capacity. Individuals with COPD also
      have marked deficits in balance and an increased risk of falls.

      The updated American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society Statement on PR
      recommended expanding the scope of outcome assessment in COPD to include balance however no
      specific tests are suggested. An examination of brief balance measures feasible for fall risk
      screening has not been conducted. Such information will inform clinicians as to those most
      likely to benefit from targeted intervention. This study aims to determine the optimal
      balance measure for identifying patients with COPD who are high risk for falling.

      The specific objectives of the study are to: 1) Investigate the construct validity
      (convergent and known-groups) and reliability (inter-rater and test-retest) of three short
      balance screening measures in people with COPD; 2) Investigate the predictive validity of the
      balance screening tests for falls; and 3) Identify cut-off scores for identifying fallers
      with COPD on the balance screening tool with the strongest psychometric properties.

      One hundred and twenty individuals with COPD will be recruited from two sites. Upon
      enrolment, participants will undergo a physical assessment session measuring balance,
      functional lower body strength and exercise tolerance. Participants will also complete
      questionnaires of balance confidence, perceived physical function limitations, fall risk,
      dyspnea, global cognitive impairment and executive function. Participants will then be
      followed for 12 months to measure incidence of falls.

      To assess inter-rater reliability of the primary measures, two raters will simultaneously
      administer the balance tests with a subset of the first 32 subjects to agree to participate
      in this study. This subset will also be asked to return for repeat testing two-three days
      after the baseline assessment to assess test-retest reliability.
    
  