
    
      A total of up to 10 eligible subjects will be recruited who have been diagnosed with chronic
      RLS/WED (Restless legs syndrome/ Willis Ekbom Disease) in the Mayo Clinic Center for Sleep
      Medicine. Subjects must experience daily symptoms and must typically be symptomatic during
      the timeframe in which Scrambler Therapy will be utilized (12-5 PM). Each patient will
      complete the International Restless Legs Syndrome Rating Scale (IRLS), a validated scale
      which assesses severity of RLS symptoms16 at baseline (pre-treatment) and before and directly
      after each session of Scrambler Therapy.

      Patients will receive Scrambler Therapy on a daily basis for up to 10 consecutive weekdays.
      Electrodes will be placed proximal to the area of RLS symptomatology, with gradual downward
      localization until the entire area of RLS symptoms has been treated. Treatment will initially
      take place on one leg. Treatments will be administered by a technician trained in using the
      Scrambler device. A physician or nurse (with familiarity of Scrambler therapy) will be
      available throughout each treatment session.

      Patients will complete questionnaires regarding discomfort or other side effects encountered
      during or after treatment. Patients will also complete surveys assessing for any changes
      (benefits or worsening) in RLS symptomatology between treatments.

      Patients will be monitored for any adverse events associated with the study procedures. Any
      reported adverse events will be expediently classified by the study group as to severity
      level, whether it relates to the treatments in the study protocol, and whether the event was
      expected or unexpected. This information will allow determination of whether or not the
      adverse event should be reported as an expedited report or part of the routinely reported
      outcomes data. All adverse events which meet criteria for expedited reporting will be
      reported to the institutional IRB as well as external agencies as required.

      If there is no evidence of clinical benefit with the first 2-4 patients, then further
      patients may not be recruited.
    
  