
    
      This study employs a stepped wedged design that includes three long-term care homes (Site A,
      Site B, Site C) located within Southern Ontario. Each LTC home will have approximately 12
      months to implement the CHOICE+ Program and demonstrate sustainability for the last few
      weeks; the study will run for 18 months due to the staggered entry of sites into the
      intervention (Site A: Month 1; Site B: Month 4; Site C: Month 7).

      Over the course of 12 months for each Site, the CHOICE+ Program components will be delivered
      to a single care unit using a 4-phase approach. Transitions from one phase to the next will
      be entirely dependent upon the context and readiness of those participants involved in the
      study (i.e., timing between phases may differ amongst LTC homes). A single external
      facilitator from the University of Waterloo will lead this implementation process. The
      principal investigator (PI; H. Keller) will assist in guiding the external facilitator
      through the implementation process and support debriefing sessions. A blinded trained
      assessor will conduct mealtime experience audits (Mealtime Scan Plus) every 12 weeks starting
      at Month 1 for Sites A, B, and C, regardless of the implementation start times (i.e., Site A
      at Month 1; Site B and Month 4; Site C and Month 7). A physical dining room audit will be
      conducted at four time points (Dining Environment Audit Protocol). Staff, resident and
      family/volunteer dining experience questionnaires will be completed at four time points as
      well. Below is sequential description of the implementation process of the CHOICE+ Program in
      a single site, while accounting for pre-implementation activities:

      PHASE 1: PRE-DEVELOPMENT (Week 0)

      - PI and facilitator meets with LTC home management/administrators (i.e., Unit Care
      Coordinators (UCC), Director of Food Service (DFS), Registered Dietitian (RD), and General
      Manager (GM)) to describe purpose of CHOICE+ Program, address questions and ensure
      commitment. Once roles and responsibilities are discussed and agreed upon, the researchers
      will tour the care unit to obtain an understanding of specific contextual factors. A CHOICE+
      Newsletter item for residents, family, and volunteers will be distributed to raise awareness
      of the program. A CHOICE+ Information Letter will be distributed to all staff members,
      posters with information session dates and times will be posted, and information brochures
      will be available around the care unit for care staff, residents, family members, and
      volunteers.

      PHASE 2: DEVELOPMENT (Week 1 - Week 8)

        -  Weeks 1-2: In-services and/or informal connections made by the external facilitator to
           raise awareness and promote the CHOICE+ Program among care staff, residents, family
           members, and volunteers on the care unit. Feedback and knowledge exchange with care unit
           will be sought during these information sessions to gain contextual understanding of
           specific needs of that care unit's mealtimes.

             -  MTS+ Audit 1 data collection by assessor using Mealtime Scan for Long-Term Care
                PLUS (MTS+), a validated tool to assess the psychosocial and physical environments
                of a mealtime. Prior to the start of MTS+ Data Collection, posters notifying
                residents, staff, family members, and volunteers that observations are taking place
                will be posted in the dining areas.

             -  The Dining Environment Audit Protocol (DEAP) is completed when the dining room is
                empty.

        -  Week 3: CHOICE+ Dining Team (CDT) that includes residents, family members, care staff
           (minimum 2), volunteers (if available on unit), and management (minimum 1) will be
           formed to work closely with external facilitator and care unit to identify aspects of
           mealtimes that need improvement and support. Two Mealtime Champions (MT Champions) will
           be identified by the group and/or management as leaders and will act as the key contacts
           for the facilitator. As part of the team building process and to raise awareness, the
           CDT will complete a questionnaire about their organization's readiness to make change.
           As this is a change management step, an information letter and consent for will not be
           used. The Team Mealtime Experience Questionnaire (TMEQ) will be administered by the
           facilitator to participating care staff to reflect upon their role in the dining room
           during meals after informed written consent is provided. Residents, family members, and
           volunteers will have the option of completing a Dining Experience Questionnaire (DEQ) to
           share their feelings about mealtimes on the care unit. A separate questionnaire will be
           available for residents and family members/volunteers and informed written consent or
           assent in the event the resident is unable to sign a consent form will be provided.

        -  Weeks 4-8: Training and equipping the CDT on CHOICE+ Principles and change management
           approaches will take place over 4 meetings hosted by the external facilitator. The
           themes of these meetings include Meeting #1: CDT Role and CHOICE+ Program overview;
           Meeting #2: CHOICE+ Education Modules; Meeting #3: Feedback of Audit 1 MTS+, TMEQ, DEAP,
           and DEQ results. Results will be shared first with the CDT then with the rest of the
           care unit for review and reflection using the most appropriate communication methods
           identified by the CDT (i.e., bulletin boards, huddles, posters, etc.); and Meeting #4:
           Process of making change and priority setting.

      PHASE 3: INTENSIVE (Weeks 9-36)

        -  Weeks 9-10: All care staff on the unit and those residents and family members who are
           interested in participating in CHOICE+, in addition to the CDT, will complete the
           CHOICE+ Education Modules (mobile based short videos). In situations where there are new
           members of the care unit (i.e., care staff, residents and their family members) will
           also be provided with this education.

        -  Weeks 9-12: CDT engages with broader care unit to share Audit 1 MTS+, DEAP, TMEQ, and
           DEQ results to obtain feedback. Communication methods that are most suited to the care
           unit, for example, posters, meetings, bulletin boards, etc., will be used to share these
           audit findings. The CDT will engage with the broader care unit to select those mealtime
           areas for improvement that are most important to neighbours, care staff, and family
           members.

        -  Weeks 12-36: The CDT will take these priority areas and work as a team to identify how
           to make changes and improvements using a variety of behaviour change techniques using a
           Plan-Do-Study-Act (PDSA) cycle framework. Once a practice change is becoming embedded, a
           new priority for improvement will be worked through by the CDT and PDSA cycles used to
           test the improvement. The CDT will be responsible for on-going monitoring of the PDSA
           cycles in the care unit with support from the facilitator until Week 36 where the
           facilitator will then begin to reduce their role and the CDT will take on full
           leadership of the changes being made on the care unit.

        -  Data collection will using the TMEQ, MTS+, DEAP, and DEQ will follow a schedule for all
           three sites (see below in "Data Collection") with results fed back to the CDT and the
           unit team to support change in practice. Mealtime Practices Checklist and Dining Room
           Checklist will be used as change management activities and self-reflection by the CDT
           and unit team. As use of these checklists is part of the change process directed by the
           CDT, informed consent will not be used prior to completion and if forms are collected
           they will be anonymous for summarization and discussion.

      PHASE 4: SUSTAINING (WEEKS 37-52)

        -  Week 37-52: The sustaining phase will involve ensuring that any new care staff,
           residents and their family members have access to the CHOICE+ Education Modules. CDT
           will continue to work the process of change by identifying what needs to improve, how to
           make the change and completing small tests with PDSA cycles to work through the
           improvement or new process. DEAP, MTS+, TMEQ, and DEQ results will continue to be
           provided to the CDT to support change practices and they will continue to use the
           Mealtime Practices Checklist and other informal self-monitoring data to embed changes.
           The CDT will continue to hold weekly meetings to monitor the progress of the PDSA cycles
           and make any necessary modifications to the action plan or its implementation
           strategies. The facilitator will help the CDT to develop a sustainability plan for the
           CHOICE+ Program, after which the facilitator will remove herself from the care unit and
           limit communication either via phone or email with the CDT.

        -  Data collection will using TMEQ, MTS+, DEAP, and DEQ will follow a schedule for all
           three sites (see below) with results fed back to the CDT and the unit tem to support
           change in practice. Mealtime Practices Checklist and Dining Room Checklist will be used
           as change management activities and self-reflection by the CDT and unit team.

        -  Week 48-52: External facilitator will complete key informant semi-structured interviews
           with CDT members including care staff home management residents family members), and
           volunteers on the CHOICE+ program. It is anticipated than between 10-15 interviews will
           be conducted at each site. Standard informed consent/assent process will be followed for
           each potential interview participant.
    
  