
    
      The rising epidemic of type 2 diabetes is a major cause of disability and death that
      disproportionately affects men. Compared to women, men have much worse health and higher
      death rates for several chronic conditions, including diabetes. The National Diabetes
      Prevention Program (NDPP) has been shown to help decrease the chances of developing type 2
      diabetes. The NDPP has shown the value of lifestyle change for weight loss and diabetes
      prevention. The Power-Up study is being done because although the evidence points to the
      effectiveness of the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), men are less likely to be engaged or
      participate in DPP.

      The Power-up study was designed to see whether a DPP tailored for men can help improve
      engagement, participation, and results for men. Participants will be randomized to either
      undergo the Power-Up or standard NDPP classes. An assessment of whether a DPP created for men
      will increase participation in the program, and decrease the risk for diabetes as compared to
      the standard NDPP. Power-Up is designed to Aim 1) Assess the effect of Power-Up vs. standard
      care NDPP on percent weight loss among men at risk for diabetes; Aim 2) Compare engagement of
      minority men at risk for diabetes in Power-Up vs. standard care NDPP; and Aim 3) Evaluate the
      Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, and Costs of Power-Up using the RE-AIM
      framework.The Power-Up intervention is tailored to the needs and preferences of men and uses:
      a) men coaches; b) men-only groups; c) messaging tailored to be appreciated and motivational
      to men; d) adapted content that highlights issues relevant to men.

      There are 22 classes over the course of 12 months for both Power-Up and standard NDPP. The
      classes are split into two phases which are called the core and the maintenance phase. The
      core phase of the program will consist of 16 classes over the first 6 months. After the core
      of the program, participants will attend 6 maintenance classes over the next 6 months.
      Participants will be asked over the course of the 12 months to complete surveys at four
      different times before, during, and after completing the classes.

      The hypothesis is that men randomized to Power-Up will achieve significantly greater weight
      loss (% weight loss from baseline) at 16-weeks and 1-year than men randomized to the standard
      care, mixed-gender NDPP group (Aim 1). Evaluation of engagement and retention for Aim 2 will
      be based on attendance records for Power-Up and NDPP sessions electronically collected by
      trained coaches and monitored by study staff. The standards will be followed for NDPP
      evaluation where engagement is defined as equal or greater than 4 core sessions attended and
      retention is defined as equal or greater than 9 sessions attended. There will be a collection
      of quantitative and qualitative data that will be rigorously evaluated: the reach of our
      recruitment, broader patient-important indicators of effectiveness, adoption at the practice
      level, and implementation of the intervention (Aim 3).

      Enrollment consists of 300 participants through our health system partners. Men will be
      randomized 1:1 to either the Power-Up intervention arm or referred to the standard NDPP at
      their clinic site. Consistent with current CDC standards and current NDPP practices of our
      health system partners, telephone make-up sessions will be offered by coaches in both
      conditions to men who miss in-person sessions.
    
  