
    
      Tea is widely thought to have health benefits, particularly on cardiovascular disease (CVD).
      The investigator's group recently found that intake of 2 or more cups of tea per day was
      associated with a 44% lower long-term mortality rate than abstention from tea among 1900
      patients hospitalized with myocardial infarction. Short-term trials support a benefit of tea
      on endothelial function, but long-term randomized trials of tea intake on CVD and
      atherosclerosis are needed to test the effects of tea definitively.

      The researchers propose a proof-of-principle pilot study of the effect of long-term tea
      intake on atherosclerosis. From a large hospital-based primary care practice, 30 patients at
      high risk for CVD will be recruited and randomized to a six-month period of consumption of 3
      cups per day of either tea, supplied as black tea solids readily dissolved in hot or cold
      liquid, or water. The polyphenol content of these solids will be confirmed at baseline, and a
      single batch of tea throughout the study will be used. At baseline and after 6 months, aortic
      atherosclerosis using magnetic resonance imaging, an accurate and reproducible method for
      measurement of arterial plaque size, will be assessed. Adherence using urinary catechins, the
      primary flavonoids in tea, will be measured. The primary outcomes will be compliance with tea
      intake and 2 MRI examinations. As secondary outcomes, standard and novel cardiovascular risk
      markers, including inflammatory, prothrombotic, fibrinolytic, and metabolic factors will be
      measured. The researchers will also assess the effects of tea consumption on oxidizability of
      LDL and VLDL cholesterol, using a novel affinity-column chromatography approach, and on
      endothelial integrity, as assessed by serum markers of endothelial function. If successful,
      this pilot study will form the basis for a larger, long-term randomized trial to determine
      the effect of tea consumption on progression of atherosclerosis.
    
  