
    
      Overactive bladder (OAB) syndrome is a subset of storage-predominant lower urinary tract
      symptoms (LUTS) and has a significant impact on quality of life. Men with OAB generally
      experience a reduced quality of life, which may include a negative impact on sexual function.
      A previous study revealed that OAB is associated with erectile dysfunction (ED; prevalence
      odds ratio, 1.5; 95% confidence interval, 1.1-2.2) to a level comparable with that of
      hypertension or diabetes, both of which are known risk factors for ED. Furthermore, men with
      OAB were nine and seven times more likely to report diminished sexual enjoyment and decreased
      sexual activity, respectively, due to urinary symptoms than men without urinary symptoms.

      Behavior therapies are designed as first- line treatment for the treatment of OAB with or
      without concomitant medication. Mirabegron, a selective β3 adrenoceptor agonist, is indicated
      for the treatment of OAB. Earlier research studying the role and distribution of
      β3-adrenoreceptors revealed that the receptors exert other physiological functions such as
      lipolysis and are present not only in adipose tissue but also in human gall bladder, colon,
      prostate, skeletal muscles and corpus cavernosum (CC) smooth muscles. It was found that
      activation by a selective experimental β3-receptor agonist, BRL 37344, elicited relaxation of
      human CC smooth muscle via a cGMP-dependent but NO-independent mechanism, leading to
      observable β3-receptor-mediated vasorelaxant tone of CC. The potential effect of β3-receptor
      agonism at human CC mediated by highly selective mirabegron in both human CC and rat CC that
      mirabegron markedly relaxed isolated CC strips by activating β3-adrenoceptors localized in
      cavernosal smooth muscle cells, independently of the NO-cGMP pathway. Recently,
      intra-cavernosal injection of mirabegron improved erectile function and neurogenic relaxation
      of corpus cavernosum in diabetic rats.

      These early results have spurred research interest in mirabegron-induced CC relaxation and
      encouraged further clinical studies observing and evaluating the effect of mirabegron on male
      sexual function. Researchers at Johns Hopkins University has recently completed recruitment
      of a phase 1 interventional trial (NCT02916693) that aimed to address the hypothesis that
      activation of β3-adrenoceptors by mirabegron offers an alternative pharmacologic pathway for
      the treatment of erectile dysfunction. A preliminary small-scale prospective interventional
      study including 128 male LUTS patients treated with mirabegron 50 mg, 34 of whom had
      diagnosis of OAB and were sexually active, showed that mirabegron usage did not improve
      erectile function, as evaluated by International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5 4.9%
      decrease at 4-week; p = 0.106, and 9.1% decrease at 12-week follow-up; p = 0.077). However,
      the IIEF-5 was significantly decreased in the higher baseline IIEF-5 (≥17) group (11.7%
      decrease; p = 0.044), noncoronary artery disease (13.2%; p = 0.007) group and non-DM group
      (13.9% decrease; p = 0.021) at 12-week follow-up.

      The accumulated research output warrants the initiation of a prospective study involving a
      larger patient cohort to evaluate the effect of mirabegron on male sexual function in
      addition to alleviate OAB symptoms. The objective of this study is to evaluate and compare
      the therapeutic effects on OAB symptoms, and sexual functions, in terms of erectile function
      and ejaculatory function, in sexually active OAB male treated with behavior therapy or
      behavior therapy plus Mirabegron (50 mg).
    
  