
    
      The dominant status relies on the qualitative data as the interviews are emphasized as the
      best suited method to address the primary aim of this study. The interviews follow a
      semi-structured interview guide for patients and for caregivers.

      Information about socio-economic conditions, disease and treatment variables will be obtained
      by the investigator at baseline. Disease, treatment and clinical variables will be collected
      including the World Health Organization (WHO) performance scale (PS) which will be obtained
      by medical chart review. The self-reported questionnaires (quantitative data) are viewed as a
      useful supplemental data source, and embrace the topics as distress, anxiety and depressive
      symptoms.

      Theoretical Framework The qualitative and quantitative research components represent
      different paradigmatic traditions including diverse ontological, epistemological and
      methodological assumptions. However, these paradigms are not necessarily incompatible. This
      study applied a pragmatic paradigm, reflecting a pluralistic view using both inductive and
      deductive reasoning. Applying a qualitative perspective, the present interviews seek to
      capture the subjective experiences of the study participants related to their life situation.

      Analysis The semi-structured interviews will be recorded and transcribed in full length by
      the interviewer. Interview data will be transferred to NVivo 10 (qualitative data analysis
      computer software package) software program. A thematic analysis will be conducted for the
      analysis of the semi-structured interviews. Thematic analysis is a basic method for
      qualitative analysis as it identifies, analyzes and reports themes and patterns within data.
      The findings will be presented in themes and subthemes. A theme is an expression or context
      being defined as important by the researchers. In this study a theme is not necessarily
      dependent on quantifiable measures, but rather captures an important meaning in relation to
      the research questions and aims. Data from the interviews are descriptive in nature and
      reflect the subjective experience of the life situation of patients with HGG and their
      caregivers. The steps for thematic analysis are inspired by Braun and Clarke and as follows;
      Step 1) Data are transcribed immediately after an interview by the investigator or a research
      assistant. Transcriptions are read several times until the investigators are familiar with
      the depth and extent of the content. This process guides the investigators to the next level
      of analysis. Step 2) The text is read and divided into units of meanings, which are
      identified by the investigators. Some meaning units are sentences, others a whole paragraph.
      In this process data are coded in order to organize them into meaningful groups. This process
      assures that the whole dataset is systematically worked through by the investigators. Step 3)
      Then, the codes are analyzed in order to consider if different codes can be combined into
      mutual themes. This three step process will result in a collection of themes and sub-themes.

      Statistical analysis The PS, the The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) sub-scales,
      the The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy, General and brain cancer (FACT-G and
      FACT-Br) sub-scales and the responses to the ordinal items of the leisure time physical
      activity scale will be analysed separately. Socio-economic information and data from
      questionnaires will be entered into a database. The questionnaires will be analyzed according
      to their manuals. Categorical variables will be reported as frequencies and percentages,
      while continuous variables are reported as mean and standard deviations (s.d.) using a
      significance level of p\0.05. HADS and FACT-Br data refer to the normative values. The
      statistical analysis will be performed with SAS (Statistical Analysis System) statistical
      software, version 9.3.
    
  