
    
      The design of this cross-sectional study is centered around a structured questionnaire of a
      mixed qualitative and quantitative nature that is composed primarily of yes/no or Likert
      scale responses. All questions are written with the intent that they may be understood by
      those participants without any formal education. The investigators will recruit participants
      that are currently using the services of the Trifinio clinic in rural Guatemala as these are
      likely to fit inclusion criteria and will be able to benefit from potential future services
      that will be directed by the findings of this questionnaire. For all participants, Likert
      scale questions will be used with a series of faces to help indicate meanings for the answers
      and to decrease possibility of misinterpretation. Participants will be recruited through
      non-probabilistic sampling and the use of snowball sampling. Screening of these participants
      for exclusion criteria will be performed before questionnaires are distributed. The questions
      of the questionnaire are designed to elicit information about certain beliefs or preferences
      related to healthcare in a structured manner that allows us to compare answers and determine
      trends, prevalence, and associations that are likely to exist among community members.
      Participation will be completely voluntary and informed consent will be obtained from each
      participant before they are given the questionnaire. For participants who are illiterate or
      would prefer to have the informed consent and questionnaire read aloud to them, this will be
      done by one of the CITI-trained investigators. Recorded data will only include questionnaire
      responses and will not include any identifying information. We will be using randomized
      numbers in order to refer to completed questionnaires, but these numbers will have no
      identifying aspects and will be used for the sole purpose of keeping track of the gathered
      data. The information gathered will be de-identified and stored and password-protected
      through REDCap.
    
  