
    
      Under the assumption that aging is caused by dysfunction of specific biological mechanisms,
      it is reasonable to hypothesize that slowing aging should delay the onset of chronic diseases
      that typically affect older persons and improve their longevity and quality of life. Indeed,
      there is emerging evidence that factors associated with premature mortality are also involved
      in multiple pathologic conditions typical of aging. Scientists have suggested that these
      factors are genetic in nature and involve variations in the genetic code sequence. Contrary
      to this view, genetic approaches to study of aging have had limited success and it has been
      argued that the study of aging and longevity requires a more comprehensive analysis that
      includes non-genetic biomarkers such as epigenetic, gene expression and protein biomarkers.
      This is because these nongenetic biomarkers reflect the interaction between genetic variation
      and environmental/behavioral factors. A major limitation in this approach to date is that
      most studies of epigenetic, gene expression and protein biomarkers rely on blood specimens,
      which may not recapitulate the biology of other tissues. In addition, although all cell types
      from the same person have exactly the same genetic code; information on epigenetic
      modifications, RNAm, and protein expression likely differ across cell types and at different
      points in time. Thus, global measures of these biomarkers in specific cell types can be
      affected by percentages of these cell types in the blood, and it is well known that such
      percentages change with aging and chronic diseases.

      To overcome the limitations described above, we plan to use cytapheresis to collect large
      number of PBMCs in a group of healthy individuals dispersed over a wide age-range. The
      collection of large number of PBMCs is essential to obtain enough cells for each cell type to
      support measurements of the biomarkers of interest. The information collected will be used to
      identify biomarkers that change with aging in individuals who are initially healthy,
      independent of changes in specific PBMCs cell types. We will also develop a statistical model
      that can be used by other studies of biomarkers to adjust their analysis for PBMCs cell type
      composition without having to perform complex and expensive measures, such as flow cytometry.
      The data collected in PBMCs will be compared to similar biomarker data obtained from
      muscle/fat and skin biopsies to understand to what extent biomarkers measured in the blood
      recapitulate similar changes that occur in different human tissues. Finally, once
      methodological limitations of measuring biomarkers in the blood have been addressed, we plan
      to assess the relationship of biomarkers assessed in specific circulating cell types, in the
      whole blood, bone marrow aspirate and in muscle/fat and skin biopsies to physiological
      measures that typically change with aging, including measures of body composition
      (anthropometrics, CT scan and MRI), energetics (spirometry at rest and during different
      degrees of exercise intensity), homeostatic equilibrium (hormones and inflammatory markers),
      neurological function (neurocognitive testing, brain MRI, nerve conduction studies). At the
      first follow-up, Year 2 (and every four years after it) we will focus on in depth
      characterization of phenotypes that are relevant for aging. This strategy reduces the burden
      to participants but still allows delineating trajectories of essential variables and relate
      them longitudinally. The final goal is to develop new hypotheses about the biological nature
      of the aging process and how aging is associated with decline of physical and cognitive
      function.
    
  