
    
      The identification of subgroups of patients at high risk of cancer might enable more
      efficient screening strategies for early detection of cancer. Venous thromboembolism (VTE)
      can be the first manifestation of an occult cancer. All tumor sites may be involved. In an
      individual patient-level data meta-analysis (IPDMA), it was reported a 1-year prevalence of
      occult cancer of 5.2% (95%CI 4.1-6.5) among patients presenting with unprovoked VTE.

      Two recent multicenter randomized controlled trials (e.g. SOME (Canada) and MVTEP (France)
      trials) failed to demonstrate that extensive cancer screening strategies diagnosed more
      cancers, more early stage tumors, or improved cancer-related mortality in comparison with a
      more limited screening strategy. However, the main limitation of these studies was the twice
      lower than expected overall incidence of occult cancer diagnosis in unselected patients with
      unprovoked VTE, which limited the statistical power. In the IPDMA, it was also reported that
      the 1-year period prevalence of occult cancer was 7-fold higher in patients aged ≥ 50 (6.8%;
      95%CI 5.6-8.3) as compared with those < 50 years (1.0%; 95%CI 0.5-2.3).

      Moreover, in the MVTEP trial, the incidence of missed cancers over a 2-years follow-up period
      was significantly lower in patients randomized to a 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron
      Emission/Computed Tomography (FDG-PET/CT) screening strategy. Thus, the most promising
      diagnostic modality for occult cancer screening seems to be FDG-PET/CT. FDG-PET/CT which
      allows a one-stop whole-body imaging, is routinely used for the diagnosis, staging and
      restaging of various cancers.

      The MVTEP2 Trial seeks to determine if among higher risk patients (≥ 50 year-old) with a
      first unprovoked VTE, a cancer screening strategy including a FDG-PET/CT decreases the number
      of missed occult cancers detected over a 1-year follow-up period as compared with a limited
      screening alone.
    
  