
    
      Kinesiotape which created by Kenzo Kase in 1976, is a thin and elastic taping material
      similar to the structural properties and flexibility of human skin without limiting joint
      movements. In this study, kinesiotape will apply to the wrist extensor and flexor muscles
      using the functional correction and muscle facilitation techniques. Also placebo taping will
      apply on the same muscles with same kinesiotape without any stretching or positioning. A
      total of 4 applications including kinesiotaping and placebo taping will perform randomly in 4
      consecutive days.

      For each subject; A total of 5 separate evaluations will perform on the first day (without
      taping) and following 4 consecutive days (flexor carpi ulnaris muscle kinesiotaping, extensor
      carpi radialis muscle kinesiotaping, flexor carpi ulnaris muscle placebo kinesiotaping,
      extensor carpi radialis muscle placebo kinesiotaping). Between the taping and evaluation of
      the subjects will wait for 30 minutes.

      There are several studies evaluating wrist movements performed in one plane with different
      methods. The Dart Throwing Motion (DTM) is the most commonly used wrist pattern in daily life
      and includes the entire oblique movement from radial extension to ulnar flexion.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of kinesio taping on the kinematics and
      functional performance of healthy wrist. This study will be prospective, double-blind,
      randomized, placebo-controlled and crossover.

      We did not find any study including fascia correction kinesiotaping for DTM pattern.

      The therapists who works in this area will have an advantage in the rehabilitation programs
      to know the effects of the muscle facilitation and fascia correction techniques kinesiotaping
      on wrist kinematics via DTM and wrist functional performance.

      Also, we believe that our study will guide different professional groups working on
      technological rehabilitation with measurement techniques and evaluation methods.
    
  