
    
      Background It is estimated that there are about 1.4 million patients with colorectal cancer
      (CRC) worldwide, with a rising trend in CRC incidence in many Asian Pacific countries1. In
      Hong Kong, colorectal cancer ranks first in cancer incidence and second in cancer mortality
      based on data from 20142.

      Recent guidelines from USA, Europe and Asia Pacific region recommend CRC screening for
      average-risk asymptomatic individuals starting at age 503-5. Modalities such as guaiac-based
      fecal occult blood tests (gFOBT), fecal immunochemical tests (FIT), flexible sigmoidoscopy
      (FS), and colonoscopy are among the acceptable options for CRC screening3-5.

      Department of Health of Hong Kong launched a Colorectal Cancer Screening Pilot Program in
      late 2016. This is a subsidized program offering primary care consultation with FIT. For
      those subjects with FIT positive, colonoscopy specialist consultation and colonoscopy will be
      arranged.

      The local uptake rate of CRC screening was reported to be 24.5%8 , which is relatively low
      when compared to other developed county9.

      In recent years, social media (SM) has become an increasingly popular source of health
      information10. By providing an easily accessible and interactive channel of communication
      between reviewers and information providers, it has potential values for affecting public
      health. However, the effects of SM on uptake of CRC screening has not yet been studied.

      WhatsApp Messenger, is the most popular social media messaging app worldwide. This randomized
      controlled study will investigate the effect of WhatsApp vs telephone intervention on the
      uptake of CRC screening.

      Hypothesis Delivery of information of CRC screening program via SM can encourage uptake of
      CRC screening.

      Aim To investigate the effectiveness of Delivery of information of CRC screening program via
      WhatsApp on the uptake of CRC screening
    
  