
    
      It has previously been shown that a combination of tyrosine, capsaicin, catechines, and
      caffeine may stimulate the sympathetic nervous system and promote satiety, lipolysis and
      thermogenesis. In addition, dietary calcium may increase fecal fat excretion.

      Method:

      80 healthy Danish overweight to obese (BMI between 28 and 35 kg/m2), 18 to 70 years of age
      subjects of both gender. All subjects was be weight stable (within 3-kg) 2 months prior to
      study inclusion, non-smoking, non-athletic and have no daily use of medication except for
      anticonception and antihypertensive compounds. All subjects gave their written consent after
      verbal and written information about the study. The study protocol was approved by The
      Municipal Ethical Committee of Copenhagen and Frederiksberg as being in accordance with the
      Helsinki II Declaration.

      The total study period was 12 weeks. The intervention design was an 8-weeks randomized, 3-arm
      parallel, placebo-controlled and double-blind intervention. Prior to the randomized
      intervention a weight loss was initiated by 4 week treatment on a 3.4 MJ/d low caloric diet
      (LCD). Only subject who lost more than 4% of their initial body weight after 4 weeks LCD
      treatment was randomized and continued in the study.

      The subjects were randomized into 3 balanced groups i.e. placebo, simple or enterocoated
      release. All subjects received dietary instruction to a slightly hypo caloric diet of -300
      kcal/day after the isoenergetic educational system. The dietary advice was reinforced by
      dietetic consultations every fortnight.

      Body weight and composition were assessed by DEXA before and after the LCD period, four weeks
      into the randomized period and at completion i.e. the last day of the study.

      All participants underwent assessment of energy expenditure by indirect calorimetry in a
      ventilated hood. The first respiratory measurement was on the first day of the intervention
      and will last for 5 hours.

      All subjects collected all feces excreted three days prior to respiratory measurement and one
      day of urine excreted.
    
  