
    
      Atherosclerosis without thrombosis is rarely fatal. It is the acute thrombotic complications
      which account for disability and death. Therefore, for event-free survival, the question is
      not why atherosclerosis develops but rather why atherosclerosis, after years after indolent
      growth, suddenly becomes complicated with luminal thrombosis.

      Post-mortem and clinical observations indicate that patients with acute coronary syndromes
      often have many ruptured and/or active plaques in their coronary arteries.

      The challenge is to find the plaque(s) destined for the next thrombus-mediated heart
      attack(s), treat, and thus avoid the heart attack(s). Identification of vulnerable plaques
      have become a key issue. The natural history of individual plaques (risk of thrombosis) is
      unknown and needs to be established. Multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) can provide
      angiography and imaging of the vessel wall.

      Hypothesis:

      It is by CT-scanning possible to 1a) identify and differentiate the morphology of coronary
      atherosclerotic plaques.

      1b) identify vulnerable plaques.

      Materials and methods:

        1. Development of an MDCT scan protocol for accurate assessment of coronary artery plaque
           composition by ex vivo examination of human coronary arteries from the Institute of
           Forensic Medicine, University of Aarhus. Scan protocols parameters and intravascular
           contrast material will be varied to optimize accurate assessment of coronary plaque
           composition. MDCT will be compared to histopathology.

        2. A cross-sectional study with clinical application of the efficiency parameters defined
           in sub-study 1. Forty consecutive patients with non ST-elevation myocardial
           infarction/unstable angina, and 80 consecutive patients with stable angina will be
           recruited and investigated with MDCT followed by CAG with IVUS/virtual histology.

        3. A prospective, longitudinal study. After a period of 12 months all patients from
           sub-study 2 will be re-investigated.

        4. Before the cross-sectional study a small pilot-study will be performed. Ten patients
           with non ST-elevation myocardial infarction/unstable angina will undergo MDCT and CAG
           with IVUS/virtual histology. These patients will after one months undergo another MDCT.
           This is done to make sure that it is possible to perform the planned longitudinal study.

      Research plan:

        1. Development of an MDCT scan protocol for accurate assessment of coronary artery plaque
           composition.

        2. Clinical application of the MDCT scan protocol for in vivo differentiation of coronary
           artery plaque morphology. Morphologic findings will be categorized and compared with
           IVUS/virtual histology for confirmation.

        3. Re-evaluation of plaque density and morphology one year after inclusion by a second in
           vivo contrast-enhanced MDCT-scanning to define which morphological plaque categories are
           at risk of progression.
    
  