
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether adding bevacizumab to neoadjuvant weekly paclitaxel (+/- carboplatin)
      and subsequent dose-dense doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (ddAC) significantly raises the
      rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) in the breast in patients with hormone receptor
      (HR)-poor/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) (-), resectable breast cancer.

      II. To determine whether adding carboplatin every 3 weeks to neoadjuvant weekly paclitaxel
      followed by ddAC (+/- bevacizumab) significantly raises the rate of pCR in the breast in
      patients with HR-poor/HER2(-), resectable breast cancer.

      III. To determine whether adding bevacizumab every 2 weeks to neoadjuvant weekly paclitaxel
      (+/- carboplatin) and subsequent ddAC significantly raises the rate of pCR in the breast in
      patients with basal-like breast cancers, as defined by gene expression array.

      IV. To determine whether adding carboplatin every 3 weeks to neoadjuvant weekly paclitaxel
      followed by ddAC (+/- bevacizumab) significantly raises the rate of pCR in the breast in
      patients with basal-like breast cancers, as defined by gene expression array.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the pCR rates in the breast and axilla, using American Joint Committee On
      Cancer (AJCC) TNM criteria (version 6), to neoadjuvant weekly paclitaxel, with or without
      carboplatin, followed by ddAC, with or without bevacizumab, given concurrently with the
      weekly paclitaxel and ddAC, in (a) patients with HR-poor/HER2(-), resectable breast cancer
      and (b) the subset of patients with basal-like breast cancers, as defined by gene expression
      array.

      II. To assess whether there is an interaction between the addition of carboplatin and
      bevacizumab to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) with weekly paclitaxel followed by ddAC as
      regards the path pCR rates in (a) patients with HR-poor/HER2(-), resectable breast cancer and
      (b) the subset of patients with basal-like breast cancers, as defined by gene expression
      array.

      III. To assess the toxicity of the control regimen (weekly paclitaxel followed by ddAC) and
      any incremental toxicities associated with the addition of carboplatin and/or bevacizumab in
      this patient population, including the incidence of febrile neutropenia, grade >= 3
      thrombocytopenia, grade >= 2 neurotoxicity, grade >= 3 hypertension, and clinically
      significant bleeding or thrombotic (including cardiovascular and cerebrovascular) events.

      IV. To determine the recurrence-free survival (RFS) measured from definitive surgery to first
      event, and time to first failure (TFF) measured from study entry to first event.

      V. To determine overall survival (OS), defined as time from registration to death from any
      cause.

      VI. To assess the impact of NAC with weekly paclitaxel followed by ddAC, with or without
      carboplatin and/or bevacizumab, on axillary lymph node involvement at surgery, particularly
      in patients with clinically or histologically positive axillary lymph nodes prior to
      initiation of NAC.

      VII. To assess the impact of the addition of bevacizumab to NAC on the incidence and severity
      of post-op complications, especially excessive bleeding, delayed wound healing, and
      thrombotic complications.

      VIII. To evaluate residual cancer burden (RCB) as a predictor of RFS, TFF and OS.

      IX. To determine the correlation between clinical, radiographic, and pathologic response.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether the impact of the addition of carboplatin and/or bevacizumab to NAC with
      weekly paclitaxel followed by ddAC on achievement of pathologic CRs in patients with
      HR-poor/HER2(-), resectable breast cancer is influenced by molecular subtype, as defined by
      gene expression array.

      II. To obtain blood, fresh frozen and fixed tumor tissue to test specific hypotheses for
      which biomarker data exist and to evaluate biomarkers in tissue, blood, and serum that may
      influence response to and toxicity of weekly paclitaxel, ddAC, carboplatin, and/or
      bevacizumab.

      III. To obtain blood samples to test specific hypotheses for which biomarker data exist and
      to evaluate biomarkers in blood that may influence response to and toxicity of weekly
      paclitaxel, ddAC, carboplatin and/or bevacizumab.

      IV. To determine the surgical practice patterns for breast conservation and sentinel
      lymphadenectomy in patients undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      V. To examine the practice patterns and use of sentinel lymphadenectomy (pre-chemotherapy or
      post-chemotherapy) in patients with T2 or T3 breast cancer.

      VI. To examine the proportion of patients who presented with T2 or T3 cancers who undergo
      mastectomy despite cytoreduction adequate for breast conservation.

      VII. To determine the radiotherapy practice patterns for post-mastectomy and regional nodal
      irradiation in patients undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes once weekly in weeks
      1-12. Patients then receive dose-dense doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 3-10 minutes and
      cyclophosphamide IV over 5-60 minutes (ddAC) once in weeks 13, 15, 17, and 19.

      ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel and ddAC as in Arm I. Patients also receive bevacizumab
      IV over 30-90 minutes once in weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, and 17.

      ARM III: Patients receive paclitaxel and ddAC as in Arm I. Patients also receive carboplatin
      IV over 30 minutes once in weeks 1, 4, 7, and 10.

      ARM IV: Patients receive paclitaxel and ddAC as in Arm I, bevacizumab as in Arm II, and
      carboplatin as in Arm III.

      Patients in all arms undergo definitive surgery (i.e., modified radical mastectomy or
      breast-conserving surgery with appropriate management of the axilla) between 4-8 weeks after
      completion of neoadjuvant therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 10
      years.
    
  