
    
      Obesity:In adults, obesity is defined as a BMI of greater than 30 kg/m2. It is estimated
      that, by the year 2030, 38% of the world's adult population will be overweight and another
      20% obese .An expert panel convened by the NIH stated that for the first time in history, the
      steadily improving worldwide life expectancy could level off or even decline, as the result
      of increasing obesity.

      Liver cirrhosis with portal hypertension and HCC:

      The problem: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary malignant liver tumor
      seen in the setting of cirrhosis, which itself can be of varying etiology. NASH as cause for
      liver cirrhosis and HCC has been growing in last decade. Although Hepatitis C is currently
      the most common indication for liver transplant, longitudinal trends show that NASH has a
      trajectory to become the most common.

      Current options in management: Patients who develop HCC in the context of underlying chronic
      liver disease complicated by portal hypertension are not candidates for resection therapy;
      rather, orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) offers the best option for cure and long-term
      survival. Most transplant centers have strict criteria for OLT; one of the most common is a
      BMI < 35 kg/m2. Most NASH patients with HCC will have a high BMI. Unfortunately in presence
      of HCC these patients have a very limited time to lose enough weight to qualify to be listed.
      Lifestyle modification and medical therapies are relatively ineffective. Bariatric surgery is
      contraindicated in patients with portal hypertension due to significant increase in
      post-operative mortality, more relevant in patient listed to liver transplantation.

      Thus a safe and effective minimally invasive option is needed. Based on currently available
      data, Left gastric artery embolization (LGAE) appears effective in inducing weight loss of
      about 10.5% in 3-6 months, with a high safety profile. In patients who have cirrhosis and
      portal hypertension with HCC and who are not transplant candidates due to morbid obesity ,
      appropriate and timely weight loss of 10.5% in 3-6 months by performing LGAE may allow them
      to be listed and transplanted before their cirrhosis and tumor reaches an inoperable stage(
      within Milan criteria). In patients with HCC, the procedure can be performed concurrently
      with the procedure of Trans arterial chemoembolization which is commonly used in down staging
      HCC to Milan criteria.
    
  