
    
      We identify healing in the context of chronic or life-threatening illness as a
      patient-reported outcome consisting of growth or benefit in psychological, social and/or
      spiritual dimensions representing improvement well above the patient s pre-morbidity
      baseline. This positive outcome often occurs despite substantial suffering during the
      illness, even in terminal cases (Kearney 2000).

      In previous phenomenological studies, qualitative descriptions of healing and the processes
      by which it develops have not been structured in categories suitable for the development of a
      fully validated and standardized psychometric instrument. Also, the relationship of healing
      to psychometrically measurable constructs such as posttraumatic growth, resilience, coping,
      and acceptance is not clear.

      Objective: This program is to provide (1) a qualitative model of healing-related processes,
      (2) phenomenological categories of healing suitable for a psychometric instrument
      development, (3) the relationship of healing to other relevant constructs such as trauma,
      coping, and adult development, and (4) questionnaire items for healing assessment and (5)
      software tools that greatly increase the qualitative analysis speed and rigor of
      phenomenological category building.

      Study populations: Two populations of subjects who have experienced a life-threatening
      disease or serious chronic illness (cancer or cardiac disease) will be recruited from three
      sites. The first population (50 subjects) are individuals with exemplary healing experiences
      (life-transforming positive outcomes connected to illness along psychological, social and/or
      spiritual dimensions) or in the early stages of healing-related processes. In-depth interview
      data from these subjects will empirically help identify endpoint markers and process pathways
      of profound healing. The second population (400 subjects) consists of current or past
      participants in structured healing or medical rehabilitation programs. In a written
      interview, these participants will qualitatively evaluate questionnaire items for identifying
      readiness for and progress toward healing using their first-hand, illness-related experience.

      Design: This protocol has a qualitative, phenomenological, natural history design similar to
      identifying features of a medical syndrome or psychological disorder. It has two formats of
      data collection: in-depth individual interviews of the exemplary healing population, and
      self-administered written interviews for current participants in formal healing or
      rehabilitation programs. In-depth interview sessions have 2 1/4-hour duration with three
      components: a 50-minute, in depth phenomenological interview, a 30-minute short-statement
      interview (how subjects view healing-related short questionnaire statements), and a 25-minute
      related-constructs interview (how their positive outcomes, may be related to personality).
      Interview and short-statement analyses consist of standard qualitative methodologies
      including transcription, memo-writing, coding, categorization, and modeling.

      Outcome measures: None (non-interventional)
    
  