
    
      Studies reveal that ocular anomalies may also be found in healthy full-term babies. These
      abnormal ocular findings included subconjunctival haemorrhage, congenital microphthalmos,
      congenital corneal leukoma, posterior synechia, persistent pupillary membrane, congenital
      cataract, enlarged C/D ratio, retinal hamartoma versus retinoblastoma, optic nerve defects,
      macular pigment disorder and non-specific peripheral retinopathy. The highest proportion of
      these abnormal findings is retinal haemorrhages, accounting for 92% of abnormalities. Most
      retinal hemorrhages are benign and will finally self-resolve. However, sometimes it takes a
      long time for the hemorrhage to resolve. Some slow-resolving hemorrhages could obstruct the
      visual axis and may do great harm to visual development in critical period. Some neonatal eye
      diseases are time sensitive, such as retinoblastoma, and if found late, the best opportunity
      for effective treatment is missed, leading to irreversible visual impairment. Newborns are
      unable to express their discomforts or visual disorders as adults do and only through an
      examination, the neonatal eye diseases can be detected. Therefore, this screening protocol is
      designed to screen the otherwise healthy neonates in a multi-center network on neonatal
      ophthalmopathy and to achieve early diagnosis and timely treatment. All the neonates will
      undergo eye examination by using RetCam III. The external eye, pupillary light reflex, red
      reflex, opacity of refractive media, anterior chamber and posterior segments will be
      examined. The outcomes will be analyzed by a blinded specialist in order to discover serious
      congenital, hereditary and acquired diseases in the neonatal period of healthy newborns and
      to improve epidemiological information of neonatal ophthalmopathy. Neonatal ocular
      examination may play a positive role in promoting paediatric eye health to paediatricians and
      parents.
    
  