
    
      Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is an effective treatment for major
      depressive disorder, but remission rates are 20-40%, and ideal stimulation parameters are
      unknown. rTMS is thought to work by changing the synaptic strength of neurons. The ability of
      our brain to make these changes is referred to as plasticity. rTMS-induced changes are
      thought to build with successive treatment sessions, a process referred to as metaplasticity.
      While both plasticity and metaplasticity are well-established in single cell physiology,
      relevance to rTMS in humans remains unknown. To improve clinical efficacy, the investigators
      seek to understand 1) the neural response to a single rTMS session (plasticity), 2) the
      neural response to repeated daily rTMS sessions (metaplasticity), and 3) whether
      computational models of plasticity based on single-cell physiology apply to human patients
      receiving rTMS for depression.

      Goals of the study are as follows:

        1. establish a detailed mechanistic understanding of the brain changes during current rTMS
           treatment

        2. identify clinically meaningful electrophysiological biomarkers for rTMS treatment

        3. establish a computational model to help predict both brain and clinical changes.

      This project tests the hypothesis that neural changes that accumulate during rTMS treatment
      can predict clinical outcome. Participants will first complete a screening procedure to
      determine eligibility based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria. If the participants are not
      eligible, no further study procedures will be conducted. Eligible participants will be
      randomized to four weeks (20 sessions) of daily 10Hz left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      (DLPFC) active or sham rTMS. Following the completion of sham treatment, participants will be
      offered open-label active rTMS treatment for four weeks to ensure that all participants
      receive active treatment if desired. Single pulse TMS-evoked potential (TEP), a well-studied
      causal EEG measure of brain excitability, will be measured before, during, and after every
      rTMS session. TEPs will be measured locally in the left lateral prefrontal cortex and
      compared to downstream sites in parietal and medial prefrontal cortex.

      Aim 1: To determine the electrophysiological response to single and repeated rTMS sessions in
      depression. Through this aim, I will establish a detailed mechanistic understanding of the
      electrophysiological effects of rTMS treatments.

      Aim 2: To determine the relationship between brain state, plasticity, metaplasticity, and
      antidepressant response in depression. Through this aim, I will identify clinically
      meaningful electrophysiological biomarkers for rTMS treatment.

      Aim 3: To test whether a computational model of metaplasticity applies to human patients.
      This computational model will help predict both neurophysiological and clinical changes.

      Findings from this study will provide the basis for novel stimulation protocols that will
      maximize clinically-relevant brain changes and improve clinical outcomes.
    
  