
    
      Participants:

      All participants with stroke were recruited from a government rehabilitation hospital between
      November 2014 and November 2015. All treatments were performed in the same hospital.

      Sample Size:

      "Power and Sample Size Program" was used to calculate sample size. It was determined by
      considering a previous study which calculated minimal detectable change of Berg Balance Scale
      (BBS) for stroke patients(20). According to this study to the response within each subject
      group was normally distributed with standard deviation 7.87 and minimal detectable change was
      found 10% for BBS. It was calculated that 15 participants were needed in each group with
      probability (power) 0.8 and 0.016 alpha level computed by Bonferroni adjustment.

      Procedure:

      One hundred and seven stroke patient were assessed for eligibility by two physiatrists (B.E
      and B.G). Forty-two (13 women, range of age: 18-75 years) patients were found to be suitable
      for inclusion criteria of the study. Randomisation was performed by using randomisation
      function of Microsoft Office Excel programme by another researcher (ARO). Random number
      generator of Microsoft Office Excel Software gave a random number between 0 and 1 to the each
      treatment columns which were created by ARO. Sorting the random number row from the largest
      to the smallest number was performed by the sort and filter menu. Treatment assignments were
      stratified according to the severity of impairment at baseline and the study site to ensure
      balanced distribution among the three groups.After the randomisation,assessments at baseline
      and after training were performed by two physiotherapists who were blind to the interventions
      (IY, BEH). All the participants were treated in the rehabilitation hospital by a
      physiotherapist who was experienced in stroke rehabilitation. BWSTT Training was performed by
      RM.
    
  