
    
      Migraine is most common among patients who seek medical care for headache. The prevalence of
      migraine is around 10 % in Iran. The many studies of migraine pathophysiology imply that the
      brain of migraine patient is impaired in term of cerebral circulation and baseline activity
      of brain stem, monoaminergic system and cortex. Then headache is only a sign of the changes
      that occur in the brain to rid hazardous conditions. Based on this theory many
      electrophysiological and imaging abnormalities that were appeared in the brain before the
      aura or the headache were diminished in the early phases of the attack. It means the changes
      concurrent with headache are associated with a quasi normalization of cortical information
      processing. The different pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments have proposed
      for migraine management. But some patients do not satisfactorily respond to or cannot
      tolerate current evidence-based treatments. This group of patients is often said to have
      refractory migraine (RM). Thus according to the enigmatic pathophysiology of migraine, a
      comprehensive treatment that affected all contributing factors in the migraine with minimal
      side effects is not provided yet.

      Extremely low frequency magnetic fields (ELF MFs) as non-pharmacological treatment of
      migraine had good effect with weak evidence in the control of migraine. Recently based on
      extensive studies in the bioeffects of the low frequency electromagnetic field we can hope
      that this method can respond to many human disorders is unsolvable. The purpose of this study
      is to apply the best effective treatment protocol of ELF-MF on brain and circulatory system
      is extracted by using the latest findings of studies of low-frequency electromagnetic fields
      as intervention and apply it for refractory migraine patients in the form of a randomized
      one-blind placebo- controlled trial study. The evaluation of interventions is done
      subjectively (migraine dairy and MIDAS). Also we consider follow up period to confirm
      results.
    
  