
    
      Background: Available data from randomized trials on thrombectomy in patients with
      ST-elevation myocardial infarction have shown favourable trends on myocardial reperfusion.
      However, only few data are available on the impact of thrombectomy on long term clinical
      outcome.The first trials on thrombectomy had a too small sample size and a too short
      follow-up to reliably assess the presence of a clinical benefit.

      Only one, recently published, monocentric, randomized trial conducted on 1071 patients with
      STEMI, the TAPAS study, showed an advantage of thrombus-aspiration use in terms of mortality
      at one year follow-up.

      To extend the investigation on this issue to a larger population, we have designed a pooled
      analysis of the individual patient data of prospective randomized trials comparing standard
      PCI with or without thrombectomy to evaluate the impact of thrombectomy use on long term
      clinical outcome.

      Methods: After a thorough database search, all 15 principal investigators of 17 randomized
      trials comparing thrombectomy with standard PCI in patients with STEMI were contacted. All 10
      principal investigators authoring 11 randomized trials who agreed to participate the study
      have been asked to complete a structured database including a series of key baseline clinical
      and angiographic data (sex, age, diabetes, rescue PCI, usage of IIb/IIIa-inhibitors, infarct
      related artery (LAD or LCX or RCA), multivessel disease, base-line TIMI flow 0 or 1 (yes or
      no), time from symptoms to balloon/cath-lab, thrombectomy device used (name of the device,
      for example Export catheter),device efficacy (device able to reach and treat the culprit
      lesion)) and also to update the clinical follow-up of each patient enrolled in the
      corresponding trial at one year or more.

      Actually we have closed the data collection and we have the requested data with the updated
      clinical follow-up data of 11 randomized studies (REMEDIA trial, PIHRATE trial, X-AMINE ST
      trial, De Luca et al. trial, Noel et al. trial, EXPIRA trial, VAMPIRE trial, TAPAS trial,
      Kaltoft et al. trial, DEAR-MI trial, Antoniucci et al. trial).

      The primary end point of this pooled analysis is the comparison of survival between patients
      randomized to PCI with thrombectomy or PCI without thrombectomy. The secondary end-points are
      survival free from myocardial infarction (MI), target lesion revascularization (TLR), major
      adverse coronary events (MACE: death + MI + TLR) and death + MI between patients randomized
      to PCI with thrombectomy or PCI without thrombectomy.

      A pre-defined subgroup analysis is planned considering the following variables: diabetes,
      rescue PCI, IIb/IIIa-inhibitors use, time-to-reperfusion, infarct related artery, pre-PCI
      TIMI flow and type of thrombectomy device used.

      Implications: This study will be able to provide useful data about the impact of the reported
      improved myocardial perfusion associated with thrombectomy on the long-term clinical outcome
      in patients with STEMI.
    
  