
    
      Chronic Hemodialysis is a treatment for kidney failure. It involves the construction of three
      treatment sessions per week extrarenal lasting 4 hours each. This treatment is necessary but
      it has an impact on the quality of life of patients. Indeed , the 2005 "REIN quality of life"
      report demonstrates that quality of life of people with kidney failure is impaired,
      especially in physical and general component. The investigators believe that to improve the
      overall quality of life in hemodialysis patients, we must improve the quality of each
      hemodialysis session. The quality criterion is not only medical, it must also take into
      account the patient's perception about the course of its meeting : that's what we call
      quality of experience of the dialysis session. Our daily healthcare practice shows that each
      hemodialysis session is experienced differently by the patient according to different factors
      : physical, psychological, relational, technical, temporal. The quality of the experience of
      a hemodialysis session could be positively influenced by the use of supplements occupational
      assets or liabilities, for improving patient satisfaction or by enhancing its relationship
      with the staff. Indeed, a preliminary study ( in the nephrology unit of our establishment in
      January 2012) of 8 patients undergoing active occupational educational activity during
      hemodialysis, showed that the experience of the hemodialysis session was potentially
      improvable (experienced patients improved, reduced cramps ... ). However, to assess the
      impact of such measures on the lives of the dialysis session and the quality of life in
      general, we need to measure the quality of living of a dialysis session. There is not, at
      present, specific tool to measure the quality of the experience of a hemodialysis session.
      This tool would measure the impact of a caregiver support occupational during dialysis
      sessions. Objectives: The main objective of this study is to create and validate an
      instrument to measure the quality of living of a hemodialysis of chronic renal insufficiency
      subject. This will be done in 3 steps, 1st step in establishing an item bank , second stage
      of construction and final calibration tool, and third step of psychometric validation of the
      questionnaire. Material and Methods : To date, no measure of the quality of living of a
      hemodialysis session is available and validated. The investigators intend to build and
      validate a quality instrument experienced a hemodialysis session for people with chronic
      kidney failure. The study will be conducted in three stages: - First step: the development of
      a bank of issue items qualitative research on the subject ( literature review , expert
      opinion ) and direct collection by focus group with people with CKD . - Second step:
      operationalization of the measuring tool (reduction of item bank , grouping of items ) with
      validation of the pre- final tool by individual statistical techniques (content validity ,
      perceived validity, structure validity, internal consistency) .- Third stage: the
      psychometric validation of the final tool will be made after a survey conducted on subjects
      with CKD , aged 18 and older . These patients will be enrolled in the hemodialysis centers
      participants during a usual hemodialysis session. A total of 30 patients will be interviewed
      for the qualitative step of developing a bank of items and then again 30 patients will
      participate in the validation of the pre-final tool. Then 100 patients will be included to
      develop the final measurement tool and structure validation and 150 patients will be asked to
      analyze the psychometric properties (validity, reliability and sensitivity to change).The
      last two stages of this work will multicentric. For the development of the item bank and
      meter validation of the final tool of cross-sectional surveys are sufficient. For the
      validation phase , a longitudinal follow-up will be required , with a collection on day 0 , 7
      day intervals (test - retest) and a collection to 6 months for the predictive validity of the
      assessment phase and sensitivity change. Analysis of the results will help define the
      applicability criteria and acceptability to know the validity of the specific instrument that
      is to say, its content validity, perceived validity, structure validity, discriminant
      validity, reliability explored by internal consistency and stability over time. Longitudinal
      follow-up of patients is expected to also assess the predictive validity and sensitivity to
      change. Statistical analysis plan: Statistical analysis of the data will use the so-called
      classical methods adapted. The study of the applicability of the instrument involves the
      description of relevant parameters. The validity of the instrument will use the following
      techniques: statistical techniques implement the factor analysis for the reduction of the
      items, check the dimensionality of fields, and check the structural validity. Analysis of
      variance or its equivalent for the study of discriminative ability. Reliability will be
      explored by the Cronbach alpha for internal consistency. For the study of reproducibility,
      the intraclass correlation coefficient is used. Multivariate analysis by Cox model or
      logistic regression will be performed to investigate the predictive validity and sensitivity
      to change. Expected results and prospects : The investigators believe that improving each
      hemodialysis session individually could ultimately improve the overall quality of life of
      patients. Hemodialysis treatment is palliative treatment (curative treatment is kidney
      transplantation), the medical teams have only as care option, improving the quality of
      sessions and therefore the experience of dialysis sessions. The investigators believe that
      the creation of a measurement tool and its validation are essential for the future evaluation
      of our actions. This tool will be useful for the entire Francophone community nephrologist .
    
  