
    
      Playworks is a school-based program that places full-time coaches in low-income schools to
      organize games and activities during recess. The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF)
      contracted with Mathematica Policy Research and its subcontractor, the John W. Gardner Center
      for Youth and Their Communities (JGC) at Stanford University, to conduct a rigorous
      evaluation of Playworks. Twenty-nine schools interested in implementing Playworks, across six
      cities in the United States, were randomly assigned to treatment and control groups during
      the 2010-2011 (cohort 1) or 2011-2012 (cohort 2) school year. Random assignment was conducted
      within matched groups of schools within each city. In total, there were 12 blocks of matched
      schools. For each block, one school was randomly assigned to the control group and the rest
      to the treatment group.

      During the one-year study period for each cohort, treatment schools received Playworks and
      control schools were not eligible to implement Playworks. Data from student surveys,
      accelerometers, and teacher surveys were collected from 4th- and 5th-grade students,
      teachers, and school staff roughly seven months after Playworks was first implemented in
      treatment schools.

      For the student survey, students were asked to complete a 30-minute student survey in the
      spring of their study year about their experiences at school. A team of experienced survey
      administration staff administered the survey in the students' classrooms. In addition to the
      student survey, teachers were asked to complete a teacher survey that asked teachers about
      their students' experiences at school.

      A subsample of students that were asked to complete the student survey also wore
      accelerometers during one or two school days. During the accelerometer data collection
      period, the research team arrived at participating classrooms at the beginning of the school
      day. Team members described the function of the accelerometer and then attached one to each
      consented student's hip, using an elastic belt. The accelerometer data was then processed
      with the ActiLife 5 software package.

      The impact of Playworks on study outcomes was estimated by comparing the average outcomes in
      treatment and control schools using regression models customized to the unit of analysis
      (teacher or student). The regression models used for analysis included indicators for random
      assignment blocks to account for the blocked design and school-specific random error terms to
      account for school-specific effects not attributable to the treatment. Covariates were also
      included in some models to account for significant differences between treatment and control
      groups in demographic characteristics. Models for continuous and binary outcome variables
      were fit using least-squares estimation and logistic regression estimation, respectively.
      Standard errors for the estimated impacts on teacher- and student-level outcomes accounted
      for clustering at the school level using generalized estimating equations. Model-based
      p-values and effect sizes were calculated based on the estimated impacts and corresponding
      standard errors and multiple comparison adjustments accounted for correlations among the
      multiple tests. Sampling weights were used when estimating impacts. The weights were
      constructed to account for both the selection probabilities of students and teachers into the
      sample and nonresponse.
    
  