
    
      Posterolateral spinal fusion is currently performed by using large amounts of autologous bone
      graft. Drawbacks of bone grafting include the need for an additional surgical procedure,
      limited supply, sub-optimal bone quality in osteoporotic patients and harvesting morbidity,
      which led to the development of numerous bone graft substitutes. Recently, a promising
      synthetic graft substitute has been developed that has shown favorable results in
      pre-clinical studies. This product, MagnetOs™ Granules, is CE-marked and received 510(k)
      clearance from the US Food and Drug Administration. The aim of the current study is to
      demonstrate non-inferiority of MagnetOs™ Granules compared to autograft in instrumented
      posterolateral spinal fusion, in terms of efficacy and safety.

      This study is designed as a multicenter, observer blinded, randomized, controlled
      non-inferiority trial with intra-patient comparisons. A total of 100 adult patients qualified
      for posterolateral spinal fusion in the thoracolumbar and lumbosacral region (T10-S2) will be
      recruited and enrolled. According to a randomization scheme, one side of the spine will be
      grafted with the MagnetOs™ Granules and the other side with bone harvested from the iliac
      crest and local bone. The rest of the surgical procedure will be according to standard care.

      The primary efficacy outcome is the rate of successful posterolateral spinal fusion after one
      year, assessed on CT-scans. Non-inferiority of the MagnetOs™ condition compared to the
      autograft condition will be assessed using a McNemar's test. The primary safety outcome is
      the number and nature of (serious) adverse events related to the surgical procedure compared
      to control populations from literature. Secondary outcomes are the comparison to its
      predicate (AttraX® Putty), relation between posterolateral fusion and interbody fusion after
      one-year, posterolateral spinal fusion rate after two years, relevance of iliac crest donor
      site pain and the incidence of long-term complication and relation with risk factors in the
      combined population of this study and a recently completed clinical trial.
    
  