
    
      For this research study, between 6 and 24 Months post-transplant, we plan to prospectively
      randomize 2:1 renal transplant patients to either:

        -  Substitute tacrolimus (TAC) with sirolimus and continue mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) or

        -  Continue with tacrolimus (TAC) and mycophenolate mofetil (MMF)

      A total of 400 patients are expected to be screened for the randomization. We expect to
      randomize 275 renal transplant patients into this protocol (275 donors to be recruited).

      The following data will be collected at the time of randomization:

      Recipient demographics: (i) age at transplantation, (ii) sex, and (iii) race.

      Clinical history: (i) causes of end-stage renal disease, and (ii) past medical history.

      Transplant related information: (i) donor age, (ii) cadaveric versus living kidney
      transplant, (iii) histocompatibility and cross match data, (iv) viral serology, (v) history
      of acute rejection and delayed graft function, (vi) use of induction therapy and
      immunosuppressants, (vii) use of ACEI and/or ARB, and (viii) level of renal allograft
      function-estimated GFR (e-GFR(12) using MDRD formula, proteinuria.

      Peripheral blood leukocytes will be obtained from renal transplant recipients for baseline
      (prior to randomization) lymphocytes functional activity and characterization of lymphocytes
      subpopulations by flow cytometry analysis.

      Peripheral donor leukocytes (from living donor patients) will also be obtained at the time of
      randomization. These donor leukocytes will be used as stimulator cells to study the
      functional activity of the recipient's lymphocytes function.

      The recipients assigned to continue with tacrolimus and MMF will be routinely followed at the
      outpatient Comprehensive Transplant Center (CTC) with monthly labs. In addition to labs at
      baseline pre-randomization, 6, 12 and 24 Months post-randomization, peripheral blood
      leukocytes will be obtained to study lymphocytes functional activity and to characterize
      lymphocytes subpopulations by flow cytometry analysis.

      Post randomization: The recipients assigned to switch from tacrolimus to sirolimus and
      continue with MMF will be routinely followed at the CTC with monthly labs. During the period
      of conversion from tacrolimus to sirolimus, weekly labs will be obtained to monitor renal
      function and bone marrow function. In addition to labs at baseline pre-randomization, 6, 12
      and 24 Months post-randomization, peripheral blood leukocytes will be obtained to study
      lymphocytes functional activity to characterize lymphocytes subpopulations by flow cytometry
      analysis. Urine will be collected to assess tubular toxicity by evaluating urinary
      biomarkers.

      Both groups of patients will be followed for 2 years post-randomization. In addition to
      monitoring renal allograft function, we will evaluate the incidence of acute rejection,
      patient and graft survival, impact of CI conversion on the lipid profile, incidence of
      hypertension, malignancies, opportunistic infections, and post-transplant diabetes mellitus
      (DM). For those willing to undergo an optional kidney biopsy, one will be performed at the
      end of the second year in order to evaluate renal allograft pathology and renal allograft
      tissue gene expression profiles of the two groups.

      With the peripheral leukocytes obtained at baseline prior to randomization and at 6, 12 and
      24 Months post-randomization, we will investigate possible modifications of lymphocytes
      function and the lymphocytes subpopulations that might have occurred as a consequence of the
      switch from tacrolimus to sirolimus.

      Obtaining renal allograft tissue samples at 24 months post randomization can have potential
      important ramifications to help explain the mechanisms of fibrosis and tubular atrophy
      typically associated with CI and the role of CI elimination with the substitution of
      sirolimus (SRL). All data will then be analyzed comparing gene expression profiles of
      peripheral blood (Pax gene tubes are routinely collected at the different time points as part
      of the original study). Based on power analysis, we will perform 24 months post randomization
      biopsies in 70% of the total subjects enrolled in the study (approximately 46 subjects from
      the tacrolimus/MMF group and approximately 93 subjects from the sirolimus/MMF group).

      We plan to obtain renal allograft biopsies at 24 Months for those that consent for this
      additional biopsy. This will be compared to the standard of care 12 months post-transplant
      biopsy to allow us to address the effect of immunosuppressive modifications on renal
      allograft pathology at 24 months post randomization. Renal allograft biopsies will also be
      stored in RNA later to further extend our knowledge on the effect of CI free
      immunosuppression on gene expression profiles.
    
  