
    
      Anxiety disorders, defined by excess worry, hyperarousal and fear, are amongst the most
      common class of psychiatric conditions in adults. Large population-based studies on anxiety
      disorders estimated a lifetime prevalence of 33.7% and a 12-month prevalence between 2.4% and
      29.8%. In Singapore, however, studies have only established the prevalence of a limited range
      or anxiety disorders. In a nationwide, cross-sectional, epidemiological survey, the lifetime
      prevalence of anxiety disorders, specifically Generalized Anxiety Disorder and
      Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder, rose from 0.9% and 3.0% respectively in 2010, to 1.6% and 3.6%
      in 2016. If untreated, anxiety disorders could result in a range of personal and societal
      costs, such as interpersonal dysfunctions, employment, physical health, social functioning,
      and frequent primary and acute care visits, resulting in a poor quality of life.

      A large proportion of the population experiences subclinical symptoms of anxiety disorders
      which impede daily functioning and well-being, but most often do not seek professional help
      or fall below the radar of psychiatric services. Current treatment guidelines recommend
      pharmacotherapy (i.e. selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors [SSRIs] or venlafaxine) and
      psychotherapy (i.e. cognitive behavior therapy [CBT]) as first-line treatments for anxiety
      disorders. Unfortunately, SSRIs are associated with an increased risk of suicide in young
      adults. Thus, local practices often incorporate more psychological therapies in the treatment
      of anxiety disorders. However, CBT is labor-intensive and time-consuming - which is
      incompatible with the demanding lifestyle Singaporeans lead these days. Moreover, therapeutic
      outcomes are also very much therapist dependent. Due to the fear of stigma that is
      particularly salient in the local context, individuals with anxiety may be deterred from
      engaging with therapists. Even if these individuals do receive adequate treatment, existing
      literature shows that outcomes for recommended treatment modalities are sub-optimal at best,
      i.e. overall mean remission rate of CBT is 51% while pharmacotherapy is significantly lower.
      With the low rates of help-seeking behaviors and dismal success rates of existing therapies,
      novel interventions for anxiety are apposite and vital.

      The benefits of mindfulness-based interventions have been extensively researched in anxiety
      disorders in recent years. Improvements reported across a range of outcomes include enhanced
      ability to cope with stress, reduced depressive and anxiety symptom severity, as well as
      improved sleep quality, all of which lead to increased life satisfaction and overall
      well-being. Not all anxiety regulation strategies are helpful, and mindful emotion regulation
      presents one promising strategy by cultivating a changing of relationship with one's
      emotions. Specifically, this strategy facilitates reduced reactivity to emotional stimuli by
      encouraging one to meet, accept, and detach from one's aversive feelings, thoughts, and
      ineffective habitual responses. Unfortunately, clinically anxious individuals with no
      experience in such practices could find it challenging to engage in them as they often
      require a high degree of individual discipline. Coupled with the fact that sustained practice
      is crucial to yield the benefits of mindfulness practice, an appealing mode of treatment
      delivery is necessary. To this end, gamification strategies could be useful: gamification
      strategies have been shown useful in motivating health-related behaviors through interaction
      with the immersive interventional programs. Recent preliminary studies have also suggested
      that neuro-/ biofeedback-based relaxation and mindfulness training is useful for both healthy
      and anxious individuals.

      Accordingly, we have developed an online, home-based, personalized, neuro-technological
      mindfulness-based intervention and seek to conduct a preliminary study with healthy young
      adults to evaluate its safety and acceptability. Our technology will deliver a
      mindfulness-based anxiety regulation intervention through a neuro-/ bio-feedback-based game
      interface that is driven by an electroencephalography (EEG) algorithm. We hypothesize that
      the intervention would be safe and acceptable. We further hypothesize that the intervention
      would help entrain anxiety regulation and ameliorate anxiety in healthy adults.
    
  