
    
      Before induction of anesthesia

      Two sets of measurements will be obtained for each participant before induction of
      anesthesia:

        1. Surface measurements: Three points will be placed on the skin using a non-erasable
           marker. Point A, at the apex of the triangle between the two heads of the sternomastoid.
           Point B, at the ipsilateral sternoclavicular joint. Point C, at the lower border of the
           right 2nd rib at its junction with the sternum. The distance between point A and point B
           and between point B and point C will be measured and added to each other to determine
           the catheter length expected to place the tip at the mid-SVC.

        2. Radiological measurements: On the plain posteroanterior (PA) chest X-ray (CXR), the
           distance from the tip of the transverse process of T1 to the tracheal bifurcation
           (C-length) will be measured.

      After induction of anesthesia After induction of anaesthesia, the TEE probe will be placed
      and a bicaval view will be displayed to visualize the right atrium-superior vena cava
      (RA-SVC) junction and the proximal (lower) part of the SVC at its entry into the right atrium
      (RA). The TEE probe will be manipulated to display the SVC as far as possible from its
      junction with the RA.

      The right internal jugular vein (IJV) will be cannulated under ultrasound guidance using the
      Seldinger technique.

      After puncture of the IJV a J-wire will be advanced through the trocar until the J-end of the
      guidewire is visualized at the RA-IJV junction via the TEE.

      The CVC catheter will be passed over the guidewire to the RA-SCV junction. The guidewire will
      be removed and the catheter will then be retracted under TEE guidance until the tip in
      visualized at 3.0 cm above the RA-SVC junction as measured with the TEE cursor. If the distal
      (upper) portion of the SVC could not be visualized, the catheter would be retracted for 3 cm
      as guided by the 1-cm gradations on the CVC.

      Post-operative After operation, plain PA CXR will be obtained at the intensive care unit
      (ICU) to verify the position of the CVC tip in relation to the carina.

      Statistical Analysis:

      The length of the catheter required to place the tip at the mid SVC will be regressed on the
      C-length or the surface distance to obtain a predictive equation. The accuracy of either
      equation will be assessed by estimation of the standard error of the estimate (SEest).
    
  