
    
      Participants may be recruited from Boston Children's Hospital (BCH) or from off-site
      collaborators/healthcare providers who determine a participant as eligible. Participants may
      also contact the lab directly after hearing about the research through other individuals,
      recruitment materials, or the study's website (www.childrenshospital.org/mantoncenter). After
      consenting to participation, individuals with rare disorders with a suspected, but
      unknown/poorly understood genetic basis, and their family members are asked to participate in
      the study by providing 1) relevant medical information/records and family history 2) a
      blood/saliva/DNA/RNA sample, and 3) preexisting tissue samples (including preexisting
      prenatal samples) that is no longer needed for clinical care (if available) or future tissue
      sample specifically for research purposes.

      The medical records and family history allow the investigators to gain a better understanding
      of the specific disease symptoms seen in an individual or family. The blood/saliva sample is
      used to obtain DNA and/or RNA, and/or other biochemical which can then be analyzed for
      identifying the genetic bases of disease pathophysiology using various approaches including
      genomic sequencing. Tissue samples obtained from individual participants are employed to
      better understand gene expression and protein interactions through investigations such as
      (but not limited to) immunohistochemical and microarray analysis.

      This study project will be ongoing for an indefinite period of time, and participation is
      continuous unless an individual requests to be removed from the study. Participants can
      request to withdraw at any time. Active participation primarily takes place at the time of
      enrollment and on a case-by-case basis thereafter for providing clinical updates and/or
      additional samples. Risks include those associated with routine blood draws/saliva sample
      collections and emotional distress associated with genetic and/or medical research. Risks are
      minimized as much as possible by an open consent process and privacy/confidentiality
      safeguards, including a certificate of confidentiality from the NIH and the use of
      de-identified, numerical codes to refer to participants with collaborators. Although there
      are no immediate, direct benefits to participants, the possible benefits of this study
      include the development of new diagnostic tests and more detailed prognostic information for
      participants and their families. In addition, this study may lead to a better understanding
      of the pathophysiology of these conditions, leading to the development of treatments and
      cures for both rare and more common disorders in the future.
    
  