
    
      A possible reason for C. trachomatis detection after treatment may be transmission (self or
      another) or treatment failure. Whether antimicrobial treatment failure for C. trachomatis
      plays a role remains poorly understood. There is no evidence of antimicrobial resistance and
      testing for antimicrobial resistance for C. trachomatis is not routinely available. The
      hypothesis of transmission is most likely, especially as recontamination is very common among
      young people, either due to an untreated partner or a new partner. When these two conditions
      are ruled out, the hypothesis of autoinoculation from rectum to vagina is quite probable.

      With regard to anorectal C. trachomatis infections, some studies concluded that azithromycin
      is a suboptimal treatment], while another study found doxycycline and azithromycin treatment
      to be equally effective. However, there are no robust studies that shows conclusive evidence
      relating to a suboptimal effect of any time of treatment or that prefers one treatment over
      the other.

      The current study attempts to clarify the above question. The team propose to conduct the
      first open-label randomized controlled trial comparing the efficacy (measured as microbial
      cure) of a single 1g dose of azithromycin versus 100 mg of doxycycline twice daily for seven
      days for the treatment of anorectal C. trachomatis infection concurrent to urogenital
      infection in women. The experimental group will include women with C. trachomatis-positive
      vaginal and anorectal swabs treated with doxycycline twice daily for seven days with one
      tablet of 100 mg of doxycycline in the morning and evening. The control group will include
      women with C. trachomatis-positive vaginal and anorectal swabs treated with azithromycin
      consisting of four tablets of 250 mg of azithromycin in one intake.

      The team made the hypothesis that the efficacy of azithromycin for anorectal infections may
      be lower than that of doxycycline, resulting in reinfections by autoinoculation from rectum
      to vagina. The expected result is that the number of women with a C. trachomatis-positive
      NAAT result in the anorectal swab will be significantly higher in the control group than in
      the experimental group after treatment.
    
  