
    
      OUTLINE: This is a multi-center trial.

      INVESTIGATIONAL TREATMENT:

        -  Palbociclib 125 mg will be administered orally once daily on days 1-21 (D1-D21) of each
           28-day cycle. Subjects will not take palbociclib on D22-D28.

        -  Tamoxifen 20 mg will be administered orally once daily for every day of the 28-day cycle
           (i.e., continuously).

      Palbociclib should be taken with food in combination with tamoxifen. Subjects should take
      their dose at approximately the same time each day.

      It is encouraged, but not mandatory, that premenopausal subjects will also receive treatment
      with goserelin or equivalent (e.g., Lupron) given as an injectable subcutaneous implant on D1
      of every 28 days cycle or every 3 months.

      Disease assessments will be performed at the completion of every 2 cycles.

      Treatment will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, subject refusal, or
      subject death either from progression of disease, the therapy itself, or from other causes.
      Subjects who voluntarily stop the study, have progressive disease, or unacceptable toxicities
      will be followed for a total of 24 months after discontinuation of study drug.

      To demonstrate adequate organ function, all screening labs should be performed within 14 days
      prior to registration for protocol therapy:

      Hematological (must meet ALL of the following criteria):

        -  Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1.5 × 10 9/L

        -  Hemoglobin ≥ 9 g/dL

        -  Platelet count ≥ 100 × 10 9/L

      Renal (must meet ONE of the following criteria):

        -  Serum creatinine ≤ 1.5 × ULN

        -  Serum creatinine > 1.5 × ULN, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) ≥ 40 mL/min

      Hepatic (must meet ALL of the following criteria):

        -  Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) ≤ 2.5 × ULN or ≤ 5 × ULN for subjects with known
           hepatic metastases

        -  Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) ≤ 2.5 × ULN or ≤ 5 × ULN for subjects with known hepatic
           metastases

        -  Total serum bilirubin ≤ 1.5 × ULN
    
  