
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the objective response rate to treatment with an autologous alpha-type-1
      polarized dendritic cells (alphaDC1)/TBVA vaccine (alpha-type-1-polarized dendritic cells
      loaded with tumor blood vessel-targeting antigenic peptides) plus cytokine modulating (CKM)
      regimen (rintatolimod, recombinant interferon alpha-2 [IFN-alpha2b] and, celecoxib) in human
      leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A2+ subjects with primary PD-1 resistant immuno-oncology
      (IO)-refractory melanoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the immune-related objective response rate (objective response rate [ORR]; per
      immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [iRECIST];) in the above patient
      population treated with autologous alphaDC1/TBVA vaccine plus cytokine CKM regimen followed
      by re-treatment with PD1 blockade (+/- CTLA4 blockade).

      II. Evaluate rate of durable responses (> 6 months) on the combination treatment in the above
      patient population treated with autologous alphaDC1/TBVA vaccine plus cytokine CKM regimen
      followed by re-treatment with PD1 blockade (+/- CTLA4 blockade).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Examine whether the combination of peptide-loaded autologous alphaDC1 vaccines and
      tumor-selective chemokine modulation (CKM: IFN-a2b, rintatolimod, and celecoxib) improves the
      overall survival (OS) and immune-related progression-free survival (iPFS) in HLA-A2+ subjects
      PD-1/PD-L1-refractory melanoma compared to the historical control of the best supportive
      care.

      II. Identify the intratumoral and systemic immune correlates of the response to treatment.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive recombinant interferon alpha-2 intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes,
      rintatolimod IV over 2.5 hours, and celecoxib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-3.
      Beginning cycle 2, patients also receive alpha-type-1 polarized dendritic cells intradermally
      (ID) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. At 12 weeks, patients with progressive disease may
      switch to ipilimumab with or without a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor and patients with a complete
      response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) may switch to a PD-1/PD-L1
      inhibitor or best alternative care.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2
      years.
    
  