
    
      Background:

      Two out of three tumours in the upper urinary tract are located in the renal pelvis.
      Muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma is probably more common among tumours in the upper
      urinary tract compared to tumours in the urinary bladder. Thus, muscle-invasive tumours
      represent approximately 45 % of renal pelvic tumours compared to 25 % of tumours within the
      urinary bladder. As in the bladder, lymph node metastases are rare in non-muscle invasive
      disease. Information regarding indications, extent and possible curative potential is
      currently lacking for lymphadenectomy in conjunction with nephroureterectomy for urothelial
      carcinoma in the upper urinary tract (UUTUC). There are, however, retrospective series with
      survival data for patients with lymph node metastasis that report long term survival after
      surgery as monotherapy with similar survival proportions as in bladder cancer with lymph node
      metastases after radical cystectomy. A retrospective study from Tokyo was expanded to the
      only available prospective study, where 68 patients with UUTUC were submitted to
      template-based lymphadenectomy. Another retrospective study by the same Japanese group,
      showed that 5-year cancer-specific and recurrence-free survival was significantly higher in
      the complete lymphadenectomy group than in the incomplete lymphadenectomy or without
      lymphadenectomy groups. Tanaka N et al. reported recurrence rate after nephroureterectomy
      without lymphadenectomy at 1 and 3 years were 18.9 and 29.8 %, respectively.

      Hypothesis: Complete lymphadenectomy during nephroureterectomy because of invasive urothelial
      carcinoma may reduce the incidence of lymph nodes metastasis, local recurrence, distant
      metastasis and improve the cancer survival rate.

      Purpose: To evaluate the influence of complete lymphadenectomy on recurrence and cancer
      specific survival rate compared to limited or no lymphadenectomy.

      Primary endpoint/analysis: Recurrence free survival at five-year postoperative. Secondary
      endpoints: Incidence of lymph node metastases, local recurrence and/or distant metastasis,
      cancer specific and overall survival at one, three and five-year postoperative. Complications
      rate according to Clavien classification within the first thirty days postoperatively.

      Another endpoint/analysis: Multivariate analysis of possible preoperative risk factors for
      lymph node metastases (tumour size, preoperative urinary cytology, lymph node enlargement on
      CT, PET-CT positivity) and postoperative risk factors for lymph node metastases (stage,
      grade, tumour diameter, presence of necrosis in the tumour (none; <10%; >10% of total tumour
      area), number of lymph nodes excised).

      Design: Prospectively randomized to template based lymphadenectomy or not, in patients with
      clinically muscle-invasive UUTUC in the renal pelvis or upper 2/3 of the ureter. One to one,
      controlled clinical trial. Patients will be randomly allocated into two groups, 183 patients
      in each group. Group A will be scheduled to receive routine standard open or robot assisted
      nephroureterectomy without lymphadenectomy except for clinically enlarged. Group B will be
      scheduled to received mapped lymphadenectomy in conjugation with nephroureterectomy.
    
  