
    
      BACKGROUND:

      -There are numerous clinical trials underway in the National Cancer Institute Surgery Branch
      (NCI-SB) in which patients are administered autologous lymphocytes with antitumor activity
      generated from either peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) or

      tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL). All adoptive cell therapy protocols require that
      certain cell criteria be evaluated and met prior to enrollment.

      -This protocol is also designed to serve as a biorepository for samples and associated data
      collected on patients enrolled on NCI-SB protocols, which are now closed. Patients who were
      enrolled prior to 2003 were not enrolled on this protocol. Their tissue and data will

      now be retained on this protocol for long-term storage. The protocol is concerned with the
      retention of serum, CSF, bone marrow, ascites fluid, PBMCs, tumor, healthy tissue samples,
      and CD34 purified HSCS samples collected from patients with cancer to

      support basic science and clinical research activities of the NCI-SB at the NIH Clinical
      Research Center and Center for Cancer Research.

      Objectives:

        -  To obtain autologous blood, stem cells, and/or tumor tissue from patients currently with
           cancer for laboratory analysis and ex vivo generation of autologous anti-tumor
           lymphocytes for future enrollment on a NCI-SB adoptive cell therapy clinical trial.

        -  To obtain allogeneic PBMC via apheresis, whole blood, or other blood products from
           healthy volunteers, for use in generating anti-tumor patient lymphocytes ex vivo.

        -  To conduct genomic, proteomic, and immunologic research studies on samples collected
           from patients with a current diagnosis of cancer.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients with cancer must be greater than or equal to 18 years of age and meet the
           laboratory safety testing for infection included in all the cell therapy treatment
           trials.

        -  Healthy volunteers for PBMC donation must meet the safety evaluation criteria
           established by the FDA for donation of blood products including HBsAg, HBc, HCV, HIV,
           HTLV, Trypanosoma cruzi, West Nile Virus, and syphilis. They must also meet the strict
           behavioral and medical history requirements.

        -  Healthy volunteers for whole blood donation must meet the safety evaluation criteria
           established by the NIH Clinical Center Department of Transfusion Medicine (DTM) Blood
           Bank for screening of allogeneic whole blood donors.

      Design:

      -Once a cancer patient is determined to be a potential candidate for one of the NCI-SB
      clinical trials, they will undergo an apheresis and/or tumor resection for future treatment
      and/or research purposes. In addition, this protocol will allow for the apheresis of healthy

      volunteers for allogeneic PBMC or donation of whole blood for processing into serum for

      use in generating autologous anti-tumor lymphocytes in the laboratory, or for research
      purposes.

      -No treatments, investigational or standard therapy, will be administered on this protocol.
    
  