
    
      Primary Objective: To assess the efficacy of Rebamipide in combination with Esomeprazole in
      the improvement of symptoms of Functional Dyspepsia in Asian patients compared to
      Esomeprazole alone Secondary Objective: i. To assess the efficacy of Rebamipide in
      combination with Esomeprazole in the improvement of quality of life in Asian patients with
      Functional Dyspepsia compared to Esomeprazole alone ii. To assess the cost-effectiveness of
      Rebamipide in combination with Esomeprazole compared to Esomeprazole alone after 8, 12 weeks
      of treatment iii. To assess the safety of Rebamipide in combination with Esomeprazole in
      adults with functional dyspepsia after 8 weeks of treatment.

      Trial Design Multi-national, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study

      Treatment Group:

        -  Study Group: Rebamipide + Esomeprazole

        -  Control Group: Rebamipide placebo + Esomeprazole Investigational Product (IP):
           Rebamipide 100 mg tablet Rebamipide placebo tablet Esomeprazole 20 mg tablet Dosage
           regimen: Administration route: PO Rebamipide 100 mg t.i.d Rebamipide placebo t.i.d
           Esomeprazole 20 mg o.d Target Population Male or female subjects aged from 18 years to
           less than 80 years with a diagnosed of Functional Dyspepsia (FD) Primary Endpoint:
           Change in Leeds Dyspepsia Questionnaire (LDQ) total score from baseline to 8 weeks of
           treatment Secondary Endpoints: 1. The change in Health-Related Quality of Life (EQ-5D)
           from baseline to 8 weeks of treatment 2. The cost effectiveness based on cost per QALY
           gained between the study group compared to the control group at 8, 12 weeks 3. The
           change in Leeds Dyspepsia Questionnaire (LDQ) total score and Health-Related Quality of
           Life (EQ-5D) from baseline to 12 weeks Inclusion Criteria: 1. Patients diagnosed with
           Functional Dyspepsia using Rome III diagnostic criteria 2. Age ≥ 18 years, < 80 years 3.
           Subject who has ability to provide written informed consent and willingness to comply
           with the requirement of the protocol 4. Able to communicate in English, Malay or
           Mandarin languages 5. Patients on prior dyspepsia treatment - after washout period of 1
           week Exclusion Criteria: 1. Patients with known hypersensitivity to Rebamipide and/or
           Esomeprazole and any other component of these formulations.

           2. Pregnant, nursing, and childbearing potential women who is unwilling to effective
           contraception; for example, oral contraceptives, hormonal methods, placement of an
           intrauterine device (IUD) or intrauterine system (IUS), barrier methods (i.e., condom or
           occlusive cap with spermicidal foam/gel/film/cream/ suppository), male sterilization,
           and true abstinence 3. Presence of family history of GI malignancy or alarm features
           suggested malignancy - e.g. Unintentional weight loss (more than 10% of body weight in
           recent 6 months), GI bleeding 4. Patients consuming regular Aspirin or NSAIDs (except
           low-dose Aspirin at a dose of 325 mg/day or less for cardiovascular prophylaxis) 5.
           History of erosive esophagitis, peptic ulcer disease within 1 year prior to the
           screening 6. History of gastrointestinal (GI) malignancy, primary esophageal motility
           disorder, documented upper GI surgery 7. Patients with any hepatobiliary or pancreatic
           diseases 8. Patients with severe depression, anxiety, or other psychological disorder 9.
           Patients with any terminal disease 10. Presence of irritable bowel syndrome (Rome III
           criteria) or inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) 11. Necessary to have a continuous
           concomitant treatment with sucralfate, quinidine, warfarin, phenytoin, bisphosphonates,
           methotrexate, ketoconazole, fluconazole, itaconazole, diazepam, anti-cholinergics,
           H2RAs, PPIs (except study drug), prokinetics, and/or NSAIDs (except topical use of
           NSAIDs; in systemic NSAIDs ≤2 days/week) 12. Use of PPIs (except study drug), H2RAs,
           prokinetics, antibiotics (except topical use), misoprostol, or bismuth compounds within
           1 week prior to the screening, and who were taking antibiotics used to eradicate
           Helicobacter pylori within 4 weeks prior to the screening 13. Unable to communicate in
           English, Malay, or Mandarin 14. Other conditions determined by the investigator to be
           inappropriate for this clinical study Duration of treatment: 8 weeks Number of subjects:
           Ninety-three patients per each group with 90% power at the 0.05 significance level were
           used. Considering 10% drop-out rate, total of 208 patients (104 patients per each group)
           will be enrolled in the study.

      Total: 208 Study Group: 104 Control Group: 104 Anticipated Timelines: Duration of trial: 18
      months Start of recruitment: March 2014 End of recruitment: August 2015 Last subject out: Oct
      2015

      Statistical Methodology:

      Primary Endpoint Change in Leeds Dyspepsia Questionnaire (LDQ) total score from baseline to 8
      weeks of treatment

      Secondary Endpoint

        1. The change in Health-Related Quality of Life (EQ-5D) from baseline to 8 weeks of
           treatment

        2. The cost effectiveness based on cost per QALY gained between the study groups compared
           to the control group at 8, 12 weeks

        3. The change in Leeds Dyspepsia Questionnaire (LDQ) total score and Health-Related Quality
           of Life (EQ-5D) from baseline to 12 weeks

      Summary statistics of the endpoints will be provided. Mean change will be evaluated by two
      sample t-test or Wilcoxon's rank sum test according to the normal distribution of analyzed
      variable.

      Safety Endpoint

        1. Adverse events The number of cases of AEs and the proportion of patients who experienced
           AEs will be summarized by descriptive statistics (frequency and proportion) for each
           study group.

        2. Laboratory Test and Vital Signs All laboratory values and vital signs will be compared
           within study group and between study groups.
    
  