
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the first cycle dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD), and a biologically effective and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of mocetinostat
      administered orally three times per week for a total of 9 doses per 21 day cycle given in
      combination with vinorelbine on days 1, 8, 15 of 21 day cycles in subjects with refractory or
      recurrent rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS). (Phase 1 Dose Escalation) II. To determine the
      progression-free survival (PFS), defined as time from first dose of vinorelbine to tumor
      progression or death due to any cause, at the RP2D of mocetinostat administered orally three
      times per week starting on day 3 for a total of 9 doses per 21 day cycle given in combination
      with vinorelbine on days 1, 8, 15 of a 21 day cycle in subjects with refractory or recurrent
      RMS. (Expansion Cohort)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Safety profile of mocetinostat in combination with vinorelbine as characterized by adverse
      event (AE) type, severity, timing and relationship to study drugs, as well as laboratory
      abnormalities in the first and subsequent treatment cycles. (Phase 1 Dose Escalation) II.
      Pharmacokinetics (PK) of mocetinostat in plasma. (Phase 1 Dose Escalation) III. Clinical
      benefit rate (CBR = complete response [CR] + partial response [PR] and stable disease [SD])
      of mocetinostat + vinorelbine in metastatic/refractory/unresectable RMS. (Phase 1 Dose
      Escalation) IV. Antitumor activity of mocetinostat + vinorelbine in refractory/recurrent RMS
      as measured by overall response rate (ORR), duration of response (DOR), disease control (DC),
      duration of disease control, as well as progression-free survival (PFS). (Phase 1 Dose
      Escalation) V. Pharmacodynamics of mocetinostat on molecular targets in surrogate tissue.
      (Phase 1 Dose Escalation and Expansion Cohort) VI. Exploratory biomarker development to
      enable prediction of drug toxicity, tumor response and the mechanism(s) of acquired study
      drug resistance. (Phase 1 Dose Escalation and Expansion Cohort) VII. Obtain RMS tissue
      biological samples pre-treatment and at progression to assess for differences in gene
      expression by next gen (generation) sequencing and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (seq).
      (Phase 1 Dose Escalation and Expansion Cohort) VIII. Antitumor activity of mocetinostat +
      vinorelbine in metastatic/refractory RMS as measured by overall response rate (ORR) and
      duration of response (DOR), disease control (DC), duration of disease control, as well as
      progression-free survival (PFS) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST) version (v)1.1. (Expansion Cohort) IX. Safety and tolerability of mocetinostat and
      vinorelbine as characterized by adverse event type, severity, timing and relationship to
      study drug, as well as laboratory abnormalities. (Expansion Cohort)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of mocetinostat followed by additional
      studies.
    
  