
    
      Effective pain control plays a key role is optimizing a patient's respiratory status after
      suffering multiple rib fractures. Using multimodal pain management techniques and optimizing
      a patient's pain control regimen helps to minimize the complications associated with rib
      fractures, such as pneumonia and the need for mechanical ventilation. The benefit of using
      opioid-sparing options such as ketamine or lidocaine infusions would be to avoid the side
      effects associated with opioids, which include delirium, constipation, and depressed
      respiratory drive.

      Ketamine and lidocaine infusions are both medications that have been used in numerous studies
      to effectively treat post-operative pain. Low dose ketamine infusions have also recently been
      shown to be a safe and effective adjunct option to help reduce pain scores and decrease
      opioid use in patients with traumatic rib fractures. Currently there is no published studies
      to assess lidocaine's effectiveness to reduce pain scores and opioid use in traumatic rib
      fracture patients. There is also only one study to date that has directly compared ketamine
      to lidocaine infusions for pain control. This study occurred in 60 patients undergoing
      elective nephrectomy and evaluated three 24-hour infusion groups: ketamine, lidocaine, or
      placebo. The primary outcome showed that both ketamine and lidocaine infusions significantly
      reduced 24-hour OME compared to placebo (33% ketamine, 42% lidocaine) and decreased overall
      pain scores.

      This trial is a single center, prospective, randomized trial of adult patients with ≥ 3
      traumatic rib fractures admitted to a Level 1 trauma center at Spectrum Health Butterworth
      Hospital. As part of the current rib fracture protocol all patients will receive the standard
      multimodal pain regimen at the investigator's institution, including acetaminophen, NSAIDS,
      muscle relaxants and gabapentin. Currently ketamine infusions and regional/neuraxial
      anesthesia techniques are added if the standard multimodal pain regimen is insufficient.
      Lidocaine infusions have also been used at the institution for post-surgical pain control to
      minimize opioid use. The objective of the study will be to compare ketamine versus lidocaine
      infusions on the effectiveness to optimize pain control as well as minimize the use of
      opioids in patients with traumatic rib fractures.

      If consent is obtained the patient will be randomized 1:1 to receive either a ketamine or
      lidocaine infusion for pain control, along with standard of care, using a pre-designed
      randomization schedule. Patients must be enrolled within 16 hours of hospital admission and
      are expected to remain on the infusion for a minimum of 24 hours. The duration, titration,
      and stopping of study drug will be dependent on the progress of the patient's overall pain
      status and provider decision, with data being included for the study medication for up to 72
      hours. If patients require surgery at any time the study medication will not be held unless
      signs of adverse events occur. Patients who are unable to remain on the study infusion or
      have a regional/neuraxial anesthetic placed before the 24-hour mark (decided based on the
      Trauma and Surgical Intensive Care Unit services) will be considered a screen fail and no
      data will be contributed to the study, however, the screen fail will be documented. If a
      patient is unable to remain on infusion or has a regional/neuraxial anesthetic placed ≥ 24
      hours, their data will be included up until that point and analyzed. Adverse event and
      serious adverse events will be monitored throughout the entire study period, with continuous
      cardiac telemetry being required in both study groups and daily lidocaine levels drawn in the
      lidocaine group.
    
  