
    
      During and after the surgery, patients undergoing surgery most likely need narcotics
      (opioids) that can cause side effects such as drowsiness and constipation. This can delay
      your recovery. The investigator would like to determine if the intraoperative use of ketamine
      and methadone will provide better pain control and reduce the use of narcotic painkiller
      medications (analgesics) after lumbar surgery as compared to either drug (ketamine or
      methadone) alone.

      Ketamine is used to help to reduce the amount of the commonly used intravenous anesthetic
      drugs, minimize heart rate and blood pressure instability during surgery, and to improve
      outcomes after surgery (e.g. less pain, less constipation, less nausea and vomiting after
      surgery, faster return of bowel function and shortened length of hospital stay).

      Ketamine is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to be used: as an
      anesthetic and analgesic (painkiller). Ketamine is an "adjuvant," which is a drug that may
      increase the effectiveness or strength of other drugs when given at the same time. Ketamine
      is administered as an adjuvant during anesthesia to produce anesthetic and analgesic-sparing
      effects (reduce the amount of anesthetics and narcotics-painkiller drugs), hemodynamic
      stability (to maintain the blood pressure and heart rate within normal rank) and side effect
      reduction (e.g., constipation, nausea and vomiting, itching, and urinary retention). Ketamine
      will be used as approved in this study. Ketamine is frequently used intraoperatively for pain
      control in patients undergoing spine surgery at our institution and is within the standard of
      care. The standard of care indicates that this is one possible method which has been
      demonstrated to be safe and effective for patient care. This may vary at different
      institutions.

      Methadone is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to be used: as an opioid
      pain reliever, similar to morphine, and for narcotic detoxification to reduce withdrawal
      symptoms. The dose of methadone that will be used in this study may be slightly higher than
      the approved dose depending on the subject's weight. However, this dose of methadone is
      frequently used intraoperatively for pain control in patients undergoing spine surgery at our
      institution and is within the standard of care. This may vary at different institutions.
    
  