
    
      The primary objective of this study is to use 6-month progression-free survival to assess the
      efficacy of the combination of radiation therapy, temozolomide and Avastin followed by
      Avastin, temozolomide, and topotecan in the treatment of grade IV malignant glioma patients
      following surgical resection. Secondary objectives are to determine the overall survival
      following the combination of radiation therapy, temozolomide and Avastin followed by Avastin,
      temozolomide, and topotecan and to describe the toxicity of radiation therapy, temozolomide
      and Avastin followed by Avastin, temozolomide, and topotecan.

      The study will have survival and toxicity endpoints. Patients will be treated with standard
      radiation therapy and daily temozolomide for 6 and a half weeks of radiation. Avastin will be
      administered every other week beginning a minimum of 28 days after the last major surgical
      procedure, open biopsy, or significant traumatic injury. Following completion of radiation
      therapy, patients will have a MRI and if there is no evidence of disease progression,
      patients will receive 12 cycles of Avastin, temozolomide, and topotecan (beginning a minimum
      of 14 days after the last radiation treatment). Subjects will be identified by the
      investigator as those patients who have newly diagnosed grade 4 malignant glioma
      (glioblastoma multiforme or gliosarcoma), and be within 6 weeks of the last major surgical
      procedure, craniotomy, open biopsy, or stereotactic biopsy.

      Fifty (50) patients will initially be accrued to the study and the overall efficacy of the
      treatment regimen assessed. Analyses will be conducted within subgroups defined by
      methylation status.

      Early side effects of radiation that may start during radiation include hair loss, scalp
      redness, inflammation of the ear canals, and fatigue. There is a small chance of long-term
      effects from radiation, occurring after months or years after completion. These may include
      worsening of mental function, hearing, vision, strength and coordination. In initial Phase I
      and II clinical trials, four potential Avastin-associated safety signals were identified:
      hypertension, proteinuria, thromboembolic events, and hemorrhage. Temozolomide has been well
      tolerated by both adults and children with the most common toxicity being mild
      myelosuppression. Other, less likely, potential toxicities include nausea and vomiting,
      constipation, headache, alopecia, rash, burning sensation of skin, esophagitis, pain,
      diarrhea, lethargy, and hepatotoxicity. With topotecan, reversible myelosuppression with
      leukopenia and thrombocytopenia is dose limiting. Nausea and vomiting, as well as diarrhea
      and alopecia, are frequent. Moderate fatigue, transient elevation of hepatic transaminase
      levels, stomatitis, anemia, fever, mucositis, flu-like symptoms, and rash have been reported.
    
  