
    
      Certain investigational agents have been described in observational series or are being used
      anecdotally based on in vitro or extrapolated evidence. It is important to acknowledge that
      there are no controlled data supporting the use of any of these agents, and their efficacy
      for COVID-19 is unknown. FDA-approved drugs such as chloroquine/hydroxychloroquine,
      lopinavir/ritonavir, monoclonal IL-6 antibodies, JAK inhibitors, thalidomide and the new
      investigational drug, remdesivir have been proposed for repurposing to fight COVID-19 and its
      complications.

      A medication risk stratification strategy will be used to simulate the impacts of different
      potential repurposed drugs for COVID-19 on the Medication Risk Score (MRS) which is used as a
      predictive tool for ADEs. A retrospective study will be conducted using de-identified drug
      claims data of elderly patients with polypharmacy.

      Patients meeting all the following criteria will be included:

        1. Patient enrolled in a PACE organization during the implementation period;

        2. PACE organization contractually receiving pharmacy services from CareKinesis;

      Exclusion Criteria

      a) No drug claims data available for the period of 2019-2020

      This retrospective cohort will utilize 178,867 drug claims from approximately 12,123 patients
      enrolled in PACE. MRS will be calculated using the last available 3-month period of drug
      claims in 2019. The data elements required for the calculation of the full set of risk scores
      are: prescribed drugs, dose, age, gender. Medication risk stratification using 5 factors will
      be performed to obtain the MRS. Various repurposed drugs (drugs associated with the highest
      probability or efficacy or shown interest as per their inclusion in current clinical trials
      will be prioritized) will be added to the patient drug regimen except for the patients that
      are currently taking the repurposed drug. A new MRS will be generated for all stratified
      patients.
    
  