
    
      To determine the antioxidant activity of the tested product the following clinical and
      instrumental evaluations will be performed:

        1. Evaluation of experimentally induced erythema inhibition: in basal conditions, before
           starting the assumption of the test product/placebo, and at T4, T8, T12, T16 weeks, each
           volunteer wll be exposed at the level of dorsal skin to six incremental doses of UVR
           (ultraviolet radiations mJ/cm2 ) in order to determine the MED (minimal erythema dose of
           unprotected skin). 20+/-4 hours after the UV exposure clinical and instrumental (optical
           densitometry) evaluations of skin erythema and photographic documentation (only on 16
           preselected cases) will be performed.

        2. Blood samples collection for the determination of the principal antioxidants
           concentration (for example: lutein, carotene, lycopene and E vitamin): at T0, T4, T8 and
           T12 blood samples (5 ml of venous blood) will be collected on each volunteer by the
           Medical Staff. The samples will be sent to an external laboratory for haematologic
           control task.

      To determine the anti-age properties of the tested product the following clinical and
      instrumental evaluations will be performed:

        1. Non Invasive, instrumental evaluation of principal skin parameters: epicutaneous pH,
           skin hydration (skin electrical capacitance), skin firmness (plastoelasticity), skin
           texture (skin surface irregularity index - FFT on skin replicas) measurements will be
           performed at T0 and T8 mono-laterally at level of volar forearm medium third, left or
           right side according to a previously defined randomization list.

        2. Clinical pictures with UV flash (Wood's light): at T0 and T8, 20 preselected cases of
           fairy skinned volunteers (selected on the basis of clinical ananmnesis regarding
           photosensitivity) will be submitted to the realization of clinical pictures at the level
           of the face using a special UV flash, able to highlight melanin spots, even if not yet
           visible at the naked eye.

      Moreover aim of the study is also to evaluate the best dosage of the beverage (1 or 2
      servings of 250 ml/a day).
    
  