
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works
      in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being
      studied. It also means that the FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the
      combination of atezolizumab, trastuzumab, and pertuzumab for use in humans. The FDA has not
      approved atezolizumab for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

        -  Atezolizumab is a protein that affects the immune system by blocking the PD-L1 pathway.
           The PD-L1 pathway controls the body's natural immune response, but for some types of
           cancer the immune system does not work as it should and is prevented from attacking
           tumors. Atezolizumab works by blocking the PD-L1 pathway, which may help the immune
           system identify and catch tumor cells.

        -  Pertuzumab and trastuzumab are targeted therapies approved by the FDA to be used alone
           or in combination with a chemotherapy drug to treat HER2-positive metastatic breast
           cancer that hasn't been treated with either trastuzumab or chemotherapy yet.

        -  Pertuzumab and trastuzumab are called "targeted therapies" because they work by
           attaching themselves to specific receptors on the surface of breast cancer cells, known
           as HER2 receptors. When these targeted therapies attach to HER2 receptors, the signals
           that tell the cells to grow are blocked and the cancer cell may be marked for
           destruction by your immune system. This process allows pertuzumab and trastuzumab to
           help slow or stop the growth of the breast cancer. Pertuzumab and trastuzumab target
           different areas of the HER2 cell, so they are believed to work together more
           effectively.

      In this research study, investigators are looking to see how well the cancer responds to the
      combination of atezolizumab in combination with pertuzumab and trastuzumab.
    
  