
    
      Various studies and reviews conducted mainly in developed countries have demonstrated that
      parent-child communication complimented by school based comprehensive sex education programs
      aimed at delay in sexual debut and promotion of safer sex practices work. However, there is
      limited information about such studies in developing countries like Uganda.

      The Randomized Controlled Trial targeted 2 populations; students admitted to S1 in 2012 and
      their parents. Specifically the Randomized Controlled Trial aimed to (i) increase proportion
      of students with intentions to delay sexual debut (ii) increase knowledge and influence
      attitudes of adolescents about condoms (iii) increase the frequency of parent-child
      communication (iv) improve the quality of parent-child communication through structured
      homework.

      The Randomized Controlled Trial comprised 3 components: the classroom-based component; the
      parent component and the homework assignment component. Sexual and reproductive health topics
      were integrated in 8 English and 8 Christian Religious education double lessons lasting 90
      minutes. For each lesson there was a corresponding homework that a student was expected to
      complete with their parent/guardian. Teachers were re-trained in pedagogical skills in
      preparation for implementation of the intervention. At the same time, parents were trained in
      communication skills and assisted to improve their parenting skills in 3 one-day workshops.
      The 11 schools randomized to comparison schools will have delayed intervention. A pre- and
      post-intervention survey was conducted for both students using a standardized questionnaire
      to assess changes in parent-child communication as well as knowledge, attitudes and
      intentions to delay sexual debut. A simultaneous pre-and post intervention survey using a
      standardized questionnaire was also conducted among parents of students participating in the
      intervention to assess change in communication with their children and parenting practices.
      For every component, quantitative and qualitative data was collected to evaluate the
      processes of delivering the evaluation.

      Statistical analysis will be carried out using appropriate statistical software. Frequencies
      and means when appropriate will be calculated for each variable and for summary scale at
      baseline and post-intervention measurements. Inter-item correlation coefficients for each
      scale will be assessed using Cronbach's alpha. T-test for mean differences, kappa statistics
      and McNemar test for non-independent samples will be used to assess changes in knowledge,
      attitudes and intentions between baseline and post-intervention. Content analysis will be
      done for homework.

      The results from this intervention will contribute to Millennium Development Goals 2, 4, 6
      and 6, which aims to combat HIV/AIDS and other diseases, maternal and child deaths and by
      focusing on education and involving school teachers, the study will also contribute towards
      the quality aspects universal primary education.
    
  