
    
      MERLIN is an adaptive, single arm, multi-centre, phase IIa multi-disease clinical trial. It
      is designed to:

      i) Determine dose safety of ORBCEL-C (selected Mesenchymal stromal cells derived from human
      umbilical cord) ii) Evaluate treatment activity through assessment of biomarkers

      This trial has two main stages:

        -  Stage 1 will determine the maximum tolerated dose that can be administered by observing
           for occurrence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT).

        -  Stage 2 will use the maximum tolerated dose found in stage 1 to and further determine
           safety and activity outcomes of ORBCEL-C.

      Upon completion of this trial we hope to be able to justify and conduct separate, larger
      scale trials using ORBCEL-C.

      OBJECTIVES For Both PSC and AIH patients

      The primary objective of Stage 1 is:

      • To determine the maximum tolerated single intravenous infusion dose of ORBCEL-C over a
      14-day reporting period to take forward to Stage 2 of the clinical trial (study). All
      patients who have been recruited to and completed the 14-day reporting period in stage 1 will
      continue to be evaluated for outcomes as per Stage 2.

      The primary objectives of Stage 2 are to investigate whether a single intravenous infusion of
      ORBCEL-C in patients with PSC and AIH:

      • Is safe and tolerated over the period of trial follow up (up to 56 days)

      For PSC patients only • Reduces serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) in patients with PSC. This
      is a non-invasive biochemical surrogate of clinical outcomes in PSC

      For AIH patients only

      • Reduces serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) in patients with AIH. This is a non-invasive
      biochemical surrogate marker of hepatic inflammatory activity and outcomes in AIH.

      The secondary objectives of Stage 2 are to investigate whether a single intravenous infusion
      of ORBCEL-C elicits a change over the duration of the study after treatment in patients with
      PSC and AIH:

        -  Liver biochemistry and function, immunoglobulin G concentrations (in AIH patients) and
           composite risk scores

        -  Non-invasive clinical markers of fibrosis

        -  Patient quality of life (QoL)

        -  Severity of co-existent IBD in patients with PSC.

      Further exploratory research objectives of the trial determine whether MSC infusion modulates
      the immune response by measuring whether treatment elicits a change in patients with PSC and
      AIH:

        -  Markers of immune activation including immunoglobulin values and C-reactive protein
           concentration

        -  Markers of biliary injury including total bile acid levels

        -  Circulating inflammatory cells profile this includes phenotypic expression of T
           regulatory cells (Tregs) a common mechanistic primary endpoint

        -  Endothelial cell activation markers such as VAP-1 and ICAM1

        -  Serum cytokine, chemokine, microRNA and RNA expression profiles
    
  