
    
      The MED is a commercially available, digital range of motion monitoring device for patients
      recovering from knee surgery. It displays both flexion and extension measurements and has the
      option of connecting to an Apple or Android device to send data to the clinician's office for
      review. Patients will have the capability to log on to the Measuring Every Day website with
      an assigned username and a password which they create. This will allow them to view their
      progress and send messages to the study team. Study team members will also have access to
      this website for review and the ability to send and receive messages. All shared files will
      reside on an Amazon HIPAA compliant platform.

      This is a prospective, randomized, unblinded, single-center study to compare the MED device
      to traditional physical therapy. The study will include 46 patients who have undergone
      successful, unilateral total knee arthroplasty. All patients will receive a minimum of 2
      physical therapy sessions prior to hospital discharge and also be instructed to flex and
      extend their operative knee 10 times every 15 minutes while awake as per standard of care
      after discharge. Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio prior to discharge from the
      hospital to either: 1) total knee arthroplasty standard of care rehab which consists of 2
      weeks of in-home physical therapy consisting of 3 sessions per week starting within 48 hours
      of hospital discharge, followed by 4 weeks of out-patient therapy three times weekly, or 2)
      ten repetitions with the MED device three times daily at 8:00am, 2:00pm and 8:00pm. Patients
      will transmit the 10th measurement of each time point to the clinician's office. Patients
      randomized to the MED device will be trained on the use of the device prior to hospital
      discharge.

      All enrolled subjects will return to the surgeon's office at Week 2 to have their index knee
      range of motion measured by the PI or study coordinators with the MED device. If subjects
      enrolled in the MED device arm do not have a minimum flexion of 90 degrees and extension of
      -25 degrees, they will be considered screen failures and return to traditional physical
      therapy.

      All enrolled subjects will return to the surgeon's office at Week 6 to have their index knee
      range of motion measured by the PI or study coordinators using the MED device with the goal
      of achieving a minimum flexion of 120 degrees and an extension of 0 degrees.
    
  