
    
      Heart Failure (HF) is a major public health issue because the disease affects 1-2% of the
      Western population and the lifetime risk of HF is 20%. HF is responsible for 1-2% of all
      healthcare expenditures and 5% of all hospital admissions. The cornerstone in the medical
      treatment of chronic HF is a combination of ACE-inhibitors/ATII-receptor antagonists,
      beta-blockers and mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists. Despite major improvements in the
      management and care of patients with HF, the 1-year mortality in patients with HF is 13 % 4
      and >50% of HF-patients are admitted within a 2.5 year period 5. Furthermore, patients with
      HF have markedly decreased physical capacity and quality of life. Thus, there is a need for
      new treatment modalities in this group of patients.

      Ketone bodies are produced in the liver and are crucial for energy generation during fasting
      in the heart and brain during, exercise and severe illnesses. However, ketosis can be safely
      obtained using dietary supplements and can increase exercise capacity in athletes. The most
      important ketone bodies are 3-hydroxybutyrate (3-OHB) and acetoacetate. Recently, it was
      demonstrated that patients with severe HF have increased myocardial utilization of the ketone
      body 3-OHB. It has been hypothesized that ketone bodies may act as a "superfuel" for the
      failing heart. In support of this, the glucose-lowering SGLT-2 inhibitor empagliflozin
      reduces the risk of hospitalizations and cardiovascular death in diabetic patients with HF
      and also increases circulating levels of 3-OHB.

      By Positron Emission Tomography (PET) we have shown that ketone body infusion reduces
      myocardial glucose uptake and increases myocardial blood flow in healthy subjects. Data from
      another study conducted by our group show a 40% increase in cardiac output during infusion of
      3-OHB. The mechanisms behind these marked hemodynamic effects are currently unknown, but
      could involve prostaglandin-release. 3-OHB is the endogenous ligand for the G protein-coupled
      receptor hydroxy-carboxylic acid 2 (HCA2) receptor. This receptor has proven downstream
      effects on cAMP and systemic effects via release of prostaglandins.

      3-OHB have affinity to the HCA2 receptor and possibly a downstream effect resulting in the
      release of prostaglandins. The prostaglandin synthesis is dependent of cyclooxygenase (COX)
      enzyme, which can be inhibited by aspirin (ASA).

      Niacin, vitamin B3, has been used as a treatment for dyslipidemia. Niacin is also a ligand
      for HCA2 receptor and the downstream release of prostaglandin cause side effects such as
      cutaneous flushing.

      In this study we will investigate the cardiovascular effects of HCA2-receptor stimulation in
      heart failure patients. This will be done by comparing infusion of 3-OHB (preceded with ASA)
      and niacin.
    
  