
    
      Objectives:

      Male factor infertility is poorly understood and our ability to evaluate the male
      contribution to a couple's infertility is very limited. The overarching goal of this project
      is to understand at the molecular level what functional activities in human sperm are
      required for successful fertilization leading to full term development. These findings will
      allow us to develop new methods to determine the impact of environmental exposures on sperm
      quality and male fertility.

      A sperm protein known as phospholipase C zeta (PLC zeta) initiates embryo development at
      fertilization. The primary objective of this study is to test the hypothesis that human PLC
      zeta activity correlates directly with the proportion of fertilized eggs that undergo early
      cleavage during an in vitro fertilization (IVF) cycle. Secondary objectives for the study are
      to generate preliminary data regarding the variability in sperm PLC zeta activity within and
      between individuals and to determine if there are clinical or laboratory correlates for sperm
      PLC zeta activity.

      Study population:

      The study population will consist of 178 infertile couples undergoing IVF procedures at Duke
      Fertility Center (DFC) from which we will obtain 154 evaluable couples for the study.

      Overall Design:

      An observational cohort study design will be used to assess the association of PLC zeta
      activity in the residual sperm from the sample used for an IVF cycle with the proportion of
      eggs per couple that undergo early cleavage during the same cycle. Infertile couples
      enrolling in an IVF treatment cycle at DFC will be approached for inclusion in the study.
      Consent will be obtained from both male and female partners, and historical medical
      information and information about their IVF cycle will be collected by chart review. Blood
      for isolation of serum and DNA will be collected only from the male partner for evaluation of
      hormone levels and genetic analyses related to infertility. On the day of the egg retrieval,
      residual sperm not needed for clinical purposes will be transported via courier to NIEHS.
      Sperm PLC zeta activity will be measured in the investigator's laboratory using an
      experimental bioassay. Sperm PLC zeta protein will be analyzed at the University of
      Massachusetts.

      Outcome Parameters:

      The primary outcome will be the proportion of embryos that undergo early cleavage. Secondary
      outcomes will include proportion of eggs fertilized, embryo development parameters, and
      pregnancy outcome. Association of PLC zeta activity with male partner's clinical or
      laboratory information will be determined. Variability in sperm PLC zeta activity will be
      determined within and between individuals.
    
  