
    
      In the first decade of the new millennium, multiple studies have begun to change our thinking
      about the treatment of adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). In pediatric patients
      cure rates in the range of 80% to 90% are now attainable. While adult patients with ALL now
      have a 90% complete remission (CR) with modern chemotherapy, most patients will relapse, and
      leukemia-free survival with 3 to 7 years of follow-up in large series is only in the range of
      30% to 40%. The poor outcome of chemotherapy in adults with ALL as compared to children
      relates to multiple factors, including poor tolerance of intensive courses of chemotherapy
      and a higher incidence of poor prognostic subtypes of ALL such as Philadelphia
      chromosome-positive ALL and a lower incidence of favorable subtypes such as the t (12; 21).

      Evolving paradigms in the treatment of adult ALL include the application of intense pediatric
      regimens to the treatment of adolescents and young adults (AYA) and the optimization of
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) in the cure of patients. Adult
      regimens are typically less intense than pediatric regimens. The Cancer and Leukemia Group B
      (CALGB) and the Children's Cancer Group (CCG) first asked whether AYA between the ages of 16
      and 20 fared differently whether they were treated on pediatric protocols. The results of
      this study demonstrated that although the complete remission rates were identical for the
      AYAs treated on the CALGB and CCG trials, the AYAs had a 63% event-free survival (EFS) and
      67% OS at 7 years on the CCG trials compared with 34% and 46%, respectively, on the CALGB
      trials. These results have prompted new studies where pediatric ALL regimens have been
      adapted to the treatment of younger adults. With short follow-up, GRAALL-2003 reports suggest
      EFS and OS outcomes in the range of 60%. This improved outcome was more pronounced in the
      standard-risk patients with a donor who had an OS at 5 years of 69%. On the same time, our
      previous researches have confirmed the effect and safety of FA-intensified conditioning
      regimen on relapse and refractary leukemia.

      Based on mentioned above, we speculate that VP-16-intensified conditioning regimen could
      improve the outcome for adult ALL. The potential mechanism will be attributed to reduce MRD
      and promote GVL effect via providing enough time-window for immuno-reconstitution by
      high-dose preparative regimen.
    
  