
    
      A Cost - Effectiveness Analysis (CEA) Study:

        -  To identify, measure, and evaluate the cost of ICSI treatment and IVM treatment in PCOS
           patients, and the incremental cost of ICSI system implemented in PCOS patients.

        -  To quantify the effectiveness of ICSI treatment and the IVM through number and
           proportion of clinical pregnancy, live birth, and incremental effectiveness of the ICSI
           treatment implemented in PCOS patients.

        -  To determine the cost - effectiveness of ICSI treatment compared with IVM in PCOS
           patients.

        -  To measure the incremental cost - effectiveness of ICSI treatment implemented. The
           sample size for this study of 140 subjects, in both groups, being treated for 1 IVM or
           ICSI cycle is based upon the cost and the effectiveness (live birth rate).

      METHODS Cost - Effectiveness Analysis (CEA) Activity - based costing method is used to cost
      in all levels of the healthcare system which the patients have to pay directly or indirectly
      for IVM or ICSI. This study also analyzes incremental cost - effectiveness to evaluate the
      cost - effectiveness of ICSI treatment implemented in PCOS patients.

      Sensitivity analysis In this study, two techniques of sensitivity analysis below employing
      for the decision tree model, which is mentioned as below, are one - way sensitivity analysis
      and Probabilistic Sensitivity Analysis (PSA).

      One - way sensitivity analysis with Tornado diagram will analyses and Probability sensitivity
      analysis with Monte Carlo simulation and Scatter plots of the difference in costs respecting
      with the difference in live birth gained will analyses if all parameters varying together
      simultaneously.

      This study also provided the cost - effectiveness acceptability curve (CEAC). The CEAC is
      applying on the probability sensitivity analysis result, basing on the willingness to pay
      (WTP). This technique assesses the probability of being cost effective of ICSI treatment
      comparing to the IVM treatment, respecting to the WTP.

      Study Setting: My Duc Hospital Type of data: This study uses a retrospective secondary data
      collection.

      Interventions:

      IVM:

        -  Day 2-4: Ultrasound for Antral Follicles Counts (AFC).

        -  FSH injection: Day 9, 10 and 11 (can be adjusted 1-3 days before or after to avoid
           Ultrasound and OPU on holidays). Dose: normally 100 IU/day (maybe 75 - 150 IU/day).

        -  Follicle and endometrium can be evaluated: on the day of final injection or one day
           later.

        -  Cancel this cycle, if pregnancy is detected or suspected ovulation through ultrasound.

        -  hCG 10.000 IU: one day after the final FSH injection, at 9 p.m. Can be adjusted HCG
           injection day (± 1-2 days) to avoid Ultrasound and OPU on vacation.

        -  OPU: 1,5 day after hCG injection (normally 36-42 hours later).

        -  Sperm collection: on OPU day (if mature follicle presents) or 1 day after OPU day.

        -  Embryo transfer: 3 days after OPU.

        -  Luteal support: progesterone gel (90 mg once daily) intra-vaginally and estradiol (4
           mg/day PO, twice daily) initiated on the day of OPU or the day thereafter.

      ICSI:

      Daily SC injections with rFSH - recombinant follicle stimulating hormone (minimum starting
      dose is around 150 IUI) are started on On day 2 or day 3 of the menstrual cycle (Stimulation
      Day 1) and continue up to and including Stimulation Day 7.

      From Stimulation Day 8 onwards, subjects from ICSI treatment groups will continue with a
      daily SC dose of rFSH up to the day before Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist
      day. The maximum rFSH dose to continue treatment after the first 7 days is 300 IU but the
      dose could be adjusted when desired.

      To prevent premature luteinizing hormone (LH) surges the GnRH antagonist (ganirelix acetate
      SC 0.25 mg/ 0.5 mL) is administered starting on stimulation day 5.

      If no follicles ≥ 11mm is visible on the USS on Stimulation day 8, or if no embryo transfer
      the cycle is to be cancelled. If the ovarian response too high or if there is a risk for
      Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS), (more than 30 follicles ≥ 11mm on USS), rec-hCG is
      required to be withheld, and the treatment cycle is to be cancelled.

      As soon as three follicles of 17mm are observed by USS at least, a GnRH agonist (Triptorelin
      0.2 mg) will be used for final oocyte maturation at the same day. About 34-36 h thereafter,
      OPU followed by ICSI is performed. Two days after oocyte pick-up 2 fresh embryos will be
      transferred. Patients with high progesterone level on the trigger day (progesterone level >
      2ng/ml), freeze all will be recommended.

      Patients using GnRH agonist will have fresh transfer with intense luteal phase support of E2
      and P4 (receive intense luteal phase support with E2 and P4 as the same dose mentioned above
      and progesterone 50 mg i.m. /day), unless patients have high progesterone level on day of
      trigger (progesterone level > 2ng/ml), freeze all will be recommended.

      Frozen embryo transfer cycles:

        -  Time of starting:

             -  Day 2-4 of the cycle.

             -  When starting to use drugs, endometrial thickness ≤ 9mm.

        -  Drugs

             -  Estradiol valerate (Valiera 2mg, Progynova 2mg).

             -  Starting dose: 8mg/day (Valiera 2mg per os, four times, daily) for 6 days.

        -  Adjusting dose:

             -  Increasing to 12mg/day (Valiera 2mg per os, three times per day, every time 02
                tablets) for 5 days if EM thickness < 10mm after 6 days using 8mg/day.

             -  Increasing to 16 mg/day (Valiera 2mg per os, four times, every time 2 tablets) for
                4 days if EM thickness < 10mm after 5 days using 12mg/day.

             -  Attention: Dose up to 16mg/day, patient must be performed ultrasound every 3-4 days
                for detecting the side effects (headache, dizzy). When this side effect happens,
                stop your regimen.

             -  Maximum treatment interval is 28 days.

        -  Decide to transfer:

             -  Endometrium thickness (EM) ≥ 8mm (this standard doesn't apply to all patients).

             -  The minimum time for using estradiol valerate: 10 days.

             -  Drug:

                  -  Progesterone per vagina:

                       -  Cyclogest 400mg, tid pv, 01 tablet, for 16 days.

                       -  or Crinone 8% gel, tid pv, 01tube.

                  -  Estradiol valerate:

                       -  Valiera 2mg, four times per os, 01 tablet for 16 days.

                       -  The day for Embryo transfer depends on the age of embryo (Day 2, 3, or
                          5).

      Assessments Before the start of ovarian stimulation, pregnancy is excluded by means of an hCG
      test, a blood sample is obtained for hormone assessments, and USS is performed to measure and
      count visible follicles.

      Patients will return to the clinic for USS and blood sampling on stimulation days 5 and 8,
      and the day of hCG or GnRH agonist administration. Additional blood samples will be collected
      on the day of embryo transfer and 2 weeks after embryo transfer.

      Recruitment:

      Chief investigator (CI) will review all the medical records and collect all the data (cost,
      effectiveness, epidemic characteristics...), contacts of PCOS patients. Then CI and
      colleagues will call the patients for inviting to participate in this project and provide
      information about the study. If they agree to take part in, collecting data of indirect cost
      (transportation, administrative costs...) will be provided. The patients have the right to
      withdraw from the study at any time.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS Institutional Review Board of My Duc Hospital will review the study.
      The main ethical concerns are whether the research will place the patients at undue risk and
      whether the subjects are fully informed about the nature of the study. The study will only be
      conducted after the Ethics Committee approval has been granted.

      Ethics approval - From My Duc Hospital Confidentiality - Information sheet de-identified. A
      unique number is given to each participant. Master list held by CI separately from data.

      Declaration of interests - None Access to data - Investigators only Ancillary and post-trial
      care - None
    
  