
    
      Non-Small-Cell lung Cancer (NSCLC) is the most common form of lung cancer, and treatment with
      cytotoxic chemotherapy only provides a 10% reduction in the risk of death in patients with
      advanced NSCLC. One-third of all non-resectable advanced NSCLC patients in second line do not
      receive chemotherapy treatment at all. In the absence of treatment the Progression-Free
      Survival (PFS) for NSCLC patients is dismal, in the range of 6-8 weeks, and treatment only
      modestly improves the median PFS to 10-11 weeks. Therefore, because of an overall poorer
      prognosis for patients with advanced NSCLC, development of new agents is urgently needed.

      AXL1717 is a small molecule experimental product developed by Axelar AB as anticancer agent
      for oral administration. AXL1717 inhibits the insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), which is
      often over expressed in lung tumors and can mediate the proliferation of lung cancer cells
      and resistance to therapy. Results of previous preclinical and clinical studies indicate that
      AXL1717 will be tolerable and effective in patients with previously-treated, advanced
      squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and adenocarcinoma (AC) histological subtypes of NSCLC.

      This is an open label, randomized, multi-center, Phase II study to investigate AXL1717
      compared to docetaxel in patients with squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) or adenocarcinoma (AC)
      of the lung. Patients with previously treated, locally advanced or metastatic SCC or AC
      subtypes of NSCLC in need of additional treatment will be enrolled in the study. Patients
      will be randomized to either AXL1717 or to docetaxel group as monotherapy, in a 3:2 ratio for
      each NSCLC subtype. Patients in AXL1717 group will receive 400 mg AXL1717 twice daily (BID)
      as oral suspension for 21 days per cycle; i.e. daily for up to four cycles unless a dose
      interruption, delay, or reduction is required. Docetaxel will be administered as a standard
      treatment (75 mg/m2 IV infusion over 1 hour) once every three weeks throughout the 4-cycle
      study. The primary objective of the study is to compare the rate of progression-free survival
      (PFS) at 12 weeks between patients treated with AXL1717 and patients treated with docetaxel.
      Additional efficacy and safety parameters will be monitored throughout the study. Patients
      treated with AXL1717 who are responding to treatment or remain stable at the end of 4 cycles
      may be offered an extension of treatment with AXL1717.
    
  