
    
      The primary objective of this research is to assess the utility of permissive hypercarbia
      (PH) in the weaning of patients with risk factors for difficult weaning from mechanical
      ventilation. This pilot study seeks to validate the concept that PH will significantly
      improve the ability of patients to be weaned from mechanical ventilation and change the
      approach that physicians take to ventilator weaning for many patients.

      Null Hypothesis: Patients with PH will not be weaned from mechanical ventilation more rapidly
      than those not receiving PH.

      Patients with significant lung disease fail weaning from mechanical ventilation either as a
      result of an inability to oxygenate the blood or to adequately remove carbon dioxide. This
      results in longer Intensive Care Unit stays and increased morbidity and mortality as these
      patients have prolonged periods of mechanical ventilation. This study will focus on patients
      who have failure to adequately remove carbon dioxide (ventilatory failure) and endeavors to
      evaluate a method for enhanced carbon dioxide elimination by altering the acid-base status of
      the patients utilizing permissive hypercarbia (PH). PH will be used specifically during
      weaning from mechanical ventilation to enhance carbon dioxide elimination during this period.
      PH has used by some intensivists for this purpose but has not been critically evaluated in a
      clinical study.

      Mechanical ventilation using PH maintains an increased CO2 with either partial or complete
      metabolic compensation. Therefore, the blood pH is either normal or slightly reduced. In
      patients who are adequately sedated, the reduced pH is well tolerated without respiratory
      distress or air hunger. However, if PH is to be used in awake patients as proposed here, full
      metabolic compensation would be required to avoid air hunger while being weaned from
      ventilator support. The metabolic compensation is produced either as a result of a renal
      compensation or, more typically in the ICU setting, iatrogenically. Metabolic alkalosis can
      be produced through the administration of alkalinizing agents or as a result of gastric
      suctioning or from contraction alkalosis resulting from the use of diuretics.

      PH enhances CO2 elimination by increasing the concentration of CO2 in the exhaled gas. The
      pulmonary capillary pCO2 is elevated and therefore so is the alveolar CO2 and the exhaled or
      end-tidal CO2. Thus more CO2 is exhaled in an equal volume of exhaled gas. This increased CO2
      concentration reduces the minute ventilation required to exhale the CO2 produced by the
      patient. PH will decrease the minute ventilation requirement even in patients with an
      increased dead space and will facilitate weaning these patients from mechanical ventilation
      by the same mechanism as just described.
    
  