
    
      Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) is characterized by excessive and uncontrollable worry and
      anxiety. In Canada, the point prevalence of GAD is 3 to 4%, and the personal and social costs
      of GAD are well documented. Over the past decade, new cognitive-behavioural treatments have
      been developed for GAD. Our group has also developed a cognitive-behavioural treatment (CBT)
      protocol for GAD, which focuses on intolerance of uncertainty. There are now four published
      randomized clinical trials of the treatment, with results suggesting that it is more
      efficacious than wait-list control, supportive therapy, and applied relaxation. Although
      these results are encouraging, 30 to 40% of affected individuals do not attain diagnostic
      remission and 45 to 50% do not achieve high endstate functioning at post-treatment.

      In an effort to augment the efficacy of the treatment protocol for GAD, we have recently
      examined a broad range of demographic and clinical variables that might predict a limited
      response to treatment. The results of our analyses suggest that a particular type of
      cognitive bias plays a key role in determining treatment response. Specifically, patients
      with a particularly negative interpretation style (i.e., the tendency to negatively interpret
      ambiguous information) have a greater probability of not attaining remission following CBT
      (they also show less improvement on other indicators of treatment outcome). In addition,
      change in interpretation style appears to mediate change in GAD symptoms over the course of
      CBT. Thus, the data suggest that treatment efficacy could be increased by adding training
      strategies that specifically address negatively biased interpretations of ambiguous
      information. Recently, a number of experimental investigations have shown that the tendency
      to negatively interpret ambiguous information can be decreased using computerized
      interpretation modification training. In fact, the data show that such changes can be
      maintained over time, can generalize to new situations, and can lead to corresponding changes
      in GAD symptoms and anxiety proneness. Thus, it appears that computerized interpretation
      modification training has the potential to increase the efficacy of current CBT protocols by
      directly targeting and decreasing the tendency to negatively interpret ambiguous information.

      The proposed randomized clinical trial addresses the following question: Can computerized
      interpretation modification training augment the efficacy of CBT for GAD? A total of 138
      individuals with a primary diagnosis of GAD will be randomly allocated to one of two
      conditions: a) CBT plus interpretation modification training (CBT+IMT) or b) CBT plus
      non-active training (CBT+NA). CBT will consist of 14 weekly 50-minute sessions targeting
      intolerance of uncertainty via procedures such as problem-solving training and imaginal
      exposure. Participants randomized to the experimental condition will receive 10 minutes of
      computerized interpretation modification training prior to each CBT session. In
      interpretation modification training, respondents learn to endorse benign combinations and
      reject negative combinations of sentences and words, thus promoting new associative learning.
      Participants in the control condition will receive 10 minutes of non-active training, in
      which each sentence is paired with a word that is unrelated to the sentence or a word that is
      related to a non-threatening (and typically peripheral) aspect of the sentence. Measures of
      GAD symptoms, psychopathology, cognitive vulnerability, and interpretation style will be
      administered at pre-, mid-, and post-treatment, as well as at 6- and 12-month follow-ups. The
      proposed study will provide information about the efficacy, clinical usefulness, and
      mechanisms of interpretation modification training in combination with CBT. Given previous
      findings on the key role of negative interpretation style in anxiety, the proposed study has
      the potential to increase our understanding and ability to treat individuals with GAD.
    
  