
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common cause of excess morbidity and mortality amongst
      patients with long term conditions, and is a common finding in patients admitted acutely into
      hospital. Although the disease commonly develops in the community there is little evidence to
      guide identification of patients at risk or how best to educate healthcare workers in primary
      care to improve the care of patients at risk of AKI. We hypothesise firstly that: an AKI
      educational intervention in primary care can be delivered to healthcare practitioners with
      high integrity, and secondly that: an AKI educational intervention delivered in primary care
      will result in a decreased incidence of AKI in the community. To test this we will build on
      pilot work that detects high-AKI risk patients and provides education for healthcare workers
      and at-risk patients. The study will bring together novel informatics, and education
      programme for primary healthcare workers along with patient information and guidance.
      Recruitment will be at the practice level and will take place after the delivery of the face
      to face educational intervention. Recruited practices will have their high risk AKI patients
      identified using web based software, and GPs will be encouraged, where clinically
      appropriate, to contact patients with an educational leaflet advising them how to prevent AKI
      by stopping medications under certain circumstances. In addition a variety of associated
      biomedical data will be obtained from practice IT systems to identify the preceding incidence
      of AKI in any recruited practice. Eighteen months after the delivery of the education
      intervention the incidence of AKI in each practice will again be determined to examine the
      effect of the educational intervention on AKI incidence. The fidelity of delivery of the
      education intervention will also be studied using qualitative techniques. Power calculations
      suggest that 36 practices will need to participate to detect a 25% reduction in AKI
      incidence. We anticipate that this programme will effectively reduce AKI community incidence
      and will be of significant interest to commissioners. Study findings will be disseminated
      through a variety of avenues including through structures established by NHS England to
      support improvements in AKI management.
    
  