
    
      INTRODUCTION : Among different dental and skeletal combinations that can create a Class II
      malocclusion, mandibular retrusion is one of the most common characteristics.In such cases,
      to stimulate mandibular growth by forward positioning of the mandible, various removable and
      fixed functional appliances are commonly used to alter the position of mandible during the
      pubertal growth period.

      Stimulation of mandibular growth, distal movement of upper dentition, mesial movement of
      lower dentition contributes to correction of Class II malocclusion with the use of fixed
      functional appliances. Of the various fixed functional appliances available to the
      orthodontist today for the correction of Class II malocclusion are Forsus fatigue resistant
      device which is the most popular fixed functional appliance6 and the PowerScope which is a
      recent addition to the armamentarium.

      PowerScope is delivered as a one-size-fits-all appliance pre-assembled with attachment nuts
      for quick and easy chairside application. The appliance is a wire-to-wire installation with
      attachments placed mesial to the first molar in the maxillary arch and distal to the canine
      of the mandibular arch. Although there are a few case reports in the literature showing the
      treatment effects and clinical application of PowerScope, there is not a single study
      mentioning the effects of PowerScope appliance, which has a different status from other fixed
      functional appliances due to its special attachment. The purpose of this clinical study was
      to evaluate the skeletal and dental changes produced by the PowerScope and compare these
      effects with one of the most commonly used fixed functional appliance the Forsus Fatigue
      Resistant Device (FRD).

      MATERIALS AND METHODS: The present study is a prospective, non-pharmacological, double blind,
      randomised clinical study conducted in the department of Orthodontics and Dentofacial
      orthopedics, PGIDS Rohtak.

      The study sample consisted of 28 patients, were selected from subjects reporting to the
      department for fixed orthodontic treatment.

      The primary researcher explained the nature of the study to the patients and their parents
      and their consent was taken. The final sample of 28 patients fulfilling the criteria were
      randomly divided in two groups: Group 1( PowerScope group) and Group 2 (Forsus group) All
      subjects in both the treatment groups were treated with MBT 0.022- inch slot preadjusted
      edgewise appliance (Ortho Organizers, San Marcos, Calif). Both arches were levelled and
      aligned upto 0.019" ×0.025" stainless steel wires and then the fixed functional appliance as
      per the group mentioned in the patients envelop was installed.

      Lateral cephalometric radiographs were taken before starting fixed functional appliance
      therepy( T1) immediately (1-3 days) before placement of the fixed functional appliance (T2)
      and after removal of the fixed functional appliance(T3). All cephalometric radiographs were
      taken on the same cephalostat.

      For evaluation of skeletal and dentoalveolar changes that contributed to the Class II
      correction, pitchfork analysis was used.

      To check patient comfort, all the patients were given a questionnaire. The questionnaire was
      designed in English and then verbally translated into the patients and parents native
      language at the installation appointment though all the patients and their parents could read
      and understand it in English. After the installation all the patients were given the
      questionnaire and requested to bring it at the next scheduled appointment after filling the
      required details .
    
  