
    
      The prostate gland is a walnut-sized organ found only in men that encircles the urethra
      (urine passage) below the urinary bladder. It secretes fluid that is an important component
      of semen. Prostate cancer is a disease of the prostate gland where malignant tumours cells
      invade normal prostate tissue and spread to other organs. It is second leading cause of
      cancer death in men and it is mainly found in men above the age of 50 years.

      Prostate biopsy is considered to be the most definitive diagnostic tool for prostate cancer.
      It is a surgical procedure in which a small sample of tissue is removed from the prostate
      gland and examined by a pathologist. The procedure normally takes about 15 minutes and is
      usually performed by the urologist in conjunction with transrectal ultrasound (TRUS). No
      anesthetic is required. With the help of TRUS, a doctor guides a biopsy gun -- a hand-held
      device with a spring-loaded, slender needle -- through the wall of the rectum into the area
      of the prostate gland that appears abnormal. Since the rectal wall is thin, it is possible to
      place the needle more accurately and with less injury to other tissues. When activated, the
      needle can remove a slender cylinder of tissue, called a core.

      Transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate biopsy has become the standard for obtaining tissue
      for the histological diagnosis of prostate cancer. On the other hand, transperineal approach
      is not commonly used worldwide and little data is available on transperineal prostate biopsy.

      However, there are some problems with existing system and these include:

        -  Random Biopsy Sites: Biopsy cores represent only about 0.6% of the prostate in terms of
           volume. Therefore, without having accurate knowledge of cancer sites, it is unlikely
           that a random biopsy protocol will yield consistently high cancer detection rates.

        -  Inaccurate Needling: The biopsy needle may not reach the desired position accurately and
           quickly under manual control.

        -  Limited 2D Guidance: The TRUS used for biopsy guidance is 2D ultrasound images. As the
           biopsy sites are distributed in 3D, it is difficult for the surgeon to imagine the
           overall picture of the biopsy sites and identify the biopsy site accurately and
           intuitively.

        -  Risk Factors: The two primary risks of needle biopsy are severe bleeding and infection
           of the prostate gland or urinary tract.

        -  Transrectal Shortfalls: As most of the cancer occurs at the apex area of the prostate,
           transperineal biopsy is considered having higher chance to get cancer tissue, comparing
           with the conventional transrectal biopsy. Furthermore, transperineal biopsy is
           considered "cleaner", as its puncture point is on skin, rather than on rectum.

      To assist the surgeon in transperineal biopsy, a device name BioXbot has been designed.
      BioXbot aims to address the shortfalls of the transrectal method of biopsy and limitations of
      existing robotic biopsy in order to improve the cancer uptake rate. An ideal design should
      need no more than 2 operators to complete the procedure comfortable within comparable time
      with the conventional approach. A motorized needle positioning mechanism may also improve the
      accuracy in the needling and allow the needle reach any point within the prostate in all
      scenarios.

      BioXbot is a computer based motion control system with software driven gantry mechanism to
      assist in the positioning of the biopsy gun. It drives a 2D ultrasound probe to obtain a
      series of 2D images of the prostate which will then be modeled into a 3D view. This 3D
      visualization gives the surgeon a better idea of the prostate and allows him to plan the
      biopsy sites more intuitively. The mechanical components precisely align it to allow the
      clinician to accurately reach the position inside the prostate he wanted to and obtain tissue
      from there. To improve the usability and the positioning accuracy, as well as reducing the
      operation time, the positioning of the needle is fully motorized.
    
  