
    
      Suicide defined as when a person killing himself directly or indirectly act, with knowing
      that will produce this result carried out by the victim himself .Suicide is 14th leading
      cause of death worldwide, responsible for 1.5% of all mortality .suicide is the cause of
      death most directly affected by psychological factors. There is other stressors such as
      financial troubles, poverty, unemployment, homelessness and war may cause suicide. About
      (15-40%) of people leave a suicide note. Genetics appear to account for between 38% and 55%
      of suicidal behaviors . Suicide rates differ significantly between countries and over time.
      Percentage of death in 2013 in Africa was 1% Canada 11.1% china 12.7% India 23.2% and united
      states 14%. suicide is ranked as 10th leading cause of death in the united states. In china
      suicide is 5th leading cause of death.

      Of all the psychiatric disorders. major depressive disorder in associated with the highest
      life time risk of suicide attempt and completion. Indeed. the life time risk of completing
      suicide in patient with (MDD) range from (35- 40 %, )in the world. Also in patient of mood
      disorder (MD) range about (8-15 %) of patient attempt suicide In an suicide attempt must be
      understand how and why some people's thought process lead them to decide to end their lives,
      there is several different cognitive impairment factors that seem to increase the risk of
      suicidal behavior such as cognitive rigidity, thought suppression. Agitation. Future thinking
      and goal adjustment .

      Finding from studies in which behavioral test of cognitive rigidity are administrated to
      suicide attempter and clinical controls have support this notion.

      studies illustrate the importance of control the sleep disorders as there is relationship
      between sleep disorders and suicidal behavior and subsequent suicidal thoughts and either
      self-harm behaviors or suicide attempt after controlling depressive symptoms Some studies
      have shown neurophysiologic aspects of suicidal behavior. An attempt has been made to reveal
      a correlation of results obtained in calculating the entropy and information Saturation of
      EEG with signs of dysontogenesis in patients with depression with- or without suicidal signs
    
  