
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is an increasingly common complication of acute hospitalizations.
      Hospital-related AKI, commonly caused by hemodynamic changes or contrast exposure, carries a
      threat of adverse outcomes that persists following hospital discharge, with an independent
      and graded association with long-term mortality. It is estimated that, approximately 13% of
      individuals with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) will develop some degree of AKI during their
      hospitalization. Survivors of AKI consume significantly greater health resources than the
      general population, and suffer exceedingly poor renal outcomes, including persistent loss of
      kidney function, progression to end stage renal disease (ESRD), and increased risk of
      recurrent AKI. It is estimated that 25% of individuals with an AKI-related hospitalization
      will be readmitted with recurrent AKI within 12 months of discharge, highlighting a critical
      need to address ongoing AKI risk once the acute hospitalization is complete. Patient-centered
      educational interventions that intensify awareness of potentially hazardous situations may
      reduce AKI recurrence. For example, commonly prescribed therapies such as diuretics or ACE
      inhibitors may threaten the renal safety of individuals at high risk of recurrent AKI if
      taken when significantly volume deplete, such as during an acute gastroenteritis, and in most
      cases should be held until one can eat and drink normally; Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory
      Drugs (NSAIDs) may exacerbate AKI risk if taken in combination with diuretics or ACE
      inhibitors even when volume replete and should be completely avoided. Tailored educational
      curricula surrounding these and other topics pertinent to AKI survivors may reduce recurrent
      hospitalizations and lower healthcare costs. In the absence of a patient centered outpatient
      approach to AKI education, the development of effective and sustainable AKI prevention
      strategies remains unlikely.

      Our long-term goal is to develop patient-centered educational materials to reduce AKI
      recurrence. We hypothesize that a tailored educational curriculum will improve patient
      awareness of potential hazards and reduce AKI recurrence among hospital-based AKI survivors.
      Therefore, our overall objective for this proposal is to pilot test and evaluate the
      feasibility of a patient-centered mobile health (mHealth) educational curriculum for
      hospitalized AKI survivors at Duke Medical Center.

      Aim 1: To test the feasibility and acceptance of a mHealth patient safety curriculum in
      hospitalized AKI survivors.

      Hypothesis 1: Patient safety risk awareness at 1 month will be higher in the educational
      intervention arm than the usual care arm.

      Aim 2: To determine if a mHealth educational curriculum improves patient safety behaviors in
      AKI survivors.

      Hypothesis 2: High-risk safety behaviors will be reduced at 1 month in AKI survivors
      receiving the educational intervention, but not in the usual care arm.
    
  