
    
      The study is designed as a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trial with
      4-week probiotics and vitamin D intervention period. The study is conducted between December
      2020 and March 2021, at the Medical University of Gdańsk, Department of Bioenergetics and
      Physiology of Exercise (Gdańsk, Poland) . Researchers will enrol 25 trained, male
      mixed-martial arts athletes. Enrolled athletes will be randomly assigned to receive probiotic
      (PRO) or matching placebo (PL) in a 1:1 ratio, using Excel random number generator, following
      the rule of the random and blindness.

      The study product is a vitamin D ,,Juvit d3" and probiotic mixture ,,Sanprobi Active &
      Sport", containing 2,5 x 109 CFU/g per capsule (≥500 million CFU in one capsule) of five
      strains of lactic acid bacteria (Bifidobacterium lactis W51, Lactobacillus brevis W63,
      Lactobacillus acidophilus W22, Bifidobacterium bifidum W23 and Lactococcus lactis W5); maize
      starch, maltodextrin, plant proteins and hydroxypropyl ethylcellulose tablets' coating.
      Identical-looking placebo capsules containing 40 mg of maltodextrin and plants proteins will
      be used for cartel. Each pack of probiotic or placebo contain 40 capsules. All athletes will
      receive a bottle of Juvit d3 as well as three identical-looking packings of probiotics or
      placebo, depending on the random allocation, at the baseline visit. Participants will be
      informed to take 4 capsules with meals and 3500 iu of vitamin d daily.

      At baseline visit, all subjects will receive the study product as well as diary of
      supplements and dietary intake and training diary. Both PRE and POST visit will be splitted
      in two days in order to reliable and appropriate performance of all procedures. The time
      window between these splitted visit is 3-5 days. Participants will report to the Medical
      University of Gdańsk at the beginning (PRE) and the end (POST) of the 4-week intervention
      period. During both visits athletes will complete an assessment of body composition, food
      frequency questionnaire (FFQ), cardio-respiratory fitness evaluation and will provide fecal
      samples. Furthermore, the blood samples will be drawn before and after sport tests, to assess
      selected markers of inflammatory as well as muscle damage state and lactate utilization
      level. The last one blood collection will be perform after 24 hours of anaerobic sport test.
      Participant will be instructed to continue their training programme. Athletes will be
      obligated to perform at least 5 endurance workouts per week to keep the competitive character
      of the study.

      The body composition analysis will be evaluated to detect potential changes within body fat
      mass and fat free mass. The level of each tissue will be compared to intestinal bacteria
      content. Investigators will try to explain if gut microbiome composition may affect body
      composition and which bacterial phyla are responsible for possible for this potential
      changes. This target will be obtain through multi-frequency bioelectrical impedance analysis
      (BIA).

      Aerobic fitness capacity will be assess through bicycle ergometer ER900 Jaeger using the
      wasserman protocol. The test will be preceded by a 5-minute warm-up with a load of 100 W,
      followed by a 5-minute rest. The test will start at a load of 125 W and a frequency of 60 ± 5
      RPM / min, the load will be increased every 1 minutes by 25 W. The test will be conducted
      until the maximum individual exercise load is reached, i.e. the inability to continue the
      exercise while maintaining the specified frequency or lack of increase oxygen uptake. During
      examination investigators will monitor the amount of oxygen uptake and carbon dioxide
      exhaled, minute lung ventilation as well as heart rate. The aerobic test will be conducted
      3-5 days before anaerobic assessment as part of PRE and POST visits.

      Anaerobic fitness assessment will be obtained by the Wingate Anaerobic Test (WAnT) using
      cycloergometer MCE_v_5.1. Before the examination, the saddle will be individually adjusted,
      then the athletes will perform a 5-minute warm-up at 50 W load and a frequency of 60 RPM /
      min, with two 10-second accelerations in 3 and 4 minutes. After the warm-up, there will be a
      3-minute rest. The load will be adjusted individually and will amount to 7.5% of the
      athlete's body weight. At the "start" command, the athlete will performing a 30-second sprint
      in a sitting position, trying to achieve peak power as quickly as possible and maintain it
      throughout the duration of the effort. After the test, there will be an active 2-minute
      break. The test will be carried out 3 times. The WAnT assesses the maximum, minimum and
      average power, time to reach maximum power and relative power drop.

      The blood samples will be collected during Wingate tests at the two points time: PRE and POST
      intervention, at the same conditions. Blood samples from the arm vein will be drawn by a
      specialist nurse into two appropriate standardized tubes containing respectively K2EDTA and
      clotting activator. Each time up to 4 ml of blood will be collected. Blood samples will be
      taken indirectly before the start of exercise tests, 30 minutes after the end of the tests
      and 24 hours after the end of the tests. The blood will then be centrifuged at 3000 x g to
      separate serum and plasma. The material will be placed into separately labeled
      microcentrifuge tubes and stored at -80 ° C for later determinations. All analysis will be
      performed at the end of the study at Medical University in Gdańsk.

      The collected venous blood samples will be subjected to analysis at the Medical University of
      Gdańsk. Researchers will assess the level of serum pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-6 and
      TNF-α) as well as anti-inflammatory cytokines (L-2 and IL-15) using a commercially available
      enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kits. To evaluate the plasma level of muscle damage
      investigators will determinate the activity of creatine kinase (CK) through kinetic method,
      using the commercially available kit.

      Capillary blood samples will be taken each time, Wingate tests are performed, by a
      specialized nurse, in an amount of 100 µL, into a sterile graduated microcapillary. The
      measurements will be performed on fingertip capillary blood. The blood will then be
      transferred to a micro-centrifuge tube containing 500 µl 0.6 mol perchloric acid, centrifuged
      and stored at -20 degrees C until the determination is carried out. Capillary blood will be
      collected before exercise testing and in 2-3, 15, 30 and 60 minutes after test. Collected
      capillary blood samples will undergo analysis at the Medical University of Gdańsk. The
      purpose of the analysis will be to determine the level of lactate in the samples taken.
      Determination of lactate level will be performed using colorimetric kinetic method, based on
      reaction speed.

      The subjects will provide a fecal sample indirectly before and after the intervention period.
      The material will be collected by participants into a special standardized container. A stool
      sample will be taken twice: before testing, and in the end of the intervention. Stool samples
      will be immediately frozen and stored at -80 degrees Celsius, then in the same conditions
      transported to the assessment by independent laboratory. Collected fecal samples will be
      subjected to quantitative and qualitative content of the intestinal microbiota with using the
      new generation sequencing method. Selected hypervariable regions of the 16SrRNA gene will be
      analyzed. The composition of the microbiome will be characterized primarily by alpha and beta
      diversity. Diversity of microbial communities in one sample (alpha) will be measured using
      several indicators, such as Chao1, ACE, Shannon and inverted Simpson. All indicators will be
      calculated on the basis of raw NGS data (without any pre-processing, e.g. removal of rare
      species) and compared between the test and control group using a standard statistical test
      depending on the distribution of variables. Diversity of microbial communities between
      samples (beta) will be measured using the difference indicator (Bray-Curtis) and distance
      metrics (UniFrac weighted - a phylogenesis-based metric). Similarity indicators will be
      calculated for all sample pairs and stored in dissimilarity matrices. Bray-Curtis will
      perform permutation multivariate analysis of variance (PERMANOVA) and weighted UniFrac
      difference matrices to assess differences at the group level. Beta diversity analysis will be
      preceded by supervised and unattended pre-processing of data, such as the removal of rare
      species and transformation of numbers using the median sequencing depth as a scaling factor.
      Collected fecal samples will be analyzed in the context of the presence of intestinal
      permeability parameters such as calprotectin, zonulin and IFABP as well as bacterial
      metabolism products such as short chain fatty acids (SCFA).

      All obtained data will be analysed using the statistic program Statistica 13. To statistical
      analysis will be included only full data, from subjects who complete all intervention period
      as well as all study procedures. Data will be previously checked for normality using
      Shapiro-Wilk W-test. In the case of data' abnormal distributed, their natural logarithms will
      be used. Researchers will usual descriptive statistics for background information as well as
      to examine the trends in the analysed parameters with mean values of 95% confidence interval.
      Depending on the normality of the underlying data, parametric or non-parametric tests will be
      carried out. The statistical significance is set at p < 0.05.
    
  