
    
      This is an expanded access protocol that will enroll subjects with clinical diagnosis of
      COVID-19 infection confirmed by laboratory testing and who are in critical condition as
      indicated by life support measurements. Prior to protocol procedures, informed consent will
      be obtained from the subject or a legally authorized representative. Subjects will undergo a
      screening evaluation to determine eligibility based on the protocol inclusion and exclusion
      criteria.

      Eligible subjects will receive open-label intravenous administration of investigational
      product (CAP-1002) containing 150 million allogeneic Cardiosphere-Derived Cells (CDCs).
      CAP-1002 administration will be conducted at the investigative site on Day 1 and weekly up to
      a maximum of 4 doses, based on clinical course. Starting at the second CAP-1002
      administration and at all subsequent administrations, medications may be administered to the
      subject at the Investigator's discretion based on the pre-treatment guidelines provided by
      Capricor and/or institutional protocols to minimize the risk of potential severe allergic
      reactions such as anaphylaxis. Final decisions regarding the pre-treatment medication(s),
      dose(s) administered, and route(s) of administration will be determined by the Investigator
      taking into consideration the subject's medical status, COVID-19, related conditions,
      concomitant medications, and medical history. For any pre-treatment medication administered,
      the FDA approved label will be reviewed for information on potential side effects and/or drug
      interactions and followed for detailed instructions on weight-based dosing.

      Subjects will complete protocol assessments at Screening; Day 1; Weeks 1-3; and Follow-up by
      phone 30 and 90 days after the last infusion. Baseline assessments will be conducted prior to
      first infusion on Day 1.

      The patient will be observed during the lengths of hospitalization and monitored for outcome
      and safety with vital signs, physical examinations, ECGs, PFTs, clinical laboratory testing
      (including CBC, BMP, BNP, CRP, ESR, hsCRP, cytokine assay, viral load/nasal swab), troponin
      I/troponin T and transthoracic echocardiogram. Additional CT and/or cardiac MRI imaging may
      be performed, as appropriate. Safety and outcome data (including mortality, need for
      additional levels of supportive care, length of stay) will be collected and reported at the
      conclusion of treatment and follow-up. Additional samples of blood may be collected for
      proteomic analysis.
    
  