
    
      The association of adiposity with insulin resistance (IR) is modulated by regional fat
      deposition. For example, visceral (intra-abdominal) adipose tissue (VAT) is generally
      regarded as more strongly correlated with IR, than subcutaneous adiposity of the thigh
      (ThiSAT) or abdomen (AbdSAT), even though these latter depots are larger than VAT. Perhaps
      these differences are due to regional variation in AT metabolism. A limitation of body
      composition methods is that these assess amount rather than metabolism of adipose tissue
      (AT). Our aim is to use positron emission tomography (PET) imaging with [F-18]
      fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) for the in vivo investigation of AT metabolism and use this in
      conjunction with regional body composition imaging so that both the amount of AT and
      metabolism of AT can be determined. Hopefully, such an approach will give new insight as to
      how AT influences skeletal muscle and hepatic IR. The current project seeks to develop this
      approach, generating preliminary data to lay a foundation for subsequent projects.

      The first specific aim is conduct dose-responsive measurement of insulin-stimulated glucose
      uptake (i.e. insulin sensitivity) of AT in humans using PET imaging in healthy volunteers. We
      will examine the effects of insulin infusion rates at 0, 20, and 80 mU/min-m2 body surface
      area.

      The second specific aim is to assess regional variation in insulin-stimulated glucose uptake
      in AT, comparing VAT, AbdSAT and ThiSAT in volunteers without IR. We will test the hypothesis
      that insulin sensitivity (IS) follows the rank order of ThiSAT IS > AbdSAT IS > VAT IS.

      At any given body mass index, fat mass constitutes a higher percentage of body weight in
      women than men. The third specific aim is to assess potential gender-differences in AT
      metabolism, testing the hypothesis that AT IS is greater in women than men.
    
  