
    
      Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (CTS) is a common disorder characterized by alterations of the median
      nerve integrity at the carpal tunnel. The syndrome is classically recognized by chief
      complains of nocturnal or intermittent pain and paresthesia involving the median nerve
      sensory territory of the hand. In more severe condition, worsening of pain and paresthesia as
      well as thenar muscle atrophy may be present and lead to disability.

      Many conservative treatments for CTS are available. Yet, the current literature only support
      the use of wrist splints and cortisone infiltration, which have been shown to provide only
      temporary relief for many individuals. Those with ongoing symptoms or severe conditions are
      often offered carpal tunnel decompression surgery. However, the costs related to the surgery
      and the increasing delays on waiting lists warrants the need for better conservative
      management. A preoperative rehabilitation exercise program based on nerve gliding exercise is
      advocated by physical therapists to manage physical impairments and functional limitations
      associated with CTS. These exercises can be implement at low cost in the setting of an
      home-based program.

      The investigators aim to examine the feasibility and the efficacy of a preoperative home
      rehabilitation program based on nerve gliding exercises completed by individuals with carpal
      tunnel Syndrome waiting for decompression surgery.

      In this trial, individuals awaiting carpal tunnel decompression surgery will be randomly
      allocated to either complete a preoperative nerve-gliding exercise program (experimental
      group) or no intervention (control group). Thirty participants confirmed with CTS by their
      attending hand surgeons and enlisted for carpal tunnel decompression will be recruited for
      this study conducted at the hospital of the Université de Montréal (CHUM), Montreal, Quebec,
      Canada. All individuals enrolled in the study will be prioritized on the surgical waiting
      list to receive their surgery five weeks after initiating the study in order to ensure
      consistency between different timeframes of the study.

      The effects of the nerve-gliding exercise program will be assessed at baseline (T0) using
      standardized questionnaires, quantitative ultrasound measurements (including static and
      dynamic evaluations) of the median nerve, pinch grip strength and will be repeated after four
      weeks (T1; preoperative period) and four weeks following surgery (T2; postoperative period).

      Feasibility metrics will be analyzed using descriptive statistics. A significant interaction
      between the group allocation (experimental vs. control) and time (T0 vs. T1 vs. T2) on the
      main outcomes will be evaluated using two-way mixed ANOVAs.
    
  