
    
      Objective is to characterize the relationship between genetic polymorphisms and
      inter-individual variability in plasma statin and metabolite concentration(s) and to quantify
      its contribution towards clinically significant statin induced muscle ADR phenotypes myopathy
      and/or myalgia in Singapore population. Methodology: This research involves the study of two
      different kinds of muscle ADRs commonly associated with statin therapy, namely myalgia and
      myopathy. The study of myalgia will include the recruitment and sample collection (blood)from
      3000 subjects from the outpatient clinic at NUH and NHC, who are on either simvastatin or
      atorvastatin. To identify genetic variants associated with altered stain exposure,
      investigators will perform an analysis of the drug and metabolite levels in plasma, followed
      by a genetic analysis of DNA from the blood samples of the recruited subjects. A subgroup of
      30 subjects (15 from NUH and 15 from NHC) from this large cohort will be used to study
      intra-subject variability in statin drug and metabolite exposure. The genetic association
      analysis of genotype and statin blood measurements will be done using liner regression
      analysis. To test the hypothesis that related pharmacokinetic variants are associated with
      myalgia and myopathy, investigators will perform the case-control association analysis using
      logistic regression to examine the frequency of genetic variant in patients with clinically
      identified ADRs and compare it to control subjects without any ADRs. A separate cohort of 200
      subjects will be recruited for the myopathy study through the NUH outpatient clinic following
      subject identification through an IRB approved medical records review of patients who
      were/are any statin drug/dose. Blood samples collected from these patients will be subjected
      to genetic analysis to identify genetic variants associated with symptomatic phenotypes.

      Potential Benefits and risks: The potential benefits of this study include, identifying
      strong risk factors of statin induced muscle symptoms myalgia/myopathy that should inform
      clinical practice in minimizing/ managing severity of statin associated muscle symptoms, by
      identifying patient populations with an increased risk to statin induced myalgia and/or
      myopathy. This information might ultimately inform treatment decisions including drug
      selection and dosing and improved prediction of treatment response in a heterogeneous
      population. The only possible risk in the study is that associated with blood-taking.
      Obtaining blood can cause pain, bleeding, bruising, or swelling at the site of the needle
      stick. Fainting sometimes occurs and infection rarely occurs.
    
  