
    
      Cancer-induced bone pain (CIBP) is a common clinical problem. While primary osteosarcoma is
      relatively uncommon, bone metastases frequently cause cancer-related pain with metastatic
      spread to bone in 60-84% of cases. Resiniferatoxin (RTX) is an ultrapotent agonist analog of
      capsaicin that targets a receptor expressed on specific dorsal root sensory ganglia (DRG)
      neurons and is expected to reduce pain within the targeted zone. The overall program goal is
      to develop a new treatment for intractable chronic pain below the mid-thoracic level
      resulting from CIBP that has not been controlled with conservative treatments.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective it to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of RTX when injected
      near one or more DRGs, to characterize its safety/toxicity profile, and to identify any
      dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). The secondary objectives are to determine the relative change
      in pain reduction, the change in opioid analgesic consumption and quality of life prior to
      RTX injection and at the various post RTX timepoints.

      Study Population

      Up to 30 adult subjects are estimated to be necessary for enrollment to have up to 16
      subjects who will receive RTX and provide study-related assessment results through the 30-day
      time point.

      Design

      The study is a single center, open-label Phase 1b dose escalation safety and efficacy trial
      for adult subjects with intractable pain due to CIBP below the mid-thoracic level. Those
      subjects who meet all inclusion and exclusion criteria will undergo various study procedures
      and then be scheduled for the unilateral periganglionic (PG) DRG injection(s) (a maximum of 3
      contiguous levels) under fluoroscopic guidance to treat the targeted DRGs demonstrated to be
      responsible for the chronic CIBP. The RTX will be injected at 1 of 4 dose levels, 0.8mcg/DRG,
      1.6 mcg/DRG, 3.2 mcg/DRG or 6.4 mcg/DRG. The adaptivedesign algorithm for this study utilizes
      outcome dependent randomization, a process that selects the dose to be administered to the
      next subject based on all previous outcomes. In this schema, DLT is the measure that will be
      used to determine if it is safe to escalate to the next highest dose level.

      Subjects who are screen failures and those who prematurely terminate participation will be
      replaced until 16 subjects have received the injection(s) and completed study-related
      assessments through the day 30 (D30) timepoint. There is no placebo group because of the
      invasive nature of the injection and the dose escalation performed in the study.

      Outcome Measures

      The primary outcome is to achieve a dose-response relationship for safety. All subjects will
      receive RTX. The secondary outcome measures are: 1) change in NRS and VAS scores at the
      post-RTX assessments compared to pre RTX assessment, 2) change of opioid usage (in MME) at
      post RTX assessments compared to pre RTX assessment; 3) comparison SF-36 and BDI at pre RTX
      injection and Days 14, 37, and 187.

      The efficacy outcome variable will be evaluated by establishing dose-response curves, with
      dose plotted on the x-axis and changes in efficacy endpoints (before RTX treatment and at the
      post RTX assessment visits) plotted on the y-axis. If, at the end of the study, all dose
      levels of RTX have equal pain-relieving efficacy, the Data Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC)
      may determine if it is appropriate to include a dose lower than 0.8 mcg and/or a control
      group. On the other hand, if the dose-response curves show that higher doses could result in
      greater pain-relieving efficacy, the protocol may be amended to include higher doses of RTX.
    
  