
    
      Introduction

      Right ventricular pacing (RVP) has been the standard-of-care therapy for patients with
      bradycardia for sixty years. However, the selection of optimal pacing site is still
      controversial. Right ventricular septal or outflow tract pacing has not resulted in improved
      outcomes. RVP is considered to result in electrical and mechanical dyssynchrony and an
      increased risk of pacing-induced cardiomyopathy (PICM), heart failure and mortality. Biopace
      (Biventricular Pacing for Atrioventricular Block to Prevent Cardiac Desynchronization) study
      is a randomized controlled trial with a large population evaluating biventricular pacing
      versus RVP in patients with atrioventricular (AV) block. But biventricular pacing was not
      shown superiority in clinical outcomes compared with RVP. As biventricular pacing is
      delivered at two non-physiological sites, it actually creates ventricular dyssynchrony in
      patients with narrow QRS durations. Thus, seeking for the optimal pacing site has been the
      ultimate goal of doctors who specialize in cardiac pacing.

      His-bundle pacing (HBP) is thought to be the most physiological pacing modality, which was
      initial applied by Deshmukh et al in 2000. HBP activates native His-Purkinje system and
      produces favorable electrical and mechanical synchrony. Clinical observations have shown HBP
      could reduce the incidence of PICM and improve combined clinical outcomes. However, HBP is
      not widely applied because of challenging operating techniques, unstable long-term pacing
      parameters and risk of loss of ventricular capture in a significant number of patients.

      Left bundle branch pacing (LBBP) was first introduced by Huang et al in 2017. Since then,
      LBBP has been carried out boomingly in China. Similar with HBP, LBBP could activate left
      bundle branch (LBB) fibers and provide narrower paced QRS duration and better left
      ventricular (LV) mechanical synchrony than RVP. Animal studies also confirmed the
      physiological characteristics and anatomical lead locations of LBBP. Several clinical studies
      showed that LBBP could produce significantly narrower paced QRS duration and better
      echocardiographic response than biventricular pacing in patients with heart failure and LBB
      block. Furthermore, the implantation procedure appears easier and capture threshold is lower
      when compared with HBP. LBBP has appeared to be a promising approach in the clinical
      practice. However, no randomized controlled studies have been reported to compare the
      efficacy of LBBP and other pacing modalities.

      Objectives

      The study aimed to demonstrate (1) the superiority of LBBP in preserving LV systolic function
      over RVP and (2) the feasibility and long-term safety of LBBP in patients with AV block.

      Methods

      Stratified randomization

      A balanced randomization is applied according to the following stratifying criteria:

        1. AF with slow ventricular rate: present or absent;

        2. LVEF: ≤ 50% or > 50%.

      Lead implantation of LBBP

      The lead implantation of LBBP has been well described previously. The implantation was
      performed using the Select Secure (3830) pacing lead delivered through a fixed-curve sheath.
      The 3830 lead was introduced transvenously into the right ventricle and screwed into the
      interventricular septum (IVS) until LV septum was reached, without protruding into the LV
      cavity.

      Venous access was obtained via the left axillary vein or subclavian vein. The 3830 lead was
      inserted through the C315 HIS sheath. An intracardiac electrogram was recorded from the lead
      tip using the electrophysiological recording system. His-bundle electrogram was identified at
      the right anterior oblique 25° position and fluoroscopic image of the lead position was
      recorded as a reference. The sheath and lead tip were first advanced to the anterior lower
      site of the His-bundle position, and subsequently rotated in a counterclockwise fashion to
      place the lead tip in a perpendicular orientation to the IVS. A paced morphology of QS
      complex with a north in the nadir ("W"-shaped morphology) in surface lead V1 was usually
      observed at this location. As the lead tip was gradually screwed into the IVS, a rightward
      shift of the second notch in the "W"-shaped pacing morphology can be observed. The lead tip
      was considered to be in the final position once a paced morphology of right bundle branch
      delay (RBBD) in surface lead V1 was achieved. Moreover, a discrete potential before the QRS
      complex could be often recorded from the lead tip, and we defined this potential as the LBB
      potential. Left ventricular activation time (LVAT) was measured from the intracardiac pacing
      spike to the R-wave peak of QRS complex in lead V5 or V6. The penetration depth in the IVS
      was finally assessed by injecting a small amount of contrast medium through the sheath in
      left anterior oblique 45°. Echocardiography was routinely performed to evaluate the lead
      depth in the IVS before discharge.

      Device programming

      The devices are routinely programmed with a lower rate limit of 60 ppm. For DDD devices, the
      paced and sensed AV intervals are set as 150 and 120 ms, respectively.

      Study organization

      Echocardiographic core lab Echocardiographic examinations are performed at each study center
      before pacemaker implantation and at follow-up. All images are stored on DVD disks and sent
      to the core lab (Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University) for central analysis.

      Study Steering Committee

      The study steering committee is composed of three experts who are not the investigators of
      this study. The committee is responsible for the academic issues including the judgment of
      LBBP or LVSP.

      Independent Data Monitoring Committee (iDMC)

      The iDMC is composed of three experts including at least one statistical expert. The
      committee is responsible for the data examination including mid-term evaluation during the
      study and also the patient privacy protection.

      Safety Review Committee

      The safety review committee is composed of three experts who are not the investigators of
      this study. In case of severe adverse events, including all-cause death, acute cardiovascular
      or cerebrovascular events and other lethal or disabling diseases, the committee will be
      responsible for the investigation of the events. The physicians should report the events to
      the principal investigator of each center and the committee within 2 hours. The committee
      should report the events to the hospital ethics committee in 24 hours. The committee may
      recommend the early termination of the study if an excessive rate of adverse events is
      suspected.

      Statistical analysis

      Intention-to-treat principle

      Data analyses are performed according to the intention-to-treat principle. If LBBP or LVSP
      fails, RVP will be performed and the patient will not be crossed over to the other group. If
      LBBP fails but LVSP succeeds, the sub-group analysis for these patients with LVSP will be
      done.

      Sample size

      According to previous publications of HBP and RVP, we supposed that the rate of 5-year
      composite endpoints in RVP group was 25% and the rate in LBBP group was 15%. With a
      recruitment period of 2 years and follow-up time of at least 3 years, at least 100 events are
      required to achieve a power of 80%. With alpha as 0.05, rate of lost-of-follow-up rate as
      10%, the final sample size was estimated as 683 by using PASS Version 15.

      Endpoint analysis

      Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to compare the rate of endpoints between the two groups over
      time. Cox proportional risk model will be applied to calculate the hazard ratio. A p-value
      less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant.

      Mid-term analysis

      Mid-term analysis is performed by iDMC when the rate of events reaches 50% (at least 50
      events of primary endpoint). If LBBP group exhibits statistically significant superiority
      over RVP group with the significant level of 0.003, the study could be effectively early
      terminated. Otherwise, the sample size will be re-evaluated. The iDMC may determine if the
      study will continue according to the re-evaluation of the sample size. Eventually, the data
      prior to and after the mid-term analysis are put together for final analysis with the
      significant level of 0.047.

      Statistical software

      All statistical analyses were performed using SAS Version 9.4 or R Software Version 3.6.

      Study timeframe

      The study will start in October 2020 and the complete enrollment will be expected by the end
      of 2022. At least 11 medical centers across China will participate in the study. With a
      period of at least 3-year follow-up, the study is expected to finish at the end of 2025. The
      recruitment might be slower if the mid-term analysis does not reach the statistical
      significance and a larger population is required.
    
  