
    
      The purpose of this prospective pragmatic study is to evaluate the changes in NoL index,
      Heart Rate (HR) and Mean Arterial Blood Pressure (MABP) following the painful stimulus that
      represents laryngoscopy and intubation performed using either the single use blade of the
      Glidescope (group GVL) or the classically used MAC blade (group MAC). Calculation will be
      using the variations of NoL, HR and MABP, the peak values of these 3 parameters, and also the
      area above the curve of each parameter for 3 minutes (above the mean pre-stimulus values) and
      the amount of time (out of 3 minutes post-stimulus) those 3 parameters will be significantly
      higher than their respective pre-intubation mean thresholds.

      In this prospective, randomized and controlled study, each patient will normally enter the
      operating room on the day of his surgery. All the normal monitors are installed, along with
      the NoL monitor. Pre-oxygenation (with 100% 02) is then started. While the patient is doing
      the pre-oxygenation, MABP, HR and NoL index measures are gathered to establish a baseline for
      each patient.

      Once pre-oxygenation is over, induction with xylocaïne, propofol, remifentanil and rocuronium
      is given (according to patients' ideal weight). The end of the remifentanil bolus will
      correspond to the time 0 of our study. To be sure our patients are sleeping and on the same
      level of anesthetic medication during our study, perfusions of propofol and remifentanil will
      be administred until tracheal intubation and inhaled anesthetic gaz given. When the patient
      is asleep and apneic, a Guedel device (chosen according to patient weight and height) is
      inserted in the mouth, as in usual practice, to ease the manual ventilation until the
      laryngoscopy. The patient is then ventilated with a face mask. After 5 minutes, the first
      laryngoscopy is performed (either with GlideScope blade or MAC blade according to
      randomization). Once a Cormack-Lehane grade I or II is obtained, the movement is ended, and
      the patient is ventilated again for 4 minutes with the Guedel. If the procedure takes more
      than 30 seconds to perform (if no view of grade I or II is seen before 30 seconds), the
      laryngoscopy is considered difficult and the patient will be excluded from the study. At T9
      (9 minutes after T0), the second laryngoscopy is done (either with the MacIntosh blade or the
      GVL blade - the tool used for the second laryngoscopy will always be the one that wasn't used
      at the first laryngoscopy). The size of the MacIntosh blade (MAC 3 or 4) or the disposable
      blade for GVL is decided according to the patient size (height and weight). At the second
      laryngoscopy, the endotracheal tube is still not inserted, only the procedure of laryngoscopy
      is done, so that we can evaluate the hemodynamic and the NoL index responses related only to
      the type of device used for laryngoscopy. Then, the operator replaces the Guedel and
      ventilates the patient with a facemask (100% O2) for 4 more minutes, without stimulating the
      patient otherwise. At T13 (13 minutes after T0), the third laryngoscopy will be performed
      (either with the single-use blade for GlideScope or the MacIntosh blade - according to
      randomization). This time, the ETT is inserted (size 7 or 8, depending on the size and sex of
      the patient). After ETT insertion, the patient is then ventilated with the anesthesia machine
      and the perfusions of propofol/remifentanil is discontinued.

      Monitors will record HR, MABP and NoL index until 3 minutes after the ETT insertion (end of
      the study). All the data will be electronically registered every 5 seconds and exported in an
      anonymous manner for each patient into an excel file at the end of the study.

      In this study, each patient is exposed to three laryngoscopies; one with the single use blade
      for the GlideScope, one with the Macintosh laryngoscopy and one with the ETT insertion
      (laryngoscopy done with either GlideScope or Macintosh according to randomization). Hence,
      each patient will be its own control. It will then be more reliable to compare the
      differences in nociceptive response according to the tool used for laryngoscopy.
    
  