
    
      Subjects aged 20-65 years with toenail onychomychosis involved at least one great toenail
      will be recruited in the study. Approximately 200 subjects will be screened, in order to
      randomize 72 eligible subjects. Allowing for approximately 20% drop-outs, it is estimated
      that for completing 60 eligible subjects, approximately 72 subjects would be enrolled.
      Subjects must meet all the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria to receive
      treatment assignment.

      Procedures:

      Explain study and obtain written informed consent: Screening Review inclusion/exclusion
      criteria including prior and concomitant medications: Screening and Baseline (Day 1)
      Demographics: Screening Medical history (including prior onychomycosis): Screening Personal
      and family history as well as history of any prior treatment for onychomycosis and any
      symptoms attributed to onychomycosis Physical examination: Screening Selection of target
      great toenail: Screening Proper nail trimming of target great toenail (as needed): all visits
      The subject's target great toenail will be properly trimmed as needed by the investigator or
      a qualified designee. Proper nail trimming is defined as cutting the nail plate to within 1
      mm of the hyponychium or distal groove. In case of onycholysis the nail is to be trimmed not
      to the proximal limit of the onycholysis.

      Percentage of nail involvement of the target great toenail based on signs of onychomycosis:
      all visits The percentage of involvement of the target great toenail will be determined by
      the investigator's visual estimate of the extent of the total nail area that shows signs of
      onychomycosis after proper trimming the nail.

      Assessment of other toenails: all visits (except screening) At baseline (Day 1) and all
      subsequent visits, the investigator will identify all other toenails (excluding the target
      great toenail) with signs of onychomycosis and determine the total number of toenails that
      are completely clear (0% involvement) or almost clear (<10% involvement).

      Marking the target great toenail: all visits The investigator will ink the distal groove, the
      2-mm notch (except at Screening, when the notch will not have been made yet), and the
      healthy/involved limit of the target toenail with a supplied indelible marking pen. These
      markings on the target great toenail will be used to determine the CN, and will be used for
      the calculation of CNG and LNG. The initial photo of the unmarked nail must be taken before
      any marking is made.

      Two-millimeter notch for the target great toenail: Baseline (Day 1) At the Baseline (Day 1)
      visit, the investigator will make a superficial notch in the nail plate, approximately 2 mm
      distal from the proximal nail fold. The investigator will ink the notch with a marking pen at
      this and each subsequent visit. If, as the nail grows, the investigator feels that the
      original notch may be clipped off at the next visit, a new nail notch approximately 2 mm from
      the proximal nail fold will be made.

      KOH examination of the target great toenail: Screening, Week 4, 8, and 16. Fungal culture of
      the target great toenail: Screening, at Week 4, 8, and 16 only for KOH negative patients
      Digital photography: Baseline (Day 1); Week 4, 8, 16, and 24; early termination (if
      applicable)

      Digital photographs will be analyzed for the following measurements:

      Clear nail (CN) of the target great toenail: CN is defined as the distance (mm) between the
      PNF and the most proximal limit of the disease (as marked by the investigator).

      Clear nail growth (CNG) of the target great toenail: The CNG is a calculation and is defined
      as the difference (mm) between the CN at a given visit and the CN at Baseline (Day 1). For
      example, if the baseline CN is 2 mm and the Week 12 CN is 5 mm, the nail will have 3 mm of
      new clear nail growth.

      Linear nail growth (LNG) of the target great toenail: The LNG represents the growth of nail
      plate (normal and mycotic) over a period of time. LNG is defined as the distance at any given
      time point from the PNF to the nail notch, minus the distance of the notch from the PNF at
      Baseline (2 mm). For example, if at a post-Baseline visit the length from the proximal nail
      fold to the inked notch becomes 6 mm, then the nail will have growth 4 mm (6 mm- 2 mm= 4 mm).

      Randomization: Baseline (Day 1) Subject dosing diary dispensing: Baseline (Day 1) through
      Week 8 Subject dosing diary collection: Week 4 through Week 16, and early termination Study
      drug dispensing: Baseline (Day 1) through Week 8 Study drug self-administration: Baseline
      (Day 1) through Week 16 Study drug collection: Week 4 through Week 16, and early termination
      Prior and concomitant drugs: All visits Record adverse events: All visits (except screening)
    
  