
    
      Aim:

      The aim of the EPOXY-IMR trial is to evaluate the effect of supplemental oxygen on coronary
      circulation in the setting of elective coronary angiography and percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI). To achieve this, different functional parameters such as the index of
      microcirculatory resistance (IMR), fractional flow reserve (FFR) and coronary flow reserve
      (CFR) will be obtained and serial biomarkers (cardiac troponin) will be analyzed.

      Background:

      Coronary artery disease (CAD) based on arteriosclerotic narrowing of the coronary blood
      vessels is the most common cause of death in the western world. To determine the severity of
      the disease in symptomatic patients and guide optimal therapy, coronary angiography is
      frequently performed. Simplified, three outcomes can be found:

        1. No or mild evidence of CAD leading to continuous medical therapy.

        2. Severe disease demanding revascularization therapy done by either percutaneous coronary
           intervention (PCI), where most commonly balloon dilatation followed by placement of a
           metal stent in the coronary vessel is performed, or coronary artery bypass grafting
           (CABG).

        3. In patients with moderate disease further functional testing is required to assess the
           gravity of the narrowing. This can be achieved by placing a pressure sensor equipped
           guide wire to the diseased artery comparing blood pressure proximal and distal to the
           stenosis during hyperemia, known as Fractional Flow Reserve (FFR). Although based on
           pressure recordings, FFR is a highly accurate measure of the flow limitation of a given
           stenosis. A common cut-off value of 0,8 is used where a lower value mandates therapy as
           in patients with severe disease.

      Further information regarding the coronary circulation can be obtained by calculation of
      coronary flow reserve (CFR) and the index of microcirculatory resistance (IMR), the former
      representing a measure of the flow situation in the complete coronary arterial system, the
      latter more specifically the vascular resistance in the microcirculatory compartment. These
      indices are based on thermodilution measurements using a temperature sensor also located in
      the above mentioned pressure sensor equipped guide wire.

      Supplemental oxygen is frequently used all over the world in patients hospitalized with
      suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) irrespective of oxygen levels in the blood.
      Scientifically, only experimental laboratory data and small studies in humans have supported
      this practice.

      In contrast, mounting evidence suggests possible harmful effects of supplemental oxygen by
      causing a decrease in cardiac function, especially through mechanisms of narrowing of the
      coronary arteries due high oxygen levels in the blood (hyperoxemic coronary
      vasoconstriction). Clinically, epicardial coronary vasoconstriction mediated by oxygen
      therapy may result in underestimation of vessel size during percutaneous coronary
      intervention (PCI), possibly increasing the risk of subsequent complications such as stent
      thrombosis and in-stent restenosis. Furthermore, vasoconstriction in the microcirculatory
      compartment may result in increased periprocedural myocardial injury as a result of
      microvascular obstruction from plaque related and thrombotic material.

      In the EPOXY-IMR trial, the investigators aim to analyze possible detrimental effects of
      supplemental oxygen in patients undergoing coronary angiography and intracoronary
      pressure/flow measurements due to angiographically intermediate coronary lesions and with
      special focus on the circulation of the small vessels (microvascular function).

      Design:

      EPOXY-IMR is a single centre, interventional, double-blinded, randomized, controlled trial
      aiming to recruit 40 patients in the treatment group (cohort A, patients in whom PCI is
      performed) and 25 patients in the non-intervention group (cohort B, patients in whom PCI is
      deferred on the basis of a non-significant FFR-value).

      Materials and methods:

      Patients with suspected coronary artery disease (CAD) scheduled for elective coronary
      angiography and normal oxygen saturation (≥90% on pulse oximeter) are asked to participate in
      the trial in good time prior to the exam. After written informed consent standard diagnostic
      coronary angiography is performed. If coronary stenosis of moderate degree is found in the
      larger arteries (40-90% diameter stenosis), further functional evaluation is mandated to
      determine if the stenosis impedes coronary blood flow significantly. According to clinical
      routine, this is achieved by placing a pressure wire in the diseased vessel passing the
      narrowed section, obtaining data on coronary blood pressure proximal and distal to the
      stenosis and inducing hyperemia with adenosine infusion for determination of FFR. Using
      thermodilution with intracoronary bolus injections of room temperature saline, data for
      calculation of the index of microcirculatory resistance (IMR) and coronary flow reserve (CFR)
      will be obtained.

      Those patients with FFR <0,8 indicative of restricted blood flow to the heart muscle
      mandating further treatment by PCI, form cohort A. Patients with FFR >0,8 make up cohort B.

      Thereafter, the patients are randomized in a double blinded fashion by a designated study
      nurse to either supplemental oxygen 6l/min delivered by an open face mask (Oxymask®) or
      ambient air (sham placement of Oxymask®).

      Cohort A: After 10 minutes inhalation of oxygen/ambient air, FFR, CFR and IMR are re-measured
      followed by PCI according to clinical routine. Finally, post PCI measurements of IMR, FFR and
      CFR are performed. Troponin levels are obtained at baseline, 4 hours and 12-24 hours post
      PCI. An arterial blood gas sample is drawn just before PCI. During PCI, coronary pressure
      distal to the lesion is recorded during balloon inflation, allowing for recording of wedge
      pressure which is required for correct calculation of flow- and resistance indices in a
      significantly stenosed vessel.

      Cohort B: After 10 minutes inhalation of oxygen/ambient air, FFR, CFR and IMR are re-measured

      Hypothesis:

        -  Supplemental oxygen reduces coronary blood flow and increases microcirculatory
           resistance

        -  Supplemental oxygen increases microcirculatory resistance leading to increased procedure
           related myocardial damage

      Primary endpoint is the effect of supplemental oxygen on IMR. Secondary endpoints will
      furthermore evaluate effects on CFR, FFR and serial cardiac troponin.

      Conclusion:

      To date, there is limited and conflicting evidence supporting the routine administration of
      supplemental oxygen in patients with coronary artery disease. The EPOXY-IMR trial is designed
      to explore the effects of supplemental oxygen on coronary blood flow and microvascular
      resistance as potential mediators of detrimental clinical effects.
    
  