
    
      With aging, skeletal muscle mass and performance decline leading to an increased risk of
      falls and physical disability. There is ongoing research on whether increasing dietary
      protein intake in older adults improves indices of muscle health and thus translates to a
      reduction in physical disability. A main concern is that high protein results in a large
      dietary acid load from the breakdown of protein to acidogenic byproducts, which could in turn
      promote muscle degradation particularly in older adults with age-related declines in renal
      excretion of acid. The scientific premise of this project is that the balance between the
      amount of protein in the diet (anabolic component) and the net acid load of the diet
      (catabolic component) in part determines whether the diet as a whole has a net anabolic or
      catabolic effect on muscle. Preliminary data have suggested that a daily alkaline salt
      supplement (potassium bicarbonate, KHCO3) lowered the dietary acid load and improved lower
      extremity muscle power in postmenopausal women. The investigator's central hypothesis is that
      higher protein intake plus a neutralizing alkaline salt will have additive effects on muscle
      performance and mass in older adults to either intervention alone. To test the hypothesis,
      the investigators will conduct a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2x2 factorial
      study in which underactive men and women age 65 and older on baseline lower protein diets
      will be enrolled. Participants will assigned to one of four groups: either a whey protein
      supplement (to raise protein intake to 1.5 g/kg/d) with or without KHCO3 81 mmol/d or an
      isocaloric placebo supplement with or without KHCO3 81 mmol/d for 24 wks. The primary outcome
      is lower extremity muscle power at 24 weeks. Secondary outcomes are lower extremity muscle
      power at 12 weeks, muscle endurance at 12 and 24 weeks, physical performance at 24 weeks,
      lean mass at 24 weeks, and 24-hr urinary nitrogen excretion adjusted for nitrogen intake at
      24 weeks. Exploratory outcomes will include a measure of muscle mass - D3-creatine dilution -
      and how it correlates with lean mass. Changes in these outcomes will be compared in the 4
      groups. If successful, this research would represent a meaningful step in defining the
      circumstances under which protein has its greatest anabolic benefit.
    
  