
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  Describe the ways relationships and social interactions may factor into adolescent study
           participants' approach to decisions;

        -  By reports from adolescents with cancer, identify behaviors from members of the study
           participants' social network that would be helpful to adolescents in fulfilling their
           preferred role in medical decision-making and achieving the desired level of
           participation in medical decision-making;

        -  Identify adolescent participants' preferred role in medical decision making.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  Develop definitions of being a "good" patient, child, sibling, and friend from
           adolescent participant reports (will also welcome the study participant to self-declare
           any additional relational constructs they may wish to report);

        -  Describe how the adolescent study participant believes his or her "good" patient, child,
           sibling, and friend definition may have changed over time;

        -  Describe the self-assessed positive and negative aspects of trying to achieve the
           meanings of the "good" patient, child, sibling, and friend constructs from adolescent
           participant reports;

        -  Describe the actions of members of the study participant's social network which may help
           the study participant reach his/her definition of being a "good" patient, child,
           sibling, and friend.

      Participants will participate in a one-time voice-recorded, face-to-face interview consisting
      of open-ended questions. Completion of the interview is expected to take less than one hour.

      The qualitative interview consists of thirty open-ended questions for participants with no
      siblings and thirty-eight open-ended questions for participants who have siblings. Questions
      will be audio-recorded, face-to-face semi-structured in-depth interview format. Health
      information will also be collected from medical records.

      Expected accrual is 100 participants, 50 at each participating site. Accrual will be halted
      when the study reaches qualitative theme saturation. For this study, saturation will occur
      when three consecutive interviews fail to raise a new theme.
    
  