
    
      Obesity increases the risk of several health conditions. Weight loss of 5-10% of initial
      weight reduces the risk of several diseases. This degree of weight loss is achievable in
      behavioral obesity programs. However, about 33% of initial weight loss is regained within one
      year and very little weight loss is maintained within three to five years. Thus, new
      strategies improving long-term weight loss maintenance are needed. One dietary strategy that
      increases self-reported satiation and satiety is consuming a low energy density (ED) diet. A
      low-ED diet allows a greater weight of food relative to total energy to be consumed, which is
      the proposed mechanism for the enhanced self-reported satiation and satiety found with low-ED
      meals. Research has shown that when participants are served low-ED meals, while total weight
      of food consumed does not change, meal energy intake decreases. Importantly, when low-ED
      meals are consumed across several days, reduced energy intake continues to occur, showing no
      degree of energy intake compensation. To address the gaps regarding the relationship between
      dietary ED and weight loss maintenance, we propose to conduct a randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) examining the effect of a low-ED prescription and its proposed mechanisms on weight
      loss maintenance.

      The primary hypotheses are:

        1. Low-ED will have less weight regain than Energy Balance at 22 months.

           a. Weight regain at 10, 16, and 22 months will be examined to determine if differences
           occur between conditions.

        2. Low-ED will consume a lower ED diet, less energy and percent energy from fat, and
           greater grams from solid food and fiber than Energy Balance at 10, 16, and 22 months.

           The secondary hypotheses are:

        3. Identify mechanisms (mediators) by which reducing ED improves long-term lower energy
           intake, thus:

             1. Low-ED will self-report lower hunger and greater satiation and satiety during EMA
                than Energy Balance at 10, 16, and 22 months.
    
  