
    
      Introduction:

      Acute pharyngitis (AP) is a commonly diagnosed condition in the Emergency Departments (ED).
      In the United States (USA), there are approximately 12 million visits to health institutions
      due to acute pharyngitis(1). It is defined as an acute inflammation of the pharynx and/or
      tonsils and the diagnosis is made clinically(2). Although there are variable etiologies for
      AP, viral infections are the commonest(3). Symptoms of AP vary in the severity but the most
      common symptom for which the patients seek medical care is a sore throat. The patient may
      complain of fever, flu symptoms, odynophagia (painful swallowing), neck pain, poor oral
      intake, nausea, and vomiting. Of these symptoms, around 80% of patients with AP were
      interested more to relieve their pain(4).

      Different approaches were suggested to control AP pain. It is well established that oral
      acetaminophen and ibuprofen are effective in decreasing AP pain(5). Different forms of
      topical therapies like lozenges/drops, throat sprays, gargles, and teas are also available
      for relief AP related pain. There is no evidence that a particular topical lozenge or spray
      is superior in efficacy(6).

      Systemic glucocorticoids have been proven to be effective in decreasing AP sore throat.
      Systemic reviews and meta-analysis studies showed that a single dose of systemic
      glucocorticoids decreases pain within 24 hours by two times and at 48 hours by 1.5 times(7)
      (8) compared to patients who didn't receive steroids. A recently published trial showed that
      the use of systemic glucocorticoids in less severe acute pharyngitis significantly result in
      complete resolution of a sore throat at 48hours(9).

      Glucocorticoids are commonly used medication in the emergency department. They have a very
      good safety profile(10). A short course of glucocorticoids is less likely to result in
      adverse events (AE) and if occurred usually with systemic, not with local
      glucocorticoids(10). Studies have shown that the use of a single dose of systemic
      glucocorticoids for acute pharyngitis did not result in significant adverse events and no
      serious adverse events were reported (7) (8).

      The effect of glucocorticoids in AP can be attributed to their anti-inflammatory actions.
      They inhabit the formation of the pro-inflammatory mediators in the endothelial cells of the
      airways. This will decreases the inflammatory reaction at the pharynges which will lead to a
      reduction in the throat pain.

      Up to our knowledge, no available trials are looking at the role of nebulized glucocorticoids
      in treating infective AP. A Randomized Control Trial (RCT) showed that the use of nebulized
      dexamethasone significantly decreases the incidence and severity of postoperative sore throat
      at 2, 4, 8, and12 hours(11). There was no complication reported from the use of nebulized
      dexamethasone(11). Despite the available evidence about the effectiveness of glucocorticoids
      in acute pharyngitis, some physicians are still reluctant to prescribe it as an adjunct
      therapy.

      The investigators hypothesized that the uses of local glucocorticoids (nebulization) will
      significantly reduce sore throat in patients with AP. The investigators believe that the use
      of topical route to administer glucocorticoids is more convenient for physicians and have
      less chance to develop adverse effect in comparison to systemic steroids. The investigators
      aim to investigate in pediatrics and adults population ≥5 years presenting to ED with AP if
      the use of a single dose of nebulized glucocorticoids as an adjunct to standard AP treatment,
      compared with placebo leads to complete resolution or improvement in symptoms.

      Objectives:

        -  Primary Objective:

           - To investigate in pediatrics and adults population ≥5 years presenting to ED with AP
           if the use of a single dose of nebulized glucocorticoids as an adjunct to standard AP
           treatment compared with placebo leads to significant improvement or complete resolution
           of the sore throat within 24hrs.

        -  Secondary objectives:

      To investigate whether a single dose of inhaled Glucocorticoids compared with Placebo will:

        -  Reduce sore throat at 48 hours.

        -  Reduce absence from work or school.

        -  Reduce the incidence of hospital admission due to the complication of the sore throat
           within 15 days.

        -  Reduce the rate of re-attendance to ED.

      Methodology

      * Study Design: The trial will be multi-center, double-blind randomized control trial. There
      will be three arms; first arm: nebulized Budesonide, second arm: nebulized Dexamethasone and
      third arm: placebo nebulized Normal Saline (NS). The patients will be followed up for 15 days
      through phone calls to assess the primary and secondary outcomes.

        -  Target population:

             -  Overall Description of Trial Participants:

                  -  Pediatrics and adult aged 5 years or over presenting to the emergency
                     department (ED) with acute pharyngitis (AP).

             -  Inclusion Criteria and Exclusion criteria:

      refer to "Eligibility" section.

      > The Number of Participants: Up to our knowledge the available literature only about the use
      of systemic glucocorticoids in AP. No available studies looked at the effect of nebulized
      glucocorticoids in AP sore throat. Therefore The investigators are conducting a pilot study
      to look at the effect of nebulized glucocorticoids and from the result of the pilot study,
      the sample size will be calculated.

      The recruitment for the pilot study is already started since June 2019. It is conducted in
      two centers for 20 participants in each arm. The investigators will use the same protocol
      (mentioned below) for both the pilot study and the main study.

      *Study Procedures:

      > Inform consent: After checking for eligibility and patient willingness to participate in
      the trial, a written informed consent form will be given to the participant by the enrolling
      clinician. The written informed consent will be submitted to the patient so he/she can read
      it plus a verbal presentation of the form will be conducted by the care provider. The form
      has to be signed by the participant or caregiver personally.

      Details about the exact nature of the trial, the implications of the trial and possible
      adverse effects will be included in both verbal presentations and written informed consent.
      The written consent will clearly state that the participant has the rights to withdraw from
      the study at any time for any reason without prejudice to future care.

      > Screening and Eligibility Assessment: Any patient who presented to the emergency department
      with a sore throat should be screened by the triage nurse or doctor for eligibility of the
      participant for the study. A participant information sheet will be kept in the triage room
      and the doctors' room. The treating physician will check the eligibility of the patient by
      checking inclusion and exclusion criteria. Any patient who is not eligible to participate or
      declines to participate will be recorded on the screening log with reasons for ineligibility
      or declining (if known) and have no further involvement in the trial.

      All patients who are found eligible and accept to participate in the trial will be included
      in the trial and proceed to baseline trial assessment.

        -  Baseline Trial Assessment:

             -  Once the participant is eligible for the trial, the treating physician will take
                the baseline characteristics.

             -  The treating physician will explain to the participant the process of the trial and
                the ways of data recording. He/she will explain to the participant how to fill the
                trial dairy which will be provided to them.

             -  The treating physician will take the contact number of the participant and inform
                him/her that he/she will be called by the trial investigators at the following
                time:

             -  At 24 hours, on day 2, on day 7, and day 15 after inclusion in the trial.

             -  May also receive 1 or 2 calls to encourage the patient to complete the trial and to
                check on participant's compliance to study protocol.

             -  Data collection sheet will be available online using "Google Forms". The treating
                physician is required to fill the baseline assessment sheet within 6 hours from
                participant inclusion in the trial and send it through online to the principal
                investigator.

             -  Items to be collected in the baseline data collection sheet:

                  -  Socio-demographic factors:

                     o Age

                       -  Gander

                       -  Smoking

                  -  Medications:

                     o Need for antibiotics

                     o Any other advised treatment, including Paracetamol, ibuprofen, Gargle, Zinc,
                     steam, and others.

                  -  Symptoms will include:

                     o Duration of sore throat and odynophagia

                     o Presence or absence of cough, hoarse voice, coryza, fever in the last 24
                     hours

                  -  Clinical examination findings will include:

                     o Presence of pharyngeal inflammation

                     o Presence of inflamed tonsils without follicles

                     o Presence of inflamed tonsils with purulent follicles

                     o Presence of tender cervical lymphadenopathy

                       -  Temperature and type of thermometer used for measuring

                  -  Throat swab for microscopy and culture: to be collected in the day of
                     presentation.

                  -  Patient completed items will include:

                       -  Ratings of throat soreness, pain on swallowing and difficulty swallowing
                          using Numeric pain score.

        -  Randomization:

           - Sealed non-transparent envelopes with blocked randomization (3,6,9).

           - Envelops contain a folded paper written on it the type of intervention: as follow
           (Dexamethasone, Budesonide, or Placebo).

             -  Each time the care provider decided to include a patient in the study he/she picks
                an envelope according to the sequence of randomization and read the content of it.

        -  Blinding:

             -  Both the follow-up investigators (the assessors) and the patients will be blinded,
                but not the treating physician.

             -  Method: all patients will receive nebulization of 8 milliliters (ml) solution:

      Placebo normal saline will be administered for the control group: dose 8 ml of normal saline.

      Glucocorticoid nebulization for the intervention group: Dose of 8 ml of study medications

        -  After the treating physician includes a patient to the trial, he/she will send the
           patient's data to the principal investigator through online Google Forms. The principal
           investigators will assign another investigator to contact the patient without telling
           him the type of intervention the patient received and ask him/her about the study
           endpoint outcomes (mentioned above). The study outcome assessors will be required to
           fill the data online using Google Forms and forward it back to the study principal
           investigator.

           > Subsequent assessments:

        -  3 new phone numbers will be opened for the trials.

        -  Each participant will be provided with a diary which is specifically designed for the
           trial. It will include patient questions about patient pain and other symptoms. The
           patient will keep recording in the diary for 7 days.

        -  The participants will be contacted by telephone at 24hours, 48hours, 7 days and 15 days
           to collect the study primary and secondary objectives and to ensure completion of
           symptoms diary.

        -  The follow-up call is standardized with pre-specified questions

        -  An additional phone call will be done if needed to encourage the participants to
           complete symptoms diary.

      Definition of End of Trial

      - The trial ends once the targeted sample size achieved and follow up completed.

      Discontinuation/ Withdrawal of Participants from Study Treatment:

        -  Each participant has the right to withdraw from the study at any time for any reason.

        -  The investigators may discontinue a participant from the study for any of the following
           reasons:

             1. Failure of the participant to follow the study protocol, major missing data e.g.
                reporting the primary endpoint of the study.

             2. Continuation of the study will harm the patient

        -  The reason for withdrawing/discontinuation from the study will be recorded in the case
           report form.

        -  If the reason for the participant withdraw is an adverse event from the study
           intervention, a follow-up appointment will be arranged for the participant with study
           investigators.

        -  If the participant found to be not eligible for the trial after randomization, he/she
           will be removed from the trial and all his information will be removed from the trial
           database.

           * Description of Study Treatment: refer to "Arms and Interventions" section

           * Compliance with Study Treatment:

        -  The participant will be observed taking the single dose of study medication once they
           have provided full informed consent.

           * Availability of the Study Treatment:

        -  The study medications will be supplied by the participating hospitals.

        -  The study medications are available in the participating hospitals.

           * Concomitant Medication:

        -  The treating physician may prescribe any of the following medications:

             1. Antibiotics, if indicated

             2. Any other advised treatment, including Paracetamol aspirin ibuprofen, Gargle,
                Difflam, Zinc, steam, and others.

                  -  Post-Trial Treatment:

        -  After study medication administration in ED, the participants follow normal medical care
           of AP.

           *Safety reporting:

        -  Glucocorticoids are used Commonly in the emergency department. They have a very good
           safety profile(10). A short course of glucocorticoids is less likely to result in
           adverse events and if occurred usually with systemic, not with local glucocorticoids
           (10). Studies have shown that the use of a single dose of systemic glucocorticoids for
           acute pharyngitis did not result in significant adverse events and no serious adverse
           events were reported (7) (8).

        -  Although the risk of developing adverse events secondary to the usage of nebulized
           glucocorticoids, all adverse events will be documented by the study investigators. Any
           adverse events reported by the participant will be investigated for causality. These
           investigations will be done by a medically qualified investigator. The severity of
           events will be assessed on the following scale: 1=mild, 2=moderate, 3=severe.

        -  A participant has the free rights to withdraw from the trial due to what he or she
           perceives as intolerable adverse events. Adverse events that result in a participant's
           withdrawal from the study will be recorded on the withdrawal form.

      Statistics:

      - The data will be recorded in the EpiData@ software. Then the data will be analyzed using
      the SPSS@ software. All randomized participants will be included in the analysis, assuming no
      complete resolution for missing data. The proportion of complete resolution of a sore throat
      at 24 hours in those participants who have received nebulized glucocorticoids on which this
      trial is powered will be compared using logistic regression model. Odds ratio and their 95%
      confidence interval (CI) will be reported. The p-value of <0.05 will be considered
      statistically significant.

      Criteria for the Termination of the Trial:

      The trial will be terminated in case of the following:

      - If the study medications appear to be harmful to the participants e.g. multiple cases
      reported serious adverse events

      Quality Control and Quality Assurance Procedures:

      - The study will be conducted according to this protocol. All the investigators will receive
      training on the trial procedure before the start. The principal investigator will be
      responsible for continuous monitoring of compliance with the study protocol and data
      recording.

      Ethics:

        -  The study will be conducted in three hospitals in Muscat. Two hospitals are under the
           umbrella of Armed Forced Hospital (AFH) and one hospital is the Royal Oman Police
           Hospital (ROP). The ethical approval was sought from each hospital individually and they
           approved it.

        -  Trial staff will ensure that the participants' anonymity is maintained. Participants'
           details will be identified by their hospital Identification (ID) number e.g. (AFH_ID
           number). All data will be stored securely and only accessible by the trial staff.

      Finance:

        -  To conduct such a study, sponsors who will help us to cover the costs of the study is
           needed. The investigators submitted the proposal to the following institution looking
           for financial support: The Research Council Oman: status pending

        -  The investigators asked the participating hospitals for their permission to utilize
           their resources to conduct the study. The investigators got all the study's medications
           and equipment from the participating hospitals.

      Result dissemination:

      - The result of this study will be presented in local conferences as well in international
      conferences. The investigators will aim to publish the study in a well-known international
      emergency medicine journal.
    
  