
    
      Viral infections are an important cause of morbidity and mortality in hospitalized patients
      as well as out-patients. New strains of viruses may appear and cause epidemics in healthy
      persons or immunocompromised persons. A better understanding of these new virus strains may
      help to control and prevent these infections. Some viral infections that would otherwise be
      asymptomatic or cause mild disease can be life threatening in immunocompromised persons.
      Immunocompromised persons often shed high titers of virus for prolonged periods of time. In
      the absence of a potent immune system, viruses may evolve more rapidly in their hosts.
      Therefore, analysis of sequential virus specimens from these patients can provide information
      on virus evolution, including how resistance to antiviral agents can develop. In addition,
      higher titers of virus may be associated with virus mutants that are more adapted to grow in
      cell culture. In this protocol we will obtain specimens containing viruses from otherwise
      healthy or immunocompromised patients over sequential periods of time to study their nucleic
      acid sequences, sensitivity to antiviral agents, cell types infected by the virus, and
      ability to grow in cell culture. In some cases we weill review tissue biosies or clinical
      reports from outside laboratories to assist with the diagnosis of virus-associated diseases.
      We will also record the patient s signs and symptoms, note results of any pertinent
      laboratory work-up, and in some cases, obtain blood to measure immune responses, isolate
      antibodies, or virus-specific T cells, or to look for viremia. This study should provide
      further understanding on how viruses evolve in their natural hosts, how they become resistant
      to antiviral agents, how antibody responses evolve to viruses, and might allow some currently
      uncultivatable viruses to be grown in cell culture.
    
  