
    
      Medical cannabis has been legal in parts of the USA since 1996, with the stated intention of
      reducing pain (both acute and chronic) as well as for treatment of multiple other conditions.
      The original implementation of medical cannabis in the USA was implemented in California as a
      compassionate measure to treat the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Additional studies have shown promising
      outcome for patients with multiple sclerosis, seizures, cancer, and other chronic conditions.
      However, there have been few comprehensive studies that have actually measured whether
      cannabis is an effective treatment for pain reduction. There is an absence of multistate,
      multicenter clinical studies with cannabis as medicine, not only in the USA but globally.
      With the expansion of medical cannabis into more than 38 states in the US, this type of
      clinical study is now feasible.

      On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization formally characterized coronavirus,
      COVID-19, as a global pandemic and health systems globally are continuing their efforts to
      manage the outbreak. Coronavirus disease COVID-19 is an infectious disease caused by a newly
      discovered coronavirus. With the rapidly growing pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the new and
      challenging to treat zoonotic SARS-CoV2 coronavirus, there is an urgent need for new
      therapies and prevention strategies that can help curtail disease spread and reduce
      mortality. Inhibition of viral entry and thereby spread constitute plausible therapeutic
      avenues.

      This study will utilize an anonymous novel online questionnaire to determine study
      participants' qualifying condition(s) for medical cannabis use, cannabis ingestion method,
      frequency of use, prescription drug use, and demographic information. Secondary factors will
      include evaluation of pain control, quality of life metrics, any adverse side effects from
      cannabis use, as well as changes in adjunctive treatments. Patients will be given medical
      cannabis recommendations and certifications commensurate with the state law in which the
      encounter occurs. The variations in mechanisms between the states for recommending,
      registering, certifying, and developing mandated treatment plans or doses will be adhered to;
      however, variations in state law and cannabis programs should not cause variation in the
      study design because the end-result is still the same with patients being treated with
      medical cannabis.
    
  