
    
      OBJECTIVE: Detection of cortical lesions in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) using
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is challenging. Their identification might provide more
      insight in explaining the level of disability in patients with MS.

      Primary aim of the present study is identifying cortical lesions in patients with MS using
      MRI. As a secondary aim, correlation between cortical lesions presence and clinical
      disability score (i.e. Expanded Disability Status Score or EDSS scale) will be analyzed.
      Tertiary aims will be provided by the relationships between the presence of cortical lesions
      and reduction in cortical thickness and extent of remote white matter disease pathology.
      Additionally, the role of white matter lesions in causing remote pathology will be studied.
      To better characterize this damage, patients with previous stroke, presenting with a single
      lesion on the pyramidal tract will be enrolled and diffusion-derived indices of white matter
      remote tracts will be computed.

      STUDY POPULATION: Fifty patients with definite MS or with a single attack and an MRI
      suggestive of MS (i.e., clinically isolated syndrome) according to McDonald criteria, and 55
      healthy volunteers will be enrolled. Fifteen patients with previous ischemic stroke and 15
      age- and gender-matched healthy volunteers will also be enrolled.

      DESIGN: After a clinical evaluation and an MRI at 1.5 Tesla, each individual will be imaged
      once at 3.0 Tesla scan. Clinical MRI before and within 15 minutes after contrast injection
      will be obtained in each patient at both 1.5 and 3 Tesla scans. In addition, 3 spoiled
      gradient-echo sequence, diffusion tensor images and double inversion recovery sequences will
      be acquired on the 3 Tesla MRI. Some healthy volunteers (up to 15) and patients (up to 15)
      will be required to be imaged twice on the 3T magnet as to optimize the sequences of this
      study. Additionally, 20 patients in whom cortical lesions will be identified using the
      above-mentioned techniques and 20 healthy volunteers will undergo brain perfusion MRIs. This
      may represent the third 3T MRI for the former in some instances.

      OUTCOME MEASURES: In MS patients, the number of cortical lesions will be computed. The EDSS
      score will serve for investigating the relationship between cortical lesions and clinical
      disability. Effect of cortical or white matter lesions in causing remote degeneration will be
      studied using diffusion tensor and magnetization transfer imaging in patients with both
      stroke and MS.
    
  