
    
      Carcinoma of unknown primary (CUP) is defined as biopsy-proven metastasis of an epithelial
      malignancy in the absence of an identifiable primary site after complete history and physical
      examination, basic laboratory studies, chest X-ray and additional directed studies indicated
      by positive findings during the initial work-up. It is characterized by its slow local
      development and its high metastatic potential.1,2 Patients with CUP represent 4-10% of all
      new cancer patients.3,4 The presenting sites of metastasis identified pathologically,
      radiographically or by physical examination were found most frequently in the lymph nodes
      (37.1%), followed by the liver, bone, lung, pleura/pleural space, brain, peritoneum, adrenal
      and skin. Of the lymph nodes of metastasis, the supraclavicular cervical area is the leading
      site (31.3%), followed by the mediastinum, axilla, retroperitonium, and inguina.5 The
      incidence of metastatic cervical CUP (MCCUP) varies between 2% and 9% of all head and neck
      cancers.6-8 The level of cervical metastatic involvement may give some clue as to the likely
      primary site. A submandibular mass (level I) would most commonly be related to a primary in
      the oral cavity or skin. Level II nodes, including the jugulodigastric node, may point to a
      primary in the oral cavity, oropharynx, or supraglottic larynx. Tumours of the nasopharynx
      generally spread to level II or the posterior triangle, as well as retropharyngeal nodes.
      Middle and lower jugular nodes (levels III and IV) are more likely related to a laryngeal or
      hypopharyngeal cancer. Metastatic disease restricted to the supraclavicular region is often
      due to an infraclavicular primary site.9 The prognosis is different according to the involved
      lymph node level and possible primary site. Modern cancer management relies heavily on
      recognition of the primary tumor; thus the absence of a primary site poses major diagnostic
      and therapeutic problems. The patient benefits from identification of the initial tumor site
      because postoperative irradiation ports may be reduced and because surveillance for
      recurrence may be improved.10 In order to identify the likely primary site of MCCUP and
      compare the prognoses of known and unknown primary groups, we report the results according to
      the different levels of metastatic cervical lymph nodes.
    
  