
    
      -  Participants with non-small cell lung cancer will be asked to join this study after they
           have decided with their health care provider to start treatment with erlotinib (a pill).

        -  Educational Session 1 (Day that erlotinib is prescribed): During this clinic visit the
           physician or nurse practitioner will provide the participant with the DFCI Erlotinib
           Fact Sheet that reviews how to take the oral cancer medication and possible side effects
           to watch for. The TOP nurse will discuss the study and consent the participant. The TOP
           nurse will also provide participants with an Erlotinib Drug Log and instruct them on how
           use it to keep track of taking the erlotinib.

        -  Educational Session 2 (Within 72 hours of starting erlotinib): During this educational
           session, participants will talk with the TOP nurse by phone or in the clinic. The TOP
           nurse will use an oral cancer medication teaching tool (MOATT - Parts 1-4) to provide
           additional education about erlotinib. The MOATT tool was developed by the Multinational
           Association for Supportive Care in Cancer. This session will take about 20-30 minutes.
           Feasibility information will also be recorded by the nurse.

        -  Educational Session 3 (Phone follow-up 72 hours after Session 2): During this phone
           session, the TOP nurse will administer Parts 3-4 of the MOATT and discuss any side
           effects the participant is experiencing. This session will take 15-30 minutes.
           Feasibility information will also be documented.

        -  Educational Session 4 (First clinic visit after starting on Erlotinib): The TOP nurse
           will meet with the participant during their first DFCI clinic visit (with their
           physician or nurse practitioner), after starting erlotinib. During this session the
           participant will complete the Morisky Medication Adherence Scale 8-Item (MMAS-8), a
           Knowledge Rating Scale, and a demographic form. Parts 3-4 of the MOATT will also be
           administered, the Erlotinib Drug Log will be collected, and side effects will be
           discussed/recorded. This meeting will add 30-40 minutes to the clinic visit.

        -  After the participant completes Educational Session 4, their participation in the study
           will end.
    
  