
    
      The main hypothesis for the trial is that Dymista affects multiple phases of the allergic
      response, which in sum are greater than the effects of fluticasone propionate or azelastine
      hydrochloride alone.

      Our objectives for this study are to demonstrate:

        1. that the induction of allergic inflammation by nasal provocation with antigen causes a
           cellular infiltration, with subsequent release of inflammatory biomarkers that cause
           augmented responses to subsequent exposure to antigens.

        2. that fluticasone prevents allergic inflammation from developing after antigen challenge
           and subsequently prevents the augmentation of the nasal response to nasal challenge with
           antigen.

        3. that the azelastine in Dymista reduces the effects of released histamine

      To address these hypotheses we will perform a 3-way, randomized, placebo-controlled, and
      crossover trial. We will recruit 20 asymptomatic seasonal allergic rhinitis patients outside
      of the relevant season. The subjects will receive placebo, fluticasone propionate and
      Dymista. The nasal provocations will be separated by 2 weeks. Treatment will begin 15 minutes
      before nasal provocation with ragweed or grass antigen and the treatment will continue twice
      a day for 3 days. Nasal provocation will occur daily for three days to evaluate for priming
      (increased sensitization with repeated antigen exposure, which mimics seasonal disease where
      antigen exposure occurs in the setting of continued allergic inflammation). For outcome
      measures, we will monitor both nasal symptoms after nasal provocation as well as collect
      nasal lavage to evaluate effects on eosinophils and biomarkers of the immune response. In the
      nasal lavage, we will quantify the number of eosinophils (a marker of cellular recruitment)
      and measure the levels of histamine (a marker of basophil and mast cell activation), tryptase
      (a marker of mast cell activation), albumin (a marker of vascular permeability), lactoferrin
      (a marker of glandular activation) and ECP (a marker of eosinophil activation). Thus we
      expect to generate information on both clinical effects and physiologic differences between
      the treatments.
    
  