
    
      This is a multi-center exploratory phase II trial of intravenous (IV) Pembrolizumab MK-3475
      as second or further line with advanced Non-small cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) who have failed to
      a prior treatment with anti-PDL1 drug.

      110 patients will be enrolled in this trial to examine the efficacy and outcomes of these
      patients.

      In addition to the usual procedures in a phase II study (evaluation of response, toxicity,
      etc.) special attention will be paid in this trial to the molecular assessment in biological
      samples.

      Subjects will receive Pembrolizumab at a fixed dose of 200 mg every 3 weeks (Q3W). Subjects
      will be evaluated with radiographic imaging to assess response to treatment. Investigators
      will make all treatment-based decisions using the Immune-Related Response Criteria (irRC).
      However, for determination of overall response rate (ORR) and progression-free survival
      (PFS), the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 will be used.

      Adverse events will be monitored throughout the trial and graded in severity according to the
      guidelines outlined in the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version
      4.0. Treatment with Pembrolizumab will continue until documented disease progression,
      unacceptable adverse event(s), intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of
      treatment, investigator's decision to withdraw the subject, subject withdraws consent,
      noncompliance with trial treatment or procedure requirements, or administrative reasons.

      After the end of treatment, each subject will be followed for a minimum of 30 days for
      adverse event monitoring (serious adverse events will be collected for up to 90 days after
      the end of treatment unless the subject starts a new anticancer therapy between days 31 and
      90). Subjects will have post-treatment follow-up for disease status, including initiating a
      non-study cancer treatment and experiencing disease progression, until death, withdrawing
      consent, or becoming lost to follow-up.

      Participation in this trial will be dependent upon supplying tumor tissue from a newly
      obtained formalin-fixed specimen from locations not radiated prior to biopsy. The specimen
      will be evaluated at a central laboratory facility for expression status of PD-L1 in a
      prospective manner. Only subjects whose tumors express PD-L1 as determined by the central
      laboratory facility will be eligible for inclusion in this study. Also it is highly recommend
      to send archival tumor tissue from the patient.
    
  