
    
      Aim: The current study aims to investigate the acute effects of commercially relevant
      interesterified 'hardstock' versus the corresponding un-interesterified blend on postprandial
      lipaemia, glycaemia, insulinaemia and gut hormone responses. Due to the previously observed
      differences in gut hormones following interesterified palm oil and un-interesterified palm
      oil by our group, we will also explore acute effects of these fats on satiety and rates of
      gastric emptying.

      Hypothesis: Interesterification of a palm kernel and palm stearin fat blend, to produce a fat
      with a higher proportion of palmitic acid in the middle position of the TAG (but the same
      fatty acid composition), will alter postprandial lipid and glucose metabolism. It is also
      hypothesised that differences in rates of absorption between the test fats will influence gut
      hormone responses and feelings of satiety.

      Subjects: Participants will include 10 healthy male volunteers. In order to determine the
      'typical' response to the test fats, subjects must not be affected by metabolic syndrome in
      any way (obesity, dyslipidemia, insulin resistance or hypertension), they must be non-smokers
      (since smoking influences postprandial lipaemia), and be aged between the ages of 18 and 45
      years (since above this age metabolic changes may take place that may affect the way that the
      body digests and metabolises lipids). Male volunteers have been selected as they elicit a
      higher postprandial lipaemic response to a given fat load and therefore are more sensitive to
      dietary manipulation.

      Power calculation: A sample size of 10 has 80% power to detect a difference between means of
      112.74 units in area under the curve in plasma TAG with a significance level (alpha) of 0.05
      (two-tailed).

      Expected value:

      The study will provide novel information on the acute effects of commercially relevant
      spreads on postprandial lipaemia and satiety. It will also explore possible mechanisms for
      the predicted reduced lipaemia following the interesterified fat from measurements of gastric
      emptying.
    
  