
    
      Umbilical herniotomy is a frequent surgical procedure worldwide, and the larger hernia
      defects are preferably operated by laparoscopic technique. The advantages of the laparoscopic
      approach are shorter convalescence with earlier mobilization, and less wound complications
      [1]. A preferred approach is currently to close the defect by laparoscopic suturing in order
      to reduce the formation of seroma in the hernia sac [2] , and then apply a mesh by
      intraperitoneal onlay technique (IPOM technique). However, it may be difficult to suture the
      defect if there is tension in the abdominal wall muscles together with the applied
      pneumoperitoneum.

      There is evidence that muscle relaxation improves conditions for endotracheal intubation[3]
      and reduces laryngeal morbidity but only a few studies investigate the necessity of
      relaxation during laparoscopic surgery [4].

      During laparoscopic surgery muscle relaxation is used with great variability. Sometimes the
      procedure is performed without muscle relaxation and sometimes with a so-called surgical
      neuromuscular blockade, which with objective neuromuscular monitoring means that
      train-of-four (TOF) is kept at 3-4 responses to nerve stimulation of the ulnar nerve. In this
      way there is a great variability in the neuromuscular blockade and rarely the patients are
      receiving deep neuromuscular blockade.

      Traditionally, neuromuscular monitoring is done by measuring the muscle strength of the
      adductor pollicis muscle on the thumb. The response to TOF nerve stimulation may be zero,
      while muscle relaxation of more resistant muscles such as the abdominal muscles and the
      diaphragm [5;6] are not complete which means that the patients may cough and their abdominal
      wall may feel "tight" during surgery, even though no response at the thumb is recorded. It is
      possible to quantify a deep neuromuscular block by the use of post-tetanic-count (PTC). With
      establishment of deep, continuous neuromuscular blockade with PTC value 0-1 all muscles
      including abdominal muscles and diaphragm are paralyzed [7]. It is therefore possible, that a
      deep neuromuscular blockade (NMB) where the diaphragm and the abdominal wall muscles are more
      paralyzed will optimize the surgical work space, ease the surgical procedure, reduce
      operative time for the suturing part of the procedure as well as the total procedure time,
      and reduce the number of recurrences by long term follow-up.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate surgical work space and surgical conditions in
      patients scheduled for laparoscopic umbilical, -linea alba and incisional herniotomy. The
      patients will act as their own control with evaluation of surgical work space and surgical
      conditions during both deep NMB and no NMB.

      Hypothesis:

      Deep NMB defined as TOF=0 and post-tetanic count PTC ≥1, will give better surgical workspace,
      better surgical conditions, as well as shorter duration of surgery and reduced number of
      recurrences of hernias compared with no NMB.
    
  