
    
      Public Health England has an ongoing sero-prevalence programme to assess how well the
      population is protected from vaccine preventable diseases. The current way to check this is
      by testing left over blood samples from participating healthcare laboratories around the
      country. However, these samples may not be representative of the general population,
      particularly in younger age groups who are often most at risk from vaccine preventable
      diseases. In the Netherlands, they use a different system to assess how well the population
      is protected from vaccine preventable diseases, actively collecting blood samples from a
      representative cross section of society. This type of approach would address the limitations
      of using residual serum samples and allows the collection of additional relevant history e.g.
      number of family members and previous vaccines received. The investigators are therefore
      proposing a pilot study to assess the feasibility of establishing a national sero-
      epidemiological survey in England in individuals aged 0 - 24 years. The investigators will be
      focusing initially on diphtheria and group C invasive meningococcal disease, both of which
      are vaccine preventable. This will involve enrolling 2300 participants in the study from
      different geographical and socioeconomic backgrounds across our test sites and taking a blood
      sample. This blood will be analysed to look at the level of immunity to vaccine preventable
      diseases.

      The original protocol has been amended to include the testing of antibodies against other
      infectious diseases, specifically COVID-19. A second group has been added to recruit an
      additional 500 to 1200 participants between the ages of 0-19 years. The additional funding
      has been used to open two more sites to recruit to group two across regions on England that
      are currently not represented by this study. Having a large number of blood samples from a
      range of age groups is useful when gathering information about an emerging disease such as
      the current novel coronavirus (COVID-19). These samples can help provide answers regarding
      the true number of infections with SARS-CoV-2 (the virus which causes COVID-19 disease) in
      this population. Group 2 can be enhanced by the samples received from other ethically
      approved research projects where participants have consented for their samples being used
      outside of the study.

      Additional funding has been granted for the addition of 300 participants from the BAME
      community, who will form Group 3. Data from Group 3 would be invaluable in understanding
      whether higher rates of disease in the BAME community are a result of greater exposure to
      COVID-19 contact, a higher likelihood of being infected once exposed or a greater risk of
      disease once infection occurs.

      In addition to increasing the sample size and the number of regions in the UK that are being
      sampled, a longitudinal sampling cohort has been introduced. A subset of participants equally
      distributed over the age bands will be enrolled into the longitudinal aspect of the study
      where repeat blood and saliva samples are taken to look for antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. A
      questionnaire to ascertain whether the participant or any household contacts have had any
      symptoms of or been tested positive for COVID-19 will also be collected.

      A proportion of participants from this group from selected sites will also provide up to a
      maximum of three blood samples for separation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs)
      to evaluate T cell responses. These participants can be either seronegative or seropositive
      at their Visit 1.

      With the latter addition of four more sites, all NHS regions are now represented in the
      study.
    
  