
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the objective response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial)
      by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 among patients treated with
      durvalumab (MEDI4736) plus tremelimumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the duration of response (DoR) among patients who achieve a complete response
      (CR) or partial response (PR) (confirmed and unconfirmed) by RECIST 1.1.

      II. To estimate the duration of response (DoR) per immune-related response criteria among
      patients who achieve a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (confirmed and
      unconfirmed) by RECIST 1.1.

      III. To evaluate overall survival (OS) among patients treated with durvalumab (MEDI4736) plus
      tremelimumab.

      IV. To evaluate investigator-assessed progression-free survival (IA-PFS) among patients
      treated with durvalumab (MEDI4736) plus tremelimumab.

      V. To evaluate IA-PFS assessed by immune-related response criteria (irRC-IA-PFS) among
      patients treated with durvalumab (MEDI4736) plus tremelimumab.

      VI. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with durvalumab
      (MEDI4736) plus tremelimumab.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the association of potential predictive markers identified in S1400A, with
      response and progression-free survival (PFS).

      II. To explore the association of PD-L1 expression status with response and PFS.

      III. To contribute to an ongoing serum and tumor bank in S1400.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive tremelimumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1 for courses 1-4 and
      durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years, and
      then at the end of year 3.
    
  