
    
      This study is divided into two separate phases.

      Phase I evaluated if the antioxidants produced from pomegranate juice cross the placenta in
      normal healthy pregnancies. Twenty women were enrolled, 10 who will take 8 oz of pomegranate
      juice daily and then 10 others who will take 8 oz of placebo juice without pomegranate daily.
      Blood samples were first collected from the woman at the time enrollment and then from both
      the woman and the cord blood at the time of delivery. These blood samples were analyzed to
      measure the levels of antioxidant metabolites from the pomegranate juice. This phase was
      deigned to confirm placental transfer of antioxidant pomegranate metabolites. The results
      confirmed placenta transfer of pomegranate metabolites. Further, placental tissues from 12
      patients (4 in the pomegranate group and 8 in the control group) were collected for analysis
      of oxidative stress. The preliminary in vivo results were extended to oxidative stress and
      cell death assays in vitro. Placental explants and cultured primary human trophoblasts were
      exposed to pomegranate juice or glucose (control) under defined oxygen tensions and chemical
      stimuli. We found decreased oxidative stress in term human placentas from women who labored
      after prenatal ingestion of pomegranate juice compared with apple juice as control. Moreover,
      pomegranate juice reduced in vitro oxidative stress, apoptosis, and global cell death in term
      villous explants and primary trophoblast cultures exposed to hypoxia, the hypoxia mimetic
      cobalt chloride, and the kinase inhibitor staurosporine. Punicalagin, but not ellagic acid,
      both prominent polyphenols in pomegranate juice, reduced oxidative stress and
      stimulus-induced apoptosis in cultured syncytiotrophoblasts.

      Phase II focuses on pregnancies with intrauterine growth restriction. If they meet entry
      criteria, then woman will be enrolled and randomized into 1 of 2 groups.

      Treatment group: Expecting mothers in this group will start a daily regimen of 8 oz glass of
      pomegranate juice. They will keep a daily diary documenting their compliance. They will
      continue this daily intake up until delivery of their infant.

      Placebo group: These women will start a daily regimen of an 8 oz of pomegranate free juice
      placebo that matches taste, calories, and appearance to regular pomegranate juice but lacks
      polyphenols. They will also keep a diary of daily intake to help ensure compliance similar to
      the treatment group. They too will continue to take the placebos up until the time they
      deliver.

      Both groups: All women will be followed up on a weekly basis to assess compliance. A detailed
      diet history will be collected from the women at the time of enrollment, midway through the
      3rd trimester and at the time of delivery. Furthermore, all women will have a detailed social
      history collected at the time of enrollment. Upon delivery, cord blood will be collected and
      sent for ellagic acid, a polyphenic component. All placental material will be sent for formal
      pathological exam and analyzed for markers of placental injury.

      If clinically stable, the infants will receive MRI evaluations to evaluate for possible brain
      injury.
    
  