
    
      All patients with medulloblastoma who were diagnosed prior to their 3rd birthday will
      contribute to both the biology and therapeutic primary objectives of this protocol.
      Furthermore patients who were ≥3 and <5 years old at the time of diagnosis will also be
      included in the cohort for these primary objectives as long as they meet the eligibility
      criteria as outlined in Amendment 8.0 of this protocol. Patients in the 3-5 year old age
      cohort who enrolled on previous versions of this protocol and who do not meet the criteria as
      outlined in Amendment 8.0 of this protocol will be excluded from the outcome analyses of the
      biology and therapeutic primary objectives of the protocol.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To identify patterns of methylation profiling that are associated with progression-free
           survival among young pediatric patients with medulloblastoma treated with risk-adapted
           therapy.

        -  To estimate the event-free survival distribution of young medulloblastoma patients
           treated with risk-adapted therapy.

      Secondary

        -  To perform high-resolution genome-wide analyses of chromosomal abnormalities and gene
           expression patterns, and evaluate the relationship of these to other clinicopathological
           variables.

        -  To evaluate specific tumor types for molecular abnormalities with suspected prognostic
           or therapeutic significance.

        -  To evaluate the feasibility of collecting frozen and fixed tumor samples for analysis
           using high-resolution molecular biology tools.

        -  To estimate the event-free and overall survival of patients treated with the proposed
           risk-adapted therapy regimen, and to descriptively compare these survival rates to
           historical controls.

        -  To estimate the rates of local and distant disease progression in patients treated with
           focal radiotherapy (RT) to the post-operative tumor bed using a 5 mm clinical target
           volume margin.

        -  To estimate the objective response rate (sustained for 8 weeks) to induction
           chemotherapy including high-dose intravenous methotrexate for patients with residual or
           metastatic disease.

        -  To evaluate the feasibility and toxicity of administering low-dose intravenous
           vinblastine in conjunction with induction chemotherapy to patients with metastatic
           disease.

        -  To evaluate the feasibility and toxicity of administering consolidation therapy
           including cyclophosphamide and pharmacokinetically targeted topotecan to patients with
           metastatic disease, and to estimate the sustained (for 8 weeks) objective response rate
           (complete response and partial response) to such therapy in patients with measurable
           residual disease after induction.

        -  To evaluate the feasibility and toxicity of administering oral maintenance therapy in
           young children.

        -  To use quantitative magnetic resonance (MR) measures (volumetric, diffusion, and
           perfusion) of young brain tumor patients receiving chemotherapy including high-dose
           intravenous methotrexate to assess impact of treatment on developing brain.

        -  To investigate the feasibility of using PET as an in-vivo dosimetric and distal edge
           verification system for patients treated with proton beam therapy (for participants
           enrolled at St Jude only).

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to disease risk
      (low-risk vs intermediate-risk vs high-risk). Therapy consists of risk adapted induction,
      consolidation and maintenance chemotherapy. Focal irradiation is given to intermediate risk
      patients who have reached at least 12 months of age upon completion of induction.
      Intermediate risk patients who have not will receive low risk chemotherapy to delay RT until
      the age of 12 months.

      Patients may consent to provide tumor tissue and blood samples for biological studies. Tumor
      tissues are analyzed for the activation of the wnt signaling pathway (β-catenin), activation
      of the shh signaling pathway (Gli-1/SFRP1), and ERBB2; validation of novel patterns of gene
      expression via immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis; loss of chromosomes 6, 8p, 9q22,
      isochromosome 17q; amplification of MYCC, MYCN, and MYCL; validation of genetic abnormalities
      via interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (iFISH); construction of gene expression
      profiles via microarray analysis; single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) analysis for DNA
      purity and integrity using UV spectrophotometry and agarose gel electrophoresis;
      amplification of DNA via PCR and a combination of previously published and 'in-house'
      generated primers; potential oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes via DNA sequence analysis;
      expression of a number of cell signal proteins implicated in the biology of medulloblastoma
      via western blot; expression of additional proteins encoded by genes associated through SNP
      and gene expression array analysis with clinical disease behavior; and differential
      expression pattern of genes detected using microarray analysis via RT-PCR. DNA extraction and
      construction of tissue microarrays (TMAs) from tumor tissue will also be used for future IHC
      and FISH analysis. Blood samples are analyzed for constitutional DNA from patients whose
      tumors contain gene mutations via sequence analysis of constitutional DNA; cyclophosphamide
      and its metabolites via liquid chromatography mass spectroscopy method; topotecan lactone via
      isocratic high-performance liquid chromatography assay with fluorescence detection; and
      alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AAGP) concentrations via immunoturbidimetric assay.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  