
    
      Previous research has shown that prevalence of self-reported eating disorders vary from 5-40%
      among group fitness instructors. Most of these studies were conducted more than 10 years ago,
      hence the potential impact of social media on the fitness instructors' body image and mental
      health symptoms has therefore not been taken into account. Recent studies reveal that social
      media is a significant contributor for perceived body image and for eating and
      exercise-related disturbances. A more recent Norwegian study from 2015 found a prevalence of
      self-reported eating disorders of 4.8% and 4.3% among female and male group fitness
      instructors, respectively. However, major limitations with this previous study was the low
      sample size (n=107), few men included, not being national representative (i.e. only
      recruiting from a smaller geographical area), and the lack of instruments assessing body
      awareness of muscularity and leanness instead of thinness.

      The fitness industry has great potential as a public health collaborator, and to improve
      physical activity level and public health status. However, this potential can be flawed by
      instructors complying with a culture idealizing unhealthy attitudes, motivation and behaviour
      with regards to nutrition, exercise and body image. This is a culture also potentially being
      underlined by the new exercise concepts and titles brought forward by the fitness industry,
      emphasizing body ideals and appearance, and body weight control. An additional concern to the
      mental health of fitness instructors, are the increase in reports of sexual harassment.

      The high prevalence of perceived negative body image and disordered eating among fitness
      instructors, reports of sexual harassment, and the focus on appearance and control of body
      shape in the fitness industry, causes concern for the mental health of the employees (i.e.
      fitness instructors). Hence, this cohort study aims to map the prevalence of mental health
      symptoms in a national cohort of fitness instructors.
    
  