
    
      PSH resident participants (200 each in the intervention and wait-list control arms) and
      within each site, all resident participants will be informed about the study and invited to
      participate. We will recruit participants within blocks of four housing sites per month, with
      each block containing two intervention and two wait-list control sites, and anticipating
      roll-out of one such block per month. Anticipated completion of recruitment and enrollment of
      all participants should occur within 6 months, allowing for a one-to-two-month extension to
      complete these activities. The intervention will be offered to the wait-list control
      participants once all participants in the intervention sites from the same block have
      completed their 6-month follow-up.

      400 resident participants will be recruited, with 200 participants each in the intervention
      and wait-list control arms (~20 participants per site). Within each site, study staff will
      advertise the study to residents the week prior to enrollment by placing flyers at the study
      site and making announcements at community meetings. After the informational meeting, study
      staff will be present at the recruitment sites during designated times to screen interested
      participants for eligibility and enroll those eligible into the study. These study procedures
      were successfully employed our pilot study.

      Our specific aims are:

      Aim 1: Conduct a cluster randomized trial to estimate the effect of our smoke-free home
      intervention on residents' voluntary adoption of smoke-free homes. Aim 2: Evaluate the
      cost-effectiveness of the smoke-free home intervention. Aim 3: Determine characteristics of
      high and low adopters at the individual level, and social and environmental barriers and
      enablers of adoption, scalability and sustainability of the intervention.

      It will take 6 months for the intervention group participants to complete the study, and 1
      year for the wait-list control participants to complete the study.
    
  