
    
      Study Design:

      VRC 015 will examine safety, tolerability and immune response to the VRC recombinant
      adenoviral vector serotype 5 vector vaccine, VRC-HIVADV014-00-VP (rAd5), in uninfected
      subjects who will be randomized to receive the injection either by needle or Biojector
      injection. The study will include enrollment of rAd5 vaccine-naive subjects, as well as
      enrollment of rollover subjects who received at least one rAd5 injection in a prior study
      that included the rAd5 vaccine. The hypothesis is that the rAd5 vaccine will be safe and
      immunogenic when administered by either needle or Biojector. The primary objectives are to
      evaluate the safety and tolerability of the rAd5 vaccine at 10(10) PU dosage in the naive and
      previously vaccinated, uninfected subjects when administered by needle or Biojectors. The
      secondary objectives include evaluating the HIV-1-specific humoral and T-cell immune
      responses and adenovirus serotype 5 (Ad5) antibody responses, and social impacts of
      participation in an HIV vaccine study. Exploratory evaluations include epitope mapping and
      other immunogenicity evaluations.

      Product Description:

      The VRC HIV rAd5 vaccine is a recombinant product composed of 4 adenoviral vectors (in a
      3:1:1:1 ratio) that encode the HIV-1 Gag/Pol polyprotein from clade B and HIV-1 Env
      glycoproteins from clades A, B, and C, respectively.

      Subjects:

      Group 1 will include healthy adults, ages 18-50 years old who are HIV vaccine-naive. Group 2
      will include healthy adults, ages 18-55 years old, who are rollover enrollments from a prior
      study of the VRC HIV rAd5 vaccine.

      Study Plan:

      Study Group 1 and Group 2 will be simultaneously enrolled. Both groups will be randomized in
      1:1 ratio to receive the study injection by needle or Biojector. All study injections will be
      at a dosage of 10(10) particle units (PU) of rAd5 vaccine delivered into deltoid muscle.

      There are more than 100 past study participants who are potentially eligible for Group 2. The
      study design is based on at least 10 rollover subjects, but allows for additional rollover
      enrollment of up to 10 more (i.e., Group 2 total n=20) if there is greater than expected
      interest in participation. The sample for immunogenicity studies collected at Week 4 after
      vaccination from Group 2 subjects will be obtained by apheresis from those who are willing
      and eligible for apheresis; otherwise peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) will be
      obtained from 80 mL blood collected by phlebotomy.

      Study Duration:

      Subjects will be evaluated at 5 or more clinical visits for 24 weeks after the study
      injection and then followed by annual clinic telephone or mail contact for the subsequent 4
      years.
    
  