
    
      Objective: In order to complete these data and to answer clearly to the question of the role
      of persistent infection by enteroviruses in atherosclerosis, we propose this research program
      involving the Departments of Vascular Surgery of three University hospitals of the
      "Rhône-Alpes" region and of three laboratories of Virology interested by the relationship
      between chronic diseases and enterovirus infection..

      Methods: It is projected to include about one hundred voluntary adults exhibiting carotid
      atheromatous lesions requiring a surgical removal. Because of the difficulty to define a
      pertinent control group, each patient will be his/her own control. In addition to the
      fragment of pathologic carotid, it will be taken arterial and venous fragments from vessels
      that are never the seat of atherosclerosis lesions. To reach the best sensitivity,
      enterovirus RNA will be detected by nested RT-PCR.

      Evaluation criteria: The main evaluation criterion will be the percentage of detection of
      enterovirus RNA by RT-PCR in atheromatous lesions by comparison to control arteries by
      Mac-Nemar test. These results will be correlated to anatomic and histological lesions of the
      atheromatous plaques. Other markers will be analysed secondarily: detection of enterovirus
      RNA in control venous samples, detection of stigmata of viral replication by immunochemistry
      or detection of negative RNA strands, analysis of the antibody response to enterovirus in
      blood, molecular typing of enteroviruses detected in the lesions… Expected benefits: This
      study should allow to better understand the putative involvement of enteroviruses in
      atherosclerosis-linked diseases. If the hypothesis of a relationship was confirmed, a more
      ambitious research project would be proposed in order to investigate the mechanisms by which
      enterovirus can favour atherosclerosis and to discuss the opportunity of preventive
      strategies (notably vaccination) to reduce the risk.
    
  