
    
      BACKGROUND:

      This dynamic population provided a valuable opportunity to gain important information about
      the etiology of hypertension which would be much more difficult to gain from a United States
      Black population because higher weight and blood pressure are already entrenched and static
      in the United States population.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      From 1991 to 1996, a cross-sectional study was conducted to test the hypothesis that
      differences in hypertension prevalence were primarily related to differences in SES. The
      higher prevalence of hypertension among the high SES Nigerian professionals was thought to be
      related to higher weight, caloric intake, Westernization of diet, alcohol intake, sodium
      intake, cardiovascular reactivity, and stress due to job, migration, and change in SES, and
      to reduced potassium intake and physical activity. Civil servants were systematically sampled
      from civil service employee lists. Data were collected on blood pressure; urinary sodium,
      potassium, and protein; diet; anthropometry; electrocardiogram; serum insulin; stress in the
      work environment, migration history, and cardiovascular reactivity.

      In FY 1992, the Office of Research on Women's Health provided supplemental funds to enlarge
      the study and to perform gender analyses. The supplemental funds were used to determine
      whether fatty acid distributions, and their relationships to cardiovascular risk factors
      differed between Nigerian women and United States Black women; United States Black women and
      United States white women; and Nigerian women and Nigerian men. Forty men and forty women,
      ages 18 to 30, were chosen randomly from the Nigerian civil servant population. Subjects with
      hypertension, those using oral contraceptives, or any medication affecting the sympathetic
      nervous system, were excluded. The Nigerian subjects were compared with 40 Black and 40 white
      healthy female volunteers at the University of Pittsburgh.

      The grant was renewed in 1996 through August 2001 to conduct a longitudinal study of 726
      members of the original cohort. The purpose was to determine the importance of weight gain
      and weight-related factors, and the possible interaction of other factors, e.g. psychosocial,
      electrolytes, reactivity, macronutrient intake, to change in blood pressure. Factors related
      to weight gain were identified. The high prevalence of the electrocardiogram left ventricular
      hypertrophy (ECG-LVH) was validated against echocardiographic measures (ECHO-LVH). Predictors
      of change in ECG-LVH, and the correlates of microalbuminuria were identified. In Year 2
      (Cohort Year 4) half of the population was restudied with echocardiography, cardiovascular
      reactivity, and new psychosocial measures. In Year 4 (Cohort Year 6), with the exception of
      cardiovascular reactivity, the full cohort was re-examined for baseline measures, including
      multiple blood pressure readings, height, weight, waist, hips, ECG, physical activity, two 24
      hour dietary recalls, alcohol intake, menopausal status, psychosocial measures, 24 hour urine
      for sodium, potassium, creatinine, micro-albuminuria, and fasting serum for lipids, insulin,
      glucose, and creatinine.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  