
    
      Incontinence is a widespread problem in all health care settings. Prevalence figures of
      incontinence vary around 20.0% of all hospitalized patients. In acute and critical care units
      the proportion of patients with fecal incontinence may rise up to 33.0%.

      One of the main complications of incontinence is inflammation of the skin in the genital and
      anal region, also known as incontinence-associated dermatitis (IAD). IAD is defined as skin
      inflammation manifested as redness with or without blistering, erosion, or loss of skin
      barrier function that occurs as a consequence of chronically or repeated exposure of the skin
      to urine or faeces.

      A range of skin care products and procedures for the prevention of IAD exists. In order to
      provide cost-effective IAD prevention, it's important to target preventive skin care
      interventions to patients at risk of IAD.

      The aims of this study are:

        1. To identify specific factors associated with the development of Incontinence- Associated
           Dermatitis (IAD) in a recognized high risk patient population (ICU patients suffering
           from fecal incontinence)

        2. To develop and statistically validate patient profiles being associated with high risk
           for IAD development

      This study is a matched case control study. The cases are defined as patients with IAD Cat. 2
      (red skin with skin breakdown). The controls are defined as patients with IAD Cat. 0 (at
      risk, no redness and skin intact). The patient will be matched for fecal incontinence.

      In total, 380 ICU patients suffering from fecal incontinence will be included. 19 possible
      risk factors will be studied.

      All data will be collected at one point in time by the research team. Different sources and
      methods will be used to collect patient data: skin assessment, patient record, direct patient
      observation, routine blood samples.

      Specific IAD risk factors will be determined by applying univariate and multivariate binary
      logistic regression modeling.
    
  