
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the efficacy of adjuvant temozolomide (TMZ) alone or in combination with
           thalidomide and/or isotretinoin and/or celecoxib, in terms of 6-month progression-free
           survival, in patients who have undergone radiotherapy for supratentorial glioblastoma
           multiforme.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 8 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-7 and 15-21.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive temozolomide as in arm I and oral thalidomide once daily on
           days 1-28.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive temozolomide as in arm I and oral isotretinoin twice daily on
           days 1-21.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive temozolomide as in arm I and oral celecoxib twice daily on days
           1-28.

        -  Arm V: Patients receive temozolomide as in arm I, thalidomide as in arm II, and
           isotretinoin as in arm III.

        -  Arm VI: Patients receive temozolomide as in arm I, thalidomide as in arm II, and
           celecoxib as in arm IV.

        -  Arm VII: Patients receive temozolomide as in arm I, isotretinoin as in arm III, and
           celecoxib as in arm IV.

        -  Arm VIII: Patients receive temozolomide as in arm I, thalidomide as in arm II,
           isotretinoin as in arm III, and celecoxib as in arm IV.

      In all arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patient may receive additional courses of therapy at
      the discretion of the treating physician.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for at least 30 days and then
      every 3 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 180 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  