
    
      Specific Aims

      The overall objective is to develop and validate MRI methods for the evaluation and
      monitoring of renal status and associated cerebrovascular effects of renal dysfunction and
      treatment. The proposed project include two phases: 1) MRI technical development and
      validation with reproducibility studies; 2) clinical pilot studies with two patient
      populations (CKD patients and renal transplant recipients) to explore the potential of MRI in
      evaluating CKD, post-transplantation renal dysfunction and cerebrovascular pathophysiology
      associated with or induced by reduced kidney function and renal replacement treatment. The
      ultimate goal is to use MRI as a non-invasive and non-contrast enhanced tool to facilitate
      the diagnosis and prognosis of renal dysfunction and associated diseases, and to assess the
      efficacy of therapeutic interventions, and monitor disease progress across time.

      Specific Aim 1: Imaging technical development and protocol optimization for renal and
      cerebral MRI.

      The overall goal is to develop, customize and optimize new MRI methods to overcome challenges
      due to physiological motions and facilitate clinical research studies of renal and cerebral
      diseases, which will include but not are limited to the following aspects.

      Sub-Aim 1.1: Develop imaging methods to improve MRI quality and efficiency for renal disease
      studies.

      Sub-Aim 1.2: Optimize gas-challenge functional MRI protocols to study cerebral and renal
      vascular endothelial dysfunction.

      Sub-Aim 1.3: Evaluate the reproducibility of cerebral and renal MRI methods.

      Specific Aim 2: Perform pilot studies to evaluate the potential of MRI in CKD patients and
      renal transplant recipients.

      Sub-Aim 2.1: Evaluate the correspondence of MRI measures with clinical metrics (i.e. eGFR)
      and routinely assessed cognitive functions from CKD and ESRD patients.

      This will be accomplished by performing both cross-sectional and longitudinal studies, which
      will allow us to evaluate the diagnostic and prognostic potential of these non-invasive
      imaging methods. The investigators hypothesize that the measurements from cerebral and/or
      renal MRI can effectively reflect cerebral and/or renal (anatomic and physiological) changes
      induced by CKD or dialysis treatment.

      Sub-Aim 2.2: Investigate the potential of MRI methods in the evaluation of post-transplant
      kidneys.

      This will be accomplished by imaging transplant recipients in three distinct cohorts; those
      with good allograft function but coming in for routine protocol biopsy, with stable renal
      function, and with unstable renal function due to post-transplant complications. These
      patient populations will receive protocol biopsies (i.e. scheduled repeat biopsies) as
      standard of care; therefore pathologic results will be available for correlation with MRI
      measures. The investigators hypothesize that MRI methods can be a non-invasive surrogate
      marker of renal tissue properties and functional changes induced by renal post-transplant
      dysfunction (e.g. renal rejection) currently only obtained through biopsy.
    
  