
    
      Measurements

      Physiological measurements Airway pressure, esophageal pressure, electrical activity of the
      diaphragm and flow

        1. Flow and airway pressure signal will be recorded from the ventilators by connecting the
           ventilator to a laptop computer if possible. Recording these data simultaneously with
           esophageal pressure or electrical activity of the diaphragm (see later in protocol for
           details) could be technically unfeasible. In this case, a flow sensor and an additional
           port for pressure measurement will be connected to the endotracheal tube proximal to the
           Y connector (without interfering with patient's breathing). Both, flow sensor and
           pressure port will be connected to differential pressure transducers respectively.
           Signals will be acquired with at least 100 Hz sampling.

        2. In centers used to perform esophageal pressure measurements, an esophageal catheter will
           be inserted as per usual clinical practice, checked for accuracy with an occlusion test,
           and connected to a 3 ways stopcock and a pressure transducer. The occlusion test will be
           recorded and performed before any new recordings. Any ventilator can be used if an
           esophageal pressure is used.

        3. If available, in centers used to record or monitor the electrical activity of the
           diaphragm, instead of an esophageal catheter, the electrical activity of the diaphragm
           will be provided by a catheter dedicated to the monitoring of the electrical activity of
           the diaphragm, or EaDi, on a Servo-I or Servo-U ventilator (Maquet©, Lund, Sweden). This
           catheter is formally designed to be used for a specific mode of ventilation called
           Neurally Adjusted Ventilatory Assist (NAVA) but here will be used for monitoring
           purposes only (NAVA catheter). In such cases a specific software (Servotracker, Maquet)
           may be used to record all signals from the ventilator.

        4. In case the patient has been enrolled but the esophageal catheter cannot be placed or is
           contraindicated, the recordings will be limited to airway pressure and flow. Each centre
           should have a minimum of 5 patients with esophageal catheter or electrical activity
           recording.

        5. As an ancillary study, in a subgroup of patients, simplified recordings will be obtained
           only flow and airway pressure signals will be performed continuously directly taken from
           the ventilator by connecting the ventilator to a laptop computer equipped with a special
           software for off line analysis (Better Care ©, Sabadell, Spain).

        6. Occlusion pressure (or pressure at 0.1 sec, P0.1) as an index of respiratory drive. In
           patients triggering the ventilator, the P0.1 will be analyzed from the tracings. The
           only condition to have reliable measurements is to use a pressure triggering, not a flow
           triggering.

      As an ancillary study, in a subgroup of patients, a simplified extended polysomnography
      recording will be performed during the first 7 days after inclusion using a home
      polysomnography device (Prodigy, CerebraHealth ©, Canada) equipped with 2 frontal EEG a
      reference electrode to the mastoid, EMG, and electrooculogram.

      Data collection

      At the beginning of the recordings, ventilatory settings will be collected: ventilator brand,
      mode of ventilation and settings including: FiO2, PEEP, set and real tidal volume (or
      pressure), set and real respiratory rate, maximum inspiratory flow, inspiratory time, Glasgow
      coma scale and Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS) or Riker Sedation Agitation Scale
      (SAS). Any medications used at the day of the measurement and before will be collected
      especially neuromuscular blocking agents, sedatives (brands and doses), opiates and
      vasopressors including dose, duration of the treatment and date of last use. Investigators
      will also collect clinical characteristics of the patients (SAPS and SOFA at ICU admission
      and at the day of the recording, main ARDS or AHRF etiology and risk factors, age, gender,
      weight, height, days of mechanical ventilation, patient's position -supine vs prone-, kidney
      and liver function). Other comorbidities will be recorded, with special emphasis in the ones
      that could affect the incidence of the studied phenomenon, such as: COPD, lung transplant or
      any neuromuscular condition that could affect the respiratory drive or respiratory muscle
      function.

      Patients will be followed up to get the total duration of mechanical ventilation, ICU length
      of stay, day of the first weaning attempt, day of tracheotomy if any, status at ICU discharge
      (alive or death) and at hospital discharge and at day 60.
    
  