
    
      Specific aims of this study :

        1. To examine the influences of acute gastrointestinal hemorrhage on the serological or
           urinary level of novel renal biomarkers in patients with cirrhosis.

        2. To investigate the ability of novel biomarkers to predict the development of acute
           kidney injury and the response to renal salvage treatment in patients with cirrhosis
           suffering from acute gastrointestinal hemorrhage.

        3. To investigate the ability of novel biomarkers to differentiate the precipitating
           factors (such as sepsis-induced AKI, hypervolemia-induced AKI, etc.) and the causes of
           AKI between pre-renal AKI, acute tubular necrosis, and hepatorenal syndrome.

        4. To investigate the ability of these novel biomarkers to predict the hepatic and overall
           outcomes in patients with cirrhosis suffering from acute gastrointestinal hemorrhage.

      Estimation of sample size :

      According to previous studies, the estimated incidence of AKI in cirrhotic patients suffering
      from gastrointestinal hemorrhage is about 10-15%. The type 1 error is set as 0.05; and the
      type 2 error is set as 0.2. Then, the calculated sample size is about 80. Considering the
      possibility of loss of follow-up is about 10%, the estimated sample size will be about 90
      patients.

      Sample collection and laboratory experiments:

      Patients will be prospectively followed from admission until discharge.

        1. Sample collection: A fresh 30-mL of urine sample will be collected either by way of
           clean catch or Foley catheter tubing will be collected at the time in admission to our
           hospital, at the peak stage of AKI, and after the recovery (if recovery occurs) 10cc of
           blood will be collected from the peripheral vessel once at the time in admission to our
           hospital, at the peak stage of AKI, and after the recovery (if recovery occurs).

        2. Abdominal sonography (including evaluation of bilateral kidneys) will be arranged if no
           image study available within 3 months upon admission.

      Urine examination:

      urinary neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), IL-18, spot urine protein,
      albumin, creatinine, urea nitrogen, sodium, kidney injury molecule 1 (KIM-1), liver-type
      fatty acid binding protein (L-FABP), insulin-like growth factor, and tissue inhibitor
      metalloproteinase will be measured.

      Serum examination:

      serum NGAL, cystatin C, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, uric acid, IL-1, tumor necrosis
      factor alfa will be measured.

      Record clinical information and regular follow-up:

      Record any precipitating factors, including: presence of active infection or sepsis, the
      dosage and types of diuretics, presence of acute hemorrhage, the frequency and the drainage
      volume of each therapeutic paracentesis, supplement of albumin or other colloid fluid,
      presence of heart failure or active pulmonary problems, prescription of non-selective beta
      blockers, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), antibiotics, herbs and other
      nephrotoxic drugs, as well as others. Record any chronic underlying diseases, including:
      diabetes mellitus, hypertension, congestive heart failure (the baseline left ventricular
      ejection rate if available), chronic kidney disease (baseline glomerular filtration rate),
      autoimmune disease, anemia of chronic disorder, the severity of liver diseases (such as
      status of ascites, serum albumin level, presence of varices, etc.), and so on.

      Regular follow-up of renal function and fluid status at least twice per week as the routine
      management in clinical practice. Regular measurements of patients' clinical data, including
      vital signs will be done in daily practice.

      Detailed laboratory methods:

      Urine samples will be immediately refrigerated and then centrifuged at 5,000g for 10 minutes
      at -4°C. Aliquots of 1 mL of supernatant will be subsequently stored within 6 hours of
      collection in cryovials at -80°C for NGAL, IL-18, KIM-1, L-FABP, albumin, sodium, and
      creatinine measurements. No additives or protease inhibitors will be used. All biomarkers
      will be measured from frozen aliquots that will not undergo any additional freeze-thaw
      cycles. Laboratory measurements will be performed by personnel blinded to patient
      information.
    
  