
    
      Cerebral palsy (CP) is the most common physical disability in childhood (Surveillance of
      Cerebral Palsy in Europe [SCPE], 2000, 2002; Winter, Autry, Boyle, & Yeargin-Allsopp,
      2002),and epidemiological studies of industrialized countries indicate that CP occurs in 2.0
      to 2.5 per 1000 live births (Hagberg, Hagberg, Beckung, & Uvebrant, 2001; Paneth & Kiely,
      1984; Parkes, Dolk, Hill, & Pattenden, 2001). CP is defined as a movement impairment ranging
      from mild to severe (Bax et al., 2005; Bobath, 1954; Nelson, 2001); and occurs through
      social, physical and environmental causal pathways that result in a brain lesion sometime
      during the ante, peri or post natal period of birth (Stanley, Blair, & Alberman, 2000).

      Preterm birth accounts for 40% of all cases of cerebral palsy (Stanley et al., 2000). An
      infant is born preterm if the birth occurs between 17-36 weeks from their date of conception.
      Per 1,000 births in the United States between 1989 and 1996, the rate of preterm births
      increased by 4%, with African American preterm births nearly twice that of whites (Morbidity
      and Mortality Weekly Report [MMWR], 1999). The rate of preterm birth in the United States is
      about 10% of all births. Early born preterm infants need organ support in neonatal intensive
      care unit (NICU) nurseries. Problems encountered by this population due to their undeveloped
      systems consist of respiratory, cardiac, central nervous system (CNS) vulnerability for
      damage, feeding and gastrointestinal, and kidney problems (Goldenring, 2004). Very and
      extremely preterm infants (less than 32 weeks) have the highest rate of developmental
      disability. Norm referenced cognitive, social, and neuro-developmental test scores at 6 years
      of age indicated that 80% of extremely preterm infants exhibited mild, moderate, and severe
      sensorimotor (perceptual-cognitive-motor) disability; with 12% of these infants diagnosed
      with disabling CP (Marlow, Wolke, Bracewell, & Samara, 2005). Rose, Feldman, & Jankowski,
      (2002) found that very preterm children needed 30% more time to process visual and
      somatosensory perceptual information needed for intellectual tasks at 5, 7, and 12 months of
      age. These discrepancies in efficient processing of sensorimotor stimulation continue into
      childhood (DeMaio-Feldman, 1994; Feder, et al. 2005) as measured from a child's cognitive
      responses to their environment (Barlow & Lewandowski, 2000), and internally from mechanisms
      that provide a foundation for equilibrium and perception such as information generated from
      within joints, muscles, and skin as tactile-kinesthetic information (Bracewell & Marlow,2002;
      de Groot, van Hoek, Hopkins, & Touwen, 1993), and as auditory, vestibular, and visual
      postural-spatial processing (de Graaf, Samsom, Pettersen, Schaaf, van Schie, & de Groot,
      2004; De Vries, & De Groot, 2002). In addition to factors such as low birth weight that
      predispose infants to central nervous system insult (40%), the remaining 60% of infants who
      are diagnosed with CP suffer from acute insult to the CNS (hemorrhage, increased intracranial
      pressure, or hypoxic ischemic injury) for other reasons, such as respiratory disease, sepsis,
      and necrotizing enterocolitis in neonates (NEC). Many different factors, endogenous mediators
      and mechanisms, and mechanical, can alter vascular pressure. One respiratory condition in
      pre, near, and at term age infants that results in a composite of neuro-developmental and
      audiologic impairment (motor, cognitive, perceptual, and behavioral), ranging from between
      15-50%, is persistent pulmonary hypertension in the newborn (PPHN) (Lipkin, Davidson, Rhines,
      & Chang, 2002; Lipkin, Davidson, Rhines, & Chang, 2002). As a respiratory disease process,
      PPHN can result from pulmonary hypoplasia associated with diaphragmatic, and to a lesser
      degree abdominal wall hernias, or from vasoconstriction associated with bacterial sepsis, in
      addition to other pathophysiology (Hagedorn, Gardner, Dickey, & Abman, 2006). This
      exploratory within group study focuses upon pre, near, and term age infants with differing
      diagnoses and varying degrees of risk for a diagnoses of CP, developmental coordination
      disorder, or sensory processing difficulties. Feeding problems are usually prevalent in
      infants who sustain neurological insult in addition to near term or term age infants with
      serious developmental disruptions. The investigators measured the intervention effects of
      neurophysiologically based occupational therapy upon adaptive CNS maturation using several
      outcome measures. Since infants in the intervention group exhibited a large treatment effect
      in relationship to their feeding abilities and other covariates, this study should be
      replicated with infants with similar diagnoses with the same longitudinal outcome measures to
      learn more about and to further validate the efficacy of neurophysiologically based
      occupational therapy upon feeding, infant sensorimotor development, and parent efficacy in
      the NICU.

      The following collaborators assisted on this research project:

      Walden University: Minneapolis, Minnesota - Ray Thron, PhD, Lela Llorens, Ph.D, OTR, FAOTA,
      Chester Jones, Ph.D, and Aqueil Ahmad, Ph.D

      Primary Children's Medical Center: Salt Lake City, Utah - Mr. Ramsey Worman, Department of
      Bioengineering, David Bradley, MD and Ms. Barbara Wright, Department of Cardiology, and Mr.
      Doug Wolfe, Systems Administrator

      Mesa State College: Grand Junction, Colorado - Richard Ott, Ph.D, Computer Science,
      Mathematics, & Statistics

      Politecnico di Milano: P.zza Leonardo da Vinci, 32, 20133 Milano, Italy - Manuela Farrario,
      Ph.D, and Sergio Cerutti, Ph.D. Department of Bioingeneering
    
  