
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate outcomes of participation in Equine Assisted
      Therapy for those with a history of PTSD.

      This study protocol will be a within subjects design: Treatment group with pre- and
      post-intervention comparisons. Participants will be Military Veterans and "first responders"
      (emergency services personell) with prior diagnosis of PTSD; N=8 to 10.

      Procedures for treatment group: The treatment group will engage in sets of EAT sessions to be
      run at SARI Therapeutic Riding (SARI TR) and other equine therapy locations. A typical EAT
      session will involve beginning the session by checking in as a group, engaging in one or two
      activities with the horses and then processing the activity as a group. Each session will
      also end with a check out. The activities with equines will range from
      observation/educational, grooming, reflective work involving creative expression with
      writing/art, or more active activities such as leading. Each session will have an overall
      topic which will provide the framework for the session. Interactions with equines will take
      place in the indoor arena (an enclosed space for riding/training horses), whilst other
      aspects of the sessions will take place in the main lounge. Sessions will be conducted by a
      Clinical Counsellor certified with their Provincial Counselling and Psychotherapy
      Association, assisted by other certified personnel, including those with horse handling
      experience. Each session will include up to eight to ten participants. There will be two
      persons with therapeutic expertise and one with horse/TR experience attending to participants
      at all times during interaction with equines. Sessions will usually last about two and a half
      hours, incorporating psychotherapy and interacting with equines, over a course of several
      sessions.

      General procedure: Military Veterans and first responders with PTSD will be recruited from
      the local Occupational Stress Injury Social Support (OSISS) PTSD support group and similar
      organizations. This service "is a partnership program between the Department of National
      Defence and Veterans Affairs Canada" (OSISS website) created to provide peer support to
      Canadian Forces personnel, Veterans and their families. The OSISS provides peer support and
      aids in linking members to appropriate services, programmes and supports. Data will be
      collected through questionnaire-type tests and post-session interview of participants. A set
      of short tests, the Rosenberg Self-esteem Scale, the Positive and Negative Affect Scale
      (PNAS), and the PTSD Checklist for DSM-5 (PCL-5) will be administered. Participants will
      complete sets of tests at pre-session, post-session, and follow-up, and will be interviewed
      one week after the end of the study in order to obtain further data. Longer-term follow-up is
      also anticipated, with measures being repeated at further time points (e.g., one-, three-,
      and six-month follow-up) after completion of EAT sessions.
    
  