
    
      Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most common solid organ cancer in North American men and is
      initially androgen sensitive. Therefore, castration and/or androgen receptor blockade remains
      the central palliative treatment once PCa has metastasized or failed to locoregional
      therapies. Because androgen deprivation therapy is not curative, all patients will eventually
      progress to the metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer state. About 5% of prostate
      cancers will be metastatic by conventional imaging techniques at diagnosis while most
      patients achieving CRPC state will first be localized and then progress to metastatic state
      later in the disease course. Therefore, a significant proportion of patients will progress
      through an intermediary state of disease defined as the non-metastatic CRPC state (M0CRPC).
      Over the last year and a half, M0CRPC treatment landscape has completely changed with
      demonstrating the benefits of second-generation antiandrogens (darolutamide, enzalutamide and
      apalutamide) to prevent progression of M0CRPC patients. Enzalutamide have then been approved
      by the Federal Drug Administration and Health Canada for the treatment of M0CRPC.

      On the other hand, conventional imaging techniques based on bone turnover (bone scan (BS)) or
      anatomical features (magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT)) have
      important limitations and poor accuracy. Bone scans (BS) is the commonest imaging technique
      used to detect bone metastases in the clinics. BS does not image directly cancer cells, but
      the effect of cancer on the bone. Other pathologies such as fractures, degenerative arthritis
      and other benign bone lesions can also cause focal uptake on BS and lead to false-positive
      results. Another drawback of BS is its poor sensitivity to image small metastases confined to
      bone marrow. These limitations stress the importance to improve PCa imaging by using new
      imaging modalities.

      Because novel agents targeting the androgen synthesis and receptor axis (e.g. enzalutamide),
      bone metastasis (radium-223) and microtubules assembly (docetaxel, cabazitaxel) have been
      shown to increase metastatic CRPC patients overall survival, a burning question is to
      determine if the non-metastatic CRPC status is real. There is growing evidence that newer
      imaging techniques using positron emission tomography can improve metastasis detection
      accuracy and may refine PCa patient prognostic stratification and treatment eligibility.
    
  