
    
      Study Model:

      Randomized prospective registered After approval by the ethical committee of VinMec
      international Hospitals Institution , after approved registration prior to start the study to
      www.clinicaltrial.gov, 80 patients will be enrolled to participate to the study.

      Inclusion criteria; Acute zona diagnosed by the dermatologist Acute skin rash with blisters
      in a limited area on one side of the body Eruption Unilateral On dermatome between C5 and S2
      Age 18 to 85 years Old [YO], males and females American Society of Anesthesiologists score
      [ASA] grades I & II Patient who accepted to participate as volunteers and signed an informed
      consent

      Exclusion criteria; Psychiatric disease Central nervous system disease or pre-existing
      neuropathy Coagulation abnormalities or anti-coagulant treatment (heparins Anti vit K anti
      thrombin) Contra indication to perform a peripheral nerve block or interfascial block
      Infection of the skin overlying the puncture site of the block Allergy to local anaesthetic
      or prednisolone Contra indication to prednisolone ASA III and IV Morbidity Obese BMI > 30
      Pregnant woman Baseline evaluation; Date of first rash appeared Pain VAS score from 0 no Pain
      to 10 the worst imaginable pain Localization of the pain (Skin mapping of the painful area
      and allodynia area) Quality of life before the rash evaluated by the quality of Life
      questionnaire SF36 published with a certified translation in Vietnamese As soon as the
      diagnosis will be done by dermatologist the following treatment will be prescribed according
      to international published standards of Herpes; Oral administration of Acyclovir 800 mg 5
      times a day for 7 days Oral administration of prednisolone except if contra indication 30mg
      twice daily on d1 > 7 15mg twice daily on d8 > 14 7.5mg twice daily on d15 > 21

      Patient flow chart:

      Randomization Done by an administrative assistant using a computer program with block
      randomization.

      Group Control = medical treatment with the following pain killers Pain medications Oral
      administration of Gabapentin 300 mg/d on day 1 and 2 600 mg on day 3 and 4 if pain persists
      900 mg on day 5 and 6 if pain persists Oral administration of Paracetamol up to 3 g per day
      Use of oral narcotic contra-indicated A pain assessment will be done at day 7 if Pain scores
      < 4 medical treatment will be continued. If Pain score > 4 Patient will be shifted to the
      group Intervention and will follow the same protocols of this group with randomization done
      by an administrative assistant using a third computer program table of randomization.

      Group Intervention = Early block a second randomization will be done immediately after the
      first one by an administrative assistant using a second computer program table of
      randomization.

      Single Shot [SS] block : the patient will receive a regional anaesthesia by Inter fascial
      block, peripheral nerve block. The type of block would be the most appropriate to cover the
      dermatomes involved in the Herpes according to the mapping done with the higher ration
      benefit risks. Choice of Block by an anesthesiologist expert in regional anaesthesia
      techniques. After the block performance if the pain comes back patient will receive the
      standard medical treatment as in the group medical treatment Repeated [R] Blocks : the
      patient will receive a regional anaesthesia by Inter fascial block, peripheral nerve block.
      The type of block would be the most appropriate to cover the dermatomes involved in the
      Herpes according to the mapping done with the higher ratio benefit risks. The choice of the
      block will be done by an anesthesiologist expert in regional anaesthesia techniques. The
      block will be repeated every 48h until the pain will reach VAS < 3 6 h after block recovery.

      all the blocks will be performed under US guidance combined if peripheral nerve block or peri
      plexic block with Neurostimulation guidance to increase the safety of the block performance
      at the higher level.

      The choice of Local anesthetics used will be Ropivacaine 0.5% with the same posology used to
      performed a regional anaesthesia for surgery.

      The patient will be discharged 2 hours after the block performance Follow up

      The follow up will be done by :

      an pain nurse to analyse VAS at Week 1, 2 and 3 after the inclusion of the patient
      Satisfaction of patient 0-10 a pain physician to analyse at Month 1, 2 3 and 6 after 1st
      eruptive sign of Herpes Zona [HZ] eruption development of post herpetic neuralgia defined as
      Persisting pain beyond the crusting of lesion Pain lasting more than 1, 2 ,3 or 6 months
      after the acute infection Neuropathic pain with a Douleur Neuropathic 4 [DN4] scale score > 4
      DetectPain scale score > 19 Pain level VAS Mapping area of pain to calculate surface Quality
      of life score at Month 2 3 6 after start of eruptive phase Primary Outcome Quality of pain
      relief in acute phase VAS score at 1 day / 3 day/ 7 day / 14 Day / 21 day Mapping area
      surface at day 1, 7 , 14 and 21

      Secondary Outcome Development of Neuropathic pain Scale DN4 score > 4 Scale Pain detect Score
      > 17 Pain intensity Quality of life (QoL) Using the 36 item Short form Health survey [SF36]
      variation compared to initial assessment

      Sample size calculation An estimated 14 patients per group were required to detect a 25%
      reduction in the mean VAS score in block groups compared to standard treatment group, with a
      power of 80%, a 2-tailed α of 5%, and a mean VAS-score of 7.25 (SD 1.51) [14] of standard
      treatment group in the pre-test.

      The sample size of 80 patients allowed for a 10% loss to follow-up. Statistical analysis plan
      Statistical analysis will be performed using STATA 14.0 software. Statistical significant
      will be set at 5% level (2-tailed). A QoL score will be derived from related variables as
      stated above, using factor analysis.

      Data will be summarized using n (%) for categorical data and median (inter-quartile ranges)
      for continuous data. Analyses will include Chi-square or Fisher's exact test where
      appropriate for binomial data. Continuous data will be compared by non-parametric tests.
    
  