
    
      There are no strategies developed post SCT for patients who receive allogenic SCT with a
      significant amount of blasts prior SCT. Historically, the risk of relapse for patients with
      high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is estimated to be
      60% to 80%. No standard consolidation treatment options for patients with AML/MDS have been
      established to decrease the risk of relapse. The options are also limited for patients with
      relapsed disease after allogeneic SCT. Thus, novel strategies to treat relapsed disease and
      to reduce the incidence of relapse after allogeneic SCT are needed. PD-1 inhibition can
      induce remission in patients with relapsed hematologic disease after allogeneic SCT, but the
      major risk of PD-1 blockade after allogeneic SCT remains the promotion of severe GVHD leading
      to death. Alternative approaches are needed to reduce the incidence of GVHD after PD-1
      blockade while maintaining a strong graft-versus-tumor (GVT) effect. Adding
      post-transplantation cyclophosphamide (PTCy) prior to PD-1 blockade after an allogeneic SCT
      may potentially reduce the expected incidence of acute GVHD and prevent relapse by enhancing
      the GVT effect. As the absence of GVHD has been associated with increased incidence of
      relapse, it is reasonable to investigate high-risk patients in CR without evidence of GVHD
      after allogeneic SCT. Since early relapse or progression of disease after allogeneic SCT is
      associated with a very poor outcome and treatment options are limited, it is also reasonable
      investigate patients with persistent or progressive disease after allogeneic SCT. At present,
      no prospective studies have been conducted post-allogeneic SCT using PTCy followed by PD-1
      inhibition as a consolidation therapy or as a therapy for persistent or progressive disease.
      PD-1 blockade after PTCy appears to be safe and does not induce GVHD when compared to
      patients who did not receive PD-1 blockade after PTCy. As a means to reduce the risk of
      relapse or provide potentially effective treatment for persistent/progressive disease, this
      strategy may also avoid the harm of inducing GVHD or possibly exacerbating previously
      existing GVHD.

      This is a multi-center, open-label, double-arm Phase I dose-escalation study of patients with
      high-risk MDS and AML prior to receiving allogeneic SCT. A maximum of 36 patients (maximum 18
      patients per arm) are planned to be screened and enrolled prior to allogeneic SCT with the
      expectation that each patient will be a suitable candidate for study participation at the
      time of administration of nivolumab.

      Following myeloablative conditioning (MAC) and HLA-matched unrelated donor SCT (Arm A) or
      HLA- haploidentical SCT (Arm B), GVHD prophylaxis with PTCy, tacrolimus and mycophenolate
      mofetil will be given per standard of care.

      At 40-60 days post SCT, patients without evidence of aGVHD will begin 4 cycles of
      consolidation or treatment with nivolumab. Immunosuppression with tacrolimus will be
      continued during the cycles of PD-1 blockade to provide a moderate level of GVHD prophylaxis
      during consolidation or treatment with nivolumab.

      As the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of nivolumab may differ between Arm A and Arm B, dose
      escalation of nivolumab in each arm will be followed separately following allogeneic SCT.
      Dose-escalation of Nivolumab will follow the standard 3+3 design where a maximum of three
      dose levels will be evaluated, with a maximum of 18 patients treated with nivolumab per arm.
      Nivolumab IV will be given every 2 weeks for 4 cycles. One dose of nivolumab is equivalent to
      one cycle. The first administration will be at Day +50 (±10 days), assuming the patient has
      not had any evidence of Grade II-IV aGVHD after allogeneic SCT and does not have any current
      evidence of any grade of aGVHD at the day of first application of nivolumab.

      Participants will be followed for up to 1 year post-SCT and have long-term follow-up will be
      from 1.5 up to 3 years post-SCT for adverse events, progression or relapse, survival, and
      evidence of GVHD.

      Chronic GVHD staging and grading will be assessed for efficacy as per National Institutes of
      Health Consensus criteria. Safety and tolerability will be assessed as per National Cancer
      Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.03.
    
  