
    
      Residual depressive symptoms (RDS) following remission of major depressive disorder (MDD) are
      reported by 80-90% of adults receiving first-line antidepressant pharmacotherapy and carry an
      elevated risk for a chronic course of illness, rapid relapse and functional impairment.
      Strategies for managing residual symptoms, however, have met with mixed success. Mindful Mood
      Balance (MMB; R34 MH0877223) is an individually tailored, web-based treatment designed to
      train remitted depressed patients to disengage from dysphoria-activated depressogenic
      thinking that perpetuates RDS and increases risk for relapse/recurrence. MMB was developed to
      increase access to Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy (MBCT; R01 MH066992), an empirically
      supported prophylactic group treatment that can be easily sequenced with acute phase
      antidepressant pharmacotherapy. Results from our open trial of MMB (N=100) showed an effect
      size of d=1.09 for pre to post treatment reductions in depression scores among patients with
      RDS and d=1.54 in a quasi-experimental comparison to patients receiving usual care, with an
      on average reduction of 1.98 points on the PHQ-9 for MMB patients. The investigators now
      propose a pragmatic randomized clinical trial of MMB to evaluate its effectiveness in
      reducing RDS in recurrently depressed patients. Patients will be members of Kaiser-Permanente
      Colorado (N = 460), aged 18 to 75, who score >5 and <9 on the PHQ-9, in remission from MDD
      and will be randomized 1:1 to either the usual depression care pathway (DepCare) or Mindful
      Mood Balance (MMB)+DepCare.

      The investigators plan to test whether patients receiving MMB+DepCare will show greater
      reductions in RDS at both 8 week and 12 months follow up, than those receiving DepCare alone.
      The investigators are also interested in examining whether fewer patients in MMB+DepCare will
      relapse over the follow up and will have higher end state functioning and quality of life. In
      order to examine the costs associated with adding this online treatment to the Depression
      Care Pathways at KPCO, the investigators will calculate the marginal costs per additional
      number of depression free days (DFDs) for patients. Resolution of RDS can reduce the enormous
      personal and social costs experienced by Americans with this persistent symptom burden.
    
  