
    
      The clinical trial study of the "GamTBvac" vaccine against the tuberculosis is a comparative
      placebo-controlled study with a two-fold increase of an applied dose among healthy volunteers
      aged 18-49 years. The product "GamTBvac" is a lyophilized substance consisted of the purified
      recombinant subunit antigens of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, that is applied for the preparing
      of the solution for a subcutaneous administration. Currently the study is at the first phase.

      The aims of the study are: a) to confirm the safety of the product in the healthy volunteers;
      b) to select the optimal administration dose; c) to evaluate of the immunogenicity of the
      vaccine; d) to investigate the immune cell memory as a response to the vaccination.

      The total number of the volunteers in the study is 60:

        1. at the first stage to estimate the safety and portable of the vaccine, two groups of
           volunteers each includes 12 persons got the single decreased dose (0.25 of the planned
           dose for regular administration) of the vaccine (the first group, 12 persons), and the
           0.5 ml of the placebo (the second group, 12 persons);

        2. at the second stage to select the optimal dose and the scheme of the vaccine
           administration, additionally three groups, each consist of 12 persons of volunteers will
           be recruited. The first group will get double vaccination of a decreased dose (0.25 of
           the regular dose), the second group will get the double vaccination of a mean dose (0.5
           of the regular dose), and the third one will get the double vaccination of the maximum
           (1.0 regular) dose.

      The inclusion criteria for the volunteers of the study are: healthy males either females aged
      18-49 years who have previously got the BCG vaccine. The exclusion criterion is the presence
      of the latent tuberculosis in the patient that is confirmed during the preliminary laboratory
      screening.
    
  