
    
      Breast cancer is the most common form of malignancy affecting women worldwide, with
      approximately 178,480 new cases of invasive breast cancer and 62,030 new cases of in situ
      breast cancer expected in the United States (US) in 2007. Approximately 40,460 women are
      expected to die of breast cancer in the coming year, making the disease the second leading
      cause of cancer-related mortality among women (trailing only cancers of the lung and
      bronchus). However, thanks in part to recent advances in treatment, mortality rates
      associated with breast cancer have declined consistently since 1990.

      Surgical resection and other treatments may particularly benefit patients whose disease is
      identified prior to metastasis; the 5-year survival rate for patients diagnosed with
      locoregionally advanced disease is 83%. However, women with distant metastases at diagnosis
      have a much poorer outlook, with a 5-year survival rate of only 26% and a median survival of
      approximately 2 years. Treatment of advanced disease may include first-line chemotherapy
      utilizing an anthracycline (eg, doxorubicin or epirubicin), antibody therapy, limited
      surgery, taxanes, and other cytotoxic agents. As complete responses are rare, these
      treatments are not generally employed as curative but in an effort to prolong life and
      provide symptom palliation.

      Approximately two-thirds of all breast cancers are positive for expression of the estrogen
      receptor.For patients whose tumors are positive for this receptor or the progesterone
      receptor, the preferred first-line treatment comprises blockade of estradiol synthesis or
      hormone receptor activity using aromatase inhibitors or antiestrogen agents. Although
      endocrine therapies are useful and well-tolerated, most patients respond to this form of
      treatment for about 12-18 months before developing refractory disease. New therapies able to
      provide additional benefit to patients with hormone receptor-positive,
      antiestrogen-refractory, advanced and metastatic breast cancer are required.
    
  