
    
      Intravenous (IV) access is important for patient care in emergency medicine as an estimate of
      78% of ED patients would require more than 3 ED resources such as blood tests, medication,
      contrast, fluid. Care for patients with difficult intravenous access (DIVA) could be
      significantly delayed as it may take up to 120 minutes to establish IV access in patients
      with severe DIVA. Many solutions for DIVA had also been established to avoid central venous
      catheter insertion, including using ultrasound or near-infrared imaging systems for
      peripheral IV insertion.

      Using ultrasound in the ED has been shown to decrease the rate of central venous catheters
      (CVC) insertion. However, the results from ultrasound-guided peripheral IV insertion (USGPIV)
      have been mixed. Among patients with DIVA, Costantino reported USGPIV required less time to
      successful first cannulation and fewer punctures comparing to traditional approach of
      landmark and palpation. However, other studies showed that USGPIV did not improve successful
      first attempts comparing to traditional IV insertion, and may have taken same or even longer
      time to successfully establish IV. USGPIV success rate requires more training for nurses and
      ED technicians as it is operator - dependent.

      Patients have difficulty with IV access because their veins' clinical accessibility is low,
      for example, they are less visible or less palpable. The near-infrared imaging devices, such
      as Christie Digital's VeinViewer, improve this situation by using infra-red lights to make
      veins visible to the eyes.

      Compared with routine IV insertion, near-Infra red imaging devices have been shown to
      increase first successful attempts and in less time in children with DIVA and improved
      visualization of peripheral veins. However, it did not show higher rate of successful
      attempts nor faster time in non-selected adults.

      The efficacy of these near-infrared devices has not been established among adult patients
      with DIVA.
    
  