
    
      Cranial ultrasound (CUS) is routinely performed on preterm infants ≤ 34 weeks estimated
      gestational age (EGA) on day-of-life (DOL) #3 and again on DOL #7-10. Patients with Papile
      Grade II-IV intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) will undergo serial CUS 1-3 times weekly for 21
      days following IVH to monitor for post-hemorrhagic ventricular dilation (PHVD). Using
      standardized CUS parameters (Levene's ventricular index, Davies's diagonal anterior horn
      width and thalamo-occipital diameter), infants will be offered enrollment in the trial when
      their ventricular measures exceed the 97th percentile. Randomization to either low- or
      standard-threshold PHVD treatment will be performed by opening sequentially numbered, sealed
      envelopes. Envelopes will be prepared using a randomization schedule where allocations are
      assigned in a 1:1 ratio in blocks of 4 so that the desired 1:1 ratio will be maintained at
      periodic intervals in the study.

      Neurosurgical treatment of progressive PHVD involves surgical placement of a ventricular
      access device (VAD) for the removal of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Though at present clear
      criteria do not exist for CSF removal, an estimation of usual neurosurgical practice and that
      used in previous trials (standard-threshold) is intervention at Levene's EGA-adjusted 97th
      percentile for ventricular enlargement + 4 mm or greater (> 2 standard deviations > 97th
      percentile) or a diagonal width enlargement of the frontal horn > 10 mm. For the purpose of
      this study, low-threshold intervention will be defined as ventricular enlargement > 97th
      percentile with either a frontal diagonal width 7-10 mm or a thalamo-occipital diameter >24
      mm.

      CUS will be performed 2-3 times weekly in both the low- and standard-threshold groups. CSF
      will be removed under sterile conditions via VAD taps (10 ml/kg over 20 minutes, 0-4 times
      daily) as needed to maintain the CUS ventricular dimensions defined above for each treatment
      group. Treatment group-specific ventricular size must be achieved within 48-72 hours of VAD
      placement, and ventricles must be maintained within this range throughout the duration of
      treatment.

      If CSF removal is still required at 44 weeks EGA and there is consensus among the treating
      neonatologist and neurosurgeon, permanent VP shunts will be surgically implanted. The rate of
      VP shunts required by 44 weeks EGA and by 12 months corrected age will be monitored. Formal
      neurodevelopmental evaluations will be performed by a blinded developmental psychologist at
      18-24 months corrected age to assess neurocognitive and psychomotor function in low- versus
      standard-threshold groups. Each infant will be scored using the Bayley Scales of Infant
      Development.
    
  