
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the efficacy, in terms of objective response rate, nonprogression rate, time
           to progression, and response duration, in patients with metastatic or recurrent
           malignant melanoma treated with recombinant human interleukin-21 (rIL-21).

        -  To assess the toxicity and safety of rIL-21 in patients with previously untreated
           metastatic or recurrent malignant melanoma.

        -  To characterize the pharmacokinetics of rIL-21.

        -  To characterize the effects of rIL-21 on lymphocyte cell count and soluble CD25 (sCD25)
           in serum as potential biomarkers for drug activity.

        -  To evaluate the immunogenicity of rIL-21, specifically preexisting immunogenicity to the
           drug and antibody induction during treatment.

        -  To assess melanoma antigenic markers for response and nonprogression on archival tissue
           from patients enrolled on the study.

      Secondary

        -  To investigate whether rIL-21 induced sCD25 release is independent of the level of
           circulating sCD25.

        -  To investigate the effect of rIL-21 on antibody induction during treatment and
           preexisting immunogenicity.

        -  To assess lymphocyte cell-count changes over time in relation to rIL-21 therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients receive recombinant human interleukin-21 (rIL-21) IV on days 1-5 of weeks 1, 3 and
      5. Treatment repeats every 8 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) receive 2
      courses beyond CR or PR. Patients with stable disease receive a maximum of 3 courses of
      rIL-21.

      Previously archived tumor tissue and blood samples are collected from patients for
      correlative studies. Samples are analyzed for soluble CD25, rIL-21 antibodies, circulating
      lymphocyte counts, preexisting immonogenicity to rIL-21 for antibody induction, and
      expression of common melanoma tumor antigen markers via IHC.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks.
    
  