
    
      Complete response (CR) in advanced breast cancer is an important predictor of improved
      survival. The largest experience reported with long-term follow-up in this regard is from
      M.D. Anderson Hospital, with a median survival of 33 months and 5-year survival of 19% among
      patients who achieved a CR with doxorubicin-based chemotherapy.19 We believe that our
      institutional experience to date indicates that CR rates in excess of 20% can be achieved in
      second-line chemotherapy from the combination of vinorelbine and a taxane, provided that
      G-CSF is given. For the reasons outlined, we believe that dose density is likely to be
      important for both classes of agents, but dose intensity may be most important for
      vinorelbine. Both paclitaxel and docetaxel can be given on a weekly schedule with some
      success, but it appears that myelosuppression is a more frequent dose-limiting toxicity on
      this schedule for docetaxel. For the current trial, we therefore propose to study weekly
      paclitaxel in combination with dose-intensive vinorelbine, utilizing continuous G-CSF support
      as in our prior studies. We believe that starting doses of 60 mg/m2 for paclitaxel and 20
      mg/m2 for vinorelbine will be well tolerated, but our experience to date, treating 3 patients
      off study at these doses without G-CSF support, indicates that some will require G-CSF even
      at this dose level: we observed grade 4 neutropenia in 2 of the 3. Our intention in this
      trial is to determine the optimal dose of these two agents when continuous growth factor
      support is provided. We will be starting at a ratio of 0.8 for vinorelbine and 0.75 for
      paclitaxel (assuming 80 mg/m2/week as a "full" dose for the later agent).

      It is now widely appreciated that patients with metastatic breast cancer whose tumors over
      express HER-2-neu demonstrate benefit from the addition of trastuzumab (Herceptin) to a
      chemotherapy program with paclitaxel as a single agent.20 Such patients will be allowed to
      receive trastuzumab in the standard dose and schedule (4 mg/kg loading dose, then 2
      mg/kg/week) given IV, in addition to paclitaxel and vinorelbine. Since trastuzumab does not
      produce myelosuppression or neuropathy (the anticipated dose-limiting toxicities for
      vinorelbine and paclitaxel, respectively), and neither of these agents combined separately
      with trastuzumab produces unusual or severe new side effects, this should not affect the dose
      escalation scheme for the chemotherapeutic agents.
    
  