
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a long term lung condition which causes
      breathlessness, tiredness, coughing and chest infections. People with the condition often
      find it difficult to carry out day to day activities and to live a normal life. In recent
      years people with COPD have been encouraged to self-manage their condition, for example by
      increasing their physical activity, which could help them to live their life to the full.
      Recent advances in technology have the potential to help people do this. The SMART COPD 'app'
      which is being used in this study has been developed, based on previous research and the
      views of people living with the condition, to help people with COPD increase their physical
      activity. Physical activity is known to be important in helping people with COPD to enjoy
      better health and to carry out activities. The current study will investigate whether or not
      the app could be used alongside existing health services, and whether or not people with
      COPD, as well as healthcare professionals, find the 'app' acceptable and easy to use.

      The investigators are working with three Pulmonary Rehabilitation (PR) teams in South
      Yorkshire (from Sheffield, Rotherham and Doncaster). PR is an education and exercise
      programme for people with lung conditions, which aims to teach people the skills to help them
      self-manage their condition. The first part of this feasibility study will investigate how PR
      is currently being delivered, and whether there would be any scope to include the app during
      and after PR to help people increase (or at least maintain) their physical activity levels
      longer term. This will be done by observing PR sessions, looking at how PR is delivered and
      referrals to the service, and through interactive workshops with healthcare professionals who
      deliver PR. The second part of the project will involve 'trying out' the app with a small
      group of people with COPD who are attending PR, to investigate whether the app is easy to
      use, whether any changes are needed, and the best way to use the app in the future. In order
      to determine whether the app successfully helps people with COPD to increase their physical
      activity levels, the investigators will need to carry out a much larger study in the future
      which compares use of the app with not having the app. The current feasibility project will
      help with planning this much larger study.
    
  