
    
      The primary objective for this study was to measure the reduction in GERD symptoms as
      evidenced by analysis of the GERD-HRQL questionnaire at 3-months post-procedure with an
      objective of achieving a 50% or greater improvement. The trial was powered to detect a 50%
      reduction in mean GERD-HRQL at 3-months using a one-sided t-test with an α of .05 and a β
      level of .10, testing versus the equality of means. The calculation referenced above includes
      the added assumption that the standard deviation will be no more than 20 percent. The null
      hypothesis stated that the mean percent reduction in GERD symptoms was less than or equal to
      50 percent at 3-months versus the alternate hypothesis that it was greater. The device
      treatment was considered a success if the statistical test rejected the null hypothesis at a
      one-sided p-value of 0.05 or less. Primary endpoint success was thus related to the
      statistical conclusion that the mean percent reduction was greater than 50%. A one-sided 95
      percent confidence interval was constructed for the percent reduction in GERD symptoms. In
      order to assess the data with an "Intent to Treat" spirit, the number of patients who
      achieved a 50% reduction was analyzed as a fraction of the total number of patients who
      received the treatment.

      For secondary endpoint measures, statistical tests for medians were based on a Wilcoxon sign
      rank test of the percent improvement in a given study measure. This was based on the paired
      patient data of the pre-treatment scores versus the 6-month scores. The issue of multiple
      statistical tests of hypothesis being performed on data arising from individual patients was
      addressed in the following way. The comparison of GERD-HRQL scores was taken as the main
      results for which no correction of significance level was necessary. To recognize multiple
      testing using the method of Bonferroni, statistical significance was claimed for the
      secondary results only if, for a single test, the nominal p-value was <.01. Given that some
      patients, during the course of the clinical study, were lost to follow-up, all outcomes were
      examined using the method of last visit carried forward, provided that at least one follow-up
      visit had been completed. It should be noted that using this method had little impact on the
      results; as compared to an analysis of the data of just those patients who completed
      follow-up, excluding those who missed the visit or were lost to follow up. However, this
      method was employed to account for those patients who were lost to follow-up, with specific
      consideration to those who had been lost to follow-up due to unsatisfactory treatment effect.
      Means and standard deviations are reported using the mean (SD) format, medians and
      interquartile ranges are reported using the median (IQR) format.
    
  