
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the impact on objective tumor response rate (using Response Evaluation Criteria
      in Solid Tumors [RECIST] criteria) with the addition of fulvestrant to alisertib in women
      with endocrine resistant, advanced estrogen receptor positive breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety profile of each treatment regimen. II. To assess the impact on
      median progression-free survival with the addition of fulvestrant to alisertib.

      III. To obtain estimated tumor response rate and the median progression-free survival time
      during alisertib and fulvestrant treatment in the cohort of patients who progress during
      alisertib monotherapy, and crossover to receive the combination of alisertib and fulvestrant.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the changes in aurora A kinase, SMAD5 and SOX2 expression and phosphorylation in
      tumor tissue after first cycle of assigned treatment.

      II. To assess the changes in estrogen receptor (ER) expression and function in tumor tissue
      after the first cycle of assigned treatment.

      III. To generate patient derived xenografts (PDX) from tumors collected at baseline and
      progression of disease (PD) in order to identify mechanisms associated with both de novo and
      acquired alisertib resistance.

      IV. After the first cycle of treatment, to assess changes in aurora A kinase, phosphorylated
      (p)~SOX2 and ER expression on circulating tumor cells (CTCs), and to assess concordance
      between change in expression with tumor tissue and CTCs.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive alisertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients with disease progression, may cross-over to Arm II.

      ARM II: Patients receive fulvestrant intramuscularly (IM) over 1-2 minutes on days 1 and 15
      of course 1 and on day 1 of all subsequent courses. Patients also receive alisertib PO BID on
      days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 5
      years.
    
  