
    
      All recruited patients will in any case have probes inserted in theatre for brain tissue
      glucose monitoring as a part of their standard clinical care. Probes will be allowed to
      stabilize following insertion as is standard clinical practice. A peripheral venous catheter
      will be inserted by the study team to allow introduction of the intravascular microdialysis
      probe. This will be attached to a regular infusion pump set at 3ml/hr and normal saline, to
      produce the microdialysate. The efflux of microdialysate will be connected to the biosensor,
      and once passed over the biosensor the subsequent dialysate will be destroyed. A risk
      assessment will be made on the basis of the patient's coagulation status and concurrent
      venous thromboembolism prophylaxis, and if necessary, low dose low molecular weight heparin
      will be included in the saline infusion to ameliorate risk of local thrombosis in the device.
      This has a local effect only and does not produce systemic anticoagulation.

      After a brief period of probe stabilisation, 2 ml of blood will be withdrawn for blood gas
      analysis (including glucose), and the probe readings will be calibrated against this value.
      Subsequent calibration will take place 6 hours later, and then at 12 hourly intervals. A
      maximum total of 30ml of blood will be required for each patient for blood oxygen content
      analysis. Clinically necessitated blood sampling for blood gases will continue, and these
      values will be collected post-hoc from our E-hospital clinical records system.

      Further data will be collected post-hoc via e-Hospital clinical records system, including:
      routinely recorded measures of cerebral extracellular fluid glucose concentration,
      physiological parameters (central venous pressure, mean arterial pressure, intracranial
      pressure etc), timing and detail of interventions as determined appropriate by routine
      clinical decision making.

      The study will terminate at 72 hours, whereupon the device will be detached and the
      peripheral venous catheter will be removed.
    
  