
    
      Indirect calorimetry allows accurate measurement of energy expenditure in this population but
      current technology is cumbersome and time-consuming, and has many limitations that exclude a
      majority of criticaly ill children. A new device was recently developed to address some of
      the limitations of IC devices and is widely endorsed for IC measurements in critically ill
      adults. The Q-NRG+ IC device incorporates an easier gas calibration technique to facilitate
      faster start up, and a micro-mixing chamber (2ml) allows rapid achievement of steady state
      gas exchange measurement. The device may address some of the current barriers for the use of
      indirect calorimetry in critically ill children. A device with short calibration time and
      reliable measurements could enhance the ability of clinicians to deliver individualized
      energy prescriptions for patients.

      Description of Study Treatments

      Following informed consent, the following steps will be followed for the study procedure:

        1. The two testing indirect calorimetry devices will be tested in an alternating fashion
           for each enrolled patient, therefore it will be decided the V(max) will be tested first
           in the first enrolled patient then the Q-NRG+ second. Each enrolled patient subsequently
           will alternate in which device is tested first.

        2. The first device will be connected to the patient, after calibration, and data
           collection will begin for a maximum duration of 30 minutes.

        3. At the end of the first testing period, the first device will be disconnected and the
           second device will be connected to the study patient.

        4. Data collection for the second device will then begin for a maximum duration of 30
           minutes.

        5. At the end of the testing period, the data collected for the V(max) device will be
           discussed with the parents and the clinical team. Data collected from the Q-NRG+ will
           not be shared with the clinical team or family as this device is still being
           investigated in the pediatric population.

        6. The study will then conclude.

      Definitions of Outcomes/Endpoints The primary variables to be collected are steady state
      measurements of VO2 and VCO2 from both indirect calorimetry devices. Steady state will be
      defined as a period of greater than five minutes with coefficient of variation of the VO2 and
      VCO2 measurements of less than 10%. If steady state is not achieved, energy calculations will
      not be included in data analysis. Secondary variables to be collected include total time to
      obtain indirect calorimetry measurement, from arrival at the bedside to completion of the
      study. Steady state conditions will be defined using existing institutional practice.

      Data Collection Methods and Assessments Descriptive characteristics will also be collected
      for each patient including age, weight, height, diagnosis, severity of illness, length of ICU
      stay, vital signs, and ventilator settings. We will also collect endotracheal tube size,
      presence of cuff, leak percentage. We will also collect information about medications,
      including inotropes and vasopressors, sedation medications (as well as SBS score) and
      nutrition parameters. Markers of inflammation, WBC and CRP will be collected from the patient
      chart.

      Statistical Analysis Descriptive statistics will be computed for measured REE, VO2 and VCO2
      and Bland-Altman analysis will be utilized to quantify the mean bias and limits of agreement
      between devices. Acceptable limits of agreement between the devices will be +/- 20%. VO2, CO2
      will be reported as means (SD). The time to steady state and total time of IC measurement
      will be compared using a T-test (if normally distributed) or Mann-Whitney U-test (if not
      normally distributed).
    
  