
    
      Background: Anesthetic agents alter pharyngeal function with risk of impaired airway
      protection and aspiration. The pharyngeal function change including the swallowing and
      gastric regurgitation between intubated and nonintubated thoracoscopy still remains unclear.

      The esophageal manometry has pressure sensor to measure the upper esophageal sphincter (UES)
      pressure. The manometry and impedance could detect the esophageal swallowing function during
      the perioperative period. The ultrasonography was used to measure the oropharyngeal
      swallowing function.

      Objectives:the investigator aimed to observe the changes and difference of pharyngeal
      function parameters between the patients receiving the intubated or nonintubated thoracoscopy
      by esophageal manometry, impedance, and ultrasonography.

      Patients and methods: Consecutive patients who will fulfill the criteria of nonintubated
      patients under general anesthesia and age from 20 to 80 years old will be enrolled. All
      subjects would receive the swallowing function by ultrasonography before the surgeries. The
      cough test and gastric volume were also measured. The patient was randomized by the intubated
      or nonintubated thoracoscopy. After induction, the endotracheal tube (ETT) will be inserted
      to establish airway. The non-intubated group will be use the oxygen mask and the nasal airway
      to maintain the airway patent. After the patients were sedated, investigators would use the
      video-assisted laryngoscope to let the manometry and impedance transnasal into the
      esophagus.These esophageal function was measured during the whole perioperative periods,
      especially the recovery from anesthesia in the postoperative anesthesia unit (PACU). The
      patients will be followed for the swallowing function by ultrasonography and cough test in
      the PACU, too. The oxidative test would be performed by blood test on the time, which were
      after anesthesia, one-lung ventilation 15 to 30 minutes, and two-lung ventilation 15 to 20
      minutes, respectively.

      Expected result: investigators will observe the changes between the patients receiving
      intubated or nonintubated thoracoscopies of the changes between the preoperative and
      postoperative changes in the swallowing function, cough and gastric regurgitation. The
      oxidative test will also be tested accompanied by the anesthetic monitoring.
    
  