
    
      Prospective, multicenter, observational study focused on the prevalence and outcomes of Acute
      Hypoxemic Respiratory Failure in children. From a total of 40 pediatric ICUs in Spain, 22
      PICUs agreed to participate.

      All consecutive patients from 7 days to 16 years old admitted in the PICU will have been
      enrolled if they fulfilled the following criteria: 1) acute episode (within 7 days of a
      clinical insult), 2) on invasive mechanical ventilatory support, 3) PaO2/FiO2 ≤ 300 mmHg (or
      SpO2/FiO2 ≤ 264), 4) Positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) ≥ 5 cmH2O and FiO2 ≥ 0.3.

      This study is considered an audit, and informed consent is waived.

      Period of study: 2 years (October 2019 to September 2021). Recruitment period: two
      consecutive months (i.e October-November followed by a period of no recruitment) until
      complete 12 months of recruitment (September 2021).

      All investigators have received guidelines outlining the study design and the methods for
      data collection. All PICU admissions are screened daily for AHRF. Onset of AHRF was defined
      as the day on which the patient first met all inclusion criteria. All data are collected on
      standardized forms. Demographics, comorbidities, reason for initiation of IMV, arterial blood
      gases, laboratory, radiographic, hemodynamic and ventilator data were collected at study
      entry and during the first three days of AHRF diagnosis (T0 or time of inclusion in the
      study, 24 hours, days 2 and 3). Chest imaging (chest radiographs, lung ultrasound or computed
      tomography) were evaluated daily for the presence or absence of infiltrates, atelectasis,
      acute pulmonary edema, pleural effusion or pneumothorax. Tidal volume (VT) was calculated on
      the basis of the predicted body weight (PBW). Plateau pressure (Pplat) was determined after
      the application of a 0.5- to 1.0-sec end-inspiratory hold. Driving pressure was calculated as
      the difference between Pplat and PEEP. Patients meeting pediatric ARDS criteria were
      stratified into a mild, moderate, and severe according to PALICC definition and/or berlin
      definition. All patients are followed until PICU and hospital discharge.

      Data are initially collected and stored at each center and then sent to study coordinators at
      the time of patient's hospital discharge.

      Although patient care is not strictly protocolized, physicians are asked to follow the
      current standards of pediatric critical care management. For ventilatory management, it was
      recommended that all patients be ventilated with a VT of 6-8 mL/kg PBW, at a ventilatory rate
      to maintain PaCO2 at 35-50 mm Hg, a Pplat <30 cm H2O, and PEEP and FiO2 combinations to
      maintain PaO2 >60 mm Hg or SpO2 >90%.

      Statistical Analysis: for the main objective of the study, a descriptive analysis including
      clinical variables, mechanical ventilation data, respiratory settings and ancillary measures
      will be performed.
    
  