
    
      This is an updated study on a previous IRB-approved research (0120070296) which was
      terminated prior to conclusion as the principal investigator terminated his employment at the
      UNDNJ. An arterial catheter is routinely placed immediately following induction of
      anesthesia, in major operative procedures, in order to measure blood pressure continuously,
      perform frequent blood-gas analysis and withdraw blood for repeated laboratory testing. The
      arterial catheter is traditionally placed blindly by palpating the radial artery of the
      patient. This way of placing a radial artery catheter can encounter delay or failure due to
      conditions such as obesity, arteriosclerosis, arterial spasm and anesthesia-induced
      hypotension. Our study will compare the performance of Anesthesiology Residents in placing an
      arterial catheter by the traditional palpation-guided technique and by the ultrasound-guided
      technique after training in ultrasound usage. The comparison will utilize the following
      parameters:

        -  Time taken to successfully place a catheter

        -  Number of attempts needed to place a catheter

        -  Number of puncture site changes encountered

        -  Failure rate of the resident with each technique

        -  The need for replacement of the catheter during surgery The data collection will be done
           by an independent observer, who is not a member of the anesthesia care team or research
           team. The Residents performing the catheter placement will not be members of the
           research team and will not have access to the data. If the Resident fails to place the
           catheter, the attending anesthesiologist will rescue by placing the arterial catheter
           himself by a method of his choice. In the previous study, there was a trend toward a
           reduced failure rate and a decreased time for insertion with the ultrasound technique.
           In this study, the investigators will introduce the research to the first-year Residents
           and repeat the exercise during their second and third year of training in a longitudinal
           fashion to assess the progress during anesthesia training. The investigators plan to
           enroll eight residents from the first-year class. Each resident will perform eight
           arterial catheter placements with each technique. In addition, compared to the previous
           study, a more advanced ultrasound machine will be used which will provide better
           visualization of the radial artery.
    
  