
    
      Thirteen healthy volunteers (4 women) at an age of 25 years (range 18-36) were recruited
      through www.forsøgsperson.dk.

      The volunteers were placed on a tilt table and provided with a facemask with an opening of
      30-33 mm. A Hook ring was fitted with an inspiratory resistor, an expiratory resistor, a
      combination of the two resistors, or with no resistance and each resistor provides a 7.5
      cmH2O threshold resistance. Each resistor was applied for two minutes with variables obtained
      in the last minute. The table was then tilted 45° head-up to accumulating blood in the legs
      and therefore a reduction in the central blood volume. Conversely, 20° head-down tilt was
      used to expand the central blood volume. For each volunteer measurements with the four
      respiratory interventions was randomized, whereas the tilt table position was in fixed order:
      supine, head-up tilt, and head-down tilt.

      Three-lead ECG recorded heart rate. A 20 G arterial catheter was placed in the brachial
      artery of the non-dominant arm and connected to a transducer for reading of blood pressure
      and stroke volume variation (Vigileo-Flotrac™, version 1.07, Edwards Lifesciences, Nyon,
      Switzerland). Also SV and CO variation and the arterial pressure curve were recorded for
      subsequent determination of arterial pressure variations. Additionally, a catheter was placed
      via a brachial vein to the superior caval vein for recording of central venous pressure and
      SvO2. While the subjects were breathing spontaneously, the respiratory rate was measured by
      capnography and peripheral oxygen saturation by fingerprobe.

      Variation in the arterial pulse pressure (PPV) was 100 x ((PPmax - PPmin) / ((PPmax +
      PPmin)/2)), where PPmax and PPmin is the maximal and minimal difference between systolic and
      diastolic pressure during the respiratory cycle, respectively. By the same formula systolic
      pressure variation (SPV) was calculated.
    
  