
    
      This is a randomized, 2 parallel arms, clinical trial. All patients will be PDE5I
      users/responders. After 1 month wash-out period, ED patients will be screened, in order to
      randomized 42 men with vasculogenic ED who had International Index of Erectile Function ED
      (IIEF-ED) domain scores between 6-25 and abnormal penile triplex-based hemodynamic parameters
      (peak flow velocity <35cm/sec). Then the 42 pts will be randomized to receive either one or
      two shockwave treatment sessions per week, without treatment interval. Every week all
      subjects may have at least one attempt for intercourse. All patients will complete 6 weeks of
      treatment.

      Study visits and duration

      Visit 1 (day 0): the basic work-up will take place, including medical and sexual history, as
      well as necessary lab tests, if needed. One month wash-out period will follow. During this
      period, all subjects will be asked to avoid any drug related to ED (PDE5i) and have at least
      2-4 attempts for intercourse. Furthermore, patients will undergo triplex ultrasonography,
      unless they have already done so in the last 6 months. all patients will complete the IIEF-ED
      domain and will be randomized (1:1) to one of the two parallel study groups, using an online
      program. Groups A will receive treatment once per week for 6 weeks (6 sessions totally), and
      Groups B will receive treatment two times per week for 6 weeks (12 sessions totally). PDE5i
      use is prohibited throughout the study.

      Treatment Visits: Patients will receive LI-ESWT , according to the study protocol.Interval
      between 2 treatments will be 7+2days for Group A and 3+1 day for Group B.At visit 6 and 12 a
      penile ultrasonography will be conducted in order to check for potential adverse events
      related to the treatment.

      Follow-up visits 1 - 3 (4, 12 and 24 weeks post treatment): Patients will complete the
      IIEF-ED questionnaire and return the completed SEP diaries for the last 4 weeks prior to
      every visit. Visit data will also be recorded (protocol compliance, adverse events). At Week
      12, triplex will be performed by the standard protocol. For Week 4 there is a + 3 days visit
      window, whereas for Weeks 12 and 24 there is a + 2 weeks visit window.
    
  