
    
      Renal impairment following cardiopulmonary bypass is common. While most of these patients do
      not require either short or long term renal replacement, the mortality of patients with acute
      renal failure is substantially greater than those who do not develop renal dysfunction.

      In a pilot double-blind, randomized controlled trial we found sodium bicarbonate to be
      efficacious, safe, inexpensive and easy to administer. These findings now need to be
      confirmed or refuted by further clinical investigations in other geographic and institutional
      settings.

      There is evidence that sodium bicarbonate affects the cardiovascular, respiratory and immune
      systems and may be of benefit to patients undergoing cardiac surgery.

      Study Design - overview and rationale

      Patients will be randomised to receive sodium bicarbonate from the induction of anaesthesia
      until 24 hours postoperatively, or a placebo (sodium chloride).

      Serum creatinine is the most commonly used clinical indicator of renal function along with
      urine output. Both will be measured for several days postoperatively - the time period during
      which renal impairment is most likely to develop.

      Randomisation The randomisation will be based on random numbers generated by computer. Once
      consent is obtained, the allocation of either treatment with sodium bicarbonate or placebo
      will be organised by an independent person (clinical trials pharmacist) who will dispense the
      coded and blinded infusion bags (shrink-wrapped in extra black plastic bags). This will be
      delivered to the anaesthetic staff looking after the patient in theatre, and the ICU nurse
      caring for the patient postoperatively.

      20 ml samples of heparinised blood and urine will be taken from the arterial line or urine
      catheter. Samples will be taken immediately after the preoperative insertion of the
      arterial/urine catheter, at 6, 24, 48, 72, 96 and 120 hours after commencement of
      cardiopulmonary bypass. Immediately following collection, the preoperative, 6 and 24 hour
      blood and urine will be centrifuged at low speed to separate the plasma from the cellular
      components. Urine and plasma will be stored in aliquots at -70 degrees prior to batch
      analysis.

      The following variables will be obtained:

      Code for patient, gender and age. Date and time of admission to ICU Operative procedure and
      date and time on and off cardiopulmonary bypass Preoperative assessment of left ventricular
      function, Comorbidities, Pre-, intra- and post-operative medication, Markers of renal
      function as described above, Doses of frusemide administered (or rate of frusemide infusion)
      Use of inotropes or vasopressors Cardiac output whenever measured for clinical purposes in
      the first 24 hours postoperatively Requirement of renal replacement therapy Urine output in
      each 6 hour period during the presence of urine catheter Acid base status and electrolytes at
      baseline, 6 and 24 hours after commencement of cardiopulmonary bypass, Time of intubation and
      extubation, Date and time of arrival on and discharge from ICU and hospital, death Resources
      required The principle of the study has been discussed with the involved cardiac
      anaesthetists, cardiac surgeons, intensivists and intensive care nurses, who have offered
      their co-operation. ICU research nurse to allocate patients and collect clinical data.
      Pharmacy will be required to prepare drug and placebo infusion bags. Clinical pathology will
      be required to perform 24 hour creatinine clearance estimation (in addition to those tests
      clinically indicated) Protocol violations All protocol violations will be recorded. It will
      then be decided whether the nature of such violation had been such that the patient should be
      excluded from primary data analysis. Such evaluation will be blinded to treatment.

      Withdrawal

      The treating clinician will have the right to withdraw the patient from the study if he or
      she believes that continued participation is jeopardising the patient's well being.

      Ethical Issues

      Sodium bicarbonate used in this study is considered to be very safe as has been demonstrated
      by its widespread clinical use in the management of critically ill patients with metabolic
      acidosis. We consider the potential benefit of this treatment theoretically significant.
      Given the balance of benefits and risks, we consider it ethical to proceed and seek informed
      consent.

      Indemnity

      This is an investigator-initiated study and, accordingly, no commercial sponsor's indemnity
      has been provided.

      Informed consent will be obtained from the patient prior to the operation by one of the
      investigators or the ICU research nurse. The clinical care of a patient who does not consent
      for any reason will not be affected.
    
  