
    
      Background:

        -  Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a rare tumor with an incidence of 1.5 to 2 per million
           people per year. It has a very poor prognosis with an overall 5-year mortality rate of
           75-90% and an average survival from the time of diagnosis of 14.5 months. Approximately
           10% of ACC cases are associated with a hereditary cancer predisposition syndrome.

        -  The treatment of choice for a localized primary or recurrent tumor is surgical
           resection. Patients with recurrent or metastatic disease are infrequently curable by
           surgery alone.

        -  As with most solid tumors, chemotherapy options have limited benefit, although
           platinumbased therapies have response rates of 25 to 30%. To date no targeted therapy
           has been shown to be of any value in this disease. The role of neoadjuvant and adjuvant
           therapies, including systemic chemotherapy and radiotherapy, remains poorly defined and
           has been reported to have only a modest or no therapeutic effect.

        -  The natural history of ACC can vary greatly with some patients surviving only months
           while others can live with disease for years. The basis for these differing clinical
           presentations is not known. While one cannot exclude an immune or other host component
           as responsible for the diverse clinical courses, it is also possible that there may be a
           genetic basis for this phenomenon.

        -  Patients with rare tumors seek expert advice in the management of their care. A natural
           history study would establish a more formal mechanism for such referrals, while allowing
           the systematic collection of epidemiologic, genomic, molecular data.

      Objective:

      -Characterize the natural history of adrenocortical cancer (ACC). Data will include patient
      demographics, clinical characteristics, patterns of disease progression, response or lack of
      response to therapeutic interventions, disease recurrence and overall survival.

      Eligibility:

        -  Subjects with documented ACC

        -  Age greater than or equal to 2 years old.

      Design:

        -  This protocol is a subprotocol to protocol 19C0016 Natural History and Biospecimen
           Accrual Study for Children and Adults with Rare Solid Tumors . After enrollment on the
           master protocol and undergoing evaluations detailed in the master protocol, patients
           will be enrolled on this subprotocol specific for ACC.

        -  Medical history will be collected from medical records and patients followed throughout
           the course of their illnesses, with particular attention to patterns of disease
           recurrence and progression, response to therapies, duration of responses and hormone
           production in patients with hormone production as a manifestation of their disease, and
           patient reported outcomes. Tumor growth rates will also be calculated throughout the
           course of the disease.
    
  