
    
      Background. The prevalence in individuals over 65 years of age is 6% (95% Confidence Interval
      [CI] 5 - 6)(1-4)in men and 1% (95% CI 1 - 2) in women.(5) AAA confers a risk of spontaneous
      rupture and death: the in-hospital mortality rate of ruptured aneurysms in Ontario was
      estimated at 40.8%.(6) Prevention of spontaneous rupture is the rationale for surgical
      intervention. Evidence has established that elective open surgery for AAAs > 5.5cm increases
      survival(7), but the 30-day perioperative mortality for elective open repair of AAA can be as
      high as 8%.(8-17) Phase I and II trials have found that endovascular repair is a 'viable and
      effective treatment' for AAA disease (18;19); the theoretical benefits include avoidance of
      laparotomy and no aortic clamping.

      The results of RCTs (DREAM and EVAR-1)(20;21) have left unanswered the indications for
      endovascular repair compared with open surgery because of problems with definition of
      outcomes, lack of statistical power, and surgical expertise (surgeons needed to have done at
      least 20 surgeries with or without supervision). The only studies addressing the issue of
      expertise in this field suggests that 60 EVAR need to be done to achieve less than 10%
      complications (22), and a time interval of less than 10 days between procedures is important
      to maintain competence and reduce complications.(23) In addition the two RCTs used a
      conventional design and we have reported that this has intrinsic pitfalls. We argued that in
      surgery, particularly when a new technique is studied, another approach should be used: the
      expertise based RCT.(24) Conventional RCTs typically randomize participants to one of two
      interventions (A or B) and the same clinician give intervention A to some participants and B
      to others. The expertise based randomized controlled trial, randomizes participants to
      clinicians with expertise in intervention A or clinicians with expertise in intervention B,
      and the clinicians perform only the procedure for which they have expertise.

      Study Design/Participants

      We will conduct an expertise based RCT comparing open repair with EVAR repair of elective
      infrarenal AAAs. This is a pilot to determine the feasibility of a large pragmatic expertise
      based RCT of open versus EVAR repair.

      We will consider all patients with an AAA determined to require non-urgent repair after
      assessment by one of the participating surgeons. The second inclusion criterion is that the
      blinded measurement team must deem a patient to fulfill the anatomic eligibility criteria.

      Location of Investigation

      This pilot study will be conducted at a single institution: Hamilton Health Sciences,
      Hamilton General Hospital. This centre will serve as the coordinating site for the future
      multicentre randomized controlled trial, and based on the high volume practices of the
      surgeons at the Hamilton General Hospital, will likely provide the largest pool of eligible
      patients. Protocols and standard operating procedures for a single site will be developed for
      this pilot, which will become standards for the larger trial. The decision to use a single
      centre for this pilot study is based in the high expected surgical volume that makes our
      recruitment rate realistic, in addition to the cost savings of conducting a trial close to
      investigators and surrounded by known infrastructure.

      Patient Recruitment

      Once a patient is deemed eligible, the study nurse will provide the patient with details of
      the study protocol and explanation of goals of the investigation, and obtain informed
      consent.

      Randomization and Allocation

      The study nurse will be contacted by the surgeons' offices to screen all patients referred to
      participating vascular surgeons on the first visit to the office and submit a standardized
      electronic form accessible on a secure, encrypted website. This will document baseline
      demographics for referred patients including key eligibility criteria. If these are met, the
      study nurse will contact the patient, explain the study, determine the remaining eligibility
      criteria and obtain consent. The nurse will use the electronic database to randomly allocate
      the patient to open or endovascular repair. We will ensure concealment of allocation through
      the use of a randomization and allocation process housed on an encrypted website monitored by
      a data coordinator external to the study protocol. This process has been successfully
      developed within the St Joseph's Nephrology, Thromboembolism and Vascular research group.
      Randomization using random-sized permuted block technique will ensure balanced distribution
      of patients and concealment of allocation. Once allocation has occurred, the study nurse will
      coordinate patient appointments to the appropriate surgeon. Patients who do not meet
      eligibility requirements will return to their original surgeon for disclosure of results and
      treatment.

      Patient Follow-up

      The study nurse will meet the patient, document baseline characteristics and perform blood
      work at the preoperative clinic visit. The study nurse will see patients daily after surgery,
      arrange daily blood work and document all outcome events using standardized case report forms
      until discharged from hospital. An outcome assessor committee independent of the study and
      blinded to treatment allocation will adjudicate all outcome events. The study nurse will see
      all patients at 3-month intervals for 6 months. The use of a 6-month outcome threshold is for
      purposes of assessing feasibility in this pilot study only. The larger multicentre trial will
      plan to evaluate outcomes up to five years, addressing the long term concerns that have been
      raised in RCTs.

      Evaluation of Pilot Objectives

      We will consider the pilot study a success if we can:

        1. Recruit 30 patients in 40 weeks

        2. Obtain a complete follow-up on 95% of the trial patients

        3. Demonstrate the feasibility of using a web-based system to randomize and follow patients
           in this trial, and for outcome adjudication, and

        4. Document the resources (e.g., personnel time) required to conduct this trial.

      Ethical Considerations

      All patients in this study will provide informed consent prior to participation, and the
      protocol will be reviewed by the Ethics Review Board of Hamilton Health Sciences.

      Reference List

        1. Lindholt JS, Juul S, Fasting H, Henneberg EW. Screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms:
           single centre randomised controlled trial. BMJ, 330: 750.

        2. Ashton HA, Buxton MJ, Day NE et al. The Multicentre Aneurysm Screening Study (MASS) into
           the effect of abdominal aortic aneurysm screening on mortality in men: a randomised
           controlled trial. Lancet, 360: 1531-1539.

        3. Norman PE, Jamrozik K, Lawrence-Brown MM et al. Population based randomised controlled
           trial on impact of screening on mortality from abdominal aortic aneurysm. BMJ, 329:
           1259.

        4. Scott RA, Vardulaki KA, Walker NM, Day NE, Duffy SW, Ashton HA. The long-term benefits
           of a single scan for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) at age 65. European Journal of
           Vascular & Endovascular Surgery, 21: 535-540.

        5. Scott RA, Bridgewater SG, Ashton HA. Randomized clinical trial of screening for
           abdominal aortic aneurysm in women. Br.J.Surg., 89: 283-285.

        6. Dueck AD, Kucey DS, Johnston KW, Alter D, Laupacis A. Survival after ruptured abdominal
           aortic aneurysm: effect of patient, surgeon, and hospital factors. J.Vasc.Surg., 39:
           1253-1260.

        7. Mortality results for randomised controlled trial of early elective surgery or
           ultrasonographic surveillance for small abdominal aortic aneurysms. The UK Small
           Aneurysm Trial Participants. Lancet, 352: 1649-1655.

        8. Ernst CB. Abdominal aortic aneurysm. N.Engl.J.Med., 328: 1167-1172.

        9. Zarins CK, Harris EJ, Jr. Operative repair for aortic aneurysms: the gold standard.
           J.Endovasc.Surg., 4: 232-241.

       10. Lawrence PF, Gazak C, Bhirangi L et al. The epidemiology of surgically repaired
           aneurysms in the United States. J.Vasc.Surg., 30: 632-640.

       11. Heller JA, Weinberg A, Arons R et al. Two decades of abdominal aortic aneurysm repair:
           have we made any progress? J.Vasc.Surg., 32: 1091-1100.

       12. Galland RB. Mortality following elective infrarenal aortic reconstruction: a Joint
           Vascular Research Group study. Br.J.Surg., 85: 633-636.

       13. Johnston KW, Scobie TK. Multicenter prospective study of nonruptured abdominal aortic
           aneurysms. I. Population and operative management. J.Vasc.Surg., 7: 69-81.

       14. Bradbury AW, Adam DJ, Makhdoomi KR et al. A 21-year experience of abdominal aortic
           aneurysm operations in Edinburgh. Br.J.Surg., 85: 645-647.

       15. Bayly PJ, Matthews JN, Dobson PM, Price ML, Thomas DG. In-hospital mortality from
           abdominal aortic surgery in Great Britain and Ireland: Vascular Anaesthesia Society
           audit. Br.J.Surg., 88: 687-692.

       16. Huber TS, Wang JG, Derrow AE et al. Experience in the United States with intact
           abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. J.Vasc.Surg., 33: 304-310.

       17. Kazmers A, Jacobs L, Perkins A, Lindenauer SM, Bates E. Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair
           in Veterans Affairs medical centers. J.Vasc.Surg., 23: 191-200.

       18. Thomas SM, Gaines PA, Beard JD. Short-term (30-day) outcome of endovascular treatment of
           abdominal aortic aneurism: results from the prospective Registry of Endovascular
           Treatment of Abdominal Aortic Aneurism (RETA). Eur.J.Vasc.Endovasc.Surg., 21: 57-64.

       19. Harris PL, Buth J, Mialhe C, Myhre HO, Norgren L. The need for clinical trials of
           endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm stent-graft repair: The EUROSTAR Project.
           EUROpean collaborators on Stent-graft Techniques for abdominal aortic Aneurysm Repair.
           J.Endovasc.Surg., 4: 72-77.

       20. Prinssen M, Verhoeven EL, Buth J et al. A randomized trial comparing conventional and
           endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms. N.Engl.J.Med., 351: 1607-1618.

       21. Greenhalgh RM, Brown LC, Kwong GP, Powell JT, Thompson SG. Comparison of endovascular
           aneurysm repair with open repair in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm (EVAR trial
           1), 30-day operative mortality results: randomised controlled trial. Lancet, 364:
           843-848.

       22. Forbes TL, DeRose G, Kribs SW, Harris KA. Cumulative sum failure analysis of the
           learning curve with endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. J.Vasc.Surg., 39:
           102-108.

       23. Lobato AC, Rodriguez-Lopez J, Diethrich EB. Learning curve for endovascular abdominal
           aortic aneurysm repair: evaluation of a 277-patient single-center experience.
           J.Endovasc.Ther., 9: 262-268.

       24. Devereaux PJ, Bhandari M, Clarke M et al. Need for expertise based randomised controlled
           trials. BMJ, 330: 88.
    
  