
    
      Thalassemia is a type of hemolytic anemia disease caused by genetic defect of synthesis in
      one or more globin chains. Among all the single genetic disorders, thalassemia has the
      highest incidence rate in the world and causes heavy burdens on public health system. In
      China, the southern provinces suffer from high incidence of thalassemia, which is
      particularly common in the population of Guangdong, Guangxi and Yunnan provinces.
      Epidemiological studies showed that in Guangdong alone about 17.83 % of the 14,332 pregnant
      women across 21 regions examined were diagnosed as carriers of thalassemia.

      Recent studies showed that after pregnancy, anemia in β-thalassemia patients tends to turn
      more serious, the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes accordingly increase. Currently, no
      consensus has been reached in treating pregnant thalassemia patients due to lack of safe and
      effective treatment. Regulation of globin gene expression is the key link of β-thalassemia
      treatment, but the accessible western medicines have many limitations, including bone marrow
      suppression, carcinogenicity and teratogenicity, and are not suitable for pregnant patients.

      In China, Colla corii asini (CCA, E'jiao) is a gelatin-like traditional Chinese medicine
      refined from donkey hide and has been widely used in clinical antanemic therapy for more than
      2000 years. In the last decade, many studies had addressed the effect of CCA on the anemia
      using modern pharmacological approaches. The results indicated that CCA contains collagen
      protein,glycogen and a variety of trace elements, a variety of amino acids, etc. the main
      components of CCA can promote hematopoiesis by a number of mechanisms which eventually
      increase the peripheral erythrocyte counts and Hb concentration. Therefore, the investigators
      proposed that the hematopoietic effects of CCA might also contribute to the treatment of
      thalassemia with insuffcient or abnormal Hb concentration.

      Our previous clinical study showed that CCA can significantly increase the level of
      hemoglobin and adult hemoglobin (HbA,α2β2) in the pregnant women with β-thalassemia, it was
      speculated that CCA might induce β globin gene expression, which would be more beneficial to
      pregnant women than the γ globin gene inducer. But its regulatory pathway is not clear.

      This study is designed to explore the pathways and targets of regulating globin expression by
      using the transcriptomics method, which might be related to CCA treating pregnant anemia in
      β-thalassemia patients. And then the results of transcriptomics study will be further
      verified by expanding the clinical samples and implementing cell experiments, aiming to
      explore the mechanisms of CCA in treating β-thalassemia with pregnant anemia by regulating
      globin expression.
    
  