
    
      The Candela Vbeam PerfectaTM is an FDA approved 595nm Flashlamp Pulsed Dye Laser (PDL) that
      is being used for the treatment of benign skin lesions. The purpose of using the PDL in this
      study is to help improve study patients' skin disease. Cutaneous Lupus Erythematosus often
      starts with damaging skin lesions which are frequently difficult to treat with the available
      therapeutic measures. This study will use a flashlamp PDL to compare treated cutaneous
      lesions and non-treated lesions. We will look at factors such as the degree of erythema
      (redness of the skin), scale and hypertrophy (increase in size of skin), scarring and
      dyspigmentation (abnormality in the formation or distribution of skin coloration) and make a
      summary score of these factors.

      It is important to note that this device currently is being used to treat patients with skin
      lesions in the Department of Dermatology at the University of Pennsylvania, where this study
      will be done. Although the PDL has been used to treat other patients, its use in this study
      is experimental.

      The PDL is considered to be the laser of choice for vascular lesions, because at wavelengths
      of 585-595 nm, the laser is known to produce excellent clinical results at minimal risk to
      patients. The laser has been used successfully in the treatment of port-wine stains in
      children as young as 1 month of age. The PDL is designed to deliver an intense but gentle
      burst of laser light to the skin. The light is absorbed by the blood vessels in the vascular
      lesion, while leaving the surrounding tissue undamaged. The PDL has been used clinically for
      the treatment of cutaneous lesions in childhood port-wine stains, childhood proliferative
      angiomas, facial telangiectasias, poikiloderma of Civatte, nevus flammeus, capillary
      hemangiomas, scars, verrucae, and lupus erythematosus. Several studies are known to have used
      the 585-595nm PDL to treat cutaneous lupus erythematosus lesions.

      During a period of 5 months, study patients will receive 3-5 treatments to one skin lesion
      with the pulsed dye laser. Clinical follow-up examinations include photographs, clinical
      assessments by a blinded physician, and pain and itch scales by the study patient. The study
      requires a total of one year commitment per study patient.
    
  