
    
      The purpose of the study is to determine the effect of whole-body vibration (WBV) on body
      composition, physical fitness, and quality of life.Twenty healthy adult males and females
      (ages 18-65) with no contraindications for exercise training will be recruited to participate
      in the study. Subjects will participate in a randomized, crossover trial for 24 weeks.
      Subjects will be assigned to either: (1) WBV for the first 12 weeks and then aerobic exercise
      training for the second 12 weeks 3 times per week (n=10) or (2) aerobic exercise training for
      the first 12 weeks and then WBV for the second 12 weeks 3 times per week (n=10). Subjects
      will be assessed at baseline and at 12 and 24 weeks on aerobic capacity (estimated VO2max),
      upper and lower body strength (1-repetition maximum on bench press and leg press,
      respectively), compartmental and total body fat mass, fat free mass, and bone mineral density
      (using dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA)), body mass index (height relative to weight),
      weight, skin fold and body part circumferences, resting blood pressure and pulse, and
      subjective health-related quality of life (SF-36). Participants will be trained and assessed
      at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine UHealth Fitness and Wellness Center, in
      UHealth Champions Executive Medicine, and in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral
      Sciences.

      No substantial psychological, medical, or social risks exist to the participants. Although
      all measures to protect confidentiality will be put in place, the possibility exists that
      electronic data could be jeopardized. In the remote case that such event occurs, it will be
      immediately reported to the Institutional Review Board (IRB).

      Exercise has been shown to be safe among every population, including those with chronic
      diseases and/or other complications. A DEXA scan is the equivalent of about 4 extra days'
      worth of naturally-occurring radiation.

      The use of the HyperVibe WBV training device should be harmless without any known negative
      effects, as WBV is even lower risk than aerobic exercise, as the participant simply stands on
      the platform without moving while being exposed to full-body vibration. The system is
      completely non-invasive, and no serious, untoward side effects have been reported to the
      manufacturer (HyperVibe) of this system. All study personnel will follow instructions for
      operating the system. Participants will incur no additional appreciable psychological or
      social risks by participating in this study.

      The results obtained in this study may demonstrate a way to increase exercise efficiency
      through the use of WBV in helping overweight/obese participants to lose weight, gain muscular
      weight, and improve physical fitness levels. By participating in the study, subjects may
      improve their overall health status in a unique approach to exercise training. The minimal
      risk of participating in this study is reasonable because the potential information gained
      can be worthwhile for helping people to lose weight, which is significant, given the
      inordinate prevalence of overweight/obesity and its co morbid chronic diseases in the United
      States today.
    
  