
    
      Guidelines for public health approaches for non-communicable disease (NCD) in crises are not
      well developed. More broadly, NCD management in developing countries focuses on care at the
      health facility level without a community health worker focus (CHW), which may facilitate
      continuous care and monitoring.

      Since the arrival of refugees from Syria in 2012, the International Rescue Committee (IRC)
      has provided primary health care, mobile outreach, and community-based empowerment programs
      for those in need in the northern governorates of Mafraq and Ramtha. The IRC runs health
      clinics, mobile medical teams, and community health volunteer (CHV) networks to provide care
      for refugees and Jordanians living in poverty.

      This stepped-wedge observational study will follow the implementation of an improved CHV
      program which focuses on the monitoring of 'high-needs' patients in their households for
      complications, severe disease, and to avoid interruptions to treatment adherence. The
      stepped-wedge design will be undertaken to benefit from the phased rollout of the improved
      CHV intervention over a year-long period. The intervention will be scaled to 20
      CHV-neighborhoods across Mafraq and Ramtha.

      Primary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the impact of an improved CHV program that targets high-needs hypertension
           and diabetes patients on:

        -  Compliance with routine clinic visits.

        -  Adherence to medications (self-reported).

        -  Adherence behaviours (self-reported).

        -  Disease control outcomes (blood pressure control for hypertension patients; blood sugar
           control for diabetes patients).

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To document the operations of the improved CHV program in terms of key operational
           indicators and health indicators.

        -  To produce lessons learned to improve the CHV program.

      Study outcomes:

        -  Evidence of the effectiveness of the improved CHV strategy on clinic visit compliance,
           adherence, and patient outcomes.

        -  Improved guidance for developing and implementing an integrated model of primary care
           and community health worker networks in crises.
    
  