
    
      1. Design of Social Marketing/Consumer Preferences Trial

           a. Development of Protective Headwear Attitudes Questionnaire To develop a questionnaire
           specific to attitudes about protective headwear, the authors reviewed existing papers
           that applied the Theory of Planned Behavior to other health behaviors such as the use of
           canes or walkers and adherence to exercise. Questions were drafted to address attitudes
           (24), subjective norms (14) and perceived behavioral control (14) about the behavior of
           using protective headwear. The rationale and specific questions were presented to an
           expert panel and clinicians (behavioralist, 3 geriatricians, long-term care nurse and a
           nurse health services researcher) to evaluate the content and face validity of each
           question, and to rank each as high or low importance within each domain. Item reduction
           and refinement following the expert panels identified 26 candidate questions. Analysis
           of the PHAQ as an instrumented was also completed

        2. Social Marketing Approach

             1. Expert panel Input on social marketing materials Input on the social marketing
                phase was conducted on two focus groups of 6 clinicians, geriatricians and nurses,
                and the social marketing tools were updated and improved in a CQI manner after each
                focus group with experts and with seniors in retirement communities. Please review
                transcripts on the input from seniors.

             2. Social Marketing Focus groups/Process The social marketing approach was developed
                and refined using a structured interview approach with each focus group of older
                adults. A total 6 focus groups were conducted at 4 communities with a total of 36
                participants. An iterative process was used to improve the content of the social
                marketing after each session.

                The goal was to develop a progressive method of presenting information about the
                magnitude of head injuries and the development of a new product that we wanted
                their input towards the final design. The progression was done with First, a one
                page flier, Second, a three minute video tape and Finally, a two page article that
                was patterned after articles that appear in AARP magazine. The flier provided basic
                information about the risk of TBI and the development of a new product called
                SMARTY®, which is made of advanced materials so that it is lightweight and can be
                styled to match the needs of the user and setting. The Video included the
                discussion of the unrecognized public health issue by one of the authors (SC),
                photos of the advanced materials and how they work to provide protection, a
                videotape of the testing of the protective headwear by dropping a crash test dummy
                and finally the testimonial of the user of a prototype by a colleague who has a
                seizure disorder. The paper provides more detail and includes a graph of the rapid
                increase in deaths from TBI in older adults 75 years and over, and a drawing that
                describes the characteristics of the advanced materials.

             3. Ability to change attitudes To measure changes in attitudes, the participants were
                given the PHAQ, as well as the demographic and functional status questionnaire when
                they arrived for the focus group. Input into the social marketing content was
                sought in a structured interview manner, and by using an audience response system
                with questions projected by power point. At the conclusion of the social marketing,
                the PHAQ was repeated and sent to participants 2 weeks after the focus group to
                gage stability of changes in attitudes.
    
  