
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether prophylactic beta blocker therapy with carvedilol compared with no
      intervention reduces the risk of subsequent cardiac dysfunction in patients with metastatic
      breast cancer receiving trastuzumab?based HER-2 targeted therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether prophylactic beta blocker therapy with carvedilol compared with no
      intervention reduces the risk of predefined subsequent cardiac events in patients with
      metastatic breast cancer receiving trastuzumab?based HER-2 targeted therapy.

      II. To evaluate if prophylactic carvedilol compared with no intervention results in a longer
      time to first interruption of trastuzumab?based HER-2 targeted therapy due to either cardiac
      dysfunction or events.

      III. To assess whether prophylactic beta blocker therapy with carvedilol compared with no
      intervention reduces the risk of subsequent cardiac dysfunction OR events in this population.

      IV. To establish and prospectively collect a predefined panel of baseline core cardiovascular
      measures and develop a predictive model of cardiac dysfunction.

      V. To evaluate the rate of cardiac dysfunction in an observational arm consisting of
      individuals otherwise eligible for the study except for use of beta blockers, angiotensin
      receptor blocker (ARB), or angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors for other medical
      reasons.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the isoleucine (lle) 655 valine (Val) and and alanine (Ala)ll70 proline (Pro)
      single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of the HER-2 gene as a predictive biomarker of
      study-defined cardiac dysfunction.

      II. To evaluate plasma neuregulin-1 at baseline and over study time as a predictive biomarker
      of study-defined cardiac dysfunction.

      III. To evaluate the feasibility of performing serial left ventricular strain in a National
      Clinical Trials Network (NCTN) group setting, with the goal of 75% of patients contributing
      both a baseline and at least one follow-up strain measurement.

      IV. To bank blood for future translational medicine studies such as brain natriuretic peptide
      (BNP), additional SNPs, and high sensitivity troponin.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. Patients taking beta blocker, ARB, or ACE
      inhibitor at registration are assigned to Arm III.

      ARM I: Patients not taking beta blocker, ARB, or ACE inhibitor at registration receive
      carvedilol orally (PO) twice daily (BID). Courses repeat every 12 weeks for 108 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients not taking beta blocker, ARB, or ACE inhibitor at registration receive no
      study intervention for up to 108 weeks.

      ARM III: Patients undergo observation for up to 108 weeks.

      After completion of study, patients are followed up for up to 108 weeks.
    
  