
    
      The evolution of diaphragm muscle thickness is described in human resuscitation under
      mechanical ventilation, but the incidence, causes and functional impact have not been studied
      in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass ECMO (extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation)
      veno-arterial (VA). More generally, the muscular mechanisms of dyspnea in cases of acute
      cardiac dysfunction are not known.

      The evolution of the diaphragmatic thickness in intensive care has been described during
      prolonged stay in intensive care and from the initial phase of septic status. It is
      associated with dyspnea, weaning delay of mechanical ventilation and impact on patient
      outcomes. The atrophy of the diaphragm muscle is related to both loss of function and loss of
      muscle performance. The same is true for hypertrophy that is caused by overuse of the muscle
      and also causes loss of function.

      Decreased cardiac muscle performance may require both cardiac assistance and respiratory
      assistance. Cardiac and respiratory dysfunction may complicate withdrawal of respiratory
      assistance and extracorporeal circulatory support devices. These two supports, respiratory
      and circulatory support, make it possible to mitigate the insufficiency of the systemic flow,
      the oxygenation and the purification of the CO2. Respiratory assistance is known to influence
      the diaphragmatic function. The role of muscle pump function in the weaning process of the
      ECMO, however, remains largely unknown.

      Ultrasound is used in the patient's bed in daily practice to measure cardiac function, the
      study of vessels but also the diaphragm muscle. It allows to study the trophicity of the
      diaphragm and these efforts via its contraction. The hypothesis that there is muscular
      involvement of the diaphragm in this measurable condition by ultrasound method can be
      formulated.

      No study has systematically explored the existence of diaphragmatic atrophy under VA ECMO.
      The influence of cardiac and respiratory assistance is not known.

      The purpose of this study is to provide a description of the diaphragm physiology of patients
      treated with VA ECMO.

      It is to evaluate the evolution of the trophicity of the diaphragm muscle in intensive care.

      Secondly, to evaluate the factors that influence it at the time of weaning. In this study
      it's planed to include a cohort of patients with a longitudinal evaluation of the thickness
      of the diaphragm during a cardiogenic shock under ECMO, and an evaluation of the influence of
      ECMO parameters and ventilation on the diaphragm.
    
  