
    
      The childhood cancer experience necessarily impacts the entire family. In this context,
      particular attention should be paid to the donor siblings of hematopoietic stem cells in the
      context of treatment of leukemia by grafting.

      The results of the little existing work on the long-term fate of stem cell donor siblings of
      cancer survivors report psychosocial consequences, particularly for real post-traumatic
      stress in distant siblings. disease. Few studies have explored the medium and long-term
      impact of the disease, as well as donation, on a broader set of domains structuring the
      quality of life, through validated quantitative tools.

      In France, since 2004, the LEA program (Leukemia of the Child and Adolescent) aims to assess
      the determinants (medical, socio-economic, behavioral and environmental) of the state of
      health and quality of life in the medium and long term, patients treated for acute childhood
      leukemia after 1980. To document the quality of life of their self-reported hematopoietic
      stem cell donor siblings and their perception of the impact that experience of cancer in the
      family has had on their medium and long-term future, the organization of the LEA program can
      easily be extended to the establishment of an ancillary study.

      objectives The main objective of this study is to evaluate, at a distance from the
      transplant, the quality of life of donors from the siblings of survivors of acute childhood
      leukemia who received a hematopoietic stem cell transplant compared with non-donor siblings.

      The secondary objectives are: (a) to compare the quality of life of siblings with that of the
      general population; (b) to compare the quality of life of the siblings with that of the
      surviving patients; (c) to identify the determinants (demographic, socioeconomic, family and
      history of cancer) of the medium-long-term quality of life of this family; (d) remotely
      evaluate the donation's use of the donor sire care system as a tracer of the impact of the
      donation; (e) remotely evaluate the gift of the social integration of the donor sibship,
      particularly in terms of schooling.

      The SIDONY ancillary study will be proposed to families of LEA patients who have received a
      geno-identical sibling haematopoietic stem cell transplant (population of interest) and to
      families whose LEA patient has not been treated by sibling transplantation. geno-identical
      but still declaring to have siblings (main comparator group). Each family will be contacted
      by mail and the management of inclusions will be managed by the Epidemiology and Health
      Economics Department of AP-HM (Marseille).

      Information not routinely available in the LEA database will be collected from the siblings
      (self-questionnaire, to be returned by post): sociodemographic and socio-economic data
      relating to the siblings and the family; data concerning the quality of life of the siblings;
      psycho-behavioral and cognitive data; data on the state of health of the siblings; social
      inclusion data; recourse to the health care system. In addition, for each surviving child
      included in the cohort, data are available: sociodemographic; characteristics of the initial
      disease and therapeutic received; physical sequelae; quality of life.

      Feasibility and practical impact The population meeting the inclusion criteria represents
      2639 subjects: 337 donors and 2302 non-donors, making it possible to obtain high powers for
      analyzes (linear regression, multilevel analyzes, etc.). This study could identify profiles
      of siblings for whom the quality of life seems particularly impaired, potential object of
      individual interventions (remediation ...).
    
  