
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Atezolizumab in combination with oxaliplatin and fluorouracil (5-FU) (modified
      fluorouracil/leucovorin calcium/oxaliplatin [FOLFOX]) therapy in the neoadjuvant setting will
      achieve a pathological complete response of approximately 20% in patients with localized
      esophageal and gastroesophageal (gastroesophageal junction [GEJ]) adenocarcinoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate safety and toxicity profile of intravenous atezolizumab in combination with
      oxaliplatin and 5-FU therapy.

      II. To assess the efficacy of the combination by tumor regression grade scoring in the
      surgical specimen.

      III. To assess the overall safety and tolerability of adjuvant atezolizumab in subjects with
      resected esophageal and GEJ cancer.

      IV. To evaluate disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS). V. To explore changes
      in tumor stroma profile before and after immunotherapy in combination with chemotherapy.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours, fluorouracil IV continuously
      over 48 hours, and atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats
      every 28 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Within 4-6 weeks of treatment completion, patients undergo surgical resection. Beginning 6
      weeks after surgery, patients continue to receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, fluorouracil
      IV continuously over 48 hours, and atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive atezolizumab monotherapy IV over 30-60 minutes
      on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 90 days and then every 3
      months thereafter.
    
  