
    
      Introduction:

      Cesarean sections are the most common surgical operations performed in the U.S (1). Patients
      requiring c-section who are on methadone maintenance often have uncontrolled pain due to
      opioid tolerance. The current treatment is to utilize large amounts of opioids via PCA thus
      resulting in a challenging situation with poor patient satisfaction.

      The Transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block has been studied with success in many abdominal
      surgeries including c-sections (2-5). The anterior abdominal wall is innervated by anterior
      divisions of spinal segmental nerves which lie between the transversus abdominis and internal
      oblique muscle layers. Blockade of these nerves with local anesthetics may last up to 24
      hours. There have been no efficacy studies performed using the TAP block in patients
      receiving chronic methadone maintenance undergoing c-sections.

      Methods:

      This is a prospective randomized double-blind placebo controlled study (0.375% Ropivacaine
      vs. 0.9% saline) designed to evaluate the effectiveness of transverse abdominis plane (TAP)
      block in the first 48 hours after c-section in patients receiving methadone therapy. The TAP
      block will be performed by a regional anesthesiologist in the operating room after delivery
      of the baby.

      Objective:

      The primary objective of this study is to measure pain levels after c-sections in patients
      receiving methadone therapy utilizing visual analog scale (VAS) and assessing opioid
      consumption during the first 48 hours compared to placebo.

      Conclusion:

      It is hypothesized that patients receiving TAP block will have decreased pain intensity and
      less opioid consumption during the first two postoperative days compared to placebo.
      Therefore we believe postoperative TAP block to be an effective adjuvant to pain control for
      patients on methadone maintenance following c-section.
    
  