
    
      Antimicrobial resistance is rising since decades with a risk of million of death in the
      future. Extended-Spectrum Beta-Lactamases (ESBL)-Producing Enterobacteriaceae (PE) have
      expanded exponentially since 15 years and represent with Carbapenemase-PE one of the major
      challenges in resistance control. The burden of ESBL-PE infections is major in intensive care
      units (ICU) because of the delay to identify an effective antibiotic treatment (highly
      associated with outcome) and because of a higher risk of nosocomial cross transmission.

      Identification of digestive carrier of ESBL-PE is based on a qualitative result that
      categorize the patient as a carrier or as non-carrier. This result makes it impossible to
      individualize the measures to be taken for an ESBL-PE carrier.

      Prevention of cross transmission has no formal guideline. Some practitioners in ICU have
      stopped to detect for ESBL-PE carriage (specially when prevalence is low) and other prefer to
      close the ward (specially during outbreak).

      Empiric treatment of most infections in ESBL-PE carrier are based on last-resort antibiotic
      (i.e. carbapenem) until microbiological results of a clinical simple is available.

      A quantitative approach based on fecal relative abundance (RA) of ESBL-PE (ratio between
      ESBL-PE and enterobacteriaceae) has been proposed to individualize the risk of urinary tract
      infection (UTI) for ambulatory patients. In this setting, a fecal carriage with a very low RA
      of ESBL-PE safely rule out a risk of infection with ESBL-PE and patients with a high RA had
      an increased risk of UTI infection with ESBL-PE. Large variations of RA ESBL-PE carriage was
      observed and prediction of the level of RA was not possible for a patient.

      A high variation in fecal RA of ESBL-PE is probable in ICU because of a high proportion of
      antibiotic exposure. Using the RA in ICU for ESBL-PE carrier could make it possible to
      identify patients who need for carbapenem in their empiric treatment and those who need
      continuing contact precautions to prevent cross transmission.

      The aim of this study is to identify the factor that influence the fecal RA of ESBL-PE in ICU
      and to evaluate the association between different level of fecal RA and infection or cross
      transmission with an ESBL-PE.
    
  