
    
      Approximately 51 subjects will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive 1 of 3 treatment
      regimens in a 12-week Induction Phase:

      GED-0301 160 mg Once Daily (QD) for 12 weeks GED-0301 160 mg Once Daily (QD) for 8 weeks
      followed by 4 weeks of placebo GED-0301 160 mg Once Daily (QD) for 4 weeks followed by 8
      weeks of placebo Treatment assignment at baseline will be stratified via an Interactive Voice
      Response System (IVRS)/or an Interactive Web Response System (IWRS) based on previous
      exposure to TNF-α blockers (yes/no) and disease location (disease restricted to the terminal
      ileum and/or up to the mid transverse colon only, or disease involving at least 1 ulcerated
      segment distal to mid transverse colon). The number of subjects with previous exposure to
      TNF-α blockers is targeted to be approximately 40%. The number of subjects with disease
      involving distal to mid transverse colon is targeted to comprise approximately 50% of the
      study population.

      The study will consist of 5 phases:

      Screening Phase - up to 4 weeks Induction Phase - 12 weeks Eligible subjects will enter the
      Induction Phase at the Baseline Visit (Week 0/Induction Visit 1). Subjects will be assigned
      randomly to receive IP as described above.

      At Induction Week 12, subjects (responders) who achieve clinical remission, defined as a CDAI
      score < 150, or clinical response, defined as a decrease from baseline of ≥ 100 points in
      Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI) score, at any of the following Induction Visits (Weeks
      4, 8 and/or Week 12) will enter the Observation Phase. The Observation Phase will have a
      duration of up to 52 weeks. Subjects who are unable to achieve clinical remission or clinical
      response (no responders) at the following Induction Visits (Weeks 4, 8 and Week 12), will be
      discontinued from the study. Subjects who enter the Observation Phase and were receiving
      corticosteroids at baseline will start tapering corticosteroids at the end of the Induction
      Phase (Induction Week 12).

      Observation Phase - up to 52 weeks Subjects who enter the Observation Phase will be evaluated
      by CDAI score every 4 weeks. Subjects will not receive investigational product (IP) during
      the Observation Phase. Subjects who experience a partial loss of response or are unable to
      taper corticosteroids during the Observation Phase will enter the Extension Phase. Partial
      loss of response is defined as 2 consecutive visits with both a CDAI score ≥ 150 and an
      increase of CDAI score ≥ 50 points from the CDAI score at the visit when the subject was
      first a responder during the Induction Phase. Partial loss of response must be confirmed 2 to
      4 weeks post initial identification of partial loss of response. Subjects who do not
      experience a partial loss of response until Observation Week 52 will have an end-of-study
      visit.

      Extension Phase -24 weeks Subjects who enter the Extension Phase will receive GED-0301 40 mg
      QD on a 4-week, alternating dosing schedule (4 weeks of treatment with GED-0301, followed by
      4 weeks without GED-0301 treatment) for 24 weeks.

      Follow-up Phase - 4 weeks

      Subjects who complete the Extension Week 24 Visit will have 2 options:

        -  Subjects will have the Follow-up Visit if they chose to not enter the Long-Term
           Extension Study or it has not been initiated

        -  Subjects may proceed to the Long-Term Extension Study, provided this study has been
           initiated by the time the subjects complete study GED-0301-CD-001 and subjects meet all
           inclusion/exclusion criteria of the Long-Term Extension Study.

      Subjects who prematurely discontinue from the study, for any reason, will enter the Follow-up
      Phase, the 4-week period after the last study visit.
    
  