
    
      People infected with HIV have an increased risk for cardiovascular disease, which is a
      leading cause of death for those with HIV. The increase in cardiovascular disease has been
      thought to be linked to the use of several types of antiretroviral medications used to treat
      HIV infection. These medications have been shown to cause insulin resistance and
      dyslipidemia, or high cholesterol levels-conditions that can lead to atherosclerosis, which
      is a build-up of plaque within the arteries, and ultimately to cardiovascular disease.
      However, new research is emerging that suggests that people infected with HIV who do not
      receive antiretroviral medications may also have an increased risk of cardiovascular disease
      as a result of increased endothelial dysfunction. This condition, which involves
      malfunctioning of the thin layer of cells that line the interior surface of blood vessels,
      can lead to atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. Pentoxifylline is a medication that
      is currently used to reduce leg pain in people with blockages in the blood vessels in their
      legs. Previous research has shown that pentoxifylline may reduce inflammation and improve
      blood vessel function in people infected with HIV, but more research is needed to confirm
      these benefits. The purpose of this study is to determine whether pentoxifylline reduces
      inflammation and improves endothelial function in HIV-infected people who are not receiving
      antiretroviral medications.

      This study will enroll HIV-infected people who are not currently receiving antiretroviral
      medications. At a baseline study visit, participants will undergo a medical history review;
      physical examination; measurements in blood pressure, heart rate, height, weight, waist, and
      hip; and blood and urine collection. An ultrasound imaging test of the arm will measure blood
      vessel function. Participants will then be randomly assigned to receive either pentoxifylline
      or placebo three times a day for 8 weeks. At study visits at Weeks 4 and 8, participants will
      undergo repeat baseline measurements.
    
  