
    
      LITERATURE SEARCH STRATEGY:

      Based on recommendations from information specialists in the field of health, agriculture and
      technology the following databases were chosen to search for scientific literature about the
      present study's purpose: Pubmed, Embase, SveMed, CAB abstracts (Centre for Agriculture and
      Biosciences International), Agris, DADS (Denmark's Technical University's Digital Library),
      Scopus and Ebsco. The key search terms for the literature search were: personal protective
      equipment, farmers, pesticides, developing countries and tropical climate. Synonyms for each
      of these search terms were identified by means of Gyldendals Dictionary and previous
      international literature. In Pubmed, SveMed, Embase, CAB abstracts and Agris the synonyms
      were applied to find subject headings which the main search was based on. However, in DADS,
      Scopus, Ebsco searches on subject headings was not an option and therefore the main search
      was based on the synonyms.

        -  Pubmed: 3349 hits, subject headings for key terms personal protective equipment and
           pesticides with no limitations.

        -  Embase: 399 hits, subject headings for key terms personal protective equipment and
           pesticides with the limitation human.

        -  SveMed: 24 hits, subject headings for key terms personal protective equipment and
           pesticides.

        -  CAB abstracts: 607 hits, subject headings for key terms personal protective equipment
           and pesticides.

        -  Agris: 681 hits, subject headings for key terms personal protective equipment and
           pesticides.

        -  DADS 8650 hits, subject headings for key terms personal protective equipment and
           pesticides.

        -  Scopus: 1988 hits, synonyms for key terms personal protective equipment and pesticides
           and developing countries and tropical climate with the limitation to human.

        -  EBSCO: 722 hits, synonyms for key terms personal protective equipment and pesticides.

      Firstly, the relevance of titles was evaluated, secondly the relevance of abstracts from hits
      with relevant titles was evaluated and thirdly the relevance of full texts from hits with
      relevant abstracts was evaluated. A search was made based on the function 'related studies'
      for each relevant study in each database. The reference list of each relevant study was
      viewed and searched in Web of Science for citations. Finally each accessible relevant study
      was read carefully (5 hits). Exclusion criteria were studies on closed farming, mechanized
      farming, non-tropical conditions, and farming in industrialized countries or laboratory
      performance testing of personal protective equipment seeing that these criteria would not
      represent typical farming conditions in developing countries. Grey literature was searched in
      databases of the International Labor Organization, World Health Organization and Food and
      Agricultural Organization.

      STUDY AREA:

      Nepal is divided into 75 administrative districts. Pesticide consumption data show that
      excessive use of pesticides is common in different crops such as rice, maize, wheat and
      vegetables production areas. Chitwan District is selected purposively for three reasons:

        -  One of the highest vegetable growing districts of Nepal is Chitwan.

        -  An excessive pesticide use is documented in Chitwan.

        -  An unpublished study being the first of its kind in Nepal known to the research group
           documents the seriousness of the problem in Chitwan. A comparative cross-sectional study
           was conducted among 90 vegetable farmers using hand pressured backpack sprayers and 90
           blood donors. Fifty %, 15 % and 13 % of the pesticides used by the vegetable farmers
           could be categorized as moderately, highly and slightly hazardous, respectively,
           according to the World Health Organization Hazard Classification. Organophosphates were
           one of the most common pesticides used by the vegetable farmers; the moderately
           hazardous chlorpyrifos and imidacloprid as well as the highly hazardous dichlorvos. Poor
           working practices without adequate safety precautions were common among the vegetable
           farmers. The vegetable farmers reported a higher number of acute organophosphate
           poisoning symptoms and had lower levels of acetyl cholinesterase than blood donors.
           Chitwan has a total population of around 566,661 and was a largely uncultivated dense
           forest before the Nepali government started spraying with the insecticide
           dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane for a Malaria Eradication Project in the 1950s.
           Immediately, Chitwan became a major farming region and services and infrastructure
           expanded across the area. Out of a total 46,894 hectare of arable land, 44,291 hectare
           is used for agricultural purpose (maize, rice, wheat, beans, lentils, mustard and
           vegetables). Agriculture is the primary source of income for 75 % of the population.
           Around 4000-5000 people of the working population is engaged in vegetable farming.
           Chitwan has 40 village district committees and the District Agricultural Office
           considers 10 of these as pocket areas in terms of vegetable farming based on their own
           observations, experiments, monitoring and personal communication with vegetable farmers.
           The ten pocket areas are Mangalpur, Jagatpur, Shukranagar, Chainpur, Bhandara,
           Gitanagar, Sibanagar, Jutpani, Kumroj and Padampur. To the extent that it is possible
           farmers fulfilling the inclusion and exclusion criteria of the present study in these
           pocket areas will be recruited:

      RECRUITMENT STRATEGY:

      Non-probability.

      SAMPLE SIZE DETERMINATION:

      The sample size calculations are based on a quasi-experimental unpublished study of 25
      vegetable farmers from Chitwan whose acute organophosphate poisoning symptoms and plasma
      cholinesterase levels were measured pre and post an organophosphate spraying session on the
      same day during daily practice conditions.

        -  Mean number of acute organophosphate poisoning symptoms 1.08±1.32 (Pre spraying
           measurement) 2.4±1.87 (Post spraying measurement) 0.0003 (P-value)

        -  Mean U/ml level of plasma cholinesterase 1.41±0.59 (Pre spraying measurement) 1.29±0.54
           (Post spraying measurement) 0.0548 (P-value)

      The pre and post organophosphate spraying measurements are considered to represent the
      "healthiest" and "unhealthiest" condition that the vegetable farmers can be expected to be
      in, respectively. Thus, for the present study the pre and post organophosphate spraying
      measurements are expected to resemble the results among the farmers after having worked with
      organophosphates wearing the LAPPE solution and DP solution, respectively. A sample size
      suitable to the study resources was gained when applying the pre and post results of the
      number of acute organophosphate poisoning symptoms.

        -  Paired means = 1.08, 2.4

        -  Paired standard deviations = 1.320,1.870

        -  Correlation = 0

        -  Sides = 1, 2

        -  Alpha = 0.05

        -  Power = 0.9

      Taking into consideration dropouts, technical problems leading to invalid measurements,
      refusals and co-variables for multivariate analyses 33 % of the sample size (34 pairs) is
      added, the result being rounded up to 50 pairs of farmers needed for the present study.

      DATA ANALYSES:

      Descriptive:

        -  Frequency, proportion categorical variables

        -  Mean, minimum, maximum and standard deviation of numeric variables

        -  Table crossing background, explanatory and feasibility variables with LAPPE/DP
           experiment

        -  Table crossing number of acute organophosphate poisoning symptoms with plasma
           cholinesterase levels U/ml

      Unadjusted (paired t-test and McNemar test):

        -  Mean difference in number of acute organophosphate poisoning symptoms after both
           experiments

        -  Mean difference in plasma cholinesterase level U/ml after both experiments

      Adjusted (mixed model):

        -  Number of acute organophosphate poisoning symptoms after the LAPPE experiment is
           compared to the number of acute organophosphate poisoning symptoms after the DP
           experiment adjusted for baseline values, period effect, experiment sequence and
           explanatory variables.

        -  Plasma cholinesterase level U/ml after the LAPPE experiment is compared to the plasma
           cholinesterase level U/ml after the DP experiment adjusted for baseline values, period
           effect, experiment sequence and explanatory variables.

      Sensitivity:

      To allow confidence in the main finding its robustness will be assessed by repeating the
      analyses with more rigid health outcome definitions if possible such as:

        -  Farmers with acute organophosphate poisoning symptoms before the LAPPE and DP experiment
           are excluded.

        -  Farmers with more abnormal plasma cholinesterase levels U/ml before the LAPPE and DP
           experiment are excluded.

        -  Farmers with chronic illness are excluded.

        -  Farmers who respond to the "fake" symptoms are excluded.

      ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS:

      Informal recognition and encouragement in Chitwan will be obtained from the District
      Agricultural Office and District Public Health Office. An advisory opinion from the Danish
      Ethics Committee will be obtained. Informed consents will be retrieved from farmers
      participating in the pre-testing and experiments.

      The plasma cholinesterase measurement will make it possible to identify farmers with abnormal
      levels. If such cases occur the farmer will be excluded from the study and given advice on
      how to proceed. The small amount of blood required is not considered as damaging to the
      farmers' health. However, the finger stick may have minor risks such as momentary pain when
      the lancet goes into the finger, bruise, visible and sore puncture site for a short period,
      feeling of dizziness or light headedness. Disposable finger stick lancets will be used to
      avoid any infectious transmission.

      The LAPPE solution will be provided to the farmers after their participation with an
      information folder and oral explanation on how to store the LAPPE. Despite the results of the
      study, the LAPPE solution is an improvement in farmers' current practice which is that they
      basically do not protect themselves according to the recommendations of World Health
      Organization or Food and Agricultural Organization.

      The choice of organophosphates for the experiments will be based on the type of
      organophosphates that the farmers already use. In other words, the farmers will not be
      exposed to less or more dangerous pesticides than what they usually expose themselves to.
      During the data collection the organophosphates will be stored according to their safety
      label recommendations. In case, the remaining organophosphates cannot be used in other
      studies they will be disposed by taking safety precautions as recommended by the World Health
      Organization.

      During all study activities a first aid kit will be accessible and the data collectors will
      wear basic personal protective equipment during the experiments and informed about a safe
      handling of organophosphates.

      During data entry, data is stored on two external hard disks and the principal investigator's
      computer in the control of the principal investigator. Data on the Test Mate ChE
      Cholinesterase System is automatically deleted when the power is switched off. Every week a
      full backup of the data file will be saved on a USB stick placed outside research
      establishments under the principal investigator's control until the data entry is complete.
      Data editing and analysis will be based on a data file without sensitive information (like
      name, address and phone number). The data file will be saved on an external hard disk, USB
      stick and the principal investigator's computer drop box on a daily basis and kept under
      secure conditions and with only access to the principal investigator.

      The following data will be stored in a locked safe under research establishments in the sole
      control of the principal investigator:

        -  Original data

        -  File with raw data

        -  File with analyzable and anonymized data

        -  File linking farmers' sensitive information with their study identification number

      The following data will be stored in a locked safe outside research establishments in the
      sole control of the principal investigator and safe owners:

      • File with analyzable data excluding sensitive information

      If necessary, during analysis and interpretation of results the research group can get access
      to the file with analyzable and anonymized data through e-mail. However, the e-mail will not
      contain the file linking sensitive information with study identification numbers and is
      therefore considered as being manually encrypted.

      Upon completion of the research study the original data will be cut into pieces, placed in a
      sealable bag which can be tightly tied, fill the bag with water and then transfer the bag to
      a waste container. Blood tests and materials used in this regard will be given to Nepal Red
      Cross Society. Data stored outside research establishments will be retrieved. Two independent
      data files; one file with analyzable data excluding sensitive information and another file
      with farmers' sensitive information linking to their study identification number and scanned
      copies of informed consents will be stored in Nepal for up to five years. Potential
      permission to store data in Denmark will be seeked from the Danish Data Protection Agency.
      Upon approval data will be sent to the Danish Data Archive for indefinite storage time with
      data documentation. The condition for data access to the Danish Data Archive is that only the
      principal investigator will have access to the data and full control of giving permission for
      sharing data with others in the future. If sharing of data occurs the new researcher will
      have to seek approval from the Danish Data Protection Agency and then consult the Danish Data
      Archive.
    
  