
    
      Cardiogenic shock is characterized by global tissue hypoperfusion following a decrease in
      cardiac output by impairing myocardial performance in the absence of hypovolemia. This
      life-threatening hypoperfusion quickly leads to multiple organs dysfunction with a high risk
      of cardiac arrest. The main cause is ischemic. The prognosis remains poor with mortality
      between 40 and 50% and depends on the speed of care by a specialized team. Early etiologic
      treatment is essential, but initial symptomatic management is based on catecholamines, mainly
      norepinephrine and dobutamine. The intra-aortic balloon pump showed no improvement in
      survival in large randomized studies. Refractory cardiogenic shock is defined by the
      inefficiency or intolerance of catecholamines and the indication of temporary circulatory
      support should be considered as soon as possible in the absence of contraindications
      (comorbidities, advanced age, therapeutic limitation). The veno-arterial extracorporeal
      membrane oxygenation (VA-ECMO or ECLS) is the preferred circulatory assistance in this
      indication because it provides an overall circulatory support up to 100% of the theoretical
      cardiac output, with oxygenation, and is quickly implanted peripherally (surgical or
      percutaneous cannulation of the femoral vein and the femoral artery). However, this
      extracorporeal circulation also has disadvantages by opposing a major afterload to the
      failing left ventricle and reducing or even abolishing the pulmonary circulation and blood
      flow in the heart chambers. In addition, the interaction with the artificial surfaces and the
      oxygenation membrane of the extracorporeal circuit contributes to the inflammatory response
      already initiated as a result of low cardiac output, tissue hypoperfusion, mesenteric
      ischemia and possibly myocardial infarction in case of acute coronary syndrome. This systemic
      inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) is similar to sepsis and its main clinical presentation
      is a vascular dysfunction resulting in vasoplegia and capillary leak syndrome responsible for
      relative hypovolemia and interstitial inflation.

      Since the flow provided by the centrifugal pump is continuous, the blood pressure under
      VA-ECMO presents low or no pulsatile waves and is better represented by the mean arterial
      pressure (MAP). The ideal targets of MAP under VA-ECMO are controversial but it is widely
      accepted that the MAP should not be less than 65mmHg as recommended in septic shock to
      maintain an acceptable perfusion pressure and should not exceed 95mmHg to limit afterload.
      Between these limits, the MAP must be individualized according to each situation
      (hypertensive patient for example). In France, Norepinephrine is the first-line drug to
      achieve this goal of MAP after correction of volemia, without dose limitation in the absence
      of currently validated alternative, while resistance mechanisms can be activated, and its
      efficiency may be limited in case of acidosis. Potential side effects are the occurrence of
      atrial or ventricular arrhythmias, tachycardia, pro-inflammatory cytokine release,
      immunosuppression, renal dysfunction.

      Management of MAP and vasopressors under VA-ECMO is poorly described in the literature (5),
      although Norepinephrine is widely used in routine practice. In particular, the investigators
      do not know the frequency of use and Norepinephrine doses during ECMO-VA, as well as their
      prognostic involvement. Vasoplegia during VA-ECMO is defined by a Norepinephrine dose greater
      than 0.1µg/kg/min after a 500ml fluid challenge despite overall blood flow (ECMO + native
      heart) greater than 2l/min/m2 or allowing to achieve 65% of ScvO2.

      This cohort study aims to describe the vasoplegia observed during VA-ECMO, the Norepinephrine
      treatment characteristics, complications and outcome. The primary end-point is the incidence
      of a composite criteria of major complications including death, acute kidney injury and
      arrythmias.
    
  