
    
      Despite the fact that the results of venous stenting in IIH are still preliminary, it
      suggests that this technique could become a viable alternative for medically refractory IIH
      patients with transverse sinus stenosis. However, prospective studies with long-term,
      standardized and independent follow-up are required to evaluate this new alternative with a
      higher level of evidence.

      Normalization of CSF pressure will be present after venous sinus stenting at 6 months in more
      than 70% of patients in a cohort of medically refractory IIH patients. (Refractory IIH is
      defined as absence of improvement in papilledema, visual function or headache after three
      months of medical treatment or intolerance to the medical regimen).

      A complementary hypothesis is that the mean decrease in CSF pressure post stenting will be
      equal or more than 15 mmHg.

      The proposed research is a prospective cohort study that will be aimed to assess the efficacy
      of venous stenting by normalizing CSF pressure and improving symptoms of quality of life in
      patients with medically refractory IIH. Concomitantly; it will also estimate its recurrence
      and complications rate.

      The study will be conducted locally at The Ottawa Hospital with an aim of enrolling 33
      patients into the trial.

      Interventions The goal of this study is to assess the overall efficacy of venous stenting to
      normalize patients CSF pressure with little or no risk. The premise of the study is that
      opening the venous sinus will reduce the patient's intracranial pressure and improve their
      visual capabilities. Therefore; the aim of treatment is to improve the patient's overall
      symptomology related to IIH. The interventionalist and the interventional team can not be
      blinded to any of the study procedures or study materials used in this trial.

      Patients who undergo stenting of their venous system will have venous pressure measurements
      taken. If the degree of stenosis is more than 50% with a difference in pressure in the CSF of
      more than 8 mmHg, the patient will be stented.

      Venous pressure measurements and transverse sinus stenting First step: Venous pressure
      measurements Once the patient is under local anesthesia, femoral venous puncture for cerebral
      venogram will be performed. Once femoral venous access has been obtained, catheterization of
      the right or left jugular vein is performed. Microcatheterization of the sinus and venous
      pressure measurements distal and proximal to the stenosis are done.

      Second step: Procedure In preparation for stent, patients will receive Aspirin 81mg daily and
      Clopidogrel (Plavix ®) 75 mg daily for 4 days prior to the intervention.

      On the day of the procedure, the patient will receive a general anesthesia plus a bolus of
      heparin (70UI/Kg).

      Endovascular Intervention:

      A venous femoral puncture will be completed to allow for a 6-8 French long sheath placement
      followed by retrograde catheterization of the right or left jugular vein.

      Deployment of the stent across the stenosis with or without venous angioplasty will be done.
      Hemostasis with manual compression is completed at the end of the procedure.

      After the procedure the patients are admitted overnight for monitoring (on neurosurgery
      unit). Patients will be discharged home 24 hours after the procedure and will continue
      Aspirin and Clopidogrel (Plavix®) 75mg every day x 3 month then aspirin only.
    
  