
    
      Trigeminal Neuralgia (TGN) is a rare form of chronic facial pain shrouded in mystery,
      although not life threatening, can be excruciating painful and extraordinarily debilitating.
      Its uniqueness and peculiarity can be ascertained by the fact that TGN may present to and be
      managed by dentists, neurologists, neurosurgeons, oral surgeons and ear, nose and throat
      surgeons.

      The management of TGN is initially medical, with the "gold standard" drug of carbamazepine
      (CBZ). Whilst CBZ continues to be the treatment of choice, a substantial proportion of
      patients tolerate this drug poorly, predominantly because of side-effects that include
      drowsiness, accommodation disorders, hepatitis, elevation in liver enzymes, renal
      dysfunction, congestive heart failure, delayed multi-organ failure, leucopenia,
      thrombocytopenia etc. etc. If pain-relief is incomplete with CBZ or it produces adverse
      side-effects, options include using an alternative second-line medical agent. The drugs
      suggested to be considered as second-line agents for the treatment of TGN, include:
      lamotrigine, baclofen, phenytoin, oxcarbazepine, gabapentin, clonazepam, valproate,
      mexiletine, and topiramate.

      Lamotrigine (LTG), a novel anticonvulsant, which has not been adequately assessed for its
      antineuralgic properties. It has a bimodal mechanism of action:

        -  inhibits the release of glutamate and aspartate by blocking voltage-sensitive sodium
           channels

        -  antagonistic at neuroexcitatory N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors.

      It can also acts at and inhibits calcium channels to enhance the gamma- Aminobutyric acid
      (GABA) synthesis. GABA is an inhibitory amino acid neurotransmitter that decreases neural
      membrane action potentials and therefore decreases nerve excitability. Glutamate has been
      implicated in the mechanisms contributing towards phenomenon of chronic pain, such as
      sensitisation and wind up. LTG through its inhibition of pathological release of glutamate,
      has the potential towards management of chronic pain, particularly of neuropathic origin.

      Lamotrigine, therefore has the potential to be a promising new treatment for TGN.
    
  