
    
      One in ten children worldwide has constipation and it becomes chronic in 30% of these
      children, affecting their and their families' well-being. Managing these children is
      difficult, partly because they do not respond to laxatives and partly because their bowel
      problem cannot be defined. If the doctors could send the children for a quick test that
      indicates the time that food takes to travel through the gut (the "gut transit time"), they
      could use this information to help choose the best therapy, for example to decide if a
      patient needs surgery. The test could also be used to follow up the effects of different
      treatments. Gut transit time is often not tested due to the unsuitable radiation dose
      involved in the current methods such as X-ray. Doctors' decisions have to rely mostly on
      symptoms, leading to repeated appointments, frustration and a waste of NHS money.

      A new method to measure gut transit time using mini-capsules, the size of small pine nuts,
      has recently been developed. The mini-capsules are swallowed but do not dissolve and their
      journey through the gut is imaged using Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). From the images
      doctors can determine the gut transit time. MRI is harmless and can be used repeatedly to
      follow up the response to treatment.

      This study will test these new mini-capsules to determine their suitability for paediatric
      use. Areas of interest are ease of imaging in the gut using MRI and whether they are small
      enough such that their emptying from the stomach and transit through the gut are similar to
      food. The study will test the mini-capsules in children with constipation, to measure gut
      transit time before and after they receive their usual treatment from their doctors. This
      will assess if the mini-capsules can detect changes in treatment and will make them
      clinically useful.
    
  