
    
      Benzodiazepines, levo-dopa/carbidopa, dopamine agonists, anticonvulsants, and opioids have
      been used with variable success, to treat RLS. Often, RLS patients treated with a
      benzodiazepine, over the course of several months, develop tolerance to the medication. Also,
      benzodiazepines can cause confusion or daytime sleepiness and may be addictive. Patients may
      also develop tolerance to levo-dopa/carbidopa treatment. Because of the short half-life,
      symptoms may be suppressed for only the first part of the sleep period and then recur later
      during the night. Rebound has been reported. Worse yet, augmentation, the occurrence of RLS
      symptoms, often more severe than before treatment began, earlier in the day, may occur in up
      to 80% of RLS patients treated with levod-dopa/carbidopa. Dopamine agonists, including
      pergolide, pramipexole, and ropinirole, are effective for some patients but not for others.
      Common side effects of these drugs include coryza, hypotension, and rash. Of the
      anticonvulsants, preliminary reports suggest that gabapentin, carbamazepine, and divalproex
      can suppress RLS symptoms in some patients, especially those with mild RLS. Side effects
      include sleepiness, ataxia, and weight gain. Opioid treatment for RLS has been described as
      effective but, aside from the stigma of taking controlled substances regularly, side effects
      may include nausea, sedation, constipation, and dysequilibrium. Iron supplementation is
      therapeutic in some patients with iron deficiency and RLS.

      Preliminary anecdotal data suggest that topiramate reduces RLS symptoms. Topiramate has
      several potential mechanisms of action including enhancement of GABA-mediated inhibition,
      which may account for the observed benefit in patients with RLS.

      Topiramate may be a better alternative than the currently available treatments to suppress
      RLS symptoms. Like gabapentin, it offers the possibility of decreasing RLS symptoms while
      also diminishing pain, especially in those patients who have limb pain from neuropathy,
      radiculopathy, or other causes. Unlike gabapentin, topiramate may help overweight patients
      with RLS lose weight, if anedotal reports on weight reduction with the medication are
      correct.
    
  