
    
      PanFAM-1 is a prospective, multi-center, investigational study, designed to assess the
      performance of the IMMray™ PanCan-d test in early detection of pancreatic ductal
      adenocarcinoma (PDAC) in high-risk populations. Specifically, the IMMray PanCan-d test uses
      state of the art machine learning algorithms to condense the multiple fluorescence data
      points generated by the test to a simple yes/no result. Thus, a highly complex statistical
      model uses the multi-dimensional nature of the test to generate a score, which is called a
      decision value. The score is compared to the established cut-off value for the test to inform
      the operator whether the patient sample is positive or negative for PDAC. This study will
      validate and evaluate the performance of the IMMray PanCan-d test in comparison to standard
      of care imaging approaches that are currently used in PDAC disease surveillance. Subjects in
      this study will be recruited from several European and North American research sites that
      have a PDAC surveillance program or established protocol for monitoring individuals
      considered to be at a high-risk for developing pancreatic cancer. Any subject that shows
      disease progression while on-study will be removed from the study to receive standard of care
      per institutional guidelines. Overall, this study poses minimal risk to subjects. The
      PanFAM-1 study is an adaptive study design over two approximately 18 month intervals, which
      are separated by an interim analysis to evaluate diagnostic accuracy of the IMMray PanCan-d
      test. This study is an observational period in which blood collections from eligible subjects
      will be evaluated using the IMMray PanCan-d test. Subjects will undergo scheduled imaging
      assessment and clinical evaluation consistent with the resarch sites' PDAC surveillance
      program. Subject data derived from the IMMray PanCan-d test during this portion of the study
      will be delayed from time of initial blood collection until the samples are analyzed. The
      analysis will compare IMMray PanCan-d test results for each subject to corresponding imaging
      assessments performed as part of standard of care PDAC surveillance. The study will only
      proceed to the interventional period if the interim analysis indicates that the diagnostic
      accuracy of the IMMray PanCan-d test is capable of detecting PDAC in high-risk subjects with
      the same or better ability as standard of care imaging. If at any time imaging assessments
      are considered positive for clinical disease then, regardless of IMMray PanCan-d test
      results, subjects will be managed according to institutional guidelines. All scheduled blood
      collections for purposes of this study will be halted and subjects will be removed from the
      study upon confirmation of PDAC.
    
  