
    
      A convenience sample of participants will be recruited from the University of North Carolina
      at Chapel Hill student-body from November-January via campus emails, in-class recruitment,
      flyers/informational sheets, and word of mouth from fellow participants. During the beginning
      of recruitment, efforts were targeted towards males with participant numbers being carefully
      monitored. Recruitment will be targeted to recruit an even number of males and females.
      Interested participants will be contacted to confirm interest and those who remained
      interested will be scheduled to complete the study session. Participants will report to an
      on-campus athletic training facility or research laboratory or may report/complete study
      activities virtually.

      Participants will then complete the written, informed consent process. The consent form
      indicated that they would be completing a sport-related educational intervention to not
      disclose the information they would receive and to keep participants blind to their
      intervention group assignment. Participants will not be explicitly told that it is a study
      evaluating concussion education, but rather an injury and nutrition study, to reduce bias.
      Once the consent form was signed, participants were assigned a unique identifier and
      randomized (simple) without replacement to one of the two study arms, using a pre-determined
      random number generator in Excel. Participants then completed the pre- questionnaire in a
      quiet location via a tablet/computer provided by the research team or virtually. There was no
      time limit for completion of the questionnaire. The survey will feature an item that prompts
      individuals if they miss a question, but does not force participants to respond. After
      initial questionnaire completion, participants completed their assigned intervention
      (decision-based interactive concussion education platform + NCAA concussion education sheet
      versus NCAA education sheet). Immediately following their respective intervention, athletes
      completed the questionnaire again. Upon completing the post-intervention questionnaire, the
      participant's participation in the study is complete and they will receive an incentive.
      Following each survey, a research team member will verify and assess for missing answers,
      allowing participants to complete any missed questions that they wish to answer. Two weeks
      following the post-intervention survey, participants will be contacted again to complete the
      same questionnaire to assess retention of concussion knowledge, perceived norms, attitudes,
      and behavioral intentions. At this two-week post time point, participants will be informed of
      the true purpose of the study and be provided access to the BANK (Behaviors, Attitudes,
      Norms, and Knowledge) platform.
    
  