
    
      Objective:

      The current protocol has a two-fold purpose. In the pharmacodynamic imaging phase, we will
      investigate the neuropharmacodynamics of acute intravenous ketamine administration in
      patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) and healthy volunteers (HV) using functional
      MRI (fMRI) and electrophysiological modalities [electroencephalography (EEG) and
      magnetoencephalography (MEG)]. We will also investigate if specific signatures from
      functional neuroimaging, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) associated evoked potentials
      (TMS-EP), sleep EEG (S-EEG), and psychophysiologic responses can be used to classify specific
      subpopulations of patients with MDD; preliminary findings from such an approach may be
      important in forging further studies identifying those who will respond to ketamine
      infusions. In the repeat-dosing phase, we will expand upon our previous findings of the
      immediate efficacy of glutamatergic modulators by investigating the safety and efficacy of
      repeated dose administrations of ketamine in MDD patients. We will include all MDD patients
      regardless of antidepressant response to single infusions of ketamine to allow for potential
      identification of patients who are able to attain and/or maintain a response over a series of
      infusions. To reduce any potential biases due to partial blinding, all patients will be
      randomized into groups to receive ketamine at either 0.5 mg/kg or 0.1 mg/kg (an active
      comparator).

      Study Population:

      The study consists of 50 patients with treatment-resistant MDD between 18 and 65 years old
      and 50 age/gender matched HVs. Within the MDD group, 25 patients will be enrolled into each
      group in the repeat-dosing phase. An addition 50 HVs will participate in the Ketamine
      Metabolites Substudy.

      Study Design:

      This study is a Phase I Clinical Trial that comprises four phases.

      Phase I includes screening, medication taper (as needed), medication-free period, and
      baseline assessments, including optional TMS-EP, S-EEG, the None, Predictive, Unpredictive
      (NPU)-threat test, and blood samples for plasma neurochemicals and peripheral blood
      biomarkers.

      In Phase II, all subjects will receive an alternating series of placebo and ketamine
      infusions, once per week, for a total of 4 infusions (2 ketamine, 2 placebo). Concurrently
      with each infusion, subjects will be administered either resting-state fMRI with simultaneous
      EEG, or resting state MEG recording, thus each subject receives fMRI+EEG and MEG for both a
      placebo and ketamine infusion. Participants may also undergo optional sEEG, TMS-EP, and NPU.

      Phase III involves MDD patients whose depression symptoms relapsed after the final infusion
      in Phase II. Patients whose symptoms did not relapse may receive an additional one-week
      washout. Subjects will be randomized to receive ketamine at 0.5 or 0.1 mg/kg twice weekly for
      4 weeks (total of 8 infusions). Participants may undergo optional fMRI S-EEG, TMS-EP, and NPU
      at time points between infusions. Clinical rating scales will assess depression symptomology
      and blood will be drawn for pharmacokinetics testing and biomarker analyses.

      Phase IV includes patients who completed Phase III and who are responders . These patients
      will be followed up for an additional 4 weeks, or until relapse, to determine durability of
      response. The final study day will include rating scales, medical evaluations, blood tests,
      and an additional sMRI to assess structural changes that may have occurred due to repeated
      ketamine infusions.

      The protocol includes a substudy evaluating ketamine metabolites in (Ketamine Metabolites
      Substudy). Only HVs will be enrolled in this substudy. Subjects will undergo a single
      infusion of ketamine concurrently with serial peripheral blood collection. Some participants
      may also undergo serial CSF collection during the ketamine infusion. Clinical rating scales,
      cognitive tasks, MEG, S-EEGCSF and/or blood draws for pharmacokinetics testing and biomarker
      analyses will be done.

      Outcome Measures:

      The primary outcome measure of Phase II is the pharmacodynamic fMRI and MEG responses to
      ketamine compared to placebo. Secondary outcome measures include the difference in
      Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) score from baseline to 24 hours between the
      placebo and ketamine infusion, correlations between an antidepressant response and TMS-EP,
      S-EEG, neuroimaging, and NPU measures. In Phase II, the HVs acts as another level of control
      to identify a potential neuropharmacodynamic signature associated with an antidepressant
      response to ketamine.

      The primary outcome measure for Phase III is the difference or change in MADRS from baseline
      to the end of 4 weeks of twice-weekly infusions. Secondary outcome measures include TMS-EP,
      S-EEG, and NPU-threat test measures.

      Other outcome measures for both Phase II and III include clinical rating scales,
      neurocognitive tests, ketamine levels, plasma neurochemicals, and peripheral blood
      biomarkers. Additional outcomes in Phase III are baseline and post-repeated dose infusion MRI
      scans, and neurocognitive test results. Rating scales are the outcomes measures of Phase IV.
      Subjects will continue Phase IV for 4 weeks or until relapse
    
  