
    
      Preoperative rehabilitation or "Prehabilitation" can be defined as "the process of enhancing
      the functional capacity of the individual to enable him or her to withstand a stressful
      event". Prehabilitation is a relatively new concept with emerging evidence demonstrating a
      reduction in length of hospital stay and disability, improved functional capacity and quality
      of life as well as fewer peri-operative complications compared to usual care.

      Patients who are awaiting Cardiothoracic surgery are often fearful of being physically
      active, however extended periods of physical inactivity lead to a loss of muscle mass,
      physical deconditioning and pulmonary complications which can in turn lead to decreased
      quality of life, higher levels of morbidity, increased hospital length of stay and even
      fatality.

      Based on literature supporting the positive effects of physical activity, physiotherapy
      prehabilitation aims to enhance functional exercise capacity in patients undergoing
      Cardiothoracic surgery and hence minimising the risk of postoperative morbidity and enhancing
      postsurgical recovery. Although there is evidence for prehabilitation in cardiothoracic
      specialties these are mainly within heart failure patients therefore not comparable to
      patients undergoing CABG or lobectomy surgeries.

      The aim of this study is to determine whether a home based preoperative prehabilitation
      programme improves patients' functional capacity, as measured by a 6 minute walk test (6MWT)
      prior to surgery and improve post surgical recovery and recovery of functional capacity
      earlier. This study will compare functional capacity levels from baseline (at time of being
      accepted for surgery) and on the day of admission for surgery. Secondary aims are to
      determine functional capacity prior to discharge from hospital and at 6-8 week follow up
      appointment. Increasing maximal tidal volumes preoperatively would in turn decrease the
      chance of atelectasis postoperatively thereby decreasing pulmonary complications. Time to
      achieve discharge criteria from physiotherapy and total post-operative hospital length of
      stay will be assessed. Patient health related satisfaction will be assessed using the EQ-5D.
      The endpoint of this study will be when the patient returns for their routine 6-8 week follow
      up appointment and completes final 6MWT, tidal volume (TV) measurement and EQ-5D.
    
  