
    
      The possibility of developing PTSD exists when a person is exposed to death, threatened
      death, or actual or threatened serious injury either by direct exposure, witnessing the
      trauma, or learning that a close friend was exposed to this type of trauma. Rates of PTSD in
      military personnel returning from armed conflicts may be greater than 30%. The diagnosis of
      PTSD is based on a psychiatrist's or psychologist's assessment of the symptoms reported by
      the veteran and others, such as family or friends.The veteran with PTSD may struggle with
      thoughts and feelings that "don't make sense" or he or she believes are just not
      "warrior-like". The veteran eventually sees a mental health professional but may downplay the
      symptoms and fail to be correctly diagnosed. This places these men and women at risk for
      suicide. Dopamine is a substance found in our brains that has a role in regulating fear and
      stress as well as other emotional responses. There have been studies that have shown a
      protein in blood called dopamine transporter (DAT) moves dopamine from one place to another
      in our brain. Studies have shown that the level of DAT present has a role in PTSD. In this
      research, the researchers will evaluate the usefulness of a type of radioactive drug
      (DaTscan) which attaches to DAT and then allows the researchers to take pictures of the brain
      using a camera called a gamma camera. This will produce images called single photon emission
      computed tomography (SPECT). The researchers are looking for a difference in these pictures
      in those with PTSD and veterans without PTSD, and hope this can be used to help diagnose PTSD
      in the future.The brain MRI is done to make sure there is not anything abnormal in the
      structure of the brain that could interfere with the DaTScan pictures and to accurately
      locate specific regions of the brain where the DaTScan pictures are especially important. The
      MRI will also be used to look at natural nerve connections in the brain using functional MRI
      or fMRI. The researchers will use fMRI to look for possible connection differences in brains
      of people with PTSD and without PTSD. The DaTscan requires a drug, called a radiotracer given
      through an intravenous (IV) catheter. This drug is radioactive and a small amount of it will
      be absorbed by the thyroid gland, so Lugol's solution will be used to block uptake into the
      thyroid. The length of time to complete the entire DaTscan process is approximately 5 ½
      hours. This includes time to receive the drug, then a 3 hour break followed by about 45
      minutes to take the pictures. The tracer will collect in part of the brain and give off
      radiation (gamma rays). A gamma camera will produce pictures of the brain.The MRI process
      will take approximately 1 hour, including a questionnaire about metal or implants in the
      subject's body. Brain scanning will last for about 30 minutes.
    
  