
    
      Adolescent Idiopathic Scoliosis (AIS) is a 3D deformity of spine happened with unidentifiable
      cause at teenage. AIS causes mainly cosmetic problems with a lesser incidence of functional
      deficit and pain. AIS patients under severe condition, defined as the major spinal curve
      angle named "Cobb angle" larger than 60 degrees, requires surgical intervention to the spinal
      curve with implants permanently applied along the spine. The use of "brace" (bracing) to
      intervene the spinal curve progression is highly recommended for patients with particular
      clinical characteristics. However, bracing is not always a present experience apart from
      function restriction. Clinical recommendation requires the patients to brace over 20 hours
      everyday, which means the patients have to be "braced" around the clock. Patients' perception
      on being "braced" all day, apart from discomforts under bracing, self-image and mental health
      after bracing are also important psycho-social factors which have yet to be addressed. Based
      on our clinical experience, 1-2% of AIS patients, undergoing bracing or not (i.e. at
      observation stage), require surgical intervention due to rapid spinal progression in a short
      period of time. By definition, surgery will be arranged for patients with major spinal curve
      ≥50 degrees.

      The health-related-quality-of-life (HRQoL) questionnaires allow clinical professionals to
      explore many areas of interest, including the patient's perception of his/her condition and
      satisfaction with provided care. Scoliosis Research Society (SRS) Outcomes Instrument has
      been an accepted HRQoL questionnaire to evaluate the perception of patients with spinal
      deformities of their status. The SRS-22 questionnaire that has been shown to have high
      reliability and concurrent validity and discrimination validity and responsiveness to change.
      SRS-22 questionnaire comprises 22 questions under 5 domains (function, pain, self-image,
      mental health, and satisfaction with management). Through these 22 questions, the
      psycho-social status can be quantified in terms of "scores" and the scores obtained at
      different time points can be compared. Continuous monitoring of these factors are important
      along the bracing period to look for patients with continuously poor psycho-social status of
      which bracing period is possibly last for years. Apart from AIS patients requiring bracing,
      surgical cases are also very important group of patients to monitor their quality of life
      before and after surgery, and every follow-up visit after surgery.
    
  