
    
      This is a randomised, double-blind, multicentre, placebo-controlled study in children and
      adolescents aged 6 to less than 18 years presenting to an ED requiring analgesia for acute
      pain, with visual analogue scale (VAS) score of 55 to 85 mm or Wong-Baker Faces score of 6 to
      8 associated with minor trauma. In the context of the current study, minor trauma refers to
      "a non-critical and non-limb threatening physical wound or injury of the tissues", such as,
      soft tissue injuries, fractures of the extremities, burns, penetration by foreign bodies,
      lacerations, dislocation, contusions, etc.

      This study will include screening and enrolment, followed by treatment and day 14 ± 2 day
      safety follow-up post treatment. The procedure for screening and enrolment including
      obtaining consent/assent is to occur on the same day. The expected duration for each patient
      in the study is up to 16 days.

      The clinician/research nurse must ascertain that the patient has not been pre-medicated with
      an analgesic within 5 hours prior to randomisation, except Entonox (50% nitrous oxide and 50%
      oxygen mixture) which is prohibited within 30 minutes prior to randomisation, diclofenac
      which is prohibited within 8 hours prior to randomisation or oral morphine which is
      prohibited within 10 hours prior to randomisation.

      Eligible children and adolescents will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio (222 eligible patients;
      156 children and 66 adolescents) to have 111 patients per treatment arm (38 children aged 6
      to 8 years, 40 children aged 9 to 11 years and 33 adolescents aged 12 to < 18 years).
      Eligible patients will receive either methoxyflurane or placebo from the PENTHROX® inhaler in
      a 1:1 ratio.

      Pain scores will be assessed using the VAS or Wong-Baker FACES® Pain Rating scale in younger
      children who cannot utilise the VAS tool. A pain score will be measured at screening to
      establish study eligibility. After randomisation, a baseline pain score will be recorded
      between 5 to 60 minutes after the screening pain score and will act as a validation score. If
      the baseline pain score falls outside the range of 55 to 85 mm on the VAS or 6 to 8 on
      Wong-Baker FACES Pain Rating scale, the patient will be withdrawn from the study (randomised,
      but not treated). Patients who have a pain score between 55 and 85 mm on the VAS or 6 to 8 on
      Wong-Baker FACES Pain Rating scale at screening and baseline will be eligible to receive
      treatment.

      Following enrolment and initial assessments, the research nurse will assist the patient to
      self administer ten successive inhalations of PENTHROX® (methoxyflurane) or placebo. The
      research nurse, the treating clinician and the patient will be blind to the treatment
      administered.

      Patients/parents/legal guardians will be advised that rescue medication will be available
      immediately on request at any time during or after the completion of the treatment. The
      rescue medication to be used will be at the discretion of the blinded clinician. Rescue
      analgesia should be near the potency equivalence of active PENTHROX. Depending on the
      standard practice of the participating site, this may include intranasal fentanyl, intranasal
      diamorphine, intranasal ketamine, Entonox (50% nitrous oxide and 50% oxygen mixture),
      intravenous morphine, or oral morphine.
    
  