
    
      This is a feasibility trial which aims to assess the feasibility of conducting a full
      Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) to evaluate the effectiveness of Individual Placement and
      Support (IPS) in improving employment rates and associated psychosocial outcomes in forensic
      psychiatric populations.

      Given that IPS is a complex intervention, the design of this study has drawn from the
      principles set out in the UK Medical Research Council (MRC) Guidance on developing and
      evaluating complex interventions by defining three major research strands in order to achieve
      the specific objectives of the study as follows:

      A. Implementation of IPS in community forensic services: The specific objective of this
      strand is to embed the IPS model in the community forensic services in which the feasibility
      study will be carried out (aided by an IPS Expert), by bringing an employment specialist into
      clinical teams, raising awareness about IPS within the organization, forming links with IPS
      services in the area and developing links with employers, as well as conducting IPS fidelity
      reviews.

      B. Feasibility Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT): The specific objectives of this
      strand are to estimate the parameters required to design a full RCT including:

        1. Means and standard deviations of the key outcome measures in order to benchmark
           potential effect sizes and enable sample size calculations.

        2. The feasibility of randomization, recruitment and retention rates to the IPS and
           controls;

        3. The suitability of the key outcome measures with respect to: reliability, acceptability,
           and distribution of the scores.

      C. Process Evaluation: This will be carried out in parallel with the other two strands to
      meet other specific objectives by using the following methods:

        1. Qualitative interviews with staff to identify the structural, legal, organizational and
           individual-level to barriers and facilitators to implementation of IPS in community
           forensic services.

        2. Fidelity Reviews to assess the extent to which the services follow the principles of IPS
           and to assess how well the employment specialist functions within the community forensic
           services.

        3. Qualitative interviews with patients assigned to IPS in order to assess their general
           views of IPS, benefits from participating, disadvantages from or dislikes about
           participating and barriers and facilitators to implementation.
    
  