
    
      The study will be conducted in a suburb of Dhaka in the area of Mirpur. Mirpur is one of the
      14 Thanas of Dhaka cities with a population of about one million in an area of 59 square
      kilometers. Mirpur Thana of Dhaka city is divided into several sections. There are 14
      sections in Mirpur Thana. The area is densely populated and located 20 minutes away from the
      lCDDR,B's Dhaka Hospital . The population is stable with low socioeconomic conditions. The
      average income in the slum areas of Mirpur is Tk.4200 (about US $ 62) per month per family.
      25% of fathers and 15% of mothers have more than 5 years of formal education. The study will
      be conducted in section 11 and 12 of Mirpur which has a population of about 500,000. We
      recently conducted phase I and II of the rotavirus vaccine study in this site. Several other
      studies (phase II ETEC, killed cholera vaccine) are ongoing in this area. Children will be
      identified through active surveillance of new births in the community and the study subjects
      will be recruited through home visits by the locally recruited field workers.

      2.2 .Design : Randomized intervention trial

      Study groups:

        1. Administration of Rotarix at 6 and 10 weeks co-administered with oral polio virus
           vaccine with no intervention in normal breastfeeding practices before and after
           receiving vaccine.

        2. Administration of Rotarix at 6 and 10 weeks co-administered with oral polio virus.
           Breastfeeding will not be permitted 45 minutes prior to vaccine administration and 45
           minutes after each vaccine administration.

        3. Administration of Rotarix at 14 and 18 weeks co-administered with oral polio virus, with
           no intervention in normal breastfeeding practices before and after receiving vaccine.

        4. Administration of Rotarix at 14 and 18 weeks co-administered with oral polio virus.
           Breastfeeding will not be permitted 45 minutes prior to vaccine administration and 45
           minutes after each vaccine administration.

      Samples collected:

        -  Blood draw at the time of first dose of Rotavirus vaccine and 4 weeks after the second
           dose

        -  Breast milk sample at 6 weeks for the mothers in study groups A and B, and at 14 weeks
           for mothers in study groups C and D (see below for groups).

        -  Stool sample prior to dose one and on day 3 and 7 after each dose to look for vaccine
           virus shedding
    
  