
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of gossypol (AT-101) when administered with
           radiotherapy (RT) and concurrent temozolomide (TMZ) in patients with newly diagnosed
           glioblastoma multiforme.

        -  Determine the MTD of gossypol when administered with adjuvant TMZ after standard RT and
           concurrent TMZ in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  Assess the toxicity of these treatment regimens.

        -  Assess and describe the pharmacokinetics of gossypol.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, the therapeutic activities of these regimens.

        -  Determine the relationship between these regimens and cellular and molecular features
           identified in tumor biopsy specimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label, nonrandomized, dose-escalation study of gossypol.
      Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups. Patients who participate in group I are NOT
      eligible for group II.

        -  Group I: Patients receive oral gossypol and undergo radiotherapy once daily 5 days a
           week for up to 6 weeks. Patients also receive oral temozolomide once daily for up to 6
           weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Group II: Patients receive oral temozolomide on days 1-5 and oral gossypol once daily on
           days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-10 patients per treatment group receive escalating doses of gossypol until the
      maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which 2 of 6 or
      3 of 10 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood collection periodically for pharmacokinetic studies. Tumor tissue
      samples are examined for biomarkers including, but not limited to, Bcl-2 family protein
      expression (e.g., Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, MCl-1, Bax, Bak, and BH3 domain), MGMT gene methylation
      status, and gene expression array.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  