
    
      Sensorimotor impairments following stroke can lead to substantial disability involving the
      upper extremity. These impairments often involve complex pathological changes across multiple
      joints and multiple degrees-of-freedom of the arm and hand, thereby rendering them difficult
      to diagnose and treat. Many potential mechanisms, such as weakness, motoneuronal
      hyperexcitability, and elevated passive impedance, can contribute and it is currently unclear
      where to focus treatment. The objectives of this study are to address allocation of therapy
      resources between the arm and hand and to examine the benefits of combining passive
      stretching with active movement training.

      Aim 1. To compare the efficacy of training the arm versus the hand in promoting upper
      extremity rehabilitation.

      Hypothesis 1: Treating the proximal larger joints in the arm alone will lead to greater
      improvement than treating the distal hand alone.

      Aim 2. To examine the efficacy of combining passive stretching with active (assistive or
      resistive) training for the shoulder, elbow, wrist, and hand.

      Hypothesis 2: Multi-joint intelligent stretching followed by active (assistive or resistive)
      movement facilitated by use of the IntelliArm arm rehabilitation robot and a Hand
      rehabilitation robot will improve motor control of the upper extremity more than standard
      movement therapy alone.

      Subjects will be assigned randomly with equal chance to one of four groups. Groups are split
      into 2 conditions based on stretching and 2 conditions based on target of intervention (arm
      or hand). Half of all the subjects will be assigned to the stretching groups and the other
      half to the passive movement groups. Half of the subjects will be assigned to the
      arm-training and the remaining half to hand-training groups. Arm-training groups will use the
      IntelliArm, hand-training groups will use the hand robot. For those assigned to the
      stretching groups, subjects will complete up to 30 minutes of passive stretching with the
      IntelliArm or the hand robot. For those assigned to the passive movement condition, subjects
      will do the robot according to their group assignment and wear it for up to 30 minutes with
      little to no stretching preceding the active therapy session. For each group, the initial
      about 30 minutes of stretching or relaxing will be followed by 45-60 minutes of active
      therapy with the IntelliArm or hand robot (depending on group assignment), for a total
      session time of 75-90 minutes.

      The 4 groups of subjects will be compared against each other.
    
  