
    
      Background Information:

      The addition of concurrent chemotherapy to radiotherapy (RT) for locally-advanced cervix
      cancer has improved patient outcomes, but treatments are associated with significant rates of
      radiotherapy (RT)-related toxicities. Plus, the disease-free and overall survival benefits
      conferred by concurrent chemotherapy appear to be most prominent in patients with earlier
      stage disease. Limits to RT for cervix cancer which can impact patient outcomes are overall
      treatment time and RT dose. Attempts to overcome these limits have been made in trials using
      altered RT fractionation schemes. Promising rates of local control reported in these trials
      are offset by excessive rates of acute and late RT-related toxicities.

      Intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) is innovative RT planning and delivery technology
      with the ability to vary the intensity of radiation across a beam, allowing for increased
      conformity of RT dose around target volumes along with decreased dose delivered to normal
      structures. Tomotherapy uses an intensity-modulated beam which rotates around the patient as
      the patient is being translated longitudinally through the gantry and features the ability to
      acquire megavoltage CT (MVCT) images of target structures at each treatment. It is thought
      that Tomotherapy can plan and deliver more conformal RT with the added advantage of daily
      assessment of target and critical structure position via MVCT imaging.

      Experience with using IMRT for cervix cancer is sparse. Reports of treating pelvic nodal
      targets in small numbers of selected cervix cancer patients with IMRT suggests that the
      treatments are tolerable and associated with decreased incidences of acute and late
      RT-related toxicities compared with a similar patient cohort treated with conventional RT
      technologies. Currently, there is no published report of using Tomotherapy to plan or deliver
      RT using conventional or altered fractionation for cervix cancer patients.

      The limitations of overall treatment time and the maximal dose of RT that can be safely
      delivered to the pelvis targets make cervical carcinoma a tumor in which Tomotherapy can
      potentially improve the therapeutic ratio. Tomotherapy's ability to deliver more conformal RT
      to target structures and minimize dose to normal structures may allow for delivery of altered
      fractionation radiation plans for cervix cancer with acceptable rates of RT-related
      toxicities. Tomotherapy allows for delivery of differential daily doses of RT to target
      volumes that lie within larger target volumes which in effect delivers a simultaneous
      integrated boost (SIB) to areas of gross disease which lie within a larger volume at risk for
      harbouring micrometastases. Delivery of the boost dose of radiation in a simultaneous as
      opposed to sequential fashion decreases the overall RT treatment time which theoretically
      reduces the effects of accelerated tumor cell repopulation. Delivering higher doses per
      fraction to areas of gross disease would theoretically increase the radiobiologic enhancement
      effects of concurrent cisplatin chemotherapy.

      Tomotherapy represents a key advance in radiotherapy planning and delivery technology. Its
      potential dosimetric and radiobiologic advantages over standard radiotherapy technologies
      need evaluation in properly-conducted clinical trials. Prior to the initiation of such
      trials, it must be shown that Tomotherapy plans at least have dosimetric advantages over
      conventional plans.

      Objective:

      To compare radiotherapy (RT) plans created for locally-advanced cervix cancer cases using
      Tomotherapy, conventional computed tomography-based methods and step-and-shoot
      intensity-modulated methods.

      Study Design:

      Pre-treatment planning computed tomography scans of ten previously-treated cervix cancer
      patients will be used. All identifying patient data on these CT image sets will be completely
      removed. Three RT plans will be created for case: Tomotherapy, step-and-shoot IMRT, and
      conventional. The University Medical Centre in Utrecht, The Netherlands has implemented IMRT
      into clinical management of cervical cancer and the Gynecologic Oncology group there has
      graciously agreed to collaborate on this project by creating optimized step-and-shoot IMRT
      plans on our ten test cases. The anonymous CT image sets will be stored on data discs which
      will be sent via bonded courier to the University Medical Centre in Utrecht, The Netherlands
      for generation of step and shoot IMRT plans. Data to be calculated and collected from all
      plans include: dose-volume histograms (DVH's) for all target volumes and critical structures.
      Tumor Control Probability for targets and Normal Tissue Complication Probability for critical
      structures will be calculated. RT plans created on this protocol will only be used for dose
      and biophysical model calculation comparisons; no plan will be used to deliver actual
      radiation treatments to any patient. There will be absolutely no patient contact or
      interaction on this protocol.

      Future Directions:

      The investigators anticipate that results from this study will confirm the hypothesis that
      Tomotherapy plans incorporating a simultaneous integrated boost for cervix cancer will
      provide superior target volume coverage and normal critical structure avoidance when compared
      with step-and-shoot IMRT and conventional plans. Such confirmation will provide the basis to
      proceed with efforts to improve target and normal structure delineation for Tomotherapy
      treatment planning of cervix cancer using MRI-based planning. Ultimately, we plan to initiate
      phase I/II trials using MRI-based Tomotherapy planning and delivery techniques for cervix
      cancer patients. Incorporation of RT dose escalation and monitoring of treatment response
      with biologic imaging techniques for cervix cancer patients treated with Tomotherapy are
      other future potential areas of investigation.
    
  