
    
      Conventional pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) programs are highly effective and the standard of
      care in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). PR faces two significant
      problems: (1) most patients with COPD who would benefit from PR cannot access it, and 2)
      there is no effective long-term strategy to maintain physical activity (PA) and benefits
      after completing PR. The investigators propose a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to test
      the efficacy of a technology-mediated intervention to increase PA in persons with COPD who
      cannot access conventional, hospital-based PR. The investigators also propose a
      non-randomized study to explore the ability of the PA intervention to maintain PA and
      exercise adherence, extending the benefits of PR, in persons with COPD who complete a
      conventional PR program. COPD is the third leading cause of death in the United States; an
      estimated 16 million Americans have COPD. Despite maximal medical therapy, patients with COPD
      characteristically experience breathlessness, which leads to a downward spiral of sedentary
      behavior, physical inactivity, deconditioning, and functional disability. Low physical
      activity is associated with poor outcomes in COPD--increased risk of acute exacerbations,
      hospitalizations, and death, independent of lung function. The Global Initiative for Chronic
      Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) guidelines recommend regular PA for all patients with COPD.
      Conventional, supervised PR programs clearly reduce breathlessness, and improve
      health-related quality of life (HRQL) and exercise capacity. However, PR programs face
      significant challenges of access and adherence. The investigators developed Every Step Counts
      (ESC), a technology-mediated intervention based on the Behavioral Theory of Self-Regulation,
      to target sedentary behavior, promote PA, and alleviate deconditioning. ESC couples a website
      with a pedometer to directly monitor step counts. The website provides individualized
      step-count goals, iterative feedback, education on disease self-management, motivation, and
      an online community of social support. In two randomized studies in Veterans with COPD, the
      investigators demonstrated ESC's safety, feasibility, and efficacy to increase PA. Accessible
      via the internet and available at any time from home, ESC could be an ideal low-cost platform
      to address the limitations of conventional PR. The investigators hypothesize that ESC may be
      an efficacious strategy to promote PA in the many patients who cannot attend a PR program,
      and may be an option to maintain engagement in PA after patients complete a conventional PR
      program.

      Primary Aim 1: Determine the efficacy of a web-based intervention, ESC, to increase PA
      (measured directly with an accelerometer and a questionnaire that assesses intensity),
      compared to usual care, in persons with COPD who are referred to or eligible for conventional
      PR but who cannot access it.

      Secondary Aim 2: Estimate the effect of the ESC intervention on (a) exercise adherence, (b)
      exercise self-efficacy, (c) HRQL, (d) dyspnea, (e) anxiety and depression, and (f) risk of
      acute exacerbations and COPD-related hospitalizations, compared to usual care.

      Exploratory Aim 3: Assess the ability of ESC to maintain PA and exercise adherence, and
      extend the benefits of PR, in participants with COPD who have completed conventional PR.

      All study visits are performed virtually starting August 2020.
    
  