
    
      In recent years, there has been a dramatic increase in the volume of endoscopic procedures
      performed in most endoscopy centers. With the growing awareness of colorectal cancer
      screening, there is increasing demand for colonoscopy which has increased the workload of
      endoscopists in every healthcare system. There are studies showing that physician fatigue
      impairs quality of care and performance in other medical specialties such as anesthesia and
      surgery. Colonoscopy by nature is repetitive and frequently prolonged which can promote
      distractibility and fatigability. Studies from western countries have showed that afternoon
      colonoscopies are associated with lower adenoma detection rate (ADR) compared with the
      morning colonoscopies and physician fatigue has been hypothesized as a potential contributor.
      Previous studies also showed that the polyp detection rate decreases hour-by-hour throughout
      the day and the colonoscopy completion rate appears to decline with successive procedures due
      to endoscopist fatigue. The most recent study using the queue position as a surrogate marker
      for endoscopist fatigue had showed that both the later colonoscopy start time and increasing
      number of preceding endoscopic procedures are associated with decreasing polyp detection
      rate. It is not surprising that endoscopist fatigue may contribute to a significant decline
      in the effectiveness of colonoscopy and yet it is probably not realistic to reduce the number
      of colonoscopy procedures per session given the heavy clinical demand. There have been no
      studies on any intervention that may improve the performance of colonoscopy. It would be
      reasonable to postulate that taking a break half way through the colonoscopy session may
      alleviate endoscopist fatigue and hence improve the polyp detection rate. This study aims to
      evaluate the effect of introducing a break in the middle of a colonoscopy session on the
      quality of colonoscopy performance.
    
  