
    
      High blood pressure contributes to the racial disparities in death rates between minority
      patients and whites. Understanding the factors underlying racial disparities in high blood
      pressure-related outcomes is a major focus of Healthy People 2010. Several factors including
      access to care, patient preferences and lower socioeconomic status have been used to explain
      the differences seen in timely and effective delivery of preventive care between minority
      patients and whites. However, when these factors are controlled for, health disparities still
      exist. Recently, the Institute of Medicine identified interpersonal processes within the
      patient-provider relationship as a potential reason for the health disparities between
      minority and white patients. Specifically, providers' communication, including the ability to
      listen, collaborate, and be empathetic during the medical encounter has emerged as an
      important dimension of care that differs by race. Despite the increasing evidence that racial
      differences in patient-provider communication affects patient care, many of these studies
      have examined issues related to processes of care such as patient satisfaction with little
      attention to intermediate outcomes such as medication adherence. Further, studies that have
      used audio-taped analysis to examine racial differences in patient-provider communication are
      limited by one-dimensional coding systems that lack the ability to capture the mutual
      influence the patient and provider have on one another during the interaction. Thus, the
      potential pathways through which patient-provider communication contribute to high blood
      pressure-related disparities in minority patients compared to whites is not clearly
      understood. This proposed two-phase, mixed-methods research study, provides a unique
      opportunity to address these gaps by clarifying the effect of patient's race on
      patient-provider communication and medication adherence among 120 hypertensive African
      American and white patients receiving care in primary care practices. Specifically, findings
      from a qualitative analysis of patient-provider communication (Phase 1) will inform the
      development of a conceptual model that will be used to quantitatively evaluate the
      relationship between patient's race, patient-provider communication and medication adherence
      (Phase 2).
    
  