
    
      Aims and Objectives The objective of this study is to examine whether the severity of asthma
      is related to (and possibly caused by) ASM dysfunction. Severe asthmatics have been shown to
      have more ASM in bronchial biopsies than non-severe asthmatics16. Because ASM cells can be
      obtained from bronchial biopsies obtained via bronchoscopy, we will examine endobronchial
      biopsies from mild, moderate and severe asthmatics, and healthy non-asthmatic subjects to
      compare features of remodelling (severe asthmatic subjects will have been assessed through
      the Difficult Asthma Protocol at the Royal Brompton Hospital24). In particular, we will focus
      on ASM mass, proliferation and changes in expression of different contractile proteins
      (α-actin and myosin) and chemokines, and will assess in vitro the response of ASM cells to
      stimulation by TGF-β and IL-1β. We will also examine the effect of dexamethasone on chemokine
      release and induced proliferation in vitro. We will also study enzymes and anti-oxidants
      involved in oxidative stress, such as Nox4, MnSOD and catalase, to look at their role in
      regulating ASM cell proliferation and chemokine synthesis. We want to see if there is an
      oxidant-anti oxidant balance in ASM in severe asthma compared to non-severe asthma.

      AIM:

      1. To establish the difference in ASM phenotype in asthma patients of differing severity of
      disease in terms of ASM mass, proliferation, migration and chemokine release.

      Study design There will be 3 study visits. In the first two visits, the subjects will undergo
      spirometry with reversibility testing, a methacholine challenge test (to assess degree of
      bronchial hyper-responsiveness), skin prick tests and IgE levels (to assess atopic status),
      measurement of exhaled nitric oxide (as a non-invasive marker of inflammation), and the
      asthmatic subjects will complete an Asthma Control Questionnaire and an Asthma Quality of
      Life Questionnaire. The third visit will be on the day admission for the bronchoscopy.

      Study protocol:

      Visit 1 - screening visit

        -  Explain purpose of study- address any queries/concerns

        -  History and examination

        -  Skin prick tests

        -  Blood test for full blood count, clotting profile and IgE

        -  Measurement of exhaled nitric oxide (eNO)

        -  Spirometry pre and post β agonist

        -  Completion of Asthma Control Questionnaire and

        -  Completion of Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire

      Visit 2 - Methacholine challenge test

      Visit 3 - Day admission for fibreoptic bronchoscopy
    
  