
    
      Seven first-line pharmacotherapies are currently available and recommended by clinical
      practice guidelines for treating tobacco dependence, all of them have been proven to be
      effective for increasing tobacco abstinence rates when used as monotherapy. However, not all
      smokers are able to quit with monotherapy. Some smokers may benefit from combination therapy
      that includes the simultaneous use of different nicotine replacement therapies (NRTs) or
      medications with different mechanisms of action (e.g. NRT and bupropion). Combination therapy
      with different drugs may provide a therapeutic advantage by increasing serum nicotine
      concentrations, and may capitalize on synergy obtained from two different mechanisms of
      action. This is why controversy exists regarding this approach as the cost effectiveness of
      this approach has not been clearly demonstrated neither if the genetic profile determine
      different treatment responses.

      Data from a varenicline pharmacokinetic study have documented that among smokers not
      instructed to quit and who continued smoking during treatment , varenicline was associated
      with a 60-80 % of reduction of number of cigarettes and, on the other hand, with a diminution
      of plasmatic nicotine and cotinine concentrations. (See some studies and trials in the
      Background Information).

      This , led to hypotheses that : a) varenicline not saturate completely all acetylcholinergic
      receptors with a incomplete response and ; b) varenicline replace incompletely the
      dopaminergic effect of smoking, with continuous craving. The investigators considered that
      some smokers may need NRT in addition to varenicline to reduce withdrawal and cravings to
      smoke.

      Finally, available data suggests that combination therapy may increase abstinence rates
      compared with monotherapy [OR: 2.4 (2.1- 2.7)] without a significant increase of adverse
      events. So the periodicity, regimen/dose, and periods of combined treatment may be considered
      as safe as the monotherapy even in an off-label indication.
    
  