
    
      The International Pediatric Multiple Sclerosis Study Group (IPMSSG) criteria were applied on
      all included patients who were stratified into the following groups: (1) those with 2 or more
      non-encephalopathic clinical CNS events (NEE) separated by > 30 days and involving > one area
      of the CNS; (2) one non-encephalopathic episode typical of MS which is associated with MRI
      findings consistent with 2010 Revised McDonald criteria for dissemination in space and in
      which a follow up MRI shows at least one new enhancing or non-enhancing lesion consistent
      with dissemination in time MS criteria; (3) one acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM)
      attack followed by a non-encephalopathic clinical event, 3 or more months after symptom
      onset, that is associated with new MRI lesions fulfilling 2010 Revised McDonald DIS criteria;
      or (4) a first, single, acute event that does not meet ADEM criteria and whose MRI findings
      are consistent with the 2010 Revised McDonald criteria for DIS and DIT (applies only to
      children ≥12 years old).

      These criteria were applied retrospectively in patients diagnosed before 2013. Procedures All
      medical records were analyzed from June 2016 till April 2017 to collect the following data;
      (1) demographic characteristics; (2) clinical data including age at first symptoms, age at
      diagnosis, disease course, time to conversion to secondary progressive (SP) course, duration
      of follow-up, initial and last Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score, time to (EDSS)
      score of 4, family history of MS, disease-modifying treatments (DMTs), number of relapses in
      the first year and the annualized relapse rate (ARR); (3) laboratorial data: oligoclonal
      bands in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and IgG index; (4) characteristics of the initial
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain and spinal cord including: typicality of
      lesions on T2 weighted sequence, presence of brain black holes in T1 weighted sequence,
      presence of spinal cord T2 lesions, presence of gadolinium (Gd) enhancing lesions,
      distribution of brain lesions (supratentorial and/or infratentorial).

      Data quality. To ensure high-quality data, the accuracy and completeness were systemically
      assessed. The medical records, administrative data, laboratory and diagnostic tests reports
      were screened independently by 2 authors (NS and AE) and relevant data was extracted to a
      standard electronic form according to KAMSU registry. An assigned coordinator from each
      center was requested to facilitate data collection from site-specific records; an audit
      site-specific data abstractor was continuously monitoring the records. Data accuracy was
      checked by separate investigators (MA, HS, AH) who reviewed the electronic forms for
      resemblance. Scheduled monthly meetings between abstractors were held to resolve any data
      conflicts. In case of incomplete documentation or unclear information, verification was done
      by the on-site data coordinator either by phone or during a face-to-face interview with the
      patients or caregivers during routine follow up or unscheduled visits.
    
  