
    
      The purpose of this study is to develop new ways to make medical images of the lungs and
      liver of adults using a technique called four-dimensional magnetic resonance imaging
      (4D-MRI). This technique produces three-dimensional movies of the inside of the chest and
      abdomen while the patient is breathing. (The fourth dimension is time!)

      This new way of medical imaging is being developed to help cancer patients undergoing
      radiation therapy. Radiation therapy is used to treat cancerous tumors. For radiation therapy
      to be effective, the precise size, shape, and location of the tumor within the body must be
      known. A particular difficulty for radiation treatment of lung and liver cancer is that the
      tumor moves during treatment because the patient is breathing. Therefore, tumor motion must
      also be incorporated into the treatment plan. This study aims to improve radiation treatment
      planning through better targeting and dose estimation based on 4D-MRI. Before this new
      imaging method can be used for radiation treatment planning, it must be tested in living,
      breathing volunteers.

      You are being asked to take part in a research study because you are a cancer patient or a
      healthy volunteer. You do not have to take part in this study. You should only agree to take
      part in this study after reading this consent form and discussing it with the study team. You
      may also discuss this with your family, friends, health care providers or others before you
      make a decision.

      Though you may not be directly helped by being in this study, the information gained by doing
      this study may help others in the future. You might not want to take part in this study
      because of the temporary risk of discomfort during the time the subject is asked to lie still
      in the confined space of the MRI scanner. This discomfort may include claustrophobia (fear of
      being in a small space), feelings of warmth, muscle twitching due to excited nerves, and
      exposure to loud thumping noises produced by the MR scanner. If you are pregnant or think you
      may be pregnant, if would not be safe for you to be in this study.
    
  