
    
      In 2015 alone, 97,223 new Veterans under age 35 began receiving compensation for injuries
      related to their military service. In total, there are 559,999 post-9/11 Veterans being
      compensated for back or neck conditions, and a partially overlapping 596,250 for limitation
      of flexion in joints. Veterans seeking compensation for musculoskeletal conditions often
      develop chronic pain and are at high risk for substance misuse. Early intervention is needed
      to arrest worsening pain and risky substance use, particularly among post-9/11 Veterans for
      whom engagement in non-pharmacological pain treatment has the potential to improve their
      overall quality of life and spare them the complications of opioid treatments. The
      service-connection application is an ideal point-of-contact for initiating early intervention
      treatments for these at-risk Veterans. The Investigators propose to test the effectiveness
      and cost-effectiveness of Screening, Brief Intervention and Referral to Treatment for Pain
      Management (SBIRT-PM), designed to reduce pain and risky substance use. In brief, the
      counselor explains that treating both physical and psychological aspects of pain leads to the
      best outcomes, outlines what VA (and non-VA if preferred) services are available to Veterans,
      explains that substances are sometimes used for pain relief, and segues into traditional
      SBIRT. SBIRT-PM's efficacy is supported by a completed clinical trial of 101 Veterans
      applying for service-connection for MSD, and by studies showing the efficacy of SBIRT for
      people with risky substance use and of Motivational Interviewing for engagement in
      non-pharmacological pain care. The study will involve a two-year period to arrange for
      clinicians at a single "hub" site to counsel Veterans throughout New England by phone with
      SBIRT-PM, and a four-year period to conduct the clinical trial and disseminate its findings.
      During the two-years of preparation for the clinical trial, the team will prepare SBIRT-PM
      for implementation by establishing communication (Relational Coordination is the theoretical
      framework) between the "hub" where the SBIRT-PM clinician is sited and the "spoke" sites,
      establishing study-related procedures, and piloting the intervention at each of the eight VA
      medical centers in New England. For the full clinical trial, investigators will randomize
      1200 Veterans applying for compensation related to MSD to either SBIRT-PM or Usual Care (UC)
      across eight VA medical centers in New England. Outcome assessment by phone will occur at 12
      and 36-week follow-ups, and will be corroborated with other sources of information ---the
      electronic health record and toxicology testing of nail clippings. Investigators hypothesize
      that, compared to Usual Care, SBIRT-PM will be more effective and cost-effective in improving
      Veterans' pain and substance use. Investigators further hypothesize that a mediator of these
      improvements will be use of non-pharmacological services, as extracted from VA records from
      structured data fields and from narrative text in the medical record using an innovative
      natural language processing algorithm. Screening and referral to treatment at
      service-connection examinations can transform a widely-used point of entry to VA into a
      health-promoting encounter.
    
  