
    
      SNDX-275-0601 is an open-label, Phase 1b/2 study evaluating the combination of entinostat
      plus pembrolizumab in patients with advanced metastatic or recurrent NSCLC or melanoma or
      mismatch repair-proficient colorectal cancer. The study has 2 phases, a Dose
      Escalation/Confirmation Phase (Phase 1b) and an Expansion Phase (Phase 2). An additional
      cohort (Entinostat Monotherapy Immune Correlate [EMIC] Cohort) evaluating single agent
      entinostat for 2 weeks followed by the combination will also be evaluated in patients with
      NSCLC in the Phase 2 expansion phase.

      Toxicities will be assessed by the Investigator using the United States (US) National Cancer
      Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03.

      Dose Confirmation: The prospective MTD/RP2D identified in the Dose Escalation Phase will be
      confirmed in 9 patients in Dose Confirmation Cohort(s) to obtain additional AE, immune
      correlate, and anti-tumor activity data on entinostat in combination.

      Phase 2 (Expansion): In the Expansion Phase, entinostat in combination will be evaluated
      using the RP2D identified in the Dose Escalation/Confirmation Phase. Up to 3 Expansion
      Cohorts consisting of distinct subsets of patients with solid tumor cancers may be explored.
      Expansion cohorts may include:

        1. Cohort 1: NSCLC

        2. Cohort 2: Patients with NSCLC (any histology) who have previously been treated and
           responded and then progressed on either a PD-1 or PD-L1-blocking antibody

        3. Cohort 3: Patients with melanoma who have previously been treated with and unequivocally
           progressed on either a PD-1 or PD-L1-blocking antibody

        4. Cohort 4: Patients with CRC (mismatch repair-proficient) who have not been previously
           treated with a PD-1 or PD-L1 blocking antibody

      EMIC Cohort: 15 NSCLC patients Stage 2 of Cohort 1 will be randomly assigned to participate.
    
  