
    
      Recruitment SSubjects hospitalised or attended the hospital ED with a confirmed diagnosis of
      SARS-CoV-2, will be contacted.

      Potential subjects will have the opportunity to ask any questions to the researchers.

      A member of the research team will provide a copy of the information sheet to the subject,
      who will have the opportunity to ask any questions to the researchers.

      Subjects expressing an interest in participating will be interviewed to explain the study in
      detail, and discuss the risks, benefits, goals and limitations of the study.

      Screening Procedures. Potentially eligible subjects will provide informed consent prior to
      any study specific procedures being conducted.

      Following the provision of informed consent, the subject's demographics and medical history
      especially that relating to SARS-CoV-2 will be documented.

      A physical examination and checks on vital signs (BP, pulse, temperature, respiration) will
      be conducted. Female subjects of child-bearing potential will undergo a urine pregnancy test.
      A blood sample will be drawn for routine haematology and biochemistry. Subjects will undergo
      tests for oxygen saturation, PaO2/FiO2 and interleukin-6 (IL-6).

      Subjects will be asked to provide details of any concomitant medications. Subjects with
      confirmed diagnosis of SARS-CoV-2, compliance with the inclusion and exclusion criteria and
      providing informed consent will be registered on the e-CRF to obtain a randomisation number.

      Baseline/Randomisation A physical examination and checks on vital signs (BP, pulse,
      temperature, respiration) will be conducted. Subjects will undergo tests for oxygen
      saturation, PaO2/FiO2 and interleukin-6. Haematology and biochemistry test (from screening)
      results will be confirmed as being acceptable.

      The study centre will dispense the IMP under blinded conditions according to a permuted block
      randomisation sequence (1:1 ratio for the two subject groups).

      The subjects will be trained on the dosing and asked to administer two capsules twice daily
      for 4 weeks. Subjects will then be provided with IMP on a daily basis by a suitably qualified
      and delegated member of the Investigator's team, for the duration of the treatment phase.

      Treatment Phase (Week 1-3) All subjects will receive standard of care treatment throughout
      the treatment phase on a day to day basis. This will include assessment of additional or
      alternative medication required for the treatment of SARS-CoV-2, requirement for intubation
      and invasive ventilation, requirement to transfer to intensive care unit or death.

      On a weekly basis, a physical examination and checks on vital signs (BP, pulse, temperature,
      respiration) will be conducted. Subjects will undergo tests for oxygen saturation, PaO2/FiO2
      and IL-6.

      Subjects will be asked to provide details of any concomitant medications and changes in
      condition via adverse event (AE) query.

      Week 4 A physical examination and checks on vital signs (BP, pulse, temperature, respiration)
      will be conducted. Subjects will undergo tests for oxygen saturation, PaO2/FiO2 and IL-6.
      Female subjects of child-bearing potential will undergo a urine pregnancy test. A blood
      sample will be drawn for routine haematology and biochemistry. Subjects will be asked to
      provide details of any concomitant medications and changes in condition via AE query.

      Week 6 (Follow -up) 6 weeks after randomisation (or two weeks after early withdrawal), the
      subject will be contacted to check the occurrence of any other adverse events and review of
      medications. Haematology and biochemistry test (from week 4) results will be confirmed as
      being acceptable.

      Adverse events will be assessed by spontaneous reports by subjects.
    
  