
    
      Design: Tuberculosis Trials Consortium Study 35 (TBTC S35) is a Phase I/II, open-label,
      single arm, exposure-controlled dose finding study using an adaptive design. S35 will
      evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK), safety and tolerability of rifapentine given in a new
      fixed dose combination once-weekly, in combination with isoniazid for 12 weeks, in
      HIV-infected and HIV-uninfected children aged 0-12 years in whom LTBI treatment is indicated.
      The study utilizes a modified age de-escalation approach given the extensive PK and safety
      data already available in children older than 2 years of age. The protocol allows for
      parallel enrolment of children into cohorts 1 and 2, simultaneously, using a predetermined
      modeled initial dose for each cohort, separately. Similarly, cohorts 3 and 4 will be enrolled
      in parallel, using modeled doses for each cohort, based on data from cohorts 1 and 2 and
      historical data from TBTC trials.

      Sample Size: Approximately 72 participants will be required to ensure a minimum number of 60
      evaluable participants.

      Participants will be enrolled in 4 age cohorts:

      Cohort 1: ≥ 4 to ≤ 12 years Cohort 2: ≥ 24 months to < 4 years Cohort 3: ≥ 12 to < 24 months
      Cohort 4: 0 to <12 months

      There will be a minimum of 12 participants each in cohorts 1 and 2, and 18 participants each
      in cohorts 3 and 4, to allow for 36 participants in the age group below 2 years, given the
      importance of developmental pharmacology in this youngest age group (Table 1) and the lack of
      historical data in this age group. Cohorts 3 and 4 will be enrolled once week 1 PK and safety
      data is available in cohorts 1 and 2.

      Up to 18 HIV-infected children overall will be enrolled, with a target of 12 HIV-infected
      children overall. It is expected that most HIV-infected children will be > 3 years of age
      given current international recommendations regarding the use of efavirenz in children in
      international settings, where the study will be conducted. However, it is expected that
      integrase inhibitors (e.g. raltegravir) would become more routinely available during the
      study period, allowing younger HIV-infected children to also be enrolled on study.

      Population: HIV-infected and uninfected children aged 0-12 years who could benefit from
      chemotherapy for LTBI to prevent the development of active tuberculosis, who have documented
      close recent exposure to a bacteriologically positive drug sensitive adult pulmonary TB
      source case, or who have proof of M. tuberculosis infection. HIV-infected children will be
      established on anti-retroviral therapy for at least 12 weeks prior to enrolment.

      Sites:

      TBTC Site 33, Desmond Tutu TB Centre, Department of Paediatrics and Child Health,
      Stellenbosch University, South Africa TBTC Site 34, Baragwaneth, Perinatal HIV Research Unit
      (PHRU), Wits Health Consortium, Soweto, Johannesburg, South Africa

      Study Duration: Child participants will be on study for a total of 24 weeks, including a
      12-week rifapentine and isoniazid dosing period, with an additional follow-up period of 12
      weeks. The overall study accrual period will be approximately 18 months and the total study
      duration will be approximately 36 months.

      Description of Agent or Intervention:

      Participants will receive 12 once-weekly doses of water-dispersible rifapentine and
      isoniazid; the initial rifapentine dose in each age cohort will be determined based on
      historical population models and will be adjusted as data become available in paediatric
      cohorts in this study. Cohorts 1 and 2 will open up with a pre-selected modeled dose. Dose
      selection for cohorts 3 and 4 will be modeled from data emerging from cohorts 1 and 2 and
      historical data. Doses in cohorts will be adjusted as required based on interim PK and safety
      analyses. Isoniazid will be given at doses of up to 25 mg/kg, once weekly, in combination
      with pyridoxine (Vitamin B6) 25 mg/kg.
    
  