
    
      Purpose

      Nearly 10% of all infants born worldwide require respiratory support at birth and birth
      asphyxia remains one of the leading causes of infant morbidity and mortality. Neonatal
      resuscitation is the most effective strategy to deal with this condition. Moreover, an
      infant's heart rate (HR) is the most significant clinical parameter used to assess the need
      for and response to neonatal resuscitation. Currently, a newborn's HR is determined by
      auscultating or palpating of the umbilical cord. Although auscultation is more precise
      compared to palpation, both methods are inaccurate and tend to underestimate HR. The current
      resuscitation guidelines also recommend using electrocardiogram (ECG) and pulse oximetry,
      which allow for continuous monitoring, however are slow to apply and detect HR compared to
      stethoscopes. During neonatal resuscitation, an infant's HR is necessary to initiate
      resuscitation and to monitor the effectiveness of each intervention and therefore it becomes
      essential to accurately and quickly assess an infant's HR during this process. If HR is
      detected slowly or inaccurately, there is an increased risk that necessary interventions are
      not started or that certain interventions are prolonged, which could lead to increased
      morbidity and mortality of the infants. The recent advances in technology, namely the
      development of a smartphone tap application for HR assessment is promising as a novel tool
      for quick and accurate HR detection during neonatal resuscitation.

      Hypothesis

      The use of a tap-based smartphone application will be faster and more accurate when compared
      to standard auscultation with the 6-sec method to assess HR.

      Justification

      Simulation studies have shown that it is feasible to measure HR using a tap-based
      application. Moreover, the investigator's group has recently shown its reliability in an
      animal model of asphyxia-induced neonatal swine. The investigator showed its accuracy
      compared to the experimental gold standard carotid blood flow-derived HR assessments and
      report a median time of 3 sec for assessment, which is less than the current recommended time
      for auscultation. However, no study has been performed in the delivery room in newborn babies
      at birth. Therefore, the investigator aim to compare the tap-based application to the current
      6-sec standard approach to assess HR during neonatal resuscitation in the delivery room. Ehe
      investigator anticipate this study will allow us to determine the most reliable approach for
      initial assessment to reduce neonatal morbidity and mortality outcomes.

      Objectives

      To examine (i) accuracy and (ii) speed to assess HR using auscultation with a tap-based
      application during neonatal resuscitation.

      Research Method/Procedures

      The proposed study is a randomized controlled trial comparing two different approaches to
      accurately assess HR. The investigator will compare the routinely used Neonatal Resuscitation
      Program 6-sec method with a stethoscope using two different methods of auscultation [6-sec
      method and tap-based method (NeoTapLS, Tap4Life, Stockholm, Sweden)] to accurately assess HR
      immediately after birth. The investigator aim to collect the data over a period of 12 months.

      Two investigators in addition to the clinical team will attend the delivery of newborn
      infants. Immediately after birth the infant will be placed on a resuscitation trolley where a
      pulse oximeter will be attached to the right hand. At the same time three ECG leads will be
      placed on the infant's chest. Simultaneously the stethoscope will be placed by one of the
      investigators on the infants' chest to obtain the HR . In the alternative setup, stethoscope
      will be used in combination with the tap-based application.

      In both setups, the time needed to display a HR will be recorded for all devices. All infants
      will have routine HR measured using ECG, which will be used as comparison for accuracy
    
  