
    
      Randomised not-blind trial developed between june 1st, 2013 and December 31st, 2014 at the
      Pediatric Emergency Department (PED) of Rio Hortega Universitary Hospital, a secondary
      hospital located in Valladolid (Spain).

      Participants were infants up to one-year-old in whom a urine sample by a non-sterile method
      was requested under physician criteria and a written consent was signed by
      parents/caregivers.

      The study obtained the approval of Western Valladolid Review Board.

      Exclusion criteria:

      Patients were excluded from the study if they met at least one of the following criteria: a)
      patients in whom a urine sample obtained by sterile method was needed by protocol (i.e.
      febrile infants less than 3 months old), b) patients with underlying disease unable to oral
      intake of liquids, c) patients whom parents/caregivers refused to sign the informed consent.

      Randomization process:

      Patients were assigned to one of the 2 groups of treatment (BS vs. PB) following a 1:1 ratio
      randomization sequence generated by one of the investigators (RV) using Stata® 12. (Stata
      Corp, College Station, Texas). After being generated, the sequence was introduced in opaque
      envelopes sequentially numbered.

      Design of the study When, under physician criteria, it was decided to obtain a urine sample
      by a non-sterile method and the nurse staff that participates in the study were present at
      the shift, informed consent was asked to parents/caregivers. Once the consent was signed, the
      nurse opened the corresponding envelope, and the patient was assigned to one of the groups.

      For each participant, the nurse that developed the technique filled a spreadsheet with data
      of the patient. Time was measured by using a stopwatch (the same one for all patients) that
      was not used for any purpose but the study. Urine sample was sent to the laboratory where one
      analyst performed the leukocyte-esterase and nitrite test. The analyst has no knowledge about
      the technique used on each patient and the result of the urine culture was obtained from
      hospital database.

      If urine dipstick result was altered, another urine sample was obtained by sterile method,
      and urine dipstick and culture was done from that sample. Sterile sample was not routinely
      obtained from patients in whom non-sterile sample dipstick was normal.

      In those patients who were considered as failure, the decision of obtaining an urine sample
      by the alternative technique, or by urethral catheterization was up to the physician who was
      attending the patient.
    
  