
    
      Minimally invasive surgery has become the gold standard in surgical treatment for many
      indications, such as treatment of gallstones and acute appendicitis. For many other
      indications, the potential for minimally invasive approaches exist, but the data does not yet
      exist to establish it as the gold standard. In addition, there are certain patient factors
      such as age or weight that may influence the success of a minimally invasive procedure.

      While there are numerous articles in the literature reporting outcomes for minimally invasive
      therapies, these series are often notable for small patient populations and varying
      definitions of treatment success from study to study. Due to the lack of uniformity in
      reporting patient outcomes, an opportunity exists to establish a standardized database of a
      large number of patients undergoing these procedures.

      A standardized database will facilitate conducting prospective research of the risk factors
      and benefits of minimally invasive surgery. This analysis will not only enhance the care
      provided to these patients, it will reduce the use of ineffective therapy, thus promoting
      improved efficiency while increasing the quality of care provided within the UCSD system.

      This is our initial application. Several other departments at UCSD have developed similar
      databases. There are numerous examples of prospective databases used for similar purposes in
      the literature. Smithers, et al, used a prospective database of 446 patients undergoing
      esophagectomy to compare open to laparoscopic outcomes. Nesset, et al, maintained a database
      of bariatric surgery patients for two decades and was able to draw conclusions from a data
      set of 1584 patients. Even at smaller numbers, a prospective database is useful. Andrew, et
      al, described the improvement in outcomes over the learning curve in the first 201 patients
      undergoing laparoscopic roux-en-Y gastric bypass using such a database. Though labor
      intensive, Clemmesen, et al, found maintaining a database allowed them to improve care for
      their patients.
    
  