
    
      At the end of 2012, sub-Saharan Africa was home to 71% of the 35.3 million people living with
      HIV worldwide. Despite all the preventive and therapeutic efforts accomplished so far, the
      epidemic is persisting with approximately 1,600,000 new HIV infections occurring yearly in
      this region that is characterized by different epidemiological profiles. In West Africa, the
      epidemic is disproportionally concentrated among female sex workers (FSWs) who are involved
      directly or indirectly in 75% to 90% of HIV transmission cases towards the general population
      through "bridging" populations, essentially their clients and other male sexual partners.
      Hence, to achieve the control of the epidemic in this sub-region, especially in West Africa
      where the epidemic is much less generalized than in many other parts of the continent, it is
      important to tailor combination prevention including behavioural, structural, and biological
      components for the sex work milieu in general and FSWs in particular, in addition to ensuring
      adequate treatment of those already HIV-infected. However, despite substantial efforts in
      usual prevention methods in the last 10 years and effective reductions in the prevalence of
      HIV and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) with concomitant increases in condom use
      in some countries, HIV prevalence is still high among FSWs in West Africa, with these highly
      vulnerable women having an HIV prevalence over 12 times higher than other women of
      reproductive age. Such a situation could constitute a threat to the progress achieved in
      controlling the HIV epidemic in this region.

      Recently, in addition to previous preventive methods, such as consistent condom use and male
      circumcision, early treatment (treatment as prevention, TasP) has been shown to decrease HIV
      transmission by 96% in serodiscordant couples, whereas pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) based
      on Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate or on the latter drug plus Emtricitabine (Truvada®) has been
      found to be 45 to 75% protective against HIV acquisition in four randomized controlled trials
      when used orally; no protection at all was observed in two trials conducted among women at
      high risk in African countries. These failures have now been shown to be mainly related to
      issues of poor adherence to the study drugs rather than poor biological efficacy. On the
      other hand, when combining data from several trials, the level of protection against HIV
      acquisition reached 90% among the sub-groups of trial participants achieving high levels of
      compliance. Based on the generally positive results obtained. Truvada® is now approved for
      PrEP by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the USA. According to the Centers for
      Disease Control and Prevention, PrEP is largely considered a preventive individual-level
      intervention. However, it could potentially also have an impact at the population-level and
      help control the HIV epidemic if rolled out and adopted on a large scale for HIV prevention,
      especially among the most vulnerable populations. However, the feasibility of this approach
      is somewhat questioned by the low treatment adherence levels achieved in trials recruiting
      specifically highly vulnerable women in Africa. On the other hand, TasP can be viewed as a
      more classical public health intervention, as its population-level impact will largely depend
      on the coverage achieved in people at risk of transmitting HIV. However, the trial
      demonstrating TasP efficacy was carried out in serodiscordant couples, a population where
      treatment adherence may well be higher than in high-risk women who do not have a stable
      partner and who have shown lower levels of compliance than most other groups in the PrEP
      trials.

      So far, antiretroviral therapy (ART) for all HIV-infected people, irrespective of their CD4
      levels or clinical status (equivalent to TasP), is only recommended in the USA. However, the
      World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) have
      recently changed their recommendations on HIV treatment initiation of HIV positive
      individuals, increasing the eligibility criteria to treat when CD4 levels reach 500 cells/mm3
      compared to the previously recommended threshold of CD4<350 cells/mm3. However, these changes
      have so far not been widely implemented at the country-level. Despite the proven efficacy of
      TasP and PrEP as prevention strategies in clinical trials, their efficiency must be evaluated
      in 'real life' situations, in various countries with specific cultural contexts, largely
      because the uptake of HIV testing, the acceptance of early treatment and PrEP as well as drug
      adherence may vary considerably according to personal, social and cultural characteristics,
      as clearly reflected by the variability in PrEP trial results. The absence of clear
      recommendations on both prevention strategies in different countries is partly due to the
      lack of evidence based on real world implementation especially amongst FSWs. The
      investigators are thus proposing this demonstration project among FSWs in Cotonou, Benin, to
      identify the best way to successfully implement TasP and PrEP in this specific setting. Benin
      is facing a concentrated epidemic with HIV prevalence estimated at 1.2% in a recent general
      population household survey, whereas HIV prevalence was estimated at 21% among FSWs in the
      latest integrated biological and behavioural survey (IBBS) carried out in 2012.

      The project will use a field approach readily inserted within an ongoing combination
      prevention intervention, including clinical (for ex.: HIV testing and care, STI care) ,
      behavioural (for ex.: non-governmental organization- and peer-led condom promotion) and
      structural components (for ex.: community empowerment, advocacy to decrease police
      harassment; community development activities leading to the constitution of FSW-led community
      based organizations), that the investigators implement in close collaboration with the
      National AIDS Control Programme (NACP) in most of the major cities and towns of Benin through
      a grant from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR). The Dispensaire IST (DIST), a
      STI clinic dedicated to FSWs in Cotonou, will be the study clinic for this project.

      TasP makes sense as a public health intervention as long as high levels of coverage are
      achieved in the high-frequency transmitter population targeted by this intervention. Hence,
      the TasP component of the project will benefit from the ongoing CIHR/NACP interventions aimed
      at increasing HIV testing among FSWs. Indeed, within this context, the investigators are
      currently carrying out a study on the determinants of regular HIV testing, based on the
      Theory of planned behaviour. The results of this study will be used to develop an education
      program promoting 3-monthly HIV testing among FSWs that will be ready to implement prior to
      the beginning of recruitment in the proposed study. The development of this program will use
      the intervention mapping approach. Its implementation is already planned in all the coverage
      area of our ongoing CIHR project. The latter project will also contribute by defining precise
      indicators of success specifically for professional FSWs (e.g. those whose main source of
      income is sex work who will constitute our target population), based on accurate estimations
      of their population size. Indeed, the investigators are currently conducting a detailed
      scientific mapping of the FSW population in the cities and towns covered by our ongoing
      intervention. The results of this size estimation study will be available before the end of
      2013 and will be used to establish the denominators for the testing and TasP coverage
      indicators.

      Contrary to TasP, PrEP is an individual preventive intervention for which the coverage level
      is of less importance. However, as the investigators are expecting that at least 60% of
      HIV-negative FSWs will accept PrEP, it may also have preventive benefits at the overall FSW
      population level. We have decided to combine TasP and PrEP in the same project for efficiency
      and ethical reasons. Indeed, this approach implies that all FSWs consulting at the project
      clinics will be offered some form of antiretroviral drugs with provision of adherence
      counseling. In addition, on an ethical point of view and considering the community
      perspective, it would be difficult to justify an approach where antiretroviral drugs would be
      given to HIV-negative women while asymptomatic HIV-positive FSWs with >350 CD4/mm³ are not
      treated. Note that according to the current Benin national guidelines, ART is provided for
      free to HIV-infected subjects with CD4<350 CD4/mm³, but this could change during the course
      of the study following the recently revised WHO guidelines proposing a threshold of 500
      CD4/mm³ for treatment eligibility.

      The proposed project is planned for three years: a 6-month phase-in period (submission of the
      project to all relevant ethics committees, community preparedness activities, conduction of a
      study on the determinants of the intention to adhere to ART regimens, for both HIV-positive
      and HIV-negative women, and development of an adherence education program based on
      theoretical frameworks and approaches similar to the ones used for the education program on
      regular testing mentioned above, development of study procedures), a 25-month follow-up
      period (including 12 months of active recruitment, and follow-up varying between 12 and 24
      months) and a 5-month phase-out period to complete all the data entry, carry out the data
      analysis and disseminate the study results.

      In the catchment area of the DIST, the investigators estimate that there are approximately
      600 professional FSWs. Overall, the investigators are expecting to reach approximately 500
      FSWs and to recruit and follow-up at least 90% of the HIV-positive (n~100) and at least 60%
      of the HIV-negative under PreP (n~250). Women eligible to ART under current guidelines and
      asymptomatic women with CD4 >350 cells/mm³ (TasP component) will be offered locally approved
      first line ART regimens while HIV-negative ones (PrEP component) will receive Truvada®. For
      all the analyses on TasP, the investigators will compare the women enrolled under the TasP
      component to those treated based on current national guidelines. Pregnant women and those
      still breastfeeding will be excluded from the PrEP component of the project. Women eligible
      to ART under current guidelines will receive their drugs through the NACP program, while
      those on TasP or PrEP will be supplied in drugs by this project.

      In order to assess the potential impact of the combined TasP and PrEP interventions, the
      investigators will first compare the HIV incidence observed during the study to the 1.4 per
      100 person-years incidence estimate from a follow-up study carried out among FSWs in Cotonou
      in the early 2010s. However, more importantly in terms of impact assessment, the
      investigators will use sophisticated carefully calibrated mathematical modelling techniques
      to estimate the impact of the intervention and each component on HIV transmission amongst
      FSWs, their clients and the general population, following modelling and impact assessment
      approaches previously developed for Cotonou and for the evaluation of Avahan, the India AIDS
      Initiative of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

      Finally, the investigators will carry out prospective top down and patient level cost data
      collection mainly using a provider perspective approach, but also some patients perspective
      elements, and combine cost estimates with modeled impact projections in order to estimate the
      incremental cost-effectiveness of TasP and/or PrEP per HIV infection and disability adjusted
      life years (DALY) averted. Regression analysis will be used to determine if patient level
      costs are related to FSW characteristics (frequency of commercial sex, level of condom use,
      duration of sex work or age, and CD4 cell count at initiation of ART), ART provider or
      TasP/PrEP adherence and outcomes, and if deemed important these heterogeneities in the costs
      will be incorporated in modelling.
    
  