
    
      Experimental Design: Hyperglycemic, hyperinsulinemic and mildly hypertensive (taking
      medication for hypertension or with systolic blood pressure of ≥135 mmHG) adult patients
      (18-60 y) with BMI ≥ 25 on insulin or metformin only and will be recruited using existing
      relationships between community partners and the University of Arizona Division of
      Endocrinology. Patients will be stratified into 2 treatments (Vigabatrin or Placebo) based on
      age, sex, and HbA1c (day -24).

      For each treatment, Vigabatrin and placebo participants will be stratified as such: Each
      group will have equal distribution of male and female participants and each group will have
      similar HbA1c. This is a double-blind study and only the research pharmacist and Dr. Renquist
      will know which participants receive Vigabatrin or Placebo treatments. Dr. Renquist will be
      the one to place subjects into each treatment group using the guideline mentioned above.

      Study Visit 1: (day -24; relative to treatment initiation) Dr. Herbst will be present to
      discontinue metformin and initiate a monitoring plan. Participants on long acting insulin
      will stop taking insulin 3 days prior to visits 2,3,4 and 5 and those on short acting insulin
      with stop taking insulin 12 hours prior to visits 2,3,4 and 5. On day (-24), patients will
      enter the CaTS (Clinical and Translational Science) Center after an overnight fast without
      having taken the blood pressure medication (if on any) that morning for a baseline assessment
      of body weight, height and blood pressure along with temperature, heart rate, O2 and
      respiration. A fasting blood sample will be collected into EDTA tubes to allow for
      measurement of plasma insulin, c-peptide, glucose, glucagon, and GABA. Following
      centrifugation (15 min, 3000xg) plasma will be aliquoted into 10 individual samples that will
      be immediately frozen at -80C for analyses in the Renquist laboratory. A peripheral vision
      field test will be performed on all participants and urine pregnancy test will be performed
      on female participants. A medical history will be taken from the subjects (self disclosure)
      and physical examination will be done. At this time, participants will be given a ledger in
      which to note daily blood glucose taken after an overnight fast for those on metformin.
      Participants taking insulin will note daily blood glucose taken after an overnight fast and
      immediately prior to lunch and dinner for the entire study (3 times daily). If fasting blood
      glucose rises more than 30 mg/dL after discontinuing metformin treatment (occurs in less than
      5% of patients), patients will be advised to resume metformin treatment and visit their
      primary care physician. They will also be withdrawn from the study at this time. If it is
      after hours and they have concerns related to glucose levels, and are unable to reach
      clinical staff, they will be informed to go to the nearest Emergency Department, if they
      consider it to be an emergency. Participants will also be asked to not donate blood, change
      their physical activity habits or start a weight loss program while part of the study. This
      visit will take approximately 2 hours.

      Study Visit 2: (Day -3 relative to treatment initiation) Three weeks after the initial visit
      (day -3 ), study participants will arrive at the CaTS Center after an overnight fast without
      having taken the blood pressure medication (if on any) that morning . They will have been
      reminded to stop taking insulin 3 days or 12 hours prior depending if they are on long acting
      insulin or short acting insulin, respectively. Time, temperature, heart rate, O2, respiration
      along with body weight, blood pressure, and a fasting blood sample will be collected (15 min
      after Peripheral IV insertion). Urine pregnancy test will also be done on female
      participants. The ledger will be examined to ensure that the participants are recording
      information appropriately and completely. We will subsequently perform the 2h, 7 sample
      glucose tolerance test (OGTT). Patients will be given a solution containing 75 g glucose to
      consume within 3 minutes. Blood samples will be collected at 0, 10, 20, 30, 60, 90, and 120
      minutes for measurement of plasma glucose, insulin, and c-peptide. Once the glucose is back
      to 300mg/dl or lower, participants will be allowed to leave for the day. This visit will take
      approximately 3 hrs.

      Study Visit 3: (day 0, relative to treatment initiation) 3 days post OGTT (day 0),
      participants will again arrive at the CaTS Center after an overnight fast without having
      taken the blood pressure medication (if on any) that morning. They will have been reminded to
      stop taking insulin 3 days or 12 hours prior depending if they are on long acting insulin or
      short acting insulin, respectively. Urine pregnancy test will also be done for female
      participants. Clinical lab personnel will take time, temperature, heart rate, O2, respiration
      along with body weight, blood pressure and collect fasting blood for measure of plasma
      insulin, glucose, glucagon, c-peptide and HbA1c (15 min after Peripheral IV insertion.)
      Participants' arm with IV will be place inside a heated box the entire study to promote blood
      flow. Subsequent to baseline measures, CaTS staff will perform hyperinsulinemic euglycemic
      clamps. Glucose tracer infusion will start and will be given continuously. 2 hours after the
      tracer infusion, Insulin will be intravenously infused at 80 mU/m2/min (dose per body surface
      area per minute). This infusion rate will result in a hyperinsulinemic state, simultaneously
      increasing glucose disposal into skeletal muscle and adipose tissue and depressing hepatic
      glucose production. Blood glucose is monitored every 5 minutes and 20% D-Glucose with a
      6,6-2H2 Glucose tracer will be infused at a variable rate to maintain euglycemia. After at
      least 1 hour of constant insulin infusion, steady state conditions for plasma insulin, blood
      glucose and the glucose infusion rate will be achieved. Steady state will be defined as a
      glucose infusion rate that varies less than 5% for at least 30 minutes. Insulin and glucose
      infusion will be done for 2 hours once insulin infusion starts. At least 4 samples will be
      taken at 10 minute intervals during the steady state conditions for analysis of 2H-labeled
      glucose. Dilution of the 6,6-2H2 glucose relative to total glucose in the blood will indicate
      the rate of hepatic glucose production. The hepatic glucose production rate + glucose
      infusion rate sum to equal whole-body glucose clearance. Participants will be given lunch
      after study is finished. Subsequently, patients will be given either placebo or vigabatrin to
      be taken over the following weeks. Participants will be asked to come in at the end of each
      week to refill their medication and conduct a brief visit with nursing staff at CaTS.
      Patients will be instructed to take1 pill 2X/day for the first 7 days (days 0-6; 1000mg/day),
      2 pills 2X/day for days 7-13 (2000mg/day), and three pills 2X/day for days 14-23
      (3000mg/day). This visit will take approximately take 5 hours.

      Brief visit 1, 2: (days 7 and 14, relative to treatment initiation) Medication will be
      refilled and dosage will be increased each week. Participants will speak to the nurses (Alma
      D-Leon, RN and Guadalupe E-Ortega, MSN, ACNP-BC) about general health and compliance with
      medication regiment.

      Study Visit 4: (day 21, relative to treatment initiation) Participants will again arrive at
      the CaTS Center after an overnight fast without having taken the blood pressure medication
      (if on any) that morning. Time, temperature, heart rate, O2, respiration along with body
      weight, blood pressure, and a fasting blood sample will be collected. They will have stopped
      taking insulin 3 days or 12 hours prior depending if they are on long acting insulin or short
      acting insulin, respectively. A urine pregnancy test will also be done for female
      participants. The ledger will be examined to ensure that the participants are recording
      information appropriately and completely. The OGTT and all performed on day -3 (Study Visit
      2) will be repeated on day 21. This visit will take approximately 3 hours.

      Study Visit 5: (Day 24, relative to treatment initiation). Participants will again arrive at
      the CaTS Center after an overnight fast without having taken the blood pressure medication
      (if on any) that morning. They will have been reminded to stop taking insulin 3 days or 12
      hours prior depending if they are on long acting insulin or short acting insulin,
      respectively. Their ledger will be reviewed. A peripheral vision field test will be performed
      on all participants. Temperature, heart rate, O2, respiration along with body weight, blood
      pressure, and a fasting blood sample will be collected (15 min after Peripheral IV
      insertion). The hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp performed on day 0 (Study Visit 3) will be
      repeated on day 24. Beginning on day 24, participants on the vigabatrin and placebo treatment
      will initiate the step-down as recommended by the manufacturer, moving to the 2 pill 2X/day
      dose for days 24-30, and 1 pill 2X/day dose for days 31-37 before discontinuing treatment.
      Participants will be asked to come in at the end of each week to refill their medication and
      a brief visit with nursing staff at CaTS. Throughout the study, participants and lab
      personnel will be blinded to treatments. This visit will take approximately 5 hours.

      Brief visit 3: (Day 31, relative to treatment initiation) Medication will be refilled and
      dosage will be decreased each week. Participants will speak to the nurses (Alma D-Leon, RN
      and Guadalupe E-Ortega, MSN, ACNP-BC) about general health and compliance with medication
      regiment.

      Study Visit 6: (Day 45, relative to treatment initiation) On day 45, 1 week after the last
      dose of vigabatrin or placebo, patients on the vigabatrin and placebo treatment will be seen
      for an exit evaluation. Participants will again arrive at the CaTS Center after an overnight
      fast without having taken the blood pressure medication (if on any) that morning. Clinical
      lab personnel will take temperature, heart rate, O2, respiration, body weight and blood
      pressure and collect fasting blood for measure of plasma insulin, glucose, glucagon,
      c-peptide and HbA1c. A peripheral field vision test will be performed on all participants.
      The ledger of blood glucose measures will be collected for study analysis. Participants will
      be scheduled to follow up for vision exam within 6 months of study completion. This visit
      will take approximately 2 hours.

      Timeline of proposed study, including Oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTT) and
      hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamps (HEC). Weeks and days are numbered relative to treatment
      initiation.

      Blood Samples Collected

      Baseline samples:

      Blood samples (< 10 mL) will be collected on days -24, -3, 0, 21, 24, and 45.

      During oral glucose tolerance test:

      Blood samples (< 10 mL) will be collected at 0, 10, 20, 30, 60, 90, and 120 minutes. Total
      blood < 100mLs.

      During Hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamps:

      Blood samples (<10 mL) will be collected at times -120, -30, -20, -10, 0 and +90, +100, +110
      and +120.

      Risks

      During the Informed Consent process, study personnel will address potential discomfort and
      risks associated with the study protocol. These will be included in the Informed Consent
      form.
    
  