
    
      Introduction:

      Studies of different Bariatric procedures have resulted in conflicting findings on the
      effects of the surgery on daily Dietary Food Choices (DFCs.) Some suggest a pure volume
      effect, others report changes in type and preferences and still others suggest the effects
      change over time. The Biliopancreatic Limb Length (BPLL) in the One Anastomosis Gastric
      Bypass (OAGB), Mini-Gastric Bypass-Original Technique (MGB-OT) version, includes a "tailored"
      BPLL. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between BPLL and DFCs in
      patients undergoing MGB-OT. The primary hypothesis was that the changes in dietary habits and
      food choices would be related to the BPLL in the MGB-OT.

      Methods:

      Data from a long term online patient survey including MGB-OT patients were collected
      including basic demographics, MGB-OT BPLL, patient reported DFCs and weight loss classes.
      Linear regression modeling was used to assess the relative association between BPLL with
      various mean patient reported DFCs and a composite model of Food Choices.

      Results:

      Patients survey responses to be evaluated. Patients with reported BPLLs of 3 to 9 ft
      (92-274cm) will be selected. Patient reported mean weight loss classes to be evaluated. The
      linear relation to BPLL to be evaluated. The mean "Bad" Food Choices (BFC) to be determined.

      Conclusions:

      The present study of mean patient reported DFC outcomes following a "Tailored" BPLL in the
      MGB-OT version of the OAGB to be evaluated. The patient dietary food choices for fried foods,
      sugar sweetened beverages, processed meats and junk foods all to be determined. These changes
      linear regression to the Bilio-pancreatic limb length to be determined. In cases of the
      MGB-OT a longer Bilio-pancreatic Limb Length association with greater weight loss and a
      greater improvement in daily Dietary Food Choices would be major importance. The possibility
      of tailoring the power of a bariatric operation based upon BPLL might well be an important
      advancement in bariatric surgery.
    
  