
    
      Diabetes is an important health concern worldwide. It is associated with significantly
      increased mortality as well as high incidence of co-morbidities. Unfortunately, treatment
      efficacy and successful disease management is highly variable among treated patients, and
      this is partly due to the fact that diabetes has multiple underlying causes most of which are
      still unknown. A newly identified biomarker, α-aminoadipic acid (2-AAA), has the potential to
      successfully predict the development of diabetes in humans, even before the development of
      other known risk markers. However, little is known about the function of 2-AAA; it is unclear
      whether 2-AAA itself causes the development of diabetes or if it is a biomarker for altered
      metabolic processes that then lead to diabetes.

      The aim of the first phase of the study was to measure plasma 2-AAA levels from healthy
      individuals from the general population to identify subjects with high or low 2-AAA. Now in
      the second phase of the study, 80 subjects with high or low 2-AAA will be invited to
      participate in a dietary lysine modification study to access the effect of controlled lysine
      intake on plasma and urine 2AAA. Participants will be asked to complete two one-week dietary
      interventions. Subjects will be screened and consented via email, online, or phone. Each
      subject will be required to come to Vanderbilt University Medical Center for four study
      visits, at which the study team will obtain a blood sample, a urine sample, stool sample,
      vital signs, waist and hip circumference, and 1-3 surveys will be completed if the subject
      did not complete them prior to the visit. Each subject that completes the entire study visit
      will be compensated $250. DNA samples will be obtained to allow for identification of genetic
      predictors of 2-AAA levels. Some individuals may be asked to return for a future follow-up
      study.
    
  