
    
      In the study, data were collected for 9 months between January 2020 and September 2020.

      Before starting the research, the nurses in the clinic were informed about the work to be
      done. Participants who were admitted to the surgical service, who met the inclusion criteria
      and accepted to participate in the study on a voluntary basis were separated into two groups
      by block randomization method. Then, the participants assigned to the groups were informed
      about the study and the "Patient Information Form" was administered by the researcher after
      obtaining the consent of the individuals.

      In order to eliminate the bias regarding the antiseptic used while inserting the catheter,
      investigator did not have information about the solution used, participants and nurses in the
      clinic. The solutions were prepared by the nurse in charge of the Surgery 1 Clinic. Both
      solutions were put into bottles of the same color and size. It was a light proof bottle in
      both bottles. The usage dates of both solutions were checked. As they were transferred to
      different bottles, the bottles and solutions were renewed once a month by the nurse in charge
      with the recommendation of the hospital infection control committee. A pink sticker was
      attached to one of the bottles (to cover the entire bottle), and a blue sticker to the other
      (to cover the entire bottle). Which color and which solution was known only by the clinic
      responsible nurses.

      As stated in the statement of the nurse in charge of the surgery 1 service, he wrote the
      color which solution was on a piece of paper and put it in a sealed envelope. D He prepared
      two of the same envelopes and gave the other one to the responsible nurse of the General
      Surgery-2 Clinic. The envelopes were kept by both responsible until the end of the work.
      Solutions could not be distinguished in terms of color and odor. After the study comes from
      statistics, when looking at the solutions by opening the closed envelope; It was observed
      that 2% chlorhexidine was used in the participants in group 1 (blue solution) selected by
      randomization method, and 70% alcohol was used in the second group (pink solution) by
      investigator.İ.V. A sterile, transparent, semi-permeable, self-adhesive catheter stabilizer
      was used as a catheter cover for all patients in Group 1 and Group 2. İ.V. After
      catheterization, "Information Form Regarding IV Catheter Application to Patient" was filled
      in for each participant.

      Desefin and (active substance: ceftriaxone) biteral (active substance: ornidazole) and parol
      (active substance: paracetamol) as an analgesic were administered through the intravenous
      catheter inserted for the study. It was ensured that these drugs were sent in the form of
      infusion. Therefore, verbal consent was obtained from the participants to apply the catheter
      for the second time, except for the intravenous catheter attached, if the patient was to
      receive different intravenous therapy.

      After the application, phlebitis development status was evaluated with the "Phlebitis Scale"
      published by the Infusion Nurses Association. As part of the follow-up of phlebitis,
      millimetric measurements were made with a transparent ruler and the degree of phlebitis was
      determined bu intestigator. The scale was applied every 8 hours for 72 hours by investigator.
    
  