
    
      Step1: Ambulatory samples First of all the careHPV cervical sample will be collected in
      specifically tubes, after this, make the cervical sample SurePath collect. Each patient will
      have two cervical samples. In this moment will be collected 2,000 samples at the Gynecology
      Department of Barretos Cancer Hospital and the women who be attended in the mobile unit of
      Barretos surrounding.

      Sample1: careHPV The collect will be randomized where 1000 will be collected by the doctor
      and 1000 by self-sampling. The patient will be oriented by nurse with illustrative material.
      The self-sampling will be realized like the manufacturing protocol (Qiagen Inc.,
      Gaithersburg, MD).

      The cervical sample to cytology (SurePath) will be realized by doctor like a complementary
      test.

      The conditions to store the samples are 15˚C to 30˚C by 2 weeks; 2˚C to 8˚C by 4 weeks; or
      -20˚C by 2 months to research.

      Sample2: SurePath® cytology The cervical sample will be realized like the manufacturing
      protocol, by doctor. The lamina will be prepared like the equipment manufactory (Becton,
      Dickinson and Company). The cytological findings will be classifieds like the Bethesda
      system.

      The positives women in careHPV/cytology and the negative careHPV but positive cytology
      (ASC-US+) will be referred to do the colposcopy (or biopsy) at the Barretos Cancer Hospital.

      Step2: Mobiles Unities Samples This step will be collected 3,000 samples to careHPV test and
      SurePath cytology like a complementary test. The self-sampling won't be made in this step.

      The samples will be analyzed in the own mobile unit, during the cities visited. The units
      involved in the project are that attended Mato Grosso, Goiás, Minas Gerais and Rondônia
      states, because the significantly number of population assisted.

      Step3: HPV genotyping All the positives cases to careHPV test will be submitted to identify
      the HPV types, then realized at the Molecular Oncology Research Center in the Barretos Cancer
      Hospital.
    
  