
    
      After signing the consent form and being enrolled in the study, the subject will be asked to
      answer an enrollment questionnaire on the general characteristics of the migraine attacks he
      or she is suffering. Then, the subject will be instructed to call 1-800 number to notify the
      clinic that they have a migraine.

      Upon presentation with an acute migraine attack, the patient will be randomly assigned to two
      groups: an active comparator and a sham comparator. During the first session, the active
      group will receive the actual treatment whereas the placebo group will receive a sham
      treatment (using an exact replica of the device with the same software and hardware controls
      that delivers a simulated treatment with no actual pressure delivered - only a simulation of
      mechanical functions and sounds to simulate an actual treatment). During the second
      treatment, both groups will receive the actual treatment.

      During either session, upon presentation with an acute migraine attack, the subject will be
      assessed by taking blood pressure, pulse, temperature, subjective pain score on a scale of
      0-10 (similar to the scales used in the device's interface) and on a scale from 0 to 3
      (typically used in headache studies to establish the pain level) as well as subjective
      associated symptoms scores on the same 0-10 scale. Bilateral otoscopic examination will be
      used to confirm intact tympanic membranes to ensure that subjects can safely receive the
      treatment. Also, subjects will receive bilateral hearing screening and their ability to
      maintain balance will be assessed. Then the subjects will be attached to a comfortable heart
      rate variability (HRV) monitor and asked to lie down quietly for 5 min so as to obtain a
      baseline HRV recording. Soft silicone ear plugs will be inserted in the subject's ears. These
      plugs are attached to the automated insufflator device (active or sham, depending on the
      group the subject is assigned to). The subject will control the device using a mobile app: an
      easy to use interface will allow the subject to provide the device all the information needed
      for the automatic selection of the treatment protocol most appropriate for the subject. Once
      selected, the treatment will last 30 minutes. The subjects heart rate, HRV, and pulse
      oxygenation will be monitored throughout the insufflation procedure to measure physiologic
      response to the procedure as well as to bolster the safety of the procedure. The heart rate
      and pulse Ox values will be recorded every minute (heart rate and pulse ox) on the vitals
      form, the HRV will be a continuous recording for the entire duration of the treatment. After
      10 and 20min of treatment, the subject will be asked the corresponding pain score on a scale
      of 0-10. Vitals will be taken again at the end of the treatment. The subject will then be
      asked to lie again quietly for 5 mins as a final HRV recording is obtained for comparison
      against the pre-evaluation one. Bilateral hearing and ability to maintain balance will also
      be screened again at the end of the treatment and compared with the pre-treatment measures to
      see if they were affected by the treatment.

      Subjective pain and symptom scores will be obtained immediately after the 30min treatment,
      and at the 2 hour post and 24 hour post treatment end points. Each user will receive only a
      single treatment, administered in the clinic setting. 2 hour and 24 hour end point
      assessments will be obtained telephonically.

      The second visit will follow the identical procedure with the exception that all subjects
      will receive an actual treatment at this stage.

      Independently whether they come back for the second visit, subjects will be questioned by
      telephone one calendar month after their first treatment as to the number, type and intensity
      of migraines experienced in the period between the first treatment and the 1-month follow up
      phone call.
    
  