
    
      This study is a Phase III multicenter, masked, placebo controlled randomized clinical trial
      (RCT) of thyroid hormone supplementation in premature infants. Survival for extremely low
      gestational age neonates (ELGAN; 24 - 28 weeks) has risen to >80% over the past 40 years yet
      cognitive delays or cerebral palsy (CP) still affect 30% of survivors. Since more than 25,000
      ELGANs are born each year in the United States, a major priority in newborn medicine must be
      to translate the gains in survival into gains in healthy survival without the current high
      frequency of impairments. Transient hypothyroxinemia of prematurity (THOP) occurs in 50% of
      ELGANs and is strongly associated as an independent risk factor with lower IQ scores,
      behavioral abnormalities and CP in ELGANs. Prior evidence suggested a benefit from
      replacement therapy but studies were underpowered to prove this. The current project extends
      the findings of our Phase 1 trial (THOP1; R01-NS45109) where four thyroid hormone regimens
      were tested. We showed that continuous infusion of 4 µg/Kg/day thyroxine x 42d could safely
      correct transient hypothyroxinemia without markedly lowering TSH - creating a "biochemical
      euthyroid" state. THOP2 is designed to test the primary hypothesis that compared to placebo,
      thyroid hormone supplementation from birth will reduce from 30% to 21% the proportion of
      subjects with a composite endpoint of "CP or a Bayley III Cognitive Score < 85." A Secondary
      hypothesis is that hormone treatment will improve other measures of cognitive and executive
      function or attention as assessed by: i) Bayley III Parent Interview for Adaptive Behavior
      and the BRIEF-P (Behavioral Rating Inventory of Executive Function-Preschool Version) and ii)
      the frequency of screening positive on the Modified Checklist for Autism in Toddlers
      (M-CHAT). We plan to enroll 1,224 subjects over a 19.8 month period at 14 centers to obtain
      388 surviving toddlers at 36 months corrected age in each of two arms. The current
      application describes the scientific basis of the proposed overall clinical trial; it is
      linked to a cluster application creating a Data Monitoring and Analysis Coordinating Center
      (DCC) at Michigan State University (MSU). The additional societal cost from CP in an affected
      person's lifetime is estimated at $1 million; the costs of mental retardation are even
      higher. If this trial shows that an inexpensive intervention can reduce the risks of CP and
      mental retardation by 30% in ELGANs, we estimate the overall savings from preventing more
      than 2,000 such cases (9% of 25,000) at about $2 billion per year.
    
  