
    
      Study justification In spite a number of studies describing the sensitivity and specificity
      of various simple tests for diagnosing anaemia(19-21) there are no studies that have
      evaluated the effectiveness of basic training of heath workers, use of diagnostic tools and
      assured availability of anaemia treatments, in reducing the burden of chronic anaemia in
      children and pregnant women in malaria endemic areas of Africa. The cost-effectiveness of
      current diagnostic tests is not known and this information is needed to guide public health
      policy.

      The rates of diagnosis, treatment and referral from basic health facilities depend on a
      variety of factors (treatment adherence, clinic attendance, health worker awareness, local
      prevalence of anaemia etc) that are likely to vary between different areas and health
      facilities. A cluster randomised study has therefore been designed to shed light on these
      issues.

      Design overview This is a cluster randomised open label trial of 2 different 'point of care'
      diagnostic tools (Hemocue and Copack) to detect anaemia in children under the age of 5 years,
      each compared to a control arm that will continue current routine practice (based on clinical
      judgement or ineffective colorimetric methods of measuring haemoglobin). An inherent
      constraint in designing this effectiveness trial of is the absence of a measure of
      haemoglobin in control dispensaries. Thus the proportion of children diagnosed with anaemia
      is the primary outcome and expected rates will be derived from the rolling cross-sectional
      survey.

      Children who are referred to the next level of care will be tracked and basic data on the
      results of investigations and treatment outcome will be recorded.

      A rolling cross-sectional anaemia survey in children under the age of 5 years will be
      conducted in the villages served by participating health facilities throughout the trial.

      Costs of anaemia diagnosis and treatment will be assessed in each of the trial arms and the
      cost-effectiveness of the intervention arms will each be compared to the control arm in
      diagnosing and treating anaemia and in normalising haemoglobin levels in children with
      anaemia.

      Social surveys (individual interviews and focus group discussions) will be conducted to
      assess the acceptability and popularity of each of the interventions and to identify
      treatement-seeking behaviour for and risk factors for anaemia.

      The results of the trial will be circulated locally and nationally as soon as they are
      available in order to maximise the usefulness of the results to health planners and providers
      in Tanzania.

      An exit strategy at the end of the trial will ensure that any additional resources provided
      during the trial will be maintained through to the next local health planning and resource
      allocation cycle.
    
  