
    
      The 2004 VA Annual Benefits Report reveals that tinnitus is the third most common individual
      service-connected disability in veterans. As of September 30, 2005, there were 339,573
      veterans who had been awarded a service connection for their tinnitus, with annual
      compensation amounting to over $418,000,000 (Office of Policy and Planning, VA Central
      Office). In addition to being a major expense for VHA, tinnitus is a health care problem that
      is inadequately addressed at most VA medical centers. We have developed a research-based
      model of tinnitus clinical management that is designed for efficient implementation in VA
      Audiology clinics. The objective of this study is to establish the model program at a VA
      Audiology clinic, and to evaluate its efficacy with veteran patients and its acceptability to
      audiologists.

      The study is based at the NCRAR, and a prototype tinnitus management program will be
      established in the Audiology Clinic at the James A. Haley (Tampa) VA Medical Center. The
      program follows a five-level "progressive intervention" model that addresses the various
      needs of tinnitus patients in a systematic and hierarchical manner-from initial contact with
      a VA provider through long-term treatment. It is hypothesized that progressive intervention
      will result in a significant reduction in self-perceived tinnitus handicap relative to usual
      care.

      A comprehensive web-based tinnitus training course for audiologists has been developed, as
      well as a patient tinnitus-information book that uses principles of low health literacy. Six
      audiologists at the Tampa VA are participating in the study, of which three were randomly
      selected to complete the training course as preparation to conduct each of five levels of
      progressive intervention: (1) triage; (2) audiologic evaluation; (3) group education; (4)
      tinnitus evaluation; and (5) individualized management. The other three audiologists have not
      received the training, and these "usual care" audiologists provide intervention that more
      closely typifies what is done at some VA medical centers.

      Patients will be randomized to one of the two groups. All patients will complete outcomes
      questionnaires (Tinnitus Handicap Inventory [THI] and Veterans Short Form-36 health survey
      [SF-36V]) at baseline, immediately post-treatment and 6 months post treatment. Outcomes of
      the THI will be compared between the two groups of patients to test the hypothesis. Data from
      the SF-36V will be used in secondary outcomes analyses. Each of the six audiologists will be
      interviewed informally to determine their satisfaction with the tinnitus services that they
      provide, and how they feel they are meeting the needs of their patients. The three
      web-based-trained audiologists will provide formative data to the Co-PI on an ongoing basis
      to monitor and adjust the program to achieve the best possible outcomes.

      Development and evaluation of this prototype program will establish its practical utility for
      addressing the tinnitus needs of veterans in a comprehensive, yet efficient, fashion. If the
      study shows that the program is effective, then the program could establish the standard for
      tinnitus management at all VA medical centers-meeting the needs of all veterans who have
      access to VA services.
    
  