
    
      The study population will be adult women (>21 years of age) with symptomatic uterovaginal
      prolapse at or beyond the hymen who desire vaginal surgical management. This study is
      intended to be done only on women who have completed child-bearing and have an inactive
      uterus, defined as amenorrhea for 1 year. Therefore women will be postmenopausal or will have
      amenorrhea from an endometrial ablation. Amenorrhea caused from exogenous steroids, or
      hypothalamic disorders will not allow inclusion.

      Participants will be obtained from the clinic population of each of the eight Pelvic Floor
      Disorders Network (PFDN) sites. Participants will be randomly assigned to have either vaginal
      hysterectomy and USLS or mesh hysteropexy suspension for treatment of their uterovaginal
      prolapse. The surgical assignment will be revealed in the operating room, after the
      participant is under anesthesia.

      Participants will be followed for at least 36-months (3-years) post surgery and up to a
      maximum of 60-months (5-years). Follow-up data will be obtained during in-person clinic
      visits, and study staff who are masked to the surgical assignment will be the primary person
      who obtain follow-up data. Although the primary study outcome does not depend on masked
      participants and blinded evaluators, several important participant reported secondary aims
      are subject to reporting bias if the participant is aware of her study assignment. Therefore,
      study participants, coordinators, and nurses will be masked to the study assignment. Study
      surgeons and anatomic evaluators will be unmasked. Evaluators conducting the POPQ exam will
      be a co-investigator, fellow or other qualified nurse who did not perform the study surgery.

      Surgical failure rates will be compared using survival analysis approaches appropriate for
      interval censored data (classic log-rank tests and survival models using a generalized linear
      model approach with a complementary log-log link) and secondary outcomes will be reported as
      rates in each group or as group means and evaluated with the appropriate parametric or
      nonparametric statistical tests.

      Throughout the study, the PFDN Data Safety and Monitoring Committee (DSMB) will review study
      data and decide if the study can or cannot continue. Additionally, this study will adhere to
      the CONSORT guidelines for performing and reporting randomized controlled trials (Begg et al
      1996). Women who are eligible but decline enrollment will be characterized in a manner
      consistent with CONSORT requirements.
    
  