
    
      The ALL Initiative ('ALL') is a population-level management program developed at Kaiser
      Permanente (KP). It seeks to decrease cardiovascular disease (CVD) morbidity and mortality in
      patients with diabetes by improving rates of prescribing for guideline-concordant
      cardioprotective medications. Multiple mechanisms supported this intervention at KP. The
      investigators implemented ALL in 11 Community Health Centers (CHC) in the Portland, Oregon
      metropolitan area. To our knowledge, this was the first clinical trial testing the
      translation and implementation of a successful quality improvement (QI) initiative from a
      private, integrated care setting into CHCs.

      The investigators adapted the ALL intervention for CHCs through an iterative,
      stakeholder-driven process. The investigators then conducted a cluster-randomized pragmatic
      trial in 11 CHCs in a staggered process with six 'early' CHCs implementing the intervention
      one year before five 'late' CHCs. The investigators measured monthly rates of
      cardioprotective prescribing rates. Through segmented regression analysis, the investigators
      evaluated the intervention's effects in June 2011-May 2013. Participants included 11 CHCs
      serving ~6,500 adult patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) who were indicated for
      cardioprotective medications per national guidelines. The investigators also conducted a
      process evaluation to identify factors important to implementation success.

      Our overarching goals were to identify and resolve issues in disseminating a successful
      program from a large, well-organized health system into CHCs. The investigators hypothesized
      that cross-setting translation was feasible, and that adapting and implementing proven QI
      approaches could improve the care CHCs provide without requiring them to develop native
      initiatives. The investigators anticipated that this implementation would involve
      substantially adapting potentially 'translatable' practices and interventions, due to the
      differences between private, integrated care settings and CHCs in terms of patient needs and
      vulnerability, and system resources.
    
  