
    
      The trial is a prospective multicenter randomized clinical trial comparing onlay mesh to
      suture repair. Two hundred and eighty-eight patients with a primary elective umbilical hernia
      below and equal to 2 cm from seven Swedish participating surgical centers will be enrolled.
      Randomization will be performed intraoperatively following the measurement of the defect
      (with stratification for centra and for the defect size) to either closing the small
      umbilical defect with a simple primary suture repair or closing the defect with a simple
      primary suture repair with an attached small flat lightweight polypropylene only mesh on the
      aponeurosis. Trial participants, investigators and follow-up clinical surgeons will be
      blinded for the assigned allocation. The primary endpoint will be recurrence at 1 and 3
      years. Secondary endpoint will be surgical site postoperative complications at 30 days and
      pain 1 year after surgery. As follows, participants will be visiting the outpatient clinical
      at 30 d, 1 year and 3 year after surgery.

      All analyses will be performed according to the intention to treat principle and as specified
      in the analyses plan of the study protocol.

      There is no randomized clinical trial today comparing recurrence rates between an onlay mesh
      repair and a suture repair for small umbilical hernia defects. The trial design allows a good
      detection of differences in recurrence with the large sample size and the adequate follow-up.
      Surgeons are becoming more aware of the mesh's advantage even for the small defects, but are
      reluctant to use a mesh due to anatomical positions with a large dissection and an increased
      risk of complications. A small onlay mesh could be an easy and safe method of choice for
      small umbilical hernia defects to avoid increased recurrence rates. Guidelines for small
      umbilical hernia repairs have stressed out the need for reliable data for treatment
      recommendations. The investigators can expect that the trial will have a direct implication
      on small umbilical hernia repair standards.

      The clinical study protocol has underwent full external peer review as part of the funding
      process with Research funding from SLL (Stockholms läns landsting) Karolinska Institutet.
      Approval of the protocol by the Swedish Ethical Review Authority was obtained at December
      2018 and January 2020.
    
  