
    
      The process of recovering from critical illness is complex. The physical and psychological
      consequences of surviving critical illness can extend past the intensive unit care stay and
      after hospital discharge. For a critically ill patient, their first transition is being
      discharged from intensive care to a general ward and is one of the most stressful transitions
      they experience. They are required to adjust both physically and psychologically as they
      begin an uncertain journey to recovery. Research on the patient experience has identified
      vulnerability, hopelessness, fear of the unknown and anxiety as key features of this
      transition. A need for information and empowerment in the recovery process are highlighted
      for developing treatment strategies. It is suggested that there is a relationship between
      physical problems and psychological symptoms but this has not been researched. There is also
      limited evidence to guide clinicians in treatment strategy choice for these patients. This
      pilot study aims to test the effectiveness of a physiotherapy directed Rehabilitation after
      Critical illness Assisted discharge Pack (RECAP) on the physical and psychological function
      of patients recovering from critical illness in the first three weeks post discharge from the
      ICU to the general ward area. The study will rely on a randomized controlled clinical trial
      design, with patients assigned to either a "usual care" control group vs. the treatment
      group. Individuals in the treatment group will receive "usual care" plus a RECAP pack at ICU
      discharge with once weekly follow up with an ICU physiotherapist. The intervention group will
      receive the RECAP plus standard physiotherapy for the first three weeks after intensive care
      stay and the control group will receive standard physiotherapy alone. Outcome measures used
      will be the Functional Independence Measure (FIM) and State Anxiety Inventory (SAI).
      Secondary Outcome measures will include the Chelsea Critical Care Physical Assessment Tool
      (CPAx) and a 5 question patient satisfaction questionnaire. Outcome measures will be taken at
      ICU discharge, at one week post ICU discharge and at three weeks after ICU discharge to
      determine physical and psychological recovery, along with evaluating overall study
      feasibility. It is expected that engaging patients in their rehabilitation plan will focus
      physiotherapy treatment and improve physical recovery. It is hypothesized that the RECAP will
      reassure, support and empower patients to directly affect their psychological recovery in the
      first three weeks after critical illness.

      The User Centred Critical Care Discharge Information Pack (UCCDIP) and instructions, designed
      by Bench and Day (2012), will be used as a component of the RECAP. These are being used with
      the authors permission.
    
  