
    
      This is a diagnostic study evaluating the diagnostic accuracy of the Ultra assay in stools
      with a two-stage sequential design starting as a cohort of children with presumptive TB
      enriched in a second stage with Ultra positive TB cases on respiratory sample. It is both an
      ancillary to the TB-Speed HIV (C18-27) and the TB-Speed SAM (C18-28) studies and a study
      enrolling children from routine not enrolled in those two studies.

      This design was chosen to be able to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the Ultra
      assay in a smaller sample size that is usually required by a "classical" prospective cohort
      design and avoiding the bias of overestimation of the sensitivity classically associated with
      the case-control design. In order to quickly generate data on appropriate stool processing
      method, and to contribute to the planned WHO recommendations for stool Ultra testing
      (expected 2nd semester 2020), a two-stage sequential design will be used. Indeed, knowing
      that on average only 10-15% of children with presumptive TB in a community-based setting will
      be confirmed, in order to reach the sample size of confirmed cases for the evaluation of
      sensitivity, 7 to 10 times more children with presumptive TB would need to be enrolled in a
      prospective design. On the other hand, the number of children with presumptive TB not
      confirmed with TB for the estimation of the specificity would be reached much earlier. In
      addition, based on the previous study results, it is known that the specificity of Xpert
      MTB/RIF assay in stool is high (99% CI:98-99;), which would result in a relatively small
      sample size to evaluate the specificity of the Ultra in stools.

      During the first stage, the investigators will offer to join all consecutive presumptive TB
      cases presenting at study sites to estimate specificity with the expected precision and
      calculate a preliminary sensitivity estimate. During the second stage, the investigators will
      keep enrolling only those from TB Speed studies and routine care who are Xpert positive on
      respiratory samples in order to estimate sensitivity with the expected precision.

      This two-stage sequential design first estimating specificity then sensitivity has been
      described by Wruck et al. as an efficient way of validating diagnostic tests when the
      prevalence of the disease is low. It would not be feasible to consecutively enrol all
      children with presumptive TB to describe an expected sensitivity of 60% with 10% precision as
      this would require over 900 patients, of which, approximately 800 would be culture negative.
      In the two-stage process described by Wruck, only reference standard positive samples from
      the original population are selected in stage 2. The investigators adapted this design to the
      TB context as culture results will only be available after enrollment (and if the child is
      positive, only after the child has started treatment), hence selecting only those who are
      Ultra positive on respiratory samples for the second cohort as a way of enriching the study
      population with a subpopulation that has a higher TB prevalence probability, before their
      true disease status is confirmed. Other comparable diagnostic studies have either used
      greater resources to include larger samples sizes or have resorted to reporting imprecise
      estimates of sensitivity. To our knowledge, this is a relatively unique approach to study
      design for accuracy studies, with few published examples.

      With such design, there should be no bias on the evaluation of the specificity similarly to a
      classical prospective design because this evaluation will be done among consecutively
      enrolled children with presumptive TB only. The sensitivity estimates may not be
      generalizable to all culture confirmed TB children due to the sampling approach. Xpert
      positive children will be more likely to have higher biological loads, causing a possible
      inflation of the sensitivity. However, the results will provide valuable information on
      variations of sensitivities of the different stool processing methods within this population.

      An interim analysis will be carried out after the completion of the prospective cohort in
      order to describe specificity and preliminary results of the sensitivity and the agreement
      between the processing methods. The recruitment of participants will not be put on hold
      during the interim analysis. A final analysis will be conducted at the end of the study to
      describe sensitivity as well as the secondary end points.
    
  