
    
      As part of advancing Public-Private Mix (PPM), the government made TB notification mandatory
      in 2016, but intervention is likely to be needed for notifications to increase substantially.
      Such intervention needs to be based on a sound understanding of contextual factors around PPs
      and how they relate to the public sector with respect to the diagnosis, treatment and
      reporting of TB cases.

      This is a cluster randomised controlled trial of a multi-component public health intervention
      to increase notifications of TB from PPs in Bandung, Indonesia. Clusters are CHC areas and
      the intervention will be administered directly to PPs in sub-districts randomised to the
      intervention arm. The CHCs in both arms will be informed about the study and asked, through
      the National TB Control Programme, to make their notification data available and their
      willingness will be recorded. No intervention will be given to PPs in the control arm.
      Notifications will be obtained directly from routine records, with accompanying information
      gathered about the address of the patient and referring doctor. Notified TB cases are, by
      definition, TB cases who have been commenced on TB treatment, noting that some referred 'TB
      cases' will be diagnosed as not having TB by CHC staff.

      The intervention will be administered to PPs in areas around 15 CHCs (clusters), at their
      place of practice. PPs in the control areas will receive no intervention. The intervention
      will comprise: (1) An electronic referral and notification system; (2) Education about signs
      and symptoms of TB and TB management; (3) An individualised practitioner plan for diagnostic
      and management pathways.

      The primary endpoint is the change in the number of notifications of TB from the 12 months
      before to the 12 months after the intervention is fully implemented. This change in the
      number of notifications will be compared between intervention clusters and control clusters.

      Safety oversight by a Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will not be required for this
      public health intervention trial. However, an internal Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will
      be established to oversee the study, focused on data quality. A quality management plan will
      be developed to describe a site's quality management. Quality control (QC) procedures will be
      implemented beginning with the data entry system and data QC checks that will be run on the
      database will be automatically generated on a weekly basis and any quality issues identified
      will be reviewed by the DMC and a plan put in place for resolution. Following written
      Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), visiting investigators will verify that the trial is
      conducted and data are generated, documented (recorded), and reported in compliance with the
      protocol. The investigational site will provide direct access to all source data/documents,
      and reports for the purpose of the verification visits.
    
  