
    
      Cardiac electrophysiologists rely on the display of electrograms when performing
      electrophysiology (EP) studies and catheter ablations in patients with arrhythmias. To
      achieve effective outcomes without complications, it is vital that the recording system
      enables the recognition of clearly abnormal (scared myocardium) and normal electrical
      signals.

      Current recording systems have limitations in that it can be difficult to clearly distinguish
      a true cardiac signal from noise or artifact. This is particularly true when pacing the heart
      and when ablating abnormal myocardial tissue, components of the conduction system or
      epicardial structures. Therefore, improvement of the fidelity of signals obtained from EP
      recording systems is needed to enhance identification of the most effective targets for
      ablation.

      There are several standard electrophysiology recording systems in use today, such as the
      commonly used GE/Prucka CardioLab recording system ("Prucka") which would benefit from
      additional features in order to improve the ability to record, discriminate and analyze
      signals from the heart. BioSig Technologies, Inc. ("BioSig") has developed an
      electrophysiology signal processing system, the PURE EP™ System, which may allow
      electrophysiologists to better characterize arrhythmogenic tissue during ablation procedures.
      Specifically, the PURE EP™ System's higher sampling rate and higher dynamic range allow
      improved visualization of low amplitude signals, especially those temporally situated near
      low frequency, high amplitude signals or large high-frequency signals.

      This multi-center, prospective, non-randomized, observational study will involve at least
      five patients undergoing elective cardiac ablation procedure for tachycardias such as atrial
      fibrillation, atypical atrial flutter, ischemic ventricular tachycardia, or symptomatic
      premature ventricular contractions (PVCs). The existing recording/mapping system clocks will
      be synchronized to the PURE EP clock prior to each procedure. At the beginning of the
      procedures, all systems will be optimized for best signal display based on the physician
      preference. During the ablation procedures, annotations will be captured on the PURE EP
      system based on pre-determined clinically relevant events defined in this protocol (example -
      before and after successful ablation therapy).

      After the procedures, parallel signal data samples will be harvested from all the systems
      using the procedure annotations and the time stamps as a guide. Once the signal data is
      harvested, cleaned, and organized, the individual signal samples will be reviewed in a
      blinded, controlled fashion by a group of independent, unbiased electrophysiologist(s).

      Selected signal sample sets (from the same date and time stamp) will be separated in the
      survey and arranged in random order. The reviewer will be asked specific and identical
      questions relevant to each set of signal samples, but the individual samples will be
      separated and randomized across a full survey containing many different signal samples from
      many different procedures. The signal survey will be created under the direction of the
      Principle Investigator. The selection of the independent EP reviewers will also be done under
      the direction of the Principle Investigator
    
  