
    
      The primary goal of this project is to evaluate the effectiveness and acceptability of a
      computer-based telecommunications system for increasing rates of regular screening
      mammography among women ages 50-74. The Telephone-Linked-Communications for Mammography
      Screening (TLC-M) is designed to educate, advise and motivate women to have regular screening
      mammograms. There will be two versions of TLC-M: one for women who are coming due for their
      annual screening mammography ("pre-due" women) and one for women who have missed their annual
      mammogram ("past-due" women). TLC-M uses a real human voice to speak to the women on the
      telephone; the subjects communicate by using the touch tone keypad on their telephones. The
      intervention will consist of up to three automated telephone conversations. During the call
      TLC-M assesses the woman's willingness to have a mammogram, helps interested women schedule a
      mammogram, and identifies and addresses difficulties or barriers she might have in getting a
      mammogram. This study will consist of two linked randomized controlled trials. We will
      recruit 2,120 participants over 12 months from two radiology departments. Three to four
      months prior to their due date for an annual screening mammogram, these women will receive a
      reminder letter to schedule a mammogram. In addition, a random sample of them will use TLC-M.
      All participants in this "pre-due" intervention study will be evaluated 3 months after their
      due date to determine whether or not they obtained a mammogram. Of the women who received the
      letter only in the first trial, those who did not obtain a mammogram during the observation
      period will enter a "past due" intervention trial. These women will be randomly assigned to
      receive a "past due" reminder letter or to use the TLC-M. Four months later, participants
      will be evaluated to determine whether they had a mammogram. For both trials mammography
      rates of those women who used the TLC-M and those who did not will be statistically compared.
    
  