
    
      •Rationale: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is defined as illness caused by a novel
      coronavirus now called severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2; formerly
      called 2019-nCoV), which was first identified amid an outbreak of respiratory illness cases
      in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China. It was initially reported to the World Health
      Organization (WHO) on December 31, 2019. On January 30, 2020, the WHO declared the COVID-19
      outbreak a global health emergency. On March 11, 2020, the WHO declared COVID-19 a global
      pandemic, its first such designation since declaring influenza A virus subtype (H1N1)
      influenza a pandemic in 2009. No drugs or biologics have been proven to be effective for the
      prevention or treatment of COVID-19. Numerous antiviral agents, immunotherapies, and vaccines
      are being investigated and developed as potential therapies Fujifilm Toyama Chemical has
      started a Phase III clinical trial of its antiviral influenza drug Avigan (favipiravir) for
      the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Japan. Avigan specifically blocks RNA polymerase
      associated with influenza viral replication. The mechanism is expected to have an antiviral
      effect on SARS-CoV-2, the novel coronavirus that causes Covid-19. In Japan, the new Phase III
      trial will assess Avigan's safety and efficacy as a potential Covid-19 treatment. Last month,
      China's Science and Technology Ministry official Zhang Xinmin said that favipiravir helped
      patients recover in an 80-day participant trial conducted in Shenzhen city.

      According to the study data, the drug was able to shorten the recovery time from 11 days to
      four days for mild and moderate cases. Favipiravir secured Chinese approval for manufacturing
      by Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceutical to treat adults with new or recurring influenza. It also
      holds approval in China as an investigational treatment for Covid-19. A drug developed by
      Fujifilm Toyama Chemical in Japan is showing promising outcomes in treating at least mild to
      moderate cases of COVID-19, Live Science previously reported. The antiviral drug, called
      Favipiravir or Avigan, has been used in Japan to treat influenza, and last month, the drug
      was approved as an experimental treatment for COVID-19 infection. The drug, which works by
      preventing certain viruses from replicating, seemed to shorten the duration of the virus as
      well as improve lung conditions (as seen in X-rays) in tested patients.

      A few studies have been published in international journals regarding the efficacy and safety
      of Favipiravir. However, this type of study on Favipiravir (Favipira) has not yet been done
      in our country. This is the rationale why we have designed this clinical trial in Bangladesh
      to fight against COVID-19 a global pandemic.

      Objectives:

      •General Objectives:

      To evaluate the efficacy and safety of Favipiravir (Favipira) for the treatment of COVID-19
      in a group of Bangladeshi patients

      Specific objectives:

      Primary end point:

      •To assess the treatment efficacy: Negative for the virus at 4-10 days after initiation of
      therapy. However, negative results for the viral presence should be with an interval of at
      least 24 hours.

        -  To assess the treatment efficacy: X-ray findings of lung condition improvement at Day-4,
           Day-7 and Day-10 of therapy.

      Secondary end point:

        -  Clinical recovery rate at 7-10 days of therapy and reduced duration of fever, cough,
           relief time auxiliary oxygen therapy or noninvasive mechanical ventilation rate.

        -  To assess the adverse effects of drug.

        -  ICU admission rate

        -  Mortality rate

      Hypothesis

      Favipiravir might be an effective drug for the treatment of COVID-19.

      Methodology:

      Study design: Double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized control study. Randomization will
      be done by computerized randomization table.

      Place of study: Mahanagar General Hospital, Dhaka (Site-1), Mugda Medical College Hospital,
      Dhaka (Site-2), Kurmitola General Hospital, Dhaka (Site-3), Dhaka Medical College Hospital,
      Dhaka (Site-4)

      Duration of study: 2 months

      Study population: Clinically and Laboratory-confirmed patients with COVID-19

      Formulae:

      Variable Notations:

      Α, the probability of type I error (significance level) is the probability of rejecting the
      true null hypothesis (0.05) Β, the probability of type II error (1 - power of the test) is
      the probability of failing to reject the false null hypothesis (0.80).

      PA (proportion of discordant pairs of type A) among discordant pairs (1/4) PD (proportion of
      discordant) pairs among all pairs (0.25) Npairs, required sample size pair =25*2=50 A
      matched-pair design is used, in which patients are matched on age and clinical stage of
      COVID-19, with one patient in a matched pair assigned to treatment case and the other to
      treatment control. It is estimated that patients in a matched pair will respond similarly to
      the treatments in 85% of matched pairs. How many matched pairs need to be enrolled in the
      study to have a 90% chance of finding a significant difference using a two-sided test with
      type I error = 0.05? So, we will recruit a total of 50 patients

      Randomization will be done by computerized randomization table Group A Patient (25) =
      Favipiravir + Standard Treatment Group B Patient (25) = Only Standard Treatment For better
      result sample size may be multiply on the basis of availability of COVID-19 patient in the
      study hospital.

      Diagnostic Criteria

      All patients diagnosed as COVID-19 positive on the basis of clinical and Laboratory findings.
      If the respiratory specimens give positive results upon RT-PCR analysis at the lab targeting
      conserved viral gene(s), such as E gene and or RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) gene or
      other COVID-19 specific genes, it will be considered as confirmed positive case for COVID-19.

      Data Collection Procedure:

      Patient admitted in Isolation ward with COVID-19 positive will be used. Study population
      again will be confirmed by laboratory findings. Patients will be selected for the study
      following inclusion and exclusion criteria. Written consent will be taken from the patient
      for treatment with Favipiravir. After data collection, data will be analyzed for result.
      Finally, Summary and conclusion will be published.

      Background of Data Collectors at the clinical sites:

      Data will be collected by Co-investigators of the study who are employed as physicians in the
      Isolation word for COVID-19 positive patients in the designated hospitals. Co-investigators
      are familiar about the data collection procedure as per clinical trial protocol.

      Precaution and safety of the Data Collectors including physicians, laboratory personnel,
      nurses, and medical technologists:

      Data Collectors should fill up data collection sheet properly. Proper monitoring of the
      patient should be carefully done.

      Data collectors must wear appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) including gown, N95
      mask, hand gloves, head coverings and goggles to protect themselves. I case, anyone involved
      in the study get infected, he/she should be sent to the designated isolation unit/quarantine
      to mitigate spread of the disease and get treatment.

      Treatment:

      Favipiravir 200 mg (Favipira) tablet will be given orally. Day 1: Tablet Favipiravir 1600 mg
      twice daily Days 2-Days 10: Tablet Favipiravir 600 mg twice daily. Group A Patient (25) =
      Favipiravir + Standard Treatment Group B Patient (25) = Only Standard Treatment

      Standard treatment included oxygen inhalation, oral or intravenous rehydration, electrolyte
      correction, antipyretics, analgesics, antibiotics and antiemetic drugs & the medication any
      patient is on due to any concomitant diseases.

      Management of adverse events:

      It has been suggested that host cell enzymes (cellular kinases) convert Favipiravir into
      Favipiravir ribofuranosyl phosphate, a form that inhibits virus polymerase without affecting
      host cellular RNA or DNA synthesis. Research documents indicate that Favipiravir is a
      well-tolerated drug with some side effects like headache, nausea and hypersensivity. On
      prolong treatment it may develop inflammation of liver and kidney, abortion, intrauterine
      fetal death, and congenital anomalies of newborn baby.

      Considering the longterm effects of Favipiravir, patients with Chronic liver and kidney
      disease, previous history of allergic reactions to Favipiravir, Pregnant or lactating women,
      Women of a childbearing age with a positive pregnancy test and having history of Miscarriage,
      or within 2 weeks after delivery have been excluded in the study proposal.

      Management of side effects like headache, nausea and hypersensitivity will counter at the
      early stage of onset and all medicines and instruments will be kept available at the ward
      near the patient bed for prompt management during treatment with Favipiravir.

      Any adverse or side effect will be managed immediately with standard treatment procedure with
      discontinuation of the test drug Research physicians under the supervision of Clinical Trial
      Monitors will monitor clinically all the vital signs along with adverse symptoms (if any
      arise) routinely and be available for taking measures against any side or adverse effect.
      They will record all the events clinically along with the routine data collection.

      For any occurrence due mismanagement with the side effects of Favipiravir, the entire
      research team will be responsible.

      Adverse Drug Reaction Reporting time:

      If any adverse drug reaction occurs during study period it should be reported within 24 hours
      of the event to the Data Safety and Monitoring Board (DSMB) in order to assess the risk and
      quick action should be taken.

      Laboratory data collection Blood and respiratory samples will be collected by trained medical
      technologist and transported immediately to Institute for developing Science and Health
      initiatives (ideSHi) for analysis. Cool chain will be maintained during sample
      transportation. Blood sample analysis at the laboratory will be done by trained research
      officers and fellows. On the other hand, RT-PCR using respiratory samples for viral detection
      will be done by expert molecular biologist.

      Follow-up System:

      Baseline clinical symptoms and Laboratory findings will be monitored from first day and
      follow up will be continued at Day-4, Day-7 and Day-10. Viral clearance will be checked by
      RT-PCR at Day-4, Day-7 and Day-10. X-ray findings will be monitored from Day-1 followed by
      Day-4, Day-7 and Day-10 to see the lung condition. Any Side effects of drugs will be
      documented.

      Statistical Analysis:

      All data will be analyzed by using the statistical package for social science (SPSS) 22. All
      data will be provided as mean ± standard deviation (SD). Chi-square test will be used to
      compare differences between the frequencies. Serum cytokines levels will be analyzed using
      the normality test. P value < 0.05 will be considered significant.

      •Utilization of Results:

      A recent outbreak of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by the novel coronavirus
      designated as severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) started in Wuhan,
      China, at the end of 2019. The clinical characteristics of COVID-19 include respiratory
      symptoms, fever, cough, dyspnea, and pneumonia. According to world health organization (WHO),
      COVID-19 updates on 10th April, 2020, globally confirmed cases were 16,17,204, confirmed
      deaths were 97,039, recovered 364686 peoples. In Bangladesh confirmed cases were 424,
      confirmed deaths were 27, recovered 33 peoples.

      No drugs or biologics have been proven to be effective for the prevention or treatment of
      COVID-19. Numerous antiviral agents, immunotherapies, and vaccines are being investigated and
      developed as potential therapies. A drug developed by Fujifilm Toyama Chemical in Japan is
      showing promising outcomes in treating at least mild to moderate cases of COVID-19, Live
      Science previously reported. The antiviral drug, called Favipiravir or Avigan, has been used
      in Japan to treat influenza, and last month, the drug was approved as an experimental
      treatment for COVID-19 infection. The drug, which works by preventing certain viruses from
      replicating, seemed to shorten the duration of the virus as well as improve lung conditions
      (as seen in X-rays) in tested patients.In our study on Favipiravir (Favipira), if we will get
      promising result regarding efficacy and safety, then it saves thousands life of Bangladeshi
      people. We may also export the Medicine across the globe to fight against COVID-19 a global
      pandemic.

        -  Facilities: Kurmitola General Hospital and Kuwait Bangladesh Maitry Govt. Hospital, both
           Hospitals are Bangladesh Govt. approved hospital for COVID-19 treatment. So, almost all
           facilities will be available.

        -  Ethical Implications:

        -  Permission will be taken from Bangladesh Medical Research Council and The Directorate
           General of Drug Administration (DGDA) for conducting this study.

        -  Before data collection objective of the study will be informed to the respondent.

        -  Informed written consent will be obtained from the participants of the study

        -  The privacy and confidentiality will strictly be maintained during data collection

        -  Right to discontinue from the study at any time will be ensured

        -  Any adverse or side effect will be managed immediately with standard treatment procedure
           with discontinuation of the test drug
    
  