
    
      The Best Practice Alert (BPA) was developed via an iterative process during a two year pilot
      phase at one site at each health system. First, a "standard" BPA was developed to be launched
      at each site during the pilot phase. Similarly, a pilot 10-minute education system was
      developed to be presented just before the above BPA was launched. Pre and post surveys of
      clinicians were conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the education program. After
      clinicians had experience with the BPA, Cognitive Task Analyses (CTAs) with clinicians were
      conducted to identify ways to make the BPA more effective, and then the BPA was iteratively
      improved. Similarly, the CTAs helped the investigators understand why clinicians do or do not
      use BPAs in general. Using this process, a highly rated, easy to use BPA was created and will
      be utilized in the actual study. The investigators also revamped the education program to a
      10 minute video that focused on clinicians mental models of HL, to be used in the actual
      study. The bigger study, i.e., the R33 phase, will launch at several Family Medicine
      practices within each of the two different health systems. One of these systems is a
      traditional academic institution with only academic faculty (physicians and audiologists),
      midlevels and residents, and the other is a newer academic system, based within a private
      health system, that includes non-academic physicians and private audiologists. Patients who
      trigger the BPA will be 55 years or older, do not have an open referral in their chart to
      audiology, and do not have a known hearing loss already on their problem summary list (PSL).
      These patients are asked to complete a Hearing Handicap Inventory (HHI) at check-in, a common
      hearing loss screening tool (score of 10+ indicates probable hearing loss); the results of
      this will not be shared with clinicians. If the physician chooses to address the prompt
      during the patient encounter, the BPA design allows them to, 1) Indicate that the patient
      declines hearing screening (BPA is dismissed for 1 year), 2) Indicate that the patient
      already has a known hearing loss (HL) and add HL to the PSL (The BPA will be permanently
      dismissed), 3) Indicate that the patient does not have any HL at this time (The BPA is
      dismissed for one year), or 4) refer the patient to audiology for hearing screening. The data
      generated by the BPA is extracted from the electronic health record (EHR) and analyzed to
      determine if HL screening rates improve when compared to baseline data, whether or not
      providers are interacting with the BPA, and whether HL is being added to the PSL. The HHI
      results are used as the "gold standard," i.e., when compared to the data generated by the
      BPA, indicate whether or not patients with probable HL are getting appropriate care. When an
      enrolled patient shows up in Audiology the audiologist is asked to complete a three question
      survey to verify that 1) the referral was appropriate, 2) what is the severity of hearing
      loss if any, and 3) were hearing aids recommended. This step is to study whether the BPA is
      generating appropriate referrals. 20% of patients that score 10 or above on their HHI and/or
      were referred to audiology are contacted by phone and researchers ask them questions about
      any conversation they may recall related to HL at their appointment as well as their
      experience in audiology. Iterative improvements will be made to the BPA based on Cognitive
      Task Analysis (CTA) interviews with randomly selected providers (mostly family physicians).
      Finally, the implementation of the BPA into clinical practice is observed using the
      principles of Normalization Process Theory (NPT) to study whether there are other potential
      issues that may impact whether patients at risk for HL are being screened and referred. The
      revamped educational video will be shown a week prior to the BPA going live at each site, and
      repeating the pre and post evaluations. The investigators will be studying whether the
      education video increases identification and referral of patients at high risk for HL.
    
  