
    
      This is a prospective study with the intent to investigate the efficacy of BIO4 bone matrix
      in patients undergoing 1 or 2-level Anterior Cervical Discectomy and Fusion (ACDF) spine
      surgery. At the time a patient is scheduled for surgery, the patient's chart will be
      evaluated for inclusion/exclusion criteria. If a patient meets the criteria for the study,
      the study will be explained to the patient and consent obtained.

      Investigators will utilize the BIO4 on label as a 361 HCT/P (human cell, tissue and cellular
      and tissue-based product) for homologous use for the repair, replacement or reconstruction of
      bone defects. Interbody fusion (1 or 2-level fusion) in conjunction with an allograft (hct/p)
      interbody spacer (anterior approach in the cervical spine with hardware) will be utilized.

      Investigators will also use the Aviator Anterior Cervical Plating System for anterior
      intervertebral screw fixation of the cervical spine at levels C2-T1. The Aviator Anterior
      Cervical Plating System is intended for use as an aid in cervical spinal fusion and is
      intended for unilateral fixation. The Aviator plates are intended to be used with the Aviator
      bone screws.

      Study Outcomes:

        -  Radiological assessment (cervical spine x-ray and if needed, computed tomography (CT) at
           1 year follow up)of fusion as the primary endpoint

        -  Arthrodesis rates assessed using CT (1 year follow up, if needed) and Anterior-Posterior
           (AP), lateral and dynamic flexion-extension cervical spine x-rays pre-operative
           (pre-op), post-operatively (post-op) 2~4 weeks (10~34 days post op), 3 months (83~97
           days post-op), 6 months (173~187 days post-op) and 1 year post-op (351~379 days post op,
           primary data point outcome)

        -  Revision rates

        -  Outcome scores: Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and Neck Disability Index (NDI) pre-op,
           post-op 2~ 4weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 1 year.

      The null hypothesis is that in ACDF model, the clinical and radiographic outcomes of
      utilizing BIO4 bone matrix with Bio AVS Cervical Allograft are equivalent to historical high
      level published data of similar product (Data reported in Meta-analysis ACDF obtained from
      FDA disc arthroplasty trials).
    
  