
    
      Stratification for treatment will be determined when radiation therapy planning is initiated.
      Patients will be stratified for outcome according to diagnosis and prior therapy.

        -  Stratum 1 (initial pattern of failure is local); disease confined to primary site; age
           >12 months at time of enrollment to < 21 years. Treatment: focal irradiation.

        -  Stratum 2 (initial pattern of failure is metastatic); neuraxis metastatic disease
           without equivocal evidence of local failure; age > 36 months at time of enrollment to <
           21 years. Treatment: craniospinal irradiation.

        -  Stratum 3 (Initial pattern of failure is both local and metastatic): neuraxis metastatic
           disease with unequivocal evidence of local failure; age > 36 months at time of
           enrollment to < 21 years. Treatment: craniospinal irradiation.

        -  Stratum 4 (initial pattern of failure is local): disease confined to primary site, age
           >36 months at time of enrollment to <21 years; tumor shows presence of 1g gain.
           Treatment: craniospinal irradiation (optional).

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

        -  To prospectively estimate the progression-free and overall survival distributions for
           children and young adults with recurrent ependymoma treated with a second course of
           irradiation while monitoring for excessive central nervous system necrosis.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To explore potential associations of clinical and treatment factors with the incidence
           and severity of neurological, endocrine and cognitive deficits in children and young
           adults with ependymoma treated with a second course of irradiation.

        -  Using specific measures of sleep quality, excessive daytime sleepiness, daytime
           activity, fatigue, symptom distress, and quality of life, explore associations of sleep,
           fatigue and quality of life with other measures of CNS effects, clinical and treatment
           factors in children and young adults with ependymoma treated with a second course of
           irradiation.

        -  To evaluate and explore differences in physical performance and movement in children and
           young adults with ependymoma treated with a second course of irradiation.

        -  Estimate and compare the response of residual tumor and the incidence and severity of
           structural, physiological, and vascular effects of normal brain in children and young
           adults with ependymoma after treatment with a second course of irradiation using
           specific methods of diffusion, contrast-enhancement, magnetization transfer, vascular
           and functional neuroimaging, and explore the association between these and other
           measures of CNS effects and clinical and treatment factors. Determine the time course of
           gray matter and white matter tract injury and recovery post irradiation and the
           association between imaging metrics derived from serial quantitative neural imaging and
           radiation dosimetry as well as neuro-cognitive outcomes.

      Other Pre-Specified (Exploratory) Objectives:

        -  Estimate the avidity of ependymoma to 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and 11C-methionine
           positron emission tomography (IND # 104987) prior to radiation therapy and correlate
           change in avidity 12, 24 and 36 months after a second course of irradiation with tumor
           progression.

        -  Measure growth factor and cytokine responses in children and young adults with
           ependymoma after treatment with a second course of irradiation, and explore associations
           between these and other measures of CNS effects and clinical and treatment factors.
           Descriptively compare findings for patients treated with an initial course of
           irradiation.

        -  To conduct a variety of exploratory molecular analyses on tumor samples (and blood where
           a germline control is required), including but not limited to broad (genome-wide /
           array-based) or focused (gene-specific) analyses at the DNA, RNA, or protein level and
           next generation (whole genome, exome, transcriptome) sequencing in an effort to improve
           the investigators understanding of ependymoma biology, and to explore associations
           between molecular findings and treatment response and various side effects including
           vasculopathy, hearing loss, cognitive deficits, and growth hormone deficiency and other
           measures as appropriate.

        -  To explore the association of chemotherapy given prior to re-irradiation with
           progression-free survival and overall survival distributions

        -  To compare the progression-free and overall survival distributions for children (age >3
           years) and young adults with recurrent ependymoma and 1g gain treated with a second
           course of irradiation (focal or craniospinal) while monitoring for excessive central
           nervous system necrosis.
    
  