
    
      Major Depression Disorder (MDD) is widely recognized as a staggering global healthcare
      challenge, as well as a potentially lethal illness. In Portugal, 7% of the population is
      diagnosed with depression every year, and suicide is responsible for more than a thousand
      deaths annually.

      The current standard care for MDD involves the use of psychotherapy, antidepressant
      medication, or a combination of both. However, approximately 30% of people suffering from MDD
      exhibit depressive symptoms despite the appropriate psychological and pharmacological
      treatments. One option is to combine several treatments, usually by the use of drug
      augmentations and/or combinations of different drugs, which often increases the risk of
      adverse effects. Thus, it is important to study non-pharmacological interventions targeting
      mechanisms not directly involved with the regulation of neurotransmitters.

      Cognitive-behavioral Therapy (CBT) is a well-established, and empirically-supported
      non-pharmacological treatment for depression, including for those that have not responded to
      antidepressants. However, several patients remain refractory to CBT.

      tDCS is a safe, non-invasive, rather inexpensive, easy to administrate, and well-tolerated
      neuromodulatory technique. Several studies, including studies from our group, already shown
      that tDCS can be effective in MDD. However, tDCS seems to have a better effect when used as
      an add-on treatment to other intervention.

      What is not known so far are the effects of using tDCS as add-on intervention to CBT on MDD
      symptoms.

      Therefore, this is a parallel randomized, double-blinded, sham-controlled clinical trial in
      which a total of 72 first-episode MDD subjects (36 per arm) will be randomized to one of two
      groups: CBT combined with either active or sham tDCS. The design and the tDCS parameters will
      be similar to the SELECT trial by Brunoni et al. (2013).

      The primary outcome is mood improvement, as measured by the Montgomery-Asberg Depression
      Rating Scale (MADRS). The secondary outcome is to test whether tDCS combined with CBT can
      engage the proposed mechanistic target, of restoring the prefrontal imbalance and
      connectivity, by changes over resting-state EEG and fMRI.
    
  