
    
      Improving and protecting the health and well-being of healthcare workers requires addressing
      key risks in the work environment as well as promoting safe and healthy behaviors. Healthcare
      workers are at elevated risk for musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) due to a range of job
      factors, including lifting and transferring patients; working long hours (often at night);
      and limited control over decisions on the job. Among these, nurses and nurses aides bear the
      largest burden of injury. Back injuries in particular constitute the greatest source of their
      disability. These risks are likely to increase in coming years due to the aging nursing
      workforce, increase in work demands, and labor shortages. Health behaviors, including
      physical activity, inadequate sleep, and dietary patterns associated with being overweight or
      obese, are also influenced by the work environment and psychosocial factors on the job, and
      are also associated with MSD risk. Traditional approaches to redressing these risks have
      focused separately on health protection, including efforts to reduce MSD risk, and health
      promotion aimed at improving health behaviors. Little research has systematically examined
      the dual and potentially synergistic effects of the work environment on risk of MSDs and
      worker health behaviors, and there is insufficient evidence to determine the most efficacious
      ways to ameliorate the combined effects of these health risks. Our long-term goal is to
      improve the overall health and well-being of healthcare workers by making available
      evidence-based worksite policies, programs, and practices that foster a healthy work
      environment, reduce potential hazardous job exposures, and promote safe and healthy
      behaviors. The proposed study is the next logical step in building this evidence base.
      Factors in the work environment, including high work demands, low social support, and long
      work hours, have been shown to increase risk of MSDs, as well as risk-related behaviors. Yet
      little research has systematically explored these cross-cutting pathways and their
      implications for improving the effectiveness of worksite interventions to address the broad
      spectrum of worker health outcomes.

      The proposed research provides a novel approach to worksite interventions that integrate
      occupational safety and health and worksite health promotion, taking into account the shared
      factors in the work environment shaping both MSDs and health behaviors. Standard approaches
      to occupational health and safety and worksite health promotion are based on a parallel
      structure of separate silos functioning relatively independently in the worksite, each
      drawing from their own disciplines and training experiences within public health. Although
      these parallel efforts share the common mission of improving worker health, their strategies
      are based on different assumptions about and approaches to improving worker health outcomes.
      The proposed research integrates these parallel approaches. Although our prior research has
      rigorously tested the efficacy of this integrated intervention model in changing worker
      health behaviors, to our knowledge no prior research has examined the impact of this
      integrated model on health outcomes associated with work exposures - here, notably, on MSD
      symptoms.
    
  