
    
      External ventricular drain (EVD) placement is performed very often in neurosurgical
      practices. EVD's are used most commonly to monitor intracranial pressure and divert
      cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in patients with increased intracranial pressures. Pathologies
      where EVDs are most frequently needed include hydrocephalus, malignancy, and/or trauma. EVD's
      are most commonly placed at the bedside using external anatomical landmarks to guide the
      catheter into the frontal horn of the ipsilateral lateral ventricle. EVDs are often placed
      due to acute neurological compromise and require timely insertion. This can increase the
      associated risk and result in complications.

      Accurate catheter placement is essential to achieving effective external CSF drainage without
      complications or occlusion/failure of the catheter. Catheter placement is most commonly
      performed via a freehand approach using external anatomical landmarks to help identify the
      location of the lateral ventricle within the brain without the aid of imaging. Proper
      identification of the ventricles on pre-procedure imaging, surgeon skill, and estimation of
      pathologic perturbations to the normal location of the ventricles all factor into the success
      of catheter placement. Multiple passes are often required. The accuracy rate from the
      freehand technique has been reported to range from 40 to 98 percent. A very basic grading
      scale has been developed to assess placement but does not include items such as the number of
      passes until successful placement and presence of post placement hemorrhage or other
      neurological complications. An increased number of passes increases the risk of post
      placement hemorrhage and may damage the brain. Hemorrhage has been reported to occur after
      catheter placement at rates ranging from 0.2 to 41 percent.

      Current methods for EVD placement do not compensate for superficial brain vessels or
      pathology that may alter the intracranial anatomy such as trauma, hemorrhage, or mass
      lesions. Some studies have attempted to use CTA imaging to identify intracranial vessels in
      an attempt to avoid them during placement.

      Image guidance is a tool used very commonly for placement of EVD's and shunts in the
      operating room. AxiEM Stealth is a noninvasive image localization modality that registers a
      CT or MRI to the individual patients facial and scalp anatomy. A probe can then be used to
      identify, in real-time, the underlying anatomy and trajectories. This imaging guidance may
      improve the accuracy of EVD placement.

      This study will compare the current standard of care of freehand placement of bedside
      external ventricular catheters to the placement of EVD catheters with AxiEM Stealth image
      guidance. Accuracy of the tip of the catheter, occurrence of post-placement hemorrhage, the
      number of passes required for CSF flow, ventricle diameter, catheter clogging/failure, time
      required for placement, patient demographics and other secondary outcome measures such as
      Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) and Modified Rankin Score (MRS) will be collected. The hypothesis
      is that image guided EVD catheter placement will improve accuracy, decrease the number of
      brain transgressions, and decrease complications of EVD placement.

      What makes up an external ventricular drain and how does it work? An external ventricular
      drain (EVD) is comprised of a catheter, drainage tubing, and a collection system. Once the
      catheter is in the ventricular system, it works by measuring the intracranial pressure via a
      transducer and drains excess CSF from the ventricular system to ensure pressures does not
      exceed a set threshold. Normal intracranial pressures range from about 5-20 mmHg and are
      usually around 10mmHg. The EVD system can be set at a certain level and when the intracranial
      pressures rise above that level, CSF drains out the catheter into the collecting system. The
      EVD system can be raised or lowered to create different intracranial pressure thresholds and
      keep intracranial pressures controlled in patients that have a pathology, such as cerebral
      swelling or ventricular obstruction, leading to increased pressures.

      What is the current technique used to place an EVD? A sterile field is prepared about 10-12
      centimeters posterior to the eye (either right or left as clinically indicated) and about 2-3
      cm lateral to the midline of the skull. This point should be about 1 cm anterior to the
      coronal suture. An incision is made at this point and a burr hole is created using a hand
      drill. The EVD catheter is prepared using a stylet to help with movement through the brain
      parenchyma. The catheter is advanced in a trajectory perpendicular to the skull, which
      results in a direction that is towards the ipsilateral medial canthus and ipsilateral tragus
      which are other landmarks that can be used. The catheter is advanced to 5-6 cm and the stylet
      is removed to assess for CSF flow. If CSF flow is not appreciated, then the catheter is
      passed softly for about 1 more centimeter. If CSF flow is still not appreciated, the catheter
      is removed and the stylet replaced for another attempt. If unsuccessful after 3 attempts, the
      catheter can be left in place and a head CT can be done to assess the adjustments that need
      to be made. This can often take up to 10 passes or more if there is significant brain shift
      due to mass effect or aberrant anatomy. Once CSF flow is obtained, the catheter is tunneled
      posteriorly and anchored to the skin with a stitch. The incision is then closed and the
      catheter is connected to the drainage tubing of the collection system. The presence of CSF
      drainage is checked at multiple points during closure to ensure that the catheter remains in
      good position.

      How does Axiem Stealth work as an image guidance system and how is it used for EVD placement?
      The first step for using the image guidance system is to upload the most recent (since
      admission or within 6 hours from bleeding) head CT or MRI into the Stealth station that has
      been obtained since admission. The Axiem Stealth imaging guidance system uses a probe (AxiEM
      Registration Probe) and a side mount emitter (AxiEM Side Mount Emitter) to register the
      patient's head in relation to the probe. A trajectory (entry point and target) is then
      planned. This registration process takes an estimated 5-15 minutes to perform. A separate
      stylet (StealthStation EM Stylet) is designed specifically for the catheter and slides down
      the center of the catheter. A burr-hole is created at the predefined precise location and the
      catheter is passed to the target under electromagnetic guidance.

      Relevance of this research:

      The novelty of this study is to investigate whether using image guidance technology can
      improve EVD catheter placement. Image guidance is used very commonly for EVD and shunt
      placement in the operating room with excellent accuracy and precision. The hypothesis is that
      using this same workflow at the bedside will improve accuracy; decrease the number of passes
      needed for a successful placement, decrease the number of post-placement hemorrhagic events,
      and help improve the effectiveness of the catheter as well as patient outcomes.
    
  