
    
      The most common underlying etiologic factors responsible for chronic delayed healing among
      lower extremity wounds encountered in the outpatient clinic are chronic venous insufficiency
      (CVI), diabetic neuropathy, and arterial insufficiency (AI). One or more of these factors can
      be identified in more than 90% of chronic lower extremity ulcers, and treatment protocols
      have been designed to manage wounds of each type to maximize healing potential. It is
      important to remember that multiple factors may coexist in any individual patient with a
      chronic wound, complicating management and hindering the healing process. Recently, it has
      been reported that the neuroischemic diabetic foot ulcer is now more common than nonischemic
      neuropathic diabetic foot ulcers, as arterial insufficiency promoted by poorly controlled
      diabetes complicates already impaired healing present in patients with diabetes.

      Chronic leg ulcers are painful, debilitating wounds that place a significant burden on the
      patient, their family, and healthcare resources. Treating leg ulcers can present a
      significant challenge to clinicians, who currently have a limited range of treatments at
      their disposal. The mainstay of treatment is compression bandaging, ambulation and elevation
      at rest. In patients with mobility deficits, or in those who are unable to tolerate
      compression bandaging, ulcers may deteriorate and never heal. Accordingly, there is a need
      for novel, alternative devices or strategies that can be used to complement or replace
      compression therapy.

      Numerous pathophysiological and metabolic factors can affect wound healing and result in a
      poor outcome. They include local causes such as oedema, ischemia, tissue hypoxia, infection,
      necrosis and growth factor imbalance, as well as systemic causes including metabolic disease,
      nutritional status general perfusion disturbances and pre-existing illness. These factors
      alter the wound repair environment, impede healing and increase the risk of chronic wound
      development. All healing processes including, inflammatory cell influx, fibroblast migration,
      and collagen and extracellular matrix deposition, are delayed in this situation, leading to
      prolonged wound healing.

      Any wound management should assist the healing process and optimise the patient's blood flow
      to the wound area4. An acute wound in a stable patient with normal blood flow should heal
      successfully. Anything that compromises tissue oxygen delivery, such as poor vascularisation,
      will impede healing. There is a strong scientific basis for oxygen treatment as prophylaxis
      against infection; to facilitate wound closure and to prevent amputation in wounded patients.
      Oxygen delivery is a critical element for the healing of wounds. Hypoxemia, caused by
      disrupted vasculature, is a key limiting factor against wound healing.

      The link between compromised circulation and ulceration is well established and well
      described. Chronic venous insufficiency is a direct cause of ulceration.

      Diabetic foot ulcer is a major complication of diabetes mellitus, and probably the major
      component of the diabetic foot. Diabetes mellitus is one such metabolic disorder that impedes
      the normal steps of the wound healing process. Many studies show a prolonged inflammatory
      phase in diabetic wounds, which causes a delay in the formation of mature granulation tissue
      and a parallel reduction in wound tensile strength.

      Treatment of diabetic foot ulcers should include: blood sugar control, removing dead tissue
      from the wound, dressings, and removing pressure from the wound through techniques such as
      total contact casting. Surgery in some cases may improve outcomes. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy
      may also help but is expensive. It occurs in 15% of people with diabetes and precedes 84% of
      all diabetes-related lower-leg amputations.
    
  