
    
      Adequate hydration is essential to humans, and is tightly regulated in the healthy adult by
      in- and output (i.e. thirst and urine production). This regulation is often hampered in the
      geriatric patient due to a decreased sensation of thirst and impaired kidney function. The
      risk of dehydration increases rapidly in the acutely ill geriatric patient with the growing
      fluid demand of fever and reduced ability to self-hydrate due to fatigue. Dehydration will
      often aggravate an acute illness creating a vicious circle. External rehydration is essential
      to stop or even prevent this downward spiral. Adequate hydration can be maintained or
      achieved by two different routes: oral intake or parenteral infusion. When oral hydration is
      insufficient, intravenous (IV) fluid infusion is the commonly used route. However,
      subcutaneous (SC) infusion of fluid, also known as hypodermoclysis, is an alternative route.

      Several studies have compared SC hydration to IV hydration with the main outcome being
      laboratory test of hydration or subjective assessment scores. They all found similar effects
      on laboratory markers of hydration, which align with the theory of mass conservation. They
      also found a similar incidence of side effects between IV and SC hydration as secondary
      outcomes. The main drawback of these studies is methodological shortcomings. The lack of
      blinding introduces a large risk of bias on subjective outcome such as assessment scores and
      grading of side effects. Furthermore, the largest of the studies had a third of their
      patients switch groups diluting the result. A recent Cochrane review on achieving parenteral
      hydration found that the quality of included trials was low and future trials should
      prospectively register, have secure allocation concealment, adequate sample sizes and should
      be reported according to established standard.

      This study will examine if subcutaneous (SC) hydration is a safe alternative to intravenous
      (IV) hydration in the geriatric patient in the Emergency Department, Acute Assessment Unit or
      Orthopedic Ward of Aalborg University Hospital. This will be achived by preforming an
      assessor-blinded, non-inferior, randomized controlled trial.

      Relevant participants (see Eligibility Criteria) arriving at Aalborg University Hospital will
      be enrolled after informed consent. Baseline measurements will be obtained, and the
      participants will be randomized (1:1) to either intravenous or subcutaneous hydration. A sham
      setup will be use so both an intravenous access and a subcutaneous access will be visible on
      the patient, but only one of them will be active. For the next 24 hours the participants will
      regularly be evaluated by a nurse blinded to infusion for the presence of adverse effects.
    
  