
    
      Cerebral palsy is the development, movement and posture disorder that causes the limitation
      of activity which is thought to be caused by non-progressive disorders in the fetal or infant
      brain. Intensive rehabilitation program begins in early childhood; However, adults with
      cerebral palsy are less likely to receive rehabilitative interventions. There is a great need
      for effective upper extremity rehabilitation studies that motivate the patient in CP
      (cerebral palsy) rehabilitation after childhood. Therapeutic Instrumental Music Performance
      (TIMP) is one of the three techniques of neurological music therapy techniques for motor
      rehabilitation. This technique uses instruments to strengthen functional motor patterns.
      There are very few studies on TIMP in individuals with cerebral palsy and these studies have
      not been performed on patients with adolescent cerebral palsy.

      Purpose of the study;

        -  To improve the upper extremity motor functions of patients with adolescent cerebral
           palsy,

        -  Prevent treatment interruptions as age progresses,

        -  Increase the hand functions of children with cerebral palsy and to increase their living
           standards.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Being 11-18 years old

        -  To be diagnosed with cerebral palsy

        -  Not have been previously trained piano

        -  To have enough cognitive function to perform commands

        -  Accepted to participate in the study

      Criteria for not being included in research:

        -  Having cognitive disorder

        -  Advanced visual impairment, visual field defect

        -  To be previously trained for piano

        -  Another disease preventing upper extremity movements

      Hand functions will be assessed with MACS (Manual Ability Classification System), hand
      dynamometer, box-block test, 9 hole peg test, pressing velocity measured with Cubase MIDI
      (musical instrument data interface) program. Patients will receive 2 days of 40 minutes per
      week, total 3 months of customized piano training. Each session will be started with finger
      warming exercises, then with the right hand, left handed and with both hands, a simple
      pentatonic array will be played. In the following lessons, notes will be marked with colors
      and simple songs will be taught. At the end of 3 months, the tests will be repeated.
    
  