
    
      Material and methods:

      The study design is a cohort study with prospective register data follow up. The Danish
      cohort "Diet, Health and Cancer" (DHC) will be used. The DHC Study is an ongoing Danish
      cohort study designed to investigate the relation between diet, lifestyle and disease risk.
      The cohort consists of 57,053 persons, recruited between December 1993 and May 1997. All the
      subjects (50 to 64 years of age) gave detailed information on diet (food frequency
      questionnaire) and other lifestyle data together with biological samples. Blood samples,
      anthropometric measures and questionnaire data on diet and lifestyle were collected at study
      entry. Data from the DHC cohort will be combined with Danish national registers (the National
      Patient Registry (NPR), the Danish Civil Registration Register, and The Danish National
      Prescription Registry).

      Outcome measures and follow-up: The National Patient Registry (NPR) will be used to obtain to
      identify patients with CID during follow-up. The NPR contains data on all patients admitted
      to Danish hospitals since 1977. The register covers both inpatient and outpatient records and
      indicates the main medical reason for diagnostic procedures or treatment (since 1994
      according to the tenth version of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10)). For
      this study there will be extracted data from NPR from 1993 to March 2018. The outcome CID is
      defined as at least one of the following diseases in the NPR; inflammatory bowel disease
      (IBD) (ICD10 codes: K50-K51), psoriasis/psoriatic arthritis (ICD10 codes: M073, M090, L40),
      rheumatoid arthritis/ankylosing arthritis (ICD10 codes: M059. M060, M069, M089, M459, M46),
      or multiple sclerosis (ICD10 codes: G35, G35.9), during the follow-up period. The Danish
      National Prescription Registry will be used to identify the most severe cases of the
      following diseases listed above, as it is expected that the patients have medication in
      relation to the diseases. Follow-up information on death and immigration will be collected in
      March 2018 from the Danish Civil Registration Register.

      Exposure and possible confounders: Information on exposure is defined as high fibre intake
      and high red and processed meat intake and were collected at enrolment of the DHC cohort
      using questionnaires and interviews. In short, the food-frequency questionnaire, diet
      consumption was assessed in 12 categories of predefined responses, ranking from "never" to
      "eight times or more per day". The daily intake was then calculated by the software program
      FoodCalc. FoodCalc is a simple program to calculate intake of nutrients when given a list
      with amounts of different foods consumed and another list with contents of nutrients for the
      different foods. Both intake of dietary fibre and red meat and processed meat were measured
      as continues variable in g/day. Information on possible confounders will also be obtained
      from the questionnaire data at enrolment in relation to sex, age, BMI, smoking and other
      lifestyle factors and information on co-morbidity will be obtained from NPR.

      Statistical analyses: The intention is to use data obtained from this prospective cohort
      study to explore the ability to predict risk of CID (Y=primary endpoint) and to explore
      whether diets low in fibre AND high in red and processed meat (X=assessed at baseline) are an
      informative prognostic factor on disease risk. Descriptive analyses for categorical variables
      will be presented as frequencies, and differences between CID cases and non-cases will be
      evaluated by Chi-square test. Continuous variables will be tabulated as medians (with
      quartiles, Q1 and Q3) and nonparametric tests on the equality of medians will be used to test
      for differences between groups. P-values below 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant. Negative binomial regression will be applied to calculate incidence rates per
      1000 patient years and incidence rate ratios (IRR) between exposures. To investigate the risk
      of and time to CID-diagnosis the Fine-Gray competing risk regression model will be applied,
      and thus competing risk of death will be taken into account while handling emigration as
      censoring, and reporting cumulative incidences and sub-hazard ratios (SHR) and the
      corresponding p-values for CID associated with specified food substitutions. Regressions will
      be carried out as both crude regression, only including the exposure, and adjusted for age,
      sex, lifestyle factors and selected comorbidities. Analyses will be conducted using Stata.

      To test if the hypothesized causality between diet factors and development of CID is
      applicable for all of the CIDs there will be conducted subanalyses on each of the
      CID-diagnoses. Sensitivity analyses will be conducted on data from the Danish National
      Prescription Registry to evaluate the validity of the CID diagnoses, as it is expected that
      they get treatment in relation to the diseases. Data on medication and treatment of each
      diagnosis will be analysed separately.
    
  