
    
      In the last decade, this research group has tested the effectiveness of three interventions
      following after-school intervention model. The first one (MOVI) was carried out in
      peripuberal age children (4th and 5th year of primary education, 8-11 years) and showed a
      moderate effect in reducing the adiposity of schoolchildren with higher BMI, an improvement
      of the lipid profile, without significantly improving the global cardiometabolic risk because
      it did not produce a reduction in insulinemia.

      The second edition (MOVI-2), carried out at schoolchildren of the same age range, increased
      the duration and intensity of the sessions, and was focused on the development of muscular
      strength in order to improve insulinemia levels. The intervention showed proved
      effectiveness; in addition, the data from this intervention showed a modest improvement in
      girls' aerobic capacity, but not in boys.

      The last edition (MOVI-KIDS) was aimed at children aged 4 to 7 years to test the hypotheses
      that vigorous physical activity at early ages could produce lifelong cardio-metabolic
      benefits. Data submitted for publication in this study show that, as in the case of the
      IDEFICS study in children of similar age, the intervention was not effective in improving
      fitness.

      This new edition (MOVI-da10!) has been designed following integrated physical activity
      intervention and active breaks designs, and as a controlled cluster-randomized trial
      including 9 schools from Cuenca province, Spain. Six schools will be randomized to the two
      intervention groups (IG), where the intervention of MOVI-da10! will be conducted for third
      grade preschool children (about 5 years old), using two different design. Three of them will
      receive an active breaks intervention, in which twice a day a 10 minutes breaks standard
      physical activity will be developed, and the other three will receive twice a day a 10
      minutes of enriched physical activity integrated in the curriculum. The other three schools
      will be allocated to the control group (CG).

      During an academic year the MOVIda10! interventions will consist of: i) an integrated across
      the curriculum cognitive demanding physical activity program including two active breaks
      lasting 10 min, five days/week; and ii) an active breaks physical activity program including
      two active breaks lasting 10 min, five days/week. In the CG regular physical activity will
      continue.

      At the end of the school year the researchers will determine main outcome variables: changes
      in VO2max, body fat by bioimpedance and executive function.

      The hypotheses of this new edition will be that: the MOVI-da10 intervention! based on
      physical activity integrated in the curriculum for third grade preschool children, will be:

        1. Moderately increase the executive function and academic performance in the IGs versus
           the CG (effect size 0.5).

        2. Increase aerobic capacity (VO2max) in IGs versus CG by 3%.

        3. Reduced body fat in IGs versus CG by 3%
    
  