
    
      Brain metastases are the most common adult intracranial tumor, occurring in approximately 10%
      to 30% of adult cancer patients, and represent an important cause of morbidity and mortality
      in this population. The risk of developing brain metastases differs with different primary
      tumor histologies, with lung cancer accounting for approximately one half of all brain
      metastases. The prognosis of patients with brain metastases is poor. The median survival time
      of untreated patients is approximately 1 month. With treatment, the overall median survival
      time after diagnosis is approximately 4 months. The Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG)
      recursive partitioning analysis (RPA) describes three prognostic classes, defined by age,
      Karnofsky Performance Score (KPS), and disease status. The most widely used treatment for
      patients with multiple brain metastases is whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT). The
      appropriate use of WBRT can provide rapid attenuation of many neurological symptoms, improve
      quality of life, extend median survival, and be especially beneficial in patients whose brain
      metastases are surgically inaccessible or when other medical considerations preclude surgery.
      The use of adjuvant WBRT after resection or stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) has been proven
      to be effective in terms of improving local control of brain metastases, and thus, the
      likelihood of neurological death is decreased.

      The standard of care for solitary brain metastasis is surgery followed by WBRT. In a study by
      Patchell et al. for solitary brain metastases status post resection, the addition of whole
      brain radiation significantly reduced local recurrence from approximately 45% to 10% after
      resection. Although it does not prolong survival or functional independence, this treatment
      regimen was shown to result in significantly improved loco-regional control. A more recent
      study from the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) randomized
      patients who underwent gross total resection (GTR) of up to 3 brain metastases to adjuvant
      WBRT versus observation. Adjuvant WBRT resulted in significantly reduced intracranial failure
      and neurologic death, however again both overall survival and functionally independent
      survival were not different. Among the major findings of both of these studies are the
      unacceptably high levels of local failure that occur after GTR alone. Local recurrence rates
      ranged from approximately 45% at 1 year to 60% at 2 years after resection.

      However, aside from improvements in intra-cranial control, it is well documented that WBRT is
      associated with serious long term side effects, including significant neurocognitive decline.
      A randomized study conducted by Chang et al of SRS versus SRS + WBRT for 1 - 3 brain
      metastases found that addition of WBRT was associated with significantly worse memory recall
      as early as 4 months. A conclusion of this study was that a regimen of close surveillance and
      SRS as necessary is preferred over SRS + WBRT because the neurocognitive effects of WBRT may
      actually be worse than that caused by intracranial disease recurrence.

      Many centers are now offering patients SRS to the cavity after resection alone to improve
      local control while avoiding the negative effects of WBRT. There have been several
      retrospective studies on the use of SRS to the resection cavity alone, from which the 1 year
      actuarial local control rates range from 35% - 82%. The radiation necrosis rates from these
      same studies range from 2% - 6%. In currently unpublished data from Emory University
      reviewing 63 patients with 65 cavities treated between 01/2007 and 08/2010, the 1 year
      actuarial local control rate was 78%. Of the 10 local failures, 70% were in-field only, 10%
      were marginal only, and 20% were both. The high rate of in-field failure suggests that the
      current dosing regimen used may be insufficient for optimal local control. The current SRS
      dose constraints used are derived from the phase I trial RTOG 90-05. This study determined
      the maximum tolerated dose for SRS in previously irradiated patients with unresected brain
      metastases based on lesion size. The maximum doses currently used may be artificially low for
      resected patients for several reasons. First, the patient population studied had been
      previously irradiated which most likely lowered the maximum tolerated dose versus a
      non-irradiated population. Secondly, the typical planning target volume (PTV) of the
      resection bed is the cavity with a 1 - 2mm margin. This means that the vast majority of the
      irradiated PTV is not brain parenchyma, but actually cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which should
      result in a lower radiation necrosis rate for the same dose/volume. Currently, the highest
      local control rates are approximately 80%, but there may be room for improvement with
      increased dose without significantly increasing the risk of radiation necrosis.

      The investigators propose a prospective phase I trial for patients status post surgical
      resection of solitary brain metastases. The purpose of this trial will be to determine the
      maximum tolerated dose for single fraction SRS to the resection cavity. The investigators
      believe that the current SRS dosing constraints may be too low, and that a larger therapeutic
      window exists for this patient population. Results from this trial may form the basis of
      future trials directly comparing WBRT with SRS to the cavity alone following resection of
      solitary brain metastases. This phase III study would answer the question about as to whether
      local irradiation is adequate treatment for patients following surgery for metastatic brain
      disease. Also it is anticipated that QOL measures would be built into the study in an attempt
      to confirm the data reported by Chang that WBRT is associated with a significant decline in
      QOL at even early endpoints.
    
  