
    
      Background: Hypertriglyceridemia causes 1-7% of all acute pancreatitis cases. The mechanism
      by which excess lipids in the blood cause pancreatitis is not entirely clear. The hypothesis
      is, that the enzyme lipase, which originates in the pancreas, causes increased breakdown of
      triglycerides into free fatty acids, which are toxic to endothelial cells and pancreatic
      acinary cells. In addition, excess fat in the blood increases blood viscosity and impairs
      blood flow to the pancreas, thus causing necrosis.

      There is controversy regarding the best way to treat pancreatitis secondary to
      hypertriglyceridmia. In addition to fasting, intravenous fluids and analgesia, a number of
      methods have been used to lower blood lipids, such as heparin and insulin or plasma exchange.
      Performing plasma exchange causes rapid removal of lipids from the plasma, but it is not yet
      accepted as the treatment of choice, as there are so far no random prospective studies that
      have shown an advantage for this treatment method over conservative methods.

      The American Society of apheresis defines plasma exchange as a Category 3 indication for the
      treatment of acute pancreatitis secondary to hyperlipidemia, i.e. as a treatment method whose
      effectiveness has not been unequivocally proven, and its use is at the discretion of the
      treating physician.

      In the last ten years, the intensive care unit at our institution has treated 29 patients who
      were admitted due to hypertriglyceridemia induced acute pancreatitis. Some patients were
      treated conservatively, and some were treated by plasma exchange. We would like to
      investigate whether there was a difference in mortality rates and morbidity parameters
      between the groups.

      Aims: The primary outcome of this study was to compare 28-days mortality rates among patients
      who received apheresis versus those who did not. Secondary outcomes were comparison of
      morbidity parameters between the groups: APACHE score, ICU and hospital length of stay,
      ventilation days, pressor support, need for renal replacement therapy, need for antibiotics,
      need for surgical of minimally invasive intervention, and rate of blood triglycerides
      decrease.

      Materials and methods: A retrospective study among patients who were admitted to the ICU
      between years 2010-2020 due to hypertriglyceridemia-induced acute pancreatitis, a total of 29
      cases. Data will be collected from hospital files and computer systems (Chameleon system and
      iMDsoft software).

      Inclusion criteria: All patients aged 18-99 who were admitted to the intensive care unit in
      Meir medical hospital between years 2010-2020, whose cause of admission was
      hypertriglyceridemia-induced acute pancreatitis, defined as abdominal pain, elevated levels
      of amylase and lipase and blood triglyceride level above 1000 mg/dl, without any other
      apparent etiology of pancreatitis.

      Collected data: Patient demographics and medical history including chronic pharmacologic
      therapy, hospital admission times, ventilation days, inotropic therapy, hemodialysis, daily
      blood triglyceride level, 28-day mortality, APACHE 2 score, lactate level, antibiotic therapy
      and need for surgical intervention. All data will be statistically analyzed according to type
      of data
    
  