
    
      In the rehabilitation of stroke patients, the emphasis is on the treatment of physical
      pathologies such as increased range of motion and muscle strength, reduction of spasticity
      and pain. All these treatments provide increased physical capacity of the patient. But these
      are not enough for perform the activity daily living. In order to be successful in activity
      daily living of the patient, performance based treatment methods should also be applied.

      The use of Canadian Occupational Performance Measurement (COPM), which measures patients'
      defined problem areas in daily practice should contribute to the patient-oriented approach
      process.The Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM) is an important tool to enable
      personalized health care.One of the strengths of the measure is its broad focus on
      occupational performance in all areas of life, including self-care, leisure and productivity,
      taking into account development throughout the lifespan and the personal life circumstances.

      COPM has been described as having various advantages in terms of increasing applicability,
      responsibility and motivation for occupational therapy.There are two focus points in the
      COPM. The first one is the person-centered; the second is activity performance appropriate to
      the person's wishes.

      By using conventional methods in stroke rehabilitation, contractures and deformities that may
      occur in patients can be reduced, muscle strength can be increased, and inadequate gait
      failure in patients can be minimized.

      However, in many activities needed for daily living activities, the patient is able to
      sustain his inadequacy such as dressing, eating, bathing, going to the store. With the
      application of COPM, deficiencies in patients and the most important needs can be emphasized;
      thus, a program can be prepared during the treatment process. As the COPM test is a
      patient-centered test, it has an important place in occupational therapy programs.

      In this study, Frenchay Activities Index, Barthel ADL Index and COPM will be applied in order
      to focus on the performances that stroke patients need in their daily living activities and
      to improve the independence of the patients and to emphasize patient-focused treatment. After
      the tests are applied, the rehabilitation process will be conducted by a treatment plan
      according to the needs of the patients.After the treatments, the tests will be repeated and
      the success rate will be evaluated on the patients.
    
  