
    
      Background:

        -  Fluciclatide is a small cyclic peptide containing the RGD tri-peptide, which
           preferentially binds with high affinity to alpha(v)beta(3) integrins, which are
           up-regulated in and may regulate angiogenesis.

        -  [18F]Fluciclatide is a new radiopharmaceutical developed for PET imaging

        -  Changes in [18F]fluciclatide uptake will be evaluated before and after treatment of
           patients with targeted antiangiogenic drugs

      Objectives:

      Primary

        -  To determine tumor uptake and retention of [18F]fluciclatide before and after 1 cycle of
           treatment with targeted anti-angiogenic therapy

        -  Secondary

        -  To assess the safety of multiple intravenous (IV) administrations of Fluciclatide [18F]
           Injection in subjects with solid tumors

        -  To obtain preliminary data on the relationships between [18F]fluciclatide as a
           pharmacodynamic marker and standard of care imaging markers of clinical response (e.g.
           contrast-enhanced (CE) static computed tomography (CT), bone scintigraphy, FDG-PET),
           obtained as part of routine clinical follow-up as specified in the referring protocols,
           as well as any optional imaging performed

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients greater than or equal to 18 years, with documented malignancy, and solid tumor
           greater than or equal to 1 cm outside of the liver, who are scheduled to enroll in an
           NCI therapy protocol using one of the anti-angiogenic agents described in the full
           protocol

        -  Platelet count greater than 150,000 x 10(6)/L, hemoglobin greater than 9g/dL,
           prothrombin time (PT) and aPTT less than 2 times normal limits.

        -  The subject has not received any targeted anti-angiogenic agents within 60 days prior to
           pre-treatment (baseline) [18F]fluciclatide administration

      Design:

      This study is intended to obtain preliminary data on the uptake and retention of
      [18F]fluciclatide before and after anti-angiogenic therapy. This will enable optimization of
      the imaging protocol, identification of the most relevant imaging parameters, and allow for
      calculation of the number patients required to power a larger study to assess the utility of
      PET imaging with [18F]fluciclatide as a pharmacodynamic biomarker in the context of targeted
      anti-angiogenic therapies. We expect to enroll 30 evaluable patients in this single center
      study. Subjects will undergo at least two [18F]fluciclatide PET/CT imaging studies, one
      pre-therapy and one following completion of 1 cycle of chemotherapy. An optional early
      post-therapy (2-7 days post therapy commencement) [18F]fluciclatide PET/CT may be performed.
      The magnitude of [18F]fluciclatide uptake on the pre- and post- treatment PET/CT studies will
      be evaluated to determine if there is a measureable difference in uptake. Data from the
      subject's referring therapy protocol will be reviewed for up to one year. An optional DCE-MRI
      scans of the target lesion may also be performed.
    
  