
    
      Morbidly adherent placenta, which describes placenta accreta, increta, and percreta, implies
      an abnormal implantation of the placenta into the uterine wall.

      The incidence of placenta accreta has increased significantly over the past several decades,
      with the main risk factors include prior cesarean section and placental previa.

      However, no well-designed trials have yet assessed the psychological outcome of women with
      morbidly adherent placenta following hystrectomy. The investigators will conduct a
      prospective matched case control trial to evaluate the psychological outcome to assess the
      risk of depression ,anxiety , sexual dysfunctions and self esteem disturbance following
      hysterectomy in women with morbidly adherent placenta.

      This Prospective matched case-control trial will take place at Ain Shams University Maternity
      Hospital. Women in child bearing period, with morbidly adherent placenta will be eligible for
      inclusion.

      Placenta accreta (Morbidly adherent placenta) is a condition in which all or part of the
      placenta is adherent to the uterine wall because of myometrial invasion by chorionic villi.
      It may occur when there is either a primary deficiency of or a secondary damage to chorionic
      villi or Nitabuch's layer.

      Morbidly adherent placenta occurs in 5% of women with placenta previa. In some pregnancies,
      the placenta may develop at an abnormal location or may extensively invade the adjacent
      myometrium. Clinical entities include placenta previa, in which trophoblastic cells implant
      over or near the internal cervical os .In other cases, trophoblast aggressively burrows into
      the myometrium. Depending on the invasion depth, placenta accreta, placenta increta, or
      placenta percreta is diagnosed. The term placenta accrete syndromes is clinically useful to
      summarize these three types. Another interchangeable phrase also often used is morbidly
      adherent placenta .

      Assisted reproductive technology and maternal smoking increase the risk of placenta.

      The risk of accrete in women with a placenta previa and a prior caesarean section increased
      from 3% with one previous caesarean section to 11%, 40%, 61% and 67% with two, three, four,
      or more repeat caesarean sections respectively .

      The maternal mortality risk may reach 7 % and the extensive surgery related morbidities
      include massive transfusions, infections, urologic injuries and fistula formation .

      Women often consider the uterus to be a sexual organ, and the controller and regulator of
      important physiological functions in the body, as well as the source of youth, energy,
      activity, and a symbol of child-bearing capacity .

      The relationship between hysterectomies and psychological disorders has been raised since the
      beginning of the 1990s. For example, in 1997, Thompson reported that there was a probability
      of psychoses in women after hysterectomies; and within the three years following the surgery,
      33% of the women experienced symptoms of depression .

      There are three broad subsets of psychological symptoms. These are: anxiety and depression
      attributed to the operation, sexual dysfunction (presenting as diminished libido, pain,
      dyspareunia or anxiety surrounding sexual activity) and reactions related to perceptions of
      feminity and low self-esteem.
    
  