
    
      This is a pilot, randomized, double-blind, multicenter study to evaluate the QoL score of
      Oligo Fucoidan plus platinum-based chemotherapy versus placebo plus platinum-based
      chemotherapy in subjects with NSCLC. Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive
      4.4 g BID of Oligo Fucoidan or placebo BID. Subject randomization will be stratified by NSCLC
      disease stage (stage III and stage IV) and platinum-based drug (cisplatin and carboplatin).

      This is a two-part study. The study treatment will be planned as follow:

        1. Part I (Platinum-based Treatment Phase): Oligo Fucoidan/placebo in combination with 4~6
           cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy;

        2. Part II (Extension Phase): Continuous Oligo Fucoidan/placebo treatment after subject
           completed platinum-based chemotherapy.

      The total study treatment duration of investigational product from Part I to Part II will be
      6 months.

      Dosing of oral Oligo Fucoidan/placebo will begin on Study Day -2, 2 days prior to the start
      of the platinum-based chemotherapy regimen, and will continue twice a day (BID) through the
      following 6-months treatment period, which includes platinum-based treatment phase and
      extension phase, if there's no treatment interruption. All subjects will receive
      platinum-based IV infusion starting on Day 1 of each cycle, 3 weeks per cycle. Subjects will
      continue to receive Oligo Fucoidan/placebo for 6 months until develop of treatment toxicity
      which in the Investigator's opinion prohibits for further therapy, or until radiographic
      progression of disease. Subjects who experience toxicities due to chemotherapy may require a
      delay in the dosing schedule or a dose modification. Should a subject not receive
      platinum-based chemotherapy on a scheduled cycle, a rescheduled cycle will be designated when
      chemotherapy is reintroduced, but no more than 2 weeks delay.

      The visit for subjects who have completed platinum-based treatment phase will be considered
      as the End of Part I Visit (end of platinum-based treatment phase). The visit for subjects
      who have completed 6-months treatment period (Part I & Part II) will be considered as the End
      of Treatment (EOT) Visit. It is preferable that EOT Visit procedures will be conducted for
      subjects prior to the initiation of another anticancer therapy.

      Radiographic tumor assessments will be conducted at screening period, Cycle 4, End of
      Platinum-based Treatment Phase, and EOT. Radiographic information will be collected according
      to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1.

      Toxicities will be graded at each study visit according to the National Cancer Institute
      (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.03.

      Quality of life assessment as measured by the European Organization for Research and
      Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) as well as health-related
      quality of life questionnaire designed by the National Health Research Institutes (NHRI),
      NHRI QLQ-TCM, based on traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) perspective. Both of them will be
      performed at Study Day -2, Day 8 of Cycle 1, Day 1 of Cycle 3 & Cycle 5, and End of
      Platinum-based Treatment Phase.
    
  