
    
      Any tracheal intubation requires a pre-operative screening and assessment in order to obtain
      the essential medical history of the patient, optimize patients' condition in case of any
      co-existing disease before the operation and select the best method of anesthesia for the day
      of surgery. The aim of this assessment is to identify potential anesthetic difficulties, such
      as predictors of difficult airways, which still nowadays represent the first cause of
      litigation in anesthesia related closed claim studies.

      In the first step of the pre-operative assessment procedure, the patient will be analyzed by
      the software. The patient will be automatically guided through a 10 minutes series of tests
      and the software will analyze in real-time his/her morphological and dynamic features in
      order to classify the patient into one of 5 categories described in the next Section. Details
      relevant to difficult ventilation and intubation (static and dynamic), such as quantifying
      the exact inter-incisors distance (mouth opening), visibility and detection of anatomical
      landmarks in the open mouth (uvulae, pillars, tonsils, tongue, posterior pharynx),
      thyro-mental distance, neck circumference, neck mobility with maximal anterior and posterior
      movement. The analysis will be performed by:

        -  automatically computing these relevant measures using robust computer vision algorithms
           capable to detect, describe and track the face and the neck with high level of accuracy
           and robustness to extreme poses (left and right rotation and up and down movement of the
           face)

        -  developing powerful image processing techniques to describe and compute intra-oral
           structures. The two sets of measures will be then combined into a machine learning
           approach capable to classify the patient. The results of the analysis as well as all the
           recorded videos of every single test will be stored on a central database and accessed
           in real-time by the doctor to continue the pre-operative consultancy.

      The patient will then undergo his planned surgery at the initially planned time and be
      intubated for that purpose. Proper recording of the grade of intubation in the operating room
      will be documented and introduced in the assessment database. By this mean, the database will
      evolve with the assessment and the final post-operative intubation score so that to improve
      the automatic predictability of the machine learning algorithm.
    
  