
    
      Wound complications in patients undergoing surgery for malignancies have a negative impact on
      quality of life and, in addition, are associated with an increase of the duration of hospital
      stay, imparting a significant socio-economic burden.

      Several approaches have been proposed to reduce the wound complications rate without success.
      Instead, a novel and promising method has been employed which utilizes prophylactic negative
      pressure wound therapy placed over clean and closed surgical incisions immediately after
      surgery (ciNPWT).

      In a recent meta-analysis across studies including all types of wounds and surgeries, ciNPWT
      was observed to reduce by 29.4 % the incidence of SSI and the odds of SSI. In the same
      meta-analysis, while limiting attention to general abdominal surgery alone, the weighted
      average of the selected studies reported a reduction in wound complications of 10.43% (13.54%
      vs 23.97%) for the ciNPWT group compared with controls which was a significant benefit.

      This study is a prospective multi-centre controlled randomized trial, where after gynecologic
      oncologic laparotomic surgery and standard abdominal wall closure (if inclusion criteria
      result satisfied), patient is randomized to one of the two arms of the study: ARM A
      (sperimental): ciNPWT ARM B ( control): standard dressing.

      For women in arm A: prophylactic ciNPWT therapy entails placement of the device over a closed
      incision immediately post-operatively. The device may be left in place with no additional
      intervention for up to 7 days. The use of the device does not require specialty care services
      or continued hospitalization. For women in arm B: standard dressing should be changed every 2
      days after sterile medication.

      People will be visited after 7 day of VAC-therapy (first visit) , discharge time (second
      visit or coincidence with the first visit), after 15 days from surgery (third visit for
      agraphis removal), after 30 days from surgery (fourth visit).

      Sample size determination. A review of previous literature suggests that the incidence of
      wound-SSI is about 35% in G.O. patients. We assume that the use of ciNPWT could be linked to
      an wound-SSI incidence of 15% Setting a two-sided α=0.05 and power = 80%, the sample size is
      N=164 subjects. A dropout rate of 20% is added, reaching a final sample size of N=196
      subjects (98 subjects per arm).

      The primary objective will be achieved calculating and comparing the proportions of wound-SSI
      in the two arms. The comparison will be performed with a Chi-squared test. The same test will
      be applied to the comparisons of final and intermediate wound healing rates. The comparison
      of the proportion of wound complications and the proportion of patients in need of
      antibiotics will be achieved with a Chi-squared test, as well. Comparison of the time of
      operating room required to apply the dressings, hospital stay and time to adjuvant therapies
      will be performed with a T-test (if data are normally distributed) or with the Wilcoxon test
      (if data are not normal). A p-value <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

      All patient data will be collected and managed using an electronic database anonymously.
    
  