
    
      Anthracycline chemotherapy has saved the lives of many cancer victims during the 50 years
      after their discovery.These patients are prone to higher risk of cardiovascular death than
      the risk of tumor recurrence, particularly in childhood cancer survivors in whom the cardiac
      mortality rate is seven fold higher.

      Cardiac toxicity remains an important side effect of anticancer therapies, leading to
      increased mortality due to mainly heart failure, but also arrhythmias, hypertension,
      thromboembolism.

      The time from early development of cardiac dysfunction to the modification or end of
      chemotherapy and beginning of heart failure therapy, is an important determinant of the
      extent of recovery.

      The Cardiotoxicity of anthracyclines may be acute, early or late. A recent study involving
      2625 patients (mean follow-up 5 years); showed a 9% overall incidence of Cardiotoxicity after
      anthracycline treatment, 98% of cases occurred within the first year and were asymptomatic.

      Cardiotoxicity has been defined using various classifications. Recent guidelines suggest that
      Cancer therapeutics-related cardiac dysfunction (CTRCD) is defined as a decrease in the LVEF
      (by echocardiography) of >10 percentage points to a value below the lower limit of normal.

      Echocardiography should be repeated before every next administration of anthracycline, after
      3, 6, and 12 months from the end of therapy with anthracycline but...Not all patients treated
      with chemotherapy require such frequently repeated LVEF monitoring as suggested by the
      guidelines because of the negative impact on patient management and cost-effectiveness ratio
      for the national health system.

      Speckle-tracking echocardiography is a noninvasive ultrasound imaging technique that allows
      for early an objective and quantitative evaluation of global and regional myocardial
      function.

      New elevation of serum troponin detected with high sensitivity Troponin assays in patients
      receiving anthracyclines also predicts subsequent LV dysfunction.

      Ryanodine receptors (RyRs) are a class of intracellular calcium channels in various forms of
      excitable tissues like muscles and neurons.

      In heart failure the RyR2 channels become abnormally active or "leaky" and are unable to
      remain closed during diastole. This leads to an increase in spontaneous Ca+2 spark frequency
      and dysregulated Ca+2 handling within the cardiomyocyte, resulting in decreased systolic
      contraction and irregular contractile activity.
    
  