
    
      Regular physical activity reduces the risk of a number of grave chronic diseases, including
      many forms of cancer. Guidelines indicate that increasing moderate physical activity by 30 to
      60 minutes on at least 5 days of the week should already be associated with such significant
      health benefits. However, recent epidemiologic information indicates that only about 20% of
      the German adult population fully meet this important health behaviour goal.

      Despite this relatively moderate recommended increase in physical activity and an apparently
      high acceptance of goals to increase moderate daily physical activity, many people fall short
      of goal achievement, as the implementation and maintenance of behaviour change often fails.
      Therefore, aside from enhancing motivational factors, interventions promoting
      health-behaviour change (e.g., increase in physical activity), are now commonly extended to
      address volitional strategies, such as action planning. Action planning aids individuals in
      translating their goals into behaviour. By forming action plans, individuals link situational
      cues ('when' and 'where' specifications of critical situations) to behavioural responses
      ('what to do' or 'how to act') in an 'if-then'-format. Available findings suggest that action
      planning aside from its direct effects on behaviour change, including increase in physical
      activity, also fosters other self-regulation strategies that are effective in the
      implementation and maintenance of changes in health-related behaviour. Research on action
      planning so far mainly focuses on its benefits for the individual's self-regulation of
      behaviour. To date there is little evidence on the role of the close social environment in
      planning health-behaviour change. However, married and cohabiting individuals often try to
      and succeed in coregulating their partners' health behaviour, including partners' levels of
      physical activity. Therefore, in the proposed study, an extension of individual action
      planning to the level of the dyad, i.e., dyadic planning, will be examined, along with
      associated mechanisms fit to aid the process of increasing physical activity. Dyadic planning
      refers to creating together with a partner if-then plans on when, where and how the
      individual target person will implement a new behaviour (e.g., be more physically active). We
      hypothesise that dyadic planning leads to higher increases in daily physical activity when
      compared to individual planning or no planning.

      In the proposed randomised controlled trial, we will compare changes in daily moderate
      physical activity in N = 346 adults (primary outcome) and their partners who receive a
      general motivational treatment to enhance daily physical activity and are then randomly
      assigned to one of three intervention conditions: (a) a dyadic planning intervention, in
      which target persons form action plans to increase daily physical activity together with
      their partners, or (b) an individual planning intervention, in which target persons form such
      action plans individually and partners receive a distraction task, or (c) a no-planning
      control condition, in which target persons do not receive instructions for action planning,
      but perform a distraction task together with their partners. The study will entail an
      experimental longitudinal design with a baseline assessment (T0), an intervention session one
      week following baseline (T1) and follow-up assessments at 1 week (T2), 6 (T3; primary
      endpoint), 19 (T4), 26 (T6), and 52 (T7) weeks following the main intervention session. A
      booster intervention (T5) will take place 20 weeks after the main intervention session, i.e.
      1 week following T4. Objective measurement of daily physical activity will include 4 one-week
      (T0, T2, T3, T7) accelerometer assessments. Additionally, further objective measurements of
      cardiorespiratory fitness, BMI, and waist-to-hip ratios along with self-report assessments
      from target persons and partners will be collected. Proposed mechanisms of the total
      intervention effect along with covariates will be assessed mostly via self-report.

      Results of this study will contribute to the still limited understanding of the interplay of
      individual and dyadic regulation in the increase of daily physical activity and its
      maintenance, both in persons targeted by the intervention and in their partners. Findings
      will guide further development of this economical dyadic planning intervention that can be
      straightforwardly implemented in clinical settings to support the initiation and maintenance
      of preventive behaviour in couples. Furthermore, this theoretically-derived dyadic planning
      intervention can easily be extended to other domains of health-behaviour change.
    
  