
    
      Urothelial carcinoma of the bladder is the 2nd most common urological malignancy and it makes
      a growing healthcare problem worldwide.

      The vast majority of newly diagnosed are non-muscle bladder cancers (NMIBC) which represents
      about 75% and can be treated with transurethral resection of bladder tumors (TURBT) so,
      correct initial staging is critical. The quality of TURBT strongly determines patient
      prognosis and overall treatment.

      Conventional transurethral resection of bladder tumors (cTURBT) causes fragmentation,
      artifacts, thermal damages and tangential sections that might hamper histopathological
      evaluation.

      The expert meeting at Davos of the European Association of Urology (EAU) section of
      Uro-Technology (ESUT) and the section of Uro-Oncology (ESOU) identified en bloc resections of
      bladder tumors (ERBT) using various energy sources or modified resection loops as a promising
      technique.

      Laser therapy for the treatment of non muscle invasive bladder tumor (NMIBC) was first
      reported in the 1970s. Neodymium:YAG lasers were mainly used for tissue vaporization.
      Afterward, the introductions of en bloc resection methods have laser treatments for bladder
      cancer regains its popularity. The most commonly used are holmium (Ho:YAG) and thulium
      (Tm:YAG).

      EBRBT overall complication rate of 0.7%, of which all complications had not been
      life-threatening. Compared conventional TURBT to HoLERBT, a significant reduction of
      obturator nerve reflex, related bladder perforations, peri- or postoperative bleeding was
      rare, reduction in bladder irrigation time in comparison with conventional TURB. Better
      histopathological results were with laser en bloc resection of bladder cancer by lowering of
      thermal damage The study will be conducted in a single tertiary centre at Urology and
      Nephrology Center in Mansoura, Egypt.

      Eligible patient presented with papillary bladder tumor will be asked to participate in this
      study and will be provided with an informed consent form in line with Good Clinical Practise
      and the Declaration of Helsinki.
    
  