
    
      Most current self-management programs are developed for implementation by healthcare
      professionals. These professionals cannot fully perceive disease management needs and
      obstacles of older adults due to a lack of similar illness experience. To develop a
      self-management training program for older adult peer leaders with diabetes and to assess its
      feasibility.

      This study was conducted in three stages. In stage 1, the peer leader training program was
      developed using experiential learning theory as the framework and self-regulation theory as
      the strategy for activity design. The 4-week training program was implemented for 4
      hours/week. In stage 2, the feasibility of the training program was assessed. A peer leader
      training assessment tool was developed and used to evaluate peer leaders' leadership skills
      for self-management programs. Peer leaders' attendance rate and their viewpoints toward the
      training program through qualitative interview, willingness to lead self-management programs
      for older adults with diabetes in the community in the future were also assessed. In stage 3,
      This pilot study will take elderly diabetic patients in a community health station in Taiwan.
      The program will be conducted by peer leaders who have completed training to lead elderly
      diabetic patients and promote interaction, sharing, and support among peers. Improve
      self-confidence by guiding elderly diabetic patients to reflect on past self-management
      challenges and share successful self-management experiences. At the same time, learn how to
      find self-management problems, set goals and develop action plans, and other strategies to
      help elderly patients with diabetes set goals for their own health problems, develop and
      implement self-suitable, feasible and sustainable self-management behaviors to strengthen
      Self-management skills for elderly diabetic patients. The 4-week program was implemented for
      2 hours/week.
    
  