
    
      Peri-operative renal dysfunction is a major mortality and morbidity cause following cardiac
      and major vascular surgery. Patients undergoing cardiac surgery with more than one risk
      factor for postoperative renal insufficiency develop clinical significant renal dysfunction
      which results in extended length of stay in 1/5 of the patients .At least50% of the
      postoperative renal dysfunction is associated with development of renal hypoperfusion during
      cardiopulmonary bypass or aortic cross clamping. Although several intra-operative strategies
      are proposed for better outcomes, no effective and fast resulting test is available to be
      done in operating rooms to assess renal functions. Urine and blood markers as serum
      creatinine, urine output, fractional excretion of sodium and urea are used for early
      diagnosis of acute renal injury. In this study definition and classification of AKI (acute
      kidney injury) will be done according to KDIGO (kidney disease improving global outcome)
      criteria.

      Renal perfusion can be assessed by renal artery measurements done by ultrasound imaging.The
      same assessment can also be done by transesophageal echocardiography (TEE).

      Near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) assesses tissue oxygenation especially cerebral regional
      oxygen saturation. NIRS measures regional oxygenation (rSO=oxyhemoglobin/ total Hemoglobin)
      by determining oxy- and deoxy- hemoglobin signals.

      The probe placed on frontotemporal region has two sensors and a light source. Data is gained
      from sensors 3cm apart from the extracranial tissue and 4cm apart from the brain tissue;
      value is formed from calculation of the difference of these data. The benefit of NIRS
      followups of cerebral and somatic (liver, kidney, mesentery) oxygenation in pediatric
      cardiovascular surgery patients are demonstrated by studies.

      The investigators aimed to investigate the association of postoperative acute renal injury
      and the change in peroperative renal blood flow and renal oxygenation values; additionally to
      establish wether it can be used as a fast responding and efficient method in evaluating renal
      function in the operating room settings.
    
  