
    
      In order to determine if patients are eligible for this study patients will undergo some
      screening procedures, including a medical history, physical examination, performance status,
      assessment of tumor, chest CT scan, blood tests, urine test, electrocardiogram and
      echocardiogram. Patients will also undergo blood tests and a tumor biopsy to look for markers
      for your particular type of cancer.

      If it is determined that patients are eligible to be in the study they will need to have a
      central venous line (CVL), peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC), or portacath
      placement. Doxorubicin administration requires a central venous line, peripherally inserted
      central catheter (PICC) or portacath to be placed to allow continuous infusion of this drug.

      Since the investigators are looking for the highest tolerable dose of the study drug,
      bevacizumab, that can be administered safely without severe or unmanageable side effects in
      participants that have sarcoma, not everyone who participates in this research study will
      receive the same dose of the study drug. The dose patients get will depend on the number of
      participants who have been enrolled in the study and how well they have tolerated their
      doses. The dose of doxorubicin and radiation therapy will be the same for all subjects
      throughout the study.

      Bevacizumab will be given as an intravenous infusion (IV). The first infusion will take about
      90 minutes. All other bevacizumab infusions will take either 60 or 30 minutes, if tolerated.
      The first infusion will be given on a Monday (excluding holidays). Patients will receive the
      second infusion 2 weeks later and then every 2 weeks after that for a total of 3 doses.

      Doxorubicin will be given as an intravenous infusion (IV). It will be given through a port
      via an infusion pump about the size of a large wallet that can fit into a front-pack or
      "fanny-pack" around their waist. This pump will be connected to their body. The nurses in the
      infusion room will start the pump and disconnect it after 4 days. The first bolus infusion
      take will be given 1-2 hours after their first bevacizumab infusion and will take about 30
      minutes. This will be followed by a continuous IV infusion of doxorubicin over 4 days. The
      first bolus infusion will be given on a Monday (excluding holidays) and the continuous
      infusion will go until Thursday. Patients will receive a second bolus infusion followed by a
      4 day continuous infusion every week for 5 weeks.

      Patients will begin radiation therapy after their first bevacizumab and doxorubicin infusion
      on Monday (excluding holidays). Radiation therapy will be delivered five days per week
      (Monday through Friday-excluding holidays) over a period of 6 weeks. This is done as an
      outpatient procedure. Each 2-week period will be considered a separate treatment cycle.
      Patients will be treated with radiation therapy for a maximum of 3 cycles (6 weeks).

      The following tests and procedures will be done during the study during weeks 2, 4 and 6 and
      before surgery: a medical history, physical examination, performance status, blood tests,
      urine tests and assessment for any side effects. Patients will have additional CT scans of
      their chest and tumor before surgery. An ECG will be repeated at this time.

      A surgeon will evaluate the tumor by reviewing radiologic studies before study treatment to
      determine if surgical removal is possible. After patients complete study treatment with
      radiation therapy and bevacizumab, a surgeon will repeat the evaluation of the tumor by
      reviewing radiologic studies to determine if surgical removal is still possible. Patients
      will have surgery 6-7 weeks after they finish radiation therapy.

      Patients will have additional radiation therapy if the research doctor thinks that some
      cancer cells may have been left in their body in the area where the tumor was removed. The
      radiation may be given while patients are in surgery or about two weeks after the surgery.
      This will be determined by the surgeon and or radiation oncologist.

      Patients will be in this research study for about 3 months. After the last dose of the study
      drug the investigators would like to keep track of their medical condition for 10 years. The
      investigators would like to do this by calling patients by telephone once a year to see how
      they are doing. Keeping in touch with them and checking their condition every year helps the
      investigators look at the long term effects of the research study.
    
  