
    
      Decitabine and valproic acid are both designed to cause changes in different groups of
      proteins that are attached to DNA (the genetic material of cells), which may cause cancer
      cells to die. Researchers want to see if a combination of valproic acid with decitabine can
      help improve disease response as well as how long responses last in treating MDS and AML.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. Participants in one group will receive decitabine.
      Participants in the other group will receive decitabine and valproic acid. You will have an
      equal chance of being assigned to either group at first. After 20 participants are enrolled
      in each group, you will have a greater chance of being assigned to the group that is showing
      better results.

      Participants in both groups will receive decitabine on Day 1 through a central venous
      catheter (CVC) in a vein over 1 hour each day for 5 days. A central venous catheter is a
      sterile flexible tube that will be placed into a large vein while you are under local
      anesthesia. Your doctor will explain this procedure to you in more detail, and you will be
      required to sign a separate consent form for this procedure. Participants who are assigned to
      also get valproic acid will take the drug by mouth on Days 1-7 (7 days in a row).

      On Day 0 (the day before treatment begins) or on Day 1, you will have a physical exam,
      including measurement of your vital signs. Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn on or
      about Days 0 or 1, 5, and 10 (if your routine blood tests were found to be abnormal) to learn
      the status of the disease.

      Routine blood draws (about 4 teaspoons) will be done 1-2 times weekly for the first cycle and
      then every 2-4 weeks in further cycles. You will have another bone marrow aspiration to check
      disease response to treatment, and then you will have one every 1-3 cycles. One (1) cycle of
      treatment is 4-8 weeks long.

      You may remain on this study as long as you are benefitting or up to 2 years after you first
      achieve a complete response. Your dose level may be decreased depending on the side effects
      you may experience. However, if the disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side
      effects, you will be taken off this study.

      This is an investigational study. Decitabine is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of MDS. Valproic acid is FDA approved and commercially available for the
      treatment of seizure disorders. Up to 150 patients will take part in this study. All will be
      enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  