
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the outcome, in terms of survival and morbidity, in infants with localized,
           unresectable, non-MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma treated with reduced-intensity
           chemotherapy.

        -  Determine the survival of infants with stage 4S neuroblastoma, no MYCN amplification,
           and no bone, CNS, or pleural/lung metastases treated with short-course intensive
           chemotherapy.

        -  Determine the survival of infants with stage 4S neuroblastoma, no MYCN amplification,
           and bone, CNS, or pleural/lung metastases not treated with intensive high-dose
           chemotherapy consolidation.

        -  Determine the survival of infants with any stage (except stage 1) neuroblastoma and MYCN
           amplification treated with intensive consolidation high-dose chemotherapy followed by
           autologous bone marrow or stem cell support.

      Secondary

        -  Correlate outcome with factors other than stage and MYCN status in infants with
           neuroblastoma.

        -  Define the behavior of neuroblastoma in infants treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine prognostic criteria in infants treated with these regimens.

        -  Determine whether deletion of chromosome 1p or diploidy/tetraploidy are prognostic
           factors in infants who do not have other adverse features, such as MYCN amplification.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, multicenter study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 4
      treatment regimens according to disease criteria. Patients who are not eligible for any of
      these regimens (stage 1 or resectable stage 2 disease) undergo surgical resection followed by
      observation.

        -  Regimen NB 99.1 (unresectable stage 2 or 3): Patients are treated according to spinal
           cord involvement and presence of neurological symptoms.

             -  Group I (no evidence of spinal cord involvement):

                  -  CO therapy: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV on days 1-5 and vincristine
                     IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 4 courses in the
                     absence of disease progression. Resectability is assessed after every 2
                     courses of chemotherapy; if tumor is resectable, then patients undergo surgery
                     followed by observation only. If, after 4 courses of CO, the tumor is still
                     not resectable or disease has progressed, then patients proceed to VP-CARBO
                     therapy.

                  -  VP-CARBO therapy: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour and etoposide
                     phosphate IV over 2 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2
                     courses. If the tumor is then deemed resectable, the patient undergoes
                     surgery. If the tumor is not resectable or disease has progressed, then
                     patients proceed to CADO therapy.

                  -  CADO therapy: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5,
                     doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 6 hours on days 4 and 5, and vincristine IV
                     on days 1 and 5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses. Patients then
                     proceed to resection or biopsy.

             -  Group II (dumbbell tumors, spinal cord compression symptoms or life-threatening
                symptoms [e.g., respiratory obstruction]): Patients receive 2 courses of VP-CARBO
                therapy. Patients who achieve a response proceed to surgery or biopsy if the
                extraspinal portion is resectable. Patients with nonresponding disease or an
                unresectable extraspinal portion of the tumor receive 2 courses of CADO therapy and
                then undergo surgery or biopsy. Patients with dumbbell tumors but no spinal cord
                compression symptoms are treated as in group I.

        -  Regimen NB 99.2 (stage 4S or stage 4 without bone, pleura/lung, or CNS metastases and no
           MYCN amplification): Patients who do not have severe or life-threatening symptoms are
           observed for spontaneous regression of disease. Patients with severe symptoms receive 1
           course of VP-CARBO therapy. Patients with a Philadelphia score ≥ 2 (or ≥ 1 for neonates
           [< 1 month old]) receive a second course of VP-CARBO therapy. If disease does not
           respond to 2 courses of VP-CARBO therapy, patients receive up to 4 courses of CADO
           therapy. Treatment ceases after response is obtained. Surgery is allowed but not
           required.

        -  Regimen NB 99.3 (skeletal bone, pleural, and/or CNS metastases, no MYCN amplification):
           Patients receive 2 courses of VP-CARBO therapy. Patients with responding disease receive
           2 more courses and then proceed to surgery (if possible). Patients with disease
           progression or no response after the first 2 courses of VP-CARBO therapy and patients
           who do not experience metastatic complete response (CR) after 4 courses of VP-CARBO
           therapy receive up to 4 courses of CADO therapy. Patients proceed to surgery, if
           possible, after 2-4 courses of CADO therapy.

        -  Regimen NB 99.4 (stages 2-4 disease with MYCN amplification): Patients receive 2 courses
           of VP-CARBO therapy followed by 2 courses of CADO therapy and then surgery (if not
           already performed). Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously for 5 days
           between the second course of CADO therapy and surgery. Patients also undergo collection
           of their bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC). Patients who undergo surgery
           receive 1 course of VP-CARBO therapy followed by 1 course of CADO therapy postsurgery.
           At least 3 weeks after the third course of CADO therapy, patients receive high-dose
           chemotherapy comprising busulfan every 6 hours on days -7 to -3 and melphalan IV on day
           -2 followed by autologous bone marrow or PBSC infusion on day 0. At least 2 months
           later, patients undergo radiotherapy to the primary tumor site, even if complete
           surgical resection has been accomplished. Patients with stage 4 disease who do not
           achieve metastatic CR after chemotherapy (before surgery) go off study.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 330 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  