
    
      Posterior tibial tendon dysfunction (PTTD) involves inflammation, overstretching, or both of
      the posterial tibial tendon, which connects the tibialis posterior muscle to the bones in the
      foot. PTTD can cause pain in the inner ankle and development of a flat foot. Without
      treatment, correction of PTTD may require surgery. Standard interventions that may prevent
      the need for surgery include orthotic devices, bracing, and physical therapy, among other
      possibilities. Within physical therapy, foot exercises can be either active-as in the case of
      strengthening exercises-or passive-as in the case of stretching exercises. Evidence from
      clinical treatment of similar conditions suggests that active exercises are more effective
      than passive exercises in leading to recovery. This study will determine whether adding
      strengthening exercises to a normal intervention of bracing and stretching is more effective
      in improving a range of symptoms in stage II PTTD patients than using only bracing and
      stretching exercises.

      Participants with Stage II PTTD will be recruited and placed in one of two groups for the
      duration of the 12-week study. The first group will undergo regular bracing and perform
      stretching exercises. The second group will undergo regular bracing and perform stretching
      and strengthening exercises. Braces, worn during weight-bearing tasks throughout the study,
      will include ankle stirrup support and medial longitudinal arch support. Strengthening
      exercises, which will be preceded by a warm-up of the posterior tibialis muscle, will include
      bilateral heel raises, foot adduction and rear foot inversion with thera-tubing, and
      unilateral heel raises. Frequency of exercise and number of repetitions will increase over
      the course of the study until participants are performing 3 sets of 30 repetitions 2 times
      per day. Assessments, which will occur at study entry, after 6 weeks, and after 12 weeks,
      will include foot range of motion, length of the posterior tibial muscle, and
      self-assessments of function.
    
  