
    
      Rationale: The Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) vaccine not only protects against Mycobacterium
      tuberculosis, but has also been shown to reduce morbidity and mortality caused by non-related
      infections. This effect is likely due to non-specific immunomodulatory effects, at least in
      part on the innate immune system. Additionally, BCG has been shown to improve immunogenicity
      of other vaccinations. In contrast, whilst the diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP) combination
      vaccine protects against infection with Bordetella pertussis, Clostridium tetani and
      Corynebacterium diphtheria, it has also been associated with increased mortality due to
      unrelated infections, particularly in girls in high-mortality countries.

      Although widespread DTP vaccination has initially reduced pertussis mortality, the disease
      has persisted and recently resurged in a number of countries with highly vaccinated
      populations, including the Netherlands. This has been partially attributed to the switch from
      a whole-cell vaccine (which is still being used in low-income countries) to a more defined
      acellular pertussis vaccine, which only protects for a limited period (5-8 years). Strategies
      to improve the efficacy of pertussis vaccination are therefore urgently required.

      As the BCG vaccine has already been used to improve the immunogenicity of other vaccines, the
      investigators hypothesize that BCG vaccination before or at the same time of DTP vaccination
      increases the immunogenicity of the DTP vaccine in terms of antibody and T-cell responses to
      pertussis. Moreover, the investigators aim to assess the effect of DTP vaccination on the
      known long-term beneficial non-specific effects of BCG on non-mycobacterial infections.

      Objective: To examine the effect of BCG as an adjuvant on DTP vaccination, and to investigate
      the non-specific training effects of BCG and DTP, alone and in combination, on the innate
      immune system.

      Study population: Healthy adult volunteers.

      Main study parameters: Comparison of pertussis-specific antibody and T-cell responses, as
      well as gene transcription between BCG, TDaP-IPV and BCG+TDaP-IPV vaccinated groups.
      Comparison of cytokine responses to unrelated antigens and/or pathogens before and after BCG,
      TDaP-IPV or BCG+TDaP-IPV vaccination.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: There is no direct benefit to the study participants but these results will
      potentially lead to novel strategies to optimize vaccinations. The risks for participants are
      negligible, with the only expected risks being minor side-effects from vaccination and local
      hematoma forming at the site of venepuncture. This will be minimized by the performance of
      these procedures by experienced personnel.
    
  