
    
      Single sided deafness and profound asymmetrical hearing loss are impairments that
      significantly alter quality of life. Behavioural problems and scholar delays have been
      reported in children. Speech recognition with background or competing noise and sound
      localization are both impaired. 1/1000 new borns are affected and the incidence tends to rise
      in the adult population. At the moment, there is no guideline regarding the treatment of
      single sided deafness and asymmetrical hearing loss. Some patients don't even receive any
      therapeutic proposition.

      Three treatment options are available :

        -  CROS (Contralateral Routing Of the Signal) systems that convey the auditory information
           from the deaf ear to the good ear using wi-fi

        -  bone conduction devices which use transcranial conduction to convey auditory information
           from the poor ear to the good ear

        -  cochlear implants that directly stimulate afferent fibers of auditory nerve in the poor
           ear Cochlear implantation is therefore the only treatment which restores stimulation in
           the poor ear. Its efficacy in single sided deafness associated with incapacitating
           tinnitus have been demonstrated by Pr Van de Heyning (Leeuven, Be) and colleagues. Its
           interest has been compared to CROS systems and bone conduction devices in a valuable
           study conducted by S. Arndt (Pr Laszig, Freibourg, Ger). Cochlear implants provided
           better speech in noise recognition scores in dichotic hearing, i.e when speech and noise
           sources are spatially separated. Their first publication involved 11 patients but to
           date, more than 110 patients with single sided deafness have been included in their
           protocol. The efficacy of cochlear implantation has thus been validated in the treatment
           of single sided deafness and asymmetrical hearing loss.

      The investigators assume that cochlear implants in this indication are not only effective but
      also cost-effective. The investigators' experimental protocol relies on real life therapeutic
      strategy, where a cochlear implant may be proposed once CROS and bone conductions systems
      have failed. Thus, all subjects enrolled in our study will try CROS and bone conduction
      devices. If these trials are ineffective, the remaining subjects will be randomized between
      two arms (cochlear implantation vs 6 months abstention followed by cochlear implantation). A
      comparative cost-utility analysis between the two arms, of medical consequences measured in
      terms of quality of life will identify a preference for a strategy. Specific binaural hearing
      measurements with respect to each treatment option (abstention, CROS, bone conduction device,
      cochlear implant) will also be collected.
    
  