
    
      This is an observational multicenter study in 20 children (≤ 18 years) with chronic kidney
      disease (CKD) stage 5D treated with haemodialysis.

      Distribution and transport of uraemic toxins inside the body is derived from a
      cross-sectional study. During a midweek haemodialysis session, blood is sampled from the
      dialyser inlet line at different time points (e.g. at 0, 15, 30, 60, 120, 240min) during the
      session to obtain the evolution of intradialytic concentrations as is needed for the kinetic
      analysis. To calculate dialyser clearance, blood is sampled simultaneously at the dialyser
      inlet and outlet in the first part of the session (e.g. at 30min). Total solute removal is
      measured by partial dialysate collection during the entire dialysis duration, using a
      validated sampling system. For each uraemic toxin under study, a kinetic model is calibrated
      simulating distribution and mass transport inside the patient's body. The body is
      characterised by a total distribution volume V (per toxin), consisting of one or more
      distinct compartments. In e.g. a 2-compartment model, one can distinguish a plasmatic or
      peripheral compartment, which is directly cleared by haemodialysis (i.e. dialyser clearance)
      or by renal or extrarenal clearances, and extraplasmatic compartment(s). Each compartment is
      assumed to be characterised by a homogeneous uraemic toxin concentration with variable inputs
      and outputs. The solute transport between two compartments is considered to be driven by
      concentration gradients (diffusion), and/or pressure gradients (convection) and is
      characterised by an intercompartment clearance.

      Presuming that removal and generation are in equilibrium in stable HD patients, solute
      generation rate in the interdialytic period is assumed equal to the total solute removal
      during the dialysis session. The patient-specific ultrafiltration rate is taken into account
      to change total distribution volume over time.

      The time variation of the compartment concentration is, for a particular toxin, determined by
      solving the mass balance equation for each compartment. The kinetic model iteratively solves
      these equations for the complete dialysis session time. Herewith, plasmatic volume, total
      distribution volume, as well as intercompartment clearance are calculated from fitting the
      solution to the measured patient's plasma concentrations. Such kinetic analyses result in the
      knowledge of all kinetic parameters for each studied toxin.

      These calibrated kinetic models for paediatrics are further used to simulate different
      dialysis strategies and, with it, look for the most optimal one, with the experience the
      investigators have from kinetic studies in adults. Herewith, per solute, inter- and
      intradialytic evolutions in concentration are calculated according to the mass balance
      equations per compartment using the derived kinetic parameters. In the interdialytic period,
      dialyser clearance is kept at zero, while solute generation is maintained constant, and the
      interdialytic volume gain is set equal to the intradialytic applied ultrafiltration rate.
      Starting from the intra- and interdialytic concentrations in steady state with a 3x4 hours
      dialysis schedule, intra- and interdialytic concentrations are calculated after
      mathematically altering several key characteristics of the dialysis regime. This is done for
      the individual paediatric patient data as well as for the average paediatric patient within
      its age category with data emanating out of our primary kinetic analysis. Possible strategies
      are: longer and/or more frequent dialysis with or without adapting blood and/or dialysate
      flow rates, increasing convection, haemodiafiltration (pre, post, or mixed dilution), or a
      combination accounting for different parameters. For each strategy, consecutive sessions are
      simulated until a new steady state of predialysis solute concentrations is reached (deviation
      between 2 consecutive sessions <1%), paralleling the real in vivo effect of altering dialysis
      strategy.

      The different strategies are evaluated mathematically by comparing the calculated total
      solute removal during the first week with the new strategy, and the steady state time
      averaged as well as predialysis concentrations in the plasmatic volume.

      The calibrated kinetic modelling parameters and the results of the different dialysis
      strategies are compared for the different studied uraemic toxins. Accounting for the
      correlations with comorbidities (UToPaed-part 1), one (or more) uraemic toxin marker(s) are
      chosen.

      The kinetic models are further validated by quantifying uraemic toxin marker concentrations
      and comorbidities in individual patients after switching to different strategies as well as
      to the individualised optimal dialysis strategy based on the model (UToPaed- part 3).
    
  