
    
      The total number of pregnant women enrolled in the study was 100 women. These were divided
      into three groups:

        -  Group I: included 50 women with preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM, n=50)
           with gestational age from 24 to 34 weeks.

        -  Group II: included 25 term non-labor control (T-CTR, n=25) with gestational age from 37
           to 41 weeks.

        -  Group III: included 25 preterm non-labor control (P-CTR, n=25) with gestational age from
           24 to 34 weeks.Full History taking, including personal history for maternal age,
           obstetric history for number of previous pregnancies, history of previous PPROM. History
           of present pregnancy included gestational age, history of drug intake with special
           emphasis to women with PPROM giving history of gush of clear watery fluid from the
           vagina. Past history to exclude women with a contra- indication for conservative
           management in the study group.

      Physical examinations: General examination for pulse, arterial blood pressure and temperature
      to exclude any signs of chorioamnionitis in the study group.

      Abdominally, fundal level examinations for predicting the gestational age and/or IUGR or
      abnormalities of liquor. Monitoring of uterine contraction to pick up women who are not in
      labor in the study group.

      P/V examination was not done for the three groups. While definite diagnosis of PPROM relied
      on sterile speculum examination showing a collection of fluid in the vagina. Some women
      needed direct observation of the cervix during a valsulva maneuver or with cough to show free
      flow of fluid from the cervical os.

      Ultrasonographic examination: An abdominal ultrasound for: Estimation of gestational age,
      Assessment of fetal well being by biophysical profile (BPP), Detection of any fetal gross
      anomalies, Assessment of fetal growth to exclude IUGR, Sonographic estimation of fetal weight
      (SEFW), measurement of the Amniotic Fluid Index (AFI), Detection of any abnormal placental
      insertion and/or uterine structural abnormalities as septate or bicornuate uterus, measuring
      The myometrial thickness at 4 different sites9:

      a) The lower uterine segment (LUS): 2cm above the reflection of the full urinary bladder
      (b)The anterior wall: 1cm above the maternal umbilicus. (c)Fundus: by placing the scan probe
      perpendicularly above the uterine fundus so that the entire curvature of the uterus was
      visualized.

      (d)The posterior wall: through using the maternal abdominal aortic pulsation as an anatomic
      marker.

      At least 3 measurements were obtained at each site and averaged. The latency interval is
      determined in each of the 3 groups.
    
  