
    
      The purpose of our study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Lanreotide Autogel in
      children with CHI already treated with Octreotide by pump.

      Patients and methods. Congenital hyperinsulinism (CH) is a genetic disorder characterized by
      dysregulated insulin secretion resulting in persistent hypoglycemia. Identification and
      prompt management of patients are essential, as patients exposed to recurrent hypoglycemic
      episodes are at increased risk of developmental disorders. Many patients are treated with the
      somatostatin analog Octreotide which is administered by continuous infusion using a pump.
      This treatment may pose a huge burden and be stressful for patients and families as it
      demands intensive daily care. In an effort to simplify the daily care of our patients and
      improve their quality of life we will study the efficacy and safety of Lanreotide
      Autogel(Lan-ATG)- a long-acting somatostatin analog that can be administered by injection
      once a month.

      This trial will include children with CH, who are treated with Octreotide by pump. We believe
      that children older than 2 years old will benefit most from this therapy. At this age, some
      of the parents encounter technical problems with the pump, as the children are prone to play
      with the pump and take out the needles. It's also very difficult to place the children in day
      care, because they need continuous follow up.

      The dose of Lan-ATG will be calculated according to the surface area of the patient. The dose
      used in adults is usually 60 mg and we will adapt the patient's dose according to the body
      surface area and also according to the daily dose of Octreotide used with the pump. The
      starting dose will be 40 mg/m².

      The patients will be gradually weaned from the pump following the first injection of Lan-ATG
      (10% decrease every 3-4 days for a total of a month).

      Every patient will serve as his/her own control.

      The following examinations will be done in every child:

        1. Continuous blood glucose monitoring during 72 hours with a glucosensor, to exclude
           asymptomatic hypoglycemia - once in 6 months.

        2. Growth velocity every 3 months.

        3. Bone age once a year.

        4. Routine laboratory tests (biochemistry, CBC and thyroid function tests) every six
           months.

        5. Biliary US once in 6 months. During the follow up we will try to expand the distance
           between injections, based on our knowledge that most of the patients with CH are known
           to enter remission after the age of 4-5 years.
    
  