
    
      Tetrabenazine is classified as a central monoamine depleting agent. In vitro studies have
      shown that it is an inhibitor of the vesicular monamine transporter 2 (VMAT2), resulting in
      synaptic dopamine depletion. This effect explains the reduction of hyperkinetic movement
      disorders.

      Although tetrabenazine enjoys a reputation of very good efficacy in tardive syndromes, with
      good tolerance, it is still yet to empiricism because studies are few andf most importantly,
      of low level of evidence according the criteria of Evidence Based Medicine.

      This is a randomized, multicenter, parallel group, double-blind placebo
      (tetrabenazine/placebo: 1/1), in two comparative conditions before and after 10 weeks of
      treatment with tetrabenazine (5-week titration to a maximum dose of 200 mg/day and 5 weeks at
      stable dose).

      Study enrollment is proposed to patients fulfilling inclusion criteria.

      The study should process as follows:

        1. Patients give their informed consent for participation after presentation of the study
           by the investigator.

        2. Visit V0: Given the patient's signed consent, global clinical examination, blood
           sampling, vital signs (weight, height, arterial tension, ECG are performed as well as a
           neurological examination (MMS). For women in childbearing potential, a urinary pregnancy
           test will be realized. It is noteworthy that a psychiatric consultation dating less than
           one month is required.

        3. Visit V1: patient is randomized in one of the two arms: tetrabenazine or placebo. Some
           tests are performed at baseline:

             -  Neurologic: ESRS, AIMS, CGI, UPDRSIII, MMS;

             -  Quality of life auto-questionnaires: SF36, Epworth; The treatment is prescribed
                following a titration phase during 5 weeks, a stable dose during 5 weeks, and a
                wash-out period during 2 weeks.

        4. At V2 (1 week after V1), V3 (3 weeks after V1) and V5 (7 weeks after V1): global
           clinical examination is performed and prescription observance is checked.

        5. At V4 (5 weeks after V1), V6 (10 weeks after V1) and V7 (12 weeks after V1):
           neurological (ESRS, AIMS, CGI, UPDRSIII, auto questionnaire SF36, Epworth,
           neuropsychological examination (MADRS), psychiatric examination (only at V6), vital
           signs and prescription observance.
    
  