
    
      This study is a retrospective descriptive study reviewing the medical records of diabetic
      foot patients who were admitted to Sanglah General Hospital for surgical procedure. Sanglah
      General Hospital is a provincial hospital located in Denpasar, Bali, which is the central
      referral hospital in Bali and Nusa Tenggara islands as known as a tertiary hospital.

      All DFU patients who underwent surgical procedures in Sanglah General Hospital operating
      theatre were included in the study. All patient medical records were provided by our hospital
      information center system. A diagnosis of diabetes mellitus was defined and confirmed from
      ICD (International Classification of Diseases)-10 code E11.622 for "Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
      with other skin ulcers".

      Data which we collected from the hospital information center system were further addressed
      into different aspects, which comprised of personal data, DFU severity, diabetes mellitus
      duration, ulcer duration, treatment procedures, and laboratory results. Based on our main
      objective of this study, we divide the laboratory results into two groups, hematological and
      blood chemistry profile. The variables selected in the hematological profile were hemoglobin,
      hematocrit, leukocyte and differential counts, and platelet. The variables which were
      included in blood chemistry profile are alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate
      aminotransferase (AST), serum albumin, random blood glucose, glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c),
      blood urea nitrogen (BUN), serum creatinine, serum sodium, serum potassium, prothrombin time
      (PTT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), and international normalized ratio
      (INR).

      The protocol of DFU management in our hospital included diagnosis and treatment of infection
      (local and systemic), assessment of patient's diabetic status, treatment of infection,
      diabetes mellitus, and wound care, and also surgical procedure, such as sharp debridement and
      amputations. The procedures were classified into five categories, consist of debridement,
      amputation of the fingers, transmetatarsal amputation, amputation below the knee, and
      amputation above the knee. DFU severity is classified into five different grades, based on
      Wagner's diabetic foot classification. In our hospital, patients with diabetic foot problems
      were evaluated and treated by a team consisting of surgeons, endocrinologists,
      microbiologists, rehabilitation specialists, nutritionists, and nurses.

      For the statistical analyses, variables were assessed using the program IBM SPSS statistics
      version 23.0 for Windows (IBM Corporation, New York, USA). All numerical data were summarized
      as mean ± standard deviation, and categorical variables were summarized as frequency and
      percentage. Our method is about to use every available data to descriptively picture
      laboratory characteristics in DFU patients.
    
  