
    
      Design: a multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group randomized trial.

      The study will enroll outpatients adults aged 18 to 70 years with impaired glucose tolerance
      (IGT) who did not receive glucose-lowering agents previously. Persons with pre-diabetes,
      obesity (especially with visceral or abdominal obesity), dyslipidemia (with high
      triglycerides and/or low-density lipoproteins), hypertension, diabetes in first-degree
      relatives will be considered as potential candidates to participate in the study.

      After the patient's information sheet and the form of informed consent for participation in
      the study are signed on the screening (visit 0; day from -7 to 0), complaints and history are
      collected, registration of concomitant conditions and diseases, objective examination,
      calculation of body mass index (BMI), oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), fasting blood
      glucose. Furthermore, blood samples (for testing HbA1c, chemistry and hematology, HLA
      genotyping) and urine sample will be collected; concomitant therapy will be recorded, diet
      and physical activity recommendations will be given. All women of childbearing potential will
      be administered pregnancy tests.

      If eligibility criteria are met and there are no non-inclusion criteria on Visit 1 (Day 1),
      the patient is randomized to one of two groups: the Subetta group (patients will take 2
      tablets twice a day for 12 weeks) or placebo group (patients will take a placebo according to
      the scheme of Subetta for 12 weeks).

      In the course of the study, two more visits in 4 (Visit 2) and 12 (Visit 3) weeks are
      planned, during these weeks complaints are recorded, a patient's examination is recorded,
      therapy compliance and safety are assessed. On Visit 3 OGTT, fasting blood glucose, blood
      samples (for HbA1c, chemistry and hematology) and urinalysis will be performed.

      The duration of observation period shall be up to 13 weeks. During the study the treatment
      for underlying conditions will be allowed with the exception of the drugs indicated in the
      section "Prohibited concomitant therapy".
    
  