
    
      Chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia is a common toxic reaction of chemotherapeutic drugs,
      which may lead to dose reduction, delay or even termination of chemotherapy. Severe
      thrombocytopenia may cause bleeding and threaten patient's life. rhIL-11 and rhTPO are the
      only two drugs approved by China Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of
      chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia. The recommended dosage of rhTPO is 300U/kg. Clinical
      practice in the real world is full of changes and restraints. In the treatment of
      thrombocytopenia induced by chemotherapy, the actual dose of rhTPO is often below 300U/kg,
      due to factors such as Specs, economy and convenience. If the dose of rhTPO is insufficient,
      it can not give full play to the effect and thus can not achieve the purpose of rapid
      recovery of platelets. Previous clinical studies observed that the effect of rhTPO depends on
      the given dose. Dosage in the range of 75U-600U/kg of rhTPO were safe in human. While the
      75U/kg dose group had no significant effect on the platelet count elevation, the platelet
      count in other three dose groups of 150U/kg, 300U/kg and 600U/kg increased by 24%, 32%, and
      52% (P < 0.01). This research is a real-world study designed to verify the safety and
      efficacy of high-dose rhTPO in solid tumor patients with moderate or severe thrombocytopenia
      induced by chemotherapy. Patients with platelet count lower than 50 x 109/L will be enrolled
      and treated with high-dose rhTPO (300-600U/kg/day) until the platelets increased by 50 x
      109/L compared to the baseline or above 100 x 109/L. During the study, the blood routine test
      will be regularly performed according to the clinical routine (at least once every two days)
      and the clinical data will be collected and analyzed. It is based on the patient's actual
      condition and the treatment measure is more consistent with the clinical practice. The
      results of this study are expected to provide new options and references for clinical
      treatment of thrombocytopenia induced by chemotherapy.
    
  