
    
      The first baseline study was conducted in 1983 and included 1260 students in high school or
      trade school. The questionnaire was designed with focus on various aspects of sports and
      physical activity beside more general questions on family, socioeconomic status, height,
      weight, alcohol intake, smoking, etc. Furthermore, the participants were subjected to a set
      of physical tests and measurements.

      The second baseline study was conducted in 1985 and included a representative sample of 2498
      teenagers drawn from the Danish Civil Registration (CPR) and invited to participate in the
      study with the aim of validating the results from the first baseline sample. The study
      consisted of a questionnaire with virtually the same questions as the questionnaire from
      1983. A short 28-item food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) was added to the questionnaire, as
      well as a few questions about dietary habits.

      The follow-up study was carried out in 2005, when the subjects had reached an age of around
      40 years. A total of 1904 subjects were traced and asked to complete a general questionnaire,
      a food frequency questionnaire, and deliver a DNA sample, all distributed and returned
      through mail correspondence. The general questionnaire included questions on education,
      occupation, height, previous and present weight, weight loss history, physical activity,
      smoking, civil status, children, other family, stress, diseases, hospital admissions, and
      medicine use, among other things. The questions about physical activity were adopted from the
      baseline questionnaire. Other questions were adopted from other validated questionnaires.
      Moreover, a semi-quantitative, 195-item Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ), which previously
      has been used and validated in the Danish "Diet, Cancer and Health" study was included. The
      study was approved by the local ethics committee for Copenhagen and Frederiksberg (J.nr. KF
      01-260/04).
    
  