
    
      Drug use is associated with poor linkages to HIV care, reduced retention in care, increased
      sexual risk behavior, and decreased adherence to medications, leading to inferior clinical
      outcomes, and increased HIV transmission. HIV-infected people who use drugs (HPWUD) have
      higher rates of co-occurring psychiatric and medical diagnoses, resulting in increased
      utilization of services. Many structural and systemic barriers impede the integration of
      treatment for HIV and substance use (SU). The use of a mobile application combined with an
      evidence-based training model offers an innovative approach to improving care coordination
      and linking patients to care in need of dual treatment. A mhealth application delivered via
      tablet device provides a unique channel to link HIV and SU treatment providers located at
      off-site clinics. This study will be a Stage I pilot and feasibility study that will be the
      first to use a theory-based model of care coordination to develop a Care Coordination
      Intervention (CCI) for treatment providers serving HPWUD. This study seeks to develop a
      secure mobile technology platform that will: (a) enable rapid communication among providers
      at multiple clinics, (b) improve linkage to dual care, and (c) improve coordination of
      patient services. The CCI will also utilize an evidence-based training model to increase
      provider knowledge in relevant HIV, PrEP, and SU issues. The proposed method of integrating
      dual care for patients is expected to be an efficient and easily disseminable platform for
      integrating HIV/SU care that will facilitate communication between providers at multiple
      clinics and allow for efficient management of patient treatment referrals and service
      utilization. This project will examine acceptability, feasibility, and sustainability
      potential using mixed-methods. A three-phase, top-down research approach to adapt, refine,
      and pilot test the intervention will be conducted. Phase 1 will include individual interviews
      with key stakeholders and audits of referral and communication processes within each clinic.
      Phase 2 will include development of the CCI. The investigators will conduct a functionality
      test and conduct a series of interviews with key stakeholders to inform iterative revision of
      the CCI. During Phase 3, the investigators will train providers in the CCI and evaluate the
      feasibility, acceptability, and sustainability potential among HIV and SU treatment providers
      located at two different clinics via a pre-, post-test design. Data will be gathered at the
      organizational-, provider-, and patient-levels. Compared to pre-implementation of the CCI in
      both clinics, the investigators expect that post-implementation data will result in: (H1)
      greater satisfaction of care coordination at the provider level; (H2) increased frequency and
      improved quality of interagency communications; (H3) enhanced interagency professional
      relationships; and (H4) increased dual care retention at the patient level. The long-term
      goal is to expand the availability of sustainable interventions to improve coordination of
      HIV and SU treatment services. Data from this research will form the basis of a future
      multisite R01 proposal for this early career, new investigator applicant.
    
  