
    
      Authoritative parenting style has been associated with decreased obesity risk in children,
      increased weight loss during interventions, and can modify the delivery and impact of weight
      control strategies, making them more effective. At this time, gold-standard treatment for
      childhood obesity is family-based behavioral therapy (FBT). This treatment relies on
      behavioral strategies and the use of praise and a positive reinforcement system to change
      eating and activity behaviors, but does not target other aspects of parenting. Broadening
      parenting instruction to include effective limit-setting behaviors, parent-child
      communication, and authoritative parenting may increase parents' confidence and ability to
      successfully make behavior changes and modify the impact of the behavioral strategies being
      used. In this application, the investigators propose to test the efficacy of a 20-week weight
      control program that combines traditional family-based behavioral therapy with comprehensive
      parenting training (FBT-PT) and compare it to traditional family-based behavioral therapy
      (FBT). The investigators hypothesize that there will be an additive effect of parenting
      training such that FBT-PT will have a greater effect on child weight loss (measured by BMI
      z-score) than traditional FBT. In addition, the investigators will measure parenting style,
      parenting strategies, behavioral strategies, and child factors (like impulsive behavior and
      temperament) to better understand the mediators and moderators of weight loss. These measures
      will be obtained by standard self-report measures and videotape encounters, allowing one to
      more objectively measure parenting dimensions. Clinical outcomes, like drop-out and
      acceptability, will also be assessed from the two treatment arms. The purpose of this study
      is to evaluate the effect of adding a comprehensive parenting training to traditional FBT. If
      successful, this program will be able to increase our ability to help children successfully
      lose weight.
    
  