
    
      The objective of the DIALCAT randomized controlled trial is to study the effects of an
      eHealth intervention (smart pillbox, digital platform) on the progression of cognitive
      impairment evaluated by means of a neuropsychological examination, in a sample of elderly
      patients with type II diabetes (T2D) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). As secondary goals,
      this research is intended to:

        1. Assess if the intervention improves the metabolic control of the study sample.

        2. Evaluate the effects of the intervention on the conversion rate (yes vs. no) from MCI to
           Alzheimer's' disease (AD).

        3. Compare the effectiveness of the interventions to reduce functional decline (quantified
           by a battery of neuropsychological tests [see detailed description below]) and the
           conversion rate to AD.

        4. Identify the clinical and analytical predictors (biomarkers) of conversion from MCI to
           AD.

      To this purposes, a total of 174 T2D patients with MCI (MMSE≥24) will be recruited with a
      18-month follow-up. Eligible patients will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio in one of the arms
      of the RCT (for randomization, a sex-by-sex-swapped sequence and the ApoE genotype will be
      used). The three groups will receive the following interventions:

      Arm 1: T2D patients (n = 58) with MCI, receiving treatment as usual (TAU) by their primary
      care physician/endocrinologist.

      Arm 2: T2D patients (n = 58) with MCI, receiving TAU and using a smart pillbox that allows to
      monitor adherence to treatment.

      Arm 3: T2D patients (n = 58) with MCI, receiving TAU, using the smart pillbox and receiving
      periodic feedback on their metabolic control and how to improve it by an endocrinologist via
      a digital platform.

      Since it is expected that the different factors related to the intervention will have an
      additive or synergistic effect, the hypothesis is that the cognitive impairment and
      progression of MCI to AD would be higher in arm 1, followed by arm 2 and, finally, arm 3.
    
  