
    
      The study will be a randomized, placebo-controlled, blinded study. It will take place in
      three phases, across 7 weeks.

      WEEK 1: BASELINE TESTING AND TRAINING (approximate time = 1 hour).

        1. Cough sensitivity testing: Standardized procedures that have been established and
           approved by the FDA will be used to determine cough sensitivity. Participants will
           inhale capsaicin vapor (a known cough stimulant) through a nebulizer with dosimeter,
           that delivers a specific dose of capsaicin in a mist form. They will inhale doubling
           doses of capsaicin mist from .49 micromolar to 1000 micromolar. The testing will be
           stopped when the investigators find the dose that causes five coughs or after giving the
           1000 micromolar dose, whichever comes first. This testing will take approximately 30
           minutes.

        2. Urge-to-cough (UTC) testing: Participants be asked to report their UTC on a scale from 0
           (no UTC) to 10 (maximum UTC) after each mist of capsaicin and after being presented with
           the following stimulants/tasks that cause some people to cough: perfume, bleach,
           vinegar, wood chips, laundry soap, cleaning wipe, deep and fast breath through the
           mouth, sustained voicing, reading a 55 word passage, and yelling a short phrase). This
           testing will take about 10 minutes.

        3. Cough-related quality of life: Participants will complete the Leicester Cough
           Questionnaire which is a 23-item validated questionnaire designed to measure
           cough-related quality of life. It will take about 5 minutes.

        4. Cough suppression training. Participants will be trained in cough suppression
           strategies. These strategies include 1) relaxed throat breathing where they inhale
           quickly through the nose and exhale through tightly pursed lips, and 2) cough
           suppression swallow, which involves swallowing saliva or a sip of water with as much
           effort as possible and while pressing hands together tightly. This training will take
           approximately 15 minutes.

        5. Cough frequency testing: Participants will carry a small audio recording device with a
           small microphone that attaches to the participant's shirt for 24 hours. The recording
           device will be in a small carrying case (about half the size of a typical cell phone)
           that can clip to a belt or waistband. Participants will return the recording device to
           the investigators at or before the first treatment visit (see below). The audio
           recording will be analyzed by computer software that counts the number of coughs in the
           24-hour period. (NOTE: The audio recording will not be listened to by any PERSON and the
           recording will be deleted after it is analyzed by the computer software.)

      (Following baseline testing, participants will be randomly assigned to either the treatment
      group or placebo group.)

      WEEKS 2-4: TREATMENT. Participants will attend treatment sessions twice per week for three
      weeks. Participants will use the breathing strategies following inhalation of either
      progressive doses of diluted capsaicin (experimental condition) or repeated exposures to a
      single sub-threshold concentration of diluted capsaicin (placebo condition). Participants
      will do this no more than twelve times per session. Each session will take approximately 45
      minutes. If a participant misses a treatment session, the investigators will attempt to
      re-schedule that session. Each participant must complete at least five of treatment sessions
      to remain in the study.

      WEEKS 5 AND 7: POST-TREATMENT TESTING. Outcome measures, as in the baseline phase, will be
      take at one-week and three-weeks post-treatment. The LCQ will be measured again at
      three-months post-treatment.
    
  