
    
      This study will examine how two thyroid preparations, levothyroxine (T4) and liothyronine
      (T3), affect subcutaneous adipose tissue in normal subjects. Thyroid hormone plays an
      important role in the maintenance of energy metabolism. Specifically, hyperthyroidism is
      associated with weight loss via an increase in metabolic rate and lipolysis. While this
      phenomenon has been studied in vitro quite extensively, very little information is available
      on the local action of thyroid hormone on adipose tissue in vivo and, in particular, at the
      present no information is available on the role of peripheral conversion of thyroid hormone
      in subcutaneous adipose tissue. We thus propose to study the local action of thyroid hormones
      on adipose tissue using microdialysis, a minimally invasive technique that allows the serial
      determination of components of the extracellular fluid. The measurement of glycerol after
      correction for changes in blood flow will be used to evaluate the effects of the thyroid
      hormones on local lipolysis.

      Healthy volunteers 18 years of age and older may be eligible for this study. Candidates are
      screened with a medical history, physical examination, and blood tests. Subjects with
      hyperlipidemia, impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes and thyroid disease are not eligible
      for the participation in this study. Qualifying study participants undergo subcutaneous fat
      tissue microdialysis to assess the effects of T3 and T4 on the activity of fat tissue. The
      medications isoproterenol and T3 or T4 are injected in fat tissue under the skin of the
      abdomen, and fluid samples are collected from the area over a 6-12 hour period using the same
      small needle. Glycerol is then measured to study how the thyroid hormones affect fat
      metabolism. During this procedure a 10% glucose solution is infused through the catheter in
      the arm to limit lipolysis due to fasting. Four different sets of experiments are performed
      with different thyroid hormone doses and/or durations.

      These experiments will provide new information on the role of thyroid hormone in the
      regulation of adipose tissue metabolism and will help in identifying new treatments for the
      management of obesity.
    
  