
    
      Specific Aims: The aim of this study is to determine the efficacy, side effects and safety of
      sub-dissociative doses of ketamine in controlling acute traumatic pain in patients
      transported by an aeromedical system when compared to standard doses of fentanyl.

      Research Hypothesis: Aeromedical transport patients with acute pain treated with intravenous
      ketamine show a clinically significant difference in mean numeric rating scale (NRS) pain
      scores as compared to those treated with fentanyl and show no increase in adverse events.

      Background and Significance: Treatment of acute pain in aeromedical transport patients is
      important. Treatment may be limited by real or perceived concerns regarding analgesic side
      effects including sedation, loss of airway maintenance, and negative hemodynamic
      consequences. Ketamine used in sub-dissociative doses has strong analgesic properties while
      maintaining protective airway reflexes and demonstrating minimal adverse hemodynamic effects.
      It has been suggested as an ideal pre-hospital analgesic. Current literature regarding its
      use in the pre-hospital environment is limited.

      Experimental Design: This prospective, double-blind, randomized trial compares 0.3 mg/kg of
      intravenous (IV) ketamine to 1 mcg/kg of IV fentanyl in adult aeromedical transport patients
      who require pain control. The primary outcome measure will be the change in NRS pain scores
      at ten minutes compared between the two groups. Secondary endpoints will include rates of
      adverse events, differences in the slope of NRS scores over time, the total amount of
      fentanyl/kg body weight/minute of flight required, overall research participant satisfaction
      with their level of pain relief at the end of the flight, and the subjective ranking of pain
      recall in comparison to other aspects of the patient's overall episode of care (pre-hospital,
      emergency department, inpatient, and post-discharge care), as measured at 30 days.

      Data Analysis: Categorical variables will be analyzed using chi-square and Fisher's exact
      test. Means of normally distributed variables will be compared using Student's t-test, and
      distributions of non-normally distributed variables will be compared using Mann-Whitney U.
      Bayesian generalized linear mixed modeling will be employed to model the time-dependent
      change in NRS scores between intervention groups while accounting for the autocorrelation
      inherent in a repeated measures design. SAS statistical software (SAS v. 9.2, Cary, NC) and
      WinBUGS software will be used for all analyses.
    
  