
    
      The study will consist of two parts. Part I, is the main study ending when all subjects have
      reached visit 5. The study will be evaluated and Clinical Study Report (CSR) will be written
      for this part.

      Part II, of the study is a post-follow up study starting when the first subject has completed
      visit 5. There will be a separate CSR written for Study Part II.

      The study Part I will begin with a baseline visit, visit 1, Informed consent procedure will
      take place. Provided the subject will give informed consent for both Study Part I and Study
      Part II the screening procedure starts. Subjects will undergo all screening and baseline
      assessment procedures including assessments of dental status to determine number of implants
      needed. Subjects who meet all the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will
      be given a date for implant surgery within three weeks. The required number of implants will
      be ordered from the Study Distributor.

      At the implantation day, visit 2, eligibility will be re-checked before the surgery
      procedures starts. The subjects who still are eligible will enter the treatment and the
      implantation surgery is conducted. The first follow-up visit after implantation will take
      place week 2 post-surgery and the last follow-up visit in Study Part I will be at week 12.
      Any post-surgical complications and adverse events will be collected and recorded in the
      eCRF. On demand, depending on the outcome of the surgery, additional visits might occur.

      Study Part II, the Post Follow-up Study, consist of two visits, one at month 12 and another
      visit at month 24 post-surgery. Post-surgical complications and adverse events from Study
      Part I will be followed-up if not resolved previously. Safety, survival rate and marginal
      bone loss will be assessed and outcome recorded in the eCRF. Additional visits might occur
      depending on the status of the subjects.
    
  