
    
      This study seeks to evaluate the impact of using a non-invasive technology to assess flow
      guided parameters (SV,SVR, dp/dt, CO, etc.) on patient care decisions in the preoperative
      settings. Patients seen in the preoperative clinic who are undergoing a moderate or high-risk
      procedure and have less than 4 metabolic equivalents (METs) will be approached to participate
      in the study .

      Once consented, the device will be placed during the preoperative clinic visit and the data
      will be presented to the care team. Surveys will be completed by the health care provider for
      each consented patient to determine if the data from the device positively impacted patient
      care decisions. Specifically, the survey will evaluate if providing information on the
      patient's cardiovascular function (via the device used for this study) facilitated the health
      care provider to identify if the patient had reduced cardiovascular function. For the primary
      outcome, this study will evaluate if this device can assistant the identification of patients
      with reduced cardiovascular function by providing the flow guided parameter listed above.
      Secondary markers include the evaluation of perioperative complication rate (composite
      outcome ) between those that had the non-invasive HD data displayed to the preoperative team
      vs. not. Additional secondary makers will include: frequency of intraoperative hemodynamic
      optimization and goal directed fluid therapy administration, health care provider survey
      results, patient survey on the level of discomfort from wearing the cuff during the study.
      length of hospital stay, length of intensive care stay, readmission to the hospital within 30
      days after hospital discharge, and 30-day postoperative mortality.

      Outcome data will be collected using the electronic medical records database available at the
      investigators institution.

      It is the hope of the investigators that this study will demonstrate that by simply applying
      the preoperative use of the non-invasive hemodynamic technologies one can:

        1. more appropriately identify which patients would benefit from intraoperative hemodynamic
           monitoring strategies

        2. increase satisfaction of the preoperative assessment by the health care provider

        3. further validate the importance of caring for patients with knowledge of their volume
           status, contractility, and vascular resistance in other patient care settings.
    
  