
    
      PDT offers a number of practical advantages; it is minimally invasive and has a low
      complication rate, the procedure can easily be performed by a trained endoscopist, and it is
      well tolerated. In the trial conducted in Germany, the adverse events of PDT were mild to
      moderate, predictable, and relatively easy to control. Photosensitivity was the only systemic
      side effect (seen in only three patients). However, provided that simple guidelines for light
      exposure are followed, there is minimal risk to the patient, as shown by the low incidence of
      photosensitivity reactions in this study which all resolved.

      A study from the Mayo group included 25 patients with unresectable cholangiocarcinoma who
      were treated with PDT from 1991 to 2004 showed that the time interval between diagnosis and
      treatment with PDT is an important predictor of survival following PDT even when adjusted for
      other potential factors that affect survival such as age, gender, Bismuth stage, presence of
      tumor mass on imaging and presence of extra biliary spread. Early treatment with PDT may lead
      to greater preservation of liver function. A recent study by the primary investigator has
      also recently reported improved survival in patients receiving PDT and stent compared to
      stent only (16.2 months vs 7.4 months).

      Several other European studies have reported the efficacy and safety of PDT for
      cholangiocarcinoma; however, only a few studies have reported the same in the United States.
      This is again due to the fact that PDT is not offered as a therapeutic option for
      unresectable cholangiocarcinoma within US.

      However, the establishment of a registry to capture all PDT cases within and outside US can
      help the investigators evaluate a larger and non ambiguous sample population. This would help
      the investigators evaluate the technical success rates, clinical success rates, feasibility
      and safety of PDT for unresectable cholangiocarcinoma.

      The involvement of international sites is crucial, as the advanced endoscopists all over the
      world are offering photodynamic therapy for managing unresectable cholangiocarcinoma.
      However, because of the non-existence of a registry, and the fact that PDT is not offered in
      more than a few centers in the US; these cases are often reported with a smaller sample size.
      The registry hopes to combine all such comparable cases and collect enough relevant data for
      statistical analyses.

      With more endoscopists considering PDT as a therapeutic option along with adjuvant treatment
      for cholangiocarcinoma, there is a need to further evaluate the efficacy and safety of such
      combined procedures as well. The ultimate objective is to assess if PDT with or without
      additional or adjuvant treatment options prolongs survival duration and improves quality of
      life in patients with unresectable cholangiocarcinoma.
    
  