
    
      Only one-fourth to one-third of fertilized human eggs are likely to survive to produce a term
      baby. The causes of these reproductive failures are substantially unknown, but scientific
      evidence suggests that they may, in part, be due to exposures such as pre-conception
      nutrition, that may result in insults to the oocyte and periconceptual embryo. Early
      reproductive events may have long-lasting impact as several have recently been identified as
      antecedents to adult-onset diseases. The goal of this prospective epidemiologic study is to
      evaluate the hypothesis that increased oxidative stress results in delayed time-to-pregnancy
      or early pregnancy loss. Recently, reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been associated with
      spontaneous abortion, preeclampsia, and premature preterm rupture of the membranes in women
      and defective sperm function in men. In living cells ROS are formed continuously as a
      consequence of both biochemical reactions and external factors. In this prospective cohort
      study of healthy couples who are planning pregnancy, we are evaluating time-to-pregnancy,
      defined as the number of menstrual cycles from the cessation of contraception to a clinically
      recognized pregnancy, and early unrecognized pregnancy loss. Unrecognized pregnancy and
      subsequent early loss will be determined by measuring urinary human chorionic gonadotropin
      (hCG). Diet will be assessed in both partners prior to conception using the Block food
      frequency questionnaire and serum assays for the antioxidants vitamins C and E, the
      carotenoids, and selenium. Two urinary biomarkers of oxidative stress,
      8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine and F2a-isoprostanes, and a serum biomarker of antioxidative
      capacity, oxygen radical absorbance capacity, will be measured in the women. The proposed
      study has a number of strengths: 1) it is large and prospective in design, with diet and
      oxidative stress measured prior to conception; 2) a highly sensitive and specific assay for
      hCG will be used to detect conceptions as early as the time of implantation; 3) dietary
      intake and biomarker assays of antioxidant status will be assessed twice during the
      preconception period using state-of-the-art assessment methods including a diet calibration
      substudy; 4) the proposed research has the potential to fill gaps in our understanding of the
      role of diet in achieving successful conception, an area where very little investigation has
      been done.
    
  