
    
      Study design:

      Patients Successive admissions to the stroke service of the Veterans Affairs Medical Center
      with ischemic strokes will participate in this study.

      Eligibility criteria:

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Unilateral, 1st acute stroke event within 4 weeks of admission to an in-patient
           rehabilitation facility

        2. Ischemic stroke documented clinically and by neuroimaging.

        3. Severe upper limb weakness (MRC grade of 2 or less at the shoulder joint)

        4. Medically stable from a cardio-respiratory stand point so that they can participate in
           daily therapies.

        5. Depressed patients will be included in the study (psychiatrist referral will be made if
           deemed necessary).

        6. Aphasic alert patients will be included in the study provided they were able to follow
           simple directions by verbal or gestural cues and provided with a written informed
           consent.

        7. Informed consent, from cognitively intact patients (admission Mini Mental Scale
           Examination [MMSE] greater than or equal to 21). When it is not possible for the patient
           to provide informed consent or patient is cognitively impaired with MMSE ≤ 20, proxy
           consent will be obtained from the next of kin (legal authorized representative)
           according to institutional IRB standards. Informed consent will be obtained by the
           admitting physicians.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Hemorrhagic strokes

        2. Patient's with an episode post-stroke seizure or history of epilepsy.

        3. Patients medically unstable, demented, or terminally ill (e.g., patients with stroke as
           a complication of a terminal cancer).

        4. On medications such as botox for spasticity or other medications known to enhance motor
           recovery such as d-amphetamine,

        5. Stroke patients with implanted pacemakers and defibrillators.

        6. Refusal to provide informed consent
    
  