
    
      Immunosuppressive therapy of granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA, Wegener's) and
      microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) has transformed the outcome from death to a strong likelihood
      of disease control and temporary remission. However, most patients have recurrent relapses
      that lead to damage and require repeated treatment associated with long-term morbidity and
      death.

      Rituximab has been shown to be as effective as cyclophosphamide to induce remission and
      maintenance of remission in severe GPA and MPA patients, with an acceptable safety profile.
      Although rituximab is becoming the standard of care for maintenance therapy in these
      patients, relapse still occurs and the optimal duration of prednisone therapy remains
      debated.

      On the one hand, most US studies use early withdrawal (6-12 months) because of feared side
      effects. On the other hand, most European trials propose late withdrawal (>18 months) given a
      lower observed relapse rate on long-term low dose glucocorticoids treatment.

      In a systematic review and meta-analysis, glucocorticoids regimen was the most significant
      variable explaining the variability between the proportions of ANCA-associated vasculitis
      patients with relapses. Nevertheless, it was an indirect estimation of treatment effect
      because of the absence of dedicated randomized trial. This meta-analysis concluded that
      combined longer-term (i.e. >12 months) use of low dose prednisone or nonzero glucocorticoids
      target is associated with a 20% reduction of relapse compared to early withdrawal (i.e. ≤12
      months).

      The relapse rate in patients with early glucocorticoids (10-12 months) withdrawal was
      provided in two studies and was of 37 and 34%, respectively. By contrast, the relapse rate in
      patients with late prednisone withdrawal (18-24 months) and receiving rituximab as
      maintenance treatment was 14% at 24 months in the MAINRITSAN trial. Of note, the decision to
      withdraw glucocorticoids after 18 months was left to physician's discretion in this study and
      two thirds of the nonsevere relapses occurred when patients were off prednisone.

      The trial detailed here is the first prospective trial evaluating the length of
      glucocorticoid administration as remission adjunctive treatment for patients with GPA or MPA.
    
  