
    
      The importance of sleep for patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) has been well
      documented. Research has shown that the ICU has multiple risk factors for poor sleep, and
      that this has multiple effects on patient outcomes. Further research is needed to better
      define the best tool to use for measuring sleep stages in ICU patients. Furthermore, there is
      very limited data comparing sleep interruption in ICU patients and the effects on sleep
      architecture and cognition.

      Hypothesis 1a: The number of episodes of rapid eye movements (REM), stage 1, stage 2, stage 3
      sleep, sleep spindles, and alpha activity will increase while the total duration of activity
      and the duration of episodes will decline in the postoperative neurologic critical care unit
      (NCCU) with neurological checks every two hours over a 12 hour period of recording as
      compared to every 6 hours.

      Hypothesis 1b: As the number of episodes of REM, stage 1, stage 2, stage 3 sleep, sleep
      spindles, and alpha activity increase while the total duration of activity and the duration
      of episodes decline in the postoperative NCCU with neurological checks every two hours over a
      12 hour period of recording as compared to every 6 hours.

      Hypothesis 2: The number of episodes, the total duration, and the interval durations, of REM,
      stage 1, stage 2, stage 3 sleep, sleep spindles, and alpha activity will be identical in the
      automated recordings as compared to human reading by a sleep trained Neurologist.

      Hypothesis 3: The group with awakenings every two hours will report more objective sleepiness
      and perform psychomotor visual task (PVT) with increased time and reduced performance.

      Performing this study will allow for validation of an automated EEG system for the
      interpretation of sleep. If this tool is a reliable method of sleep interpretation, it may be
      expanded to a larger population of ICU patients for further research on the effects of sleep
      deprivation. Additionally, it will add prospective data to the literature regarding the
      psychomotor effects of increased sleep interruption in ICU patients.

      2. Objectives (include all primary and secondary objectives)

        1. Detect the effects of disrupted sleep resulting from frequent neurological exams in the
           NCCU in post-surgical patients. The investigators will use an automated EEG detection
           system used in patients with continuous EEG (cEEG) monitoring to detect duration of
           sleep related EEG brain activity, number of intervals of activation, and the duration of
           the intervals for sleep activities including: REM, Stage 1, stage 2, and stage 3 sleep,
           sleep spindles, and alpha activity.

        2. The investigators will study the precision, accuracy and bias of the automated algorithm
           by comparing it to the interpretations of two sleep trained neurologists who will read
           these recordings in a

           blinded manner independently of one another. The investigators will select records to
           validate the automatic scorer including the identification and duration of all aspects
           of the cEEG sleep recording during the first four hours of sleep recording for each
           patient. The investigators will compare the accuracy of identification and measured
           duration of REM, Stage one, stage two, stage 3 sleep, sleep spindles, and alpha
           activity.

        3. Subjective measure of sleep assessment using the Richards-Campbell Sleep Questionnaire
           (RCSG).

        4. Quantitative assessment of alertness using a psychomotor vigilance task (PVT).
    
  