
    
      Dark chocolate and other cocoa products contain antioxidants including the polyphenol
      epicatechin that have beneficial effects on vascular function. Oral consumption of dark
      chocolate lowers blood pressure in elderly subjects with isolated systolic hypertension while
      drinking cocoa acutely improves flow-mediated vasodilation in subjects with cardiovascular
      risk factors. Work from our lab and elsewhere has shown that regulation of hemodynamic and
      metabolic homeostasis are coupled such that subjects with essential hypertension are also
      insulin resistant. Therefore, we hypothesize that cocoa consumption will improve both blood
      pressure and insulin sensitivity in subjects with essential hypertension. To test this
      hypothesis, we will conduct a randomized double-blind, crossover study in subjects with
      essential hypertension to evaluate the effects of cocoa versus placebo on blood pressure,
      insulin sensitivity, and insulin-mediated capillary recruitment in skeletal muscle. After a 7
      day cocoa-free run-in period, subjects will be randomized to receive 15 consecutive daily
      doses of either cocoa drink (150 ml twice a day with a total of 900 mg of polyphenols and 237
      kcal) or polyphenol poor placebo drink (150 ml twice a day with a total of 36 mg of
      polyphenols and 234 kcal). After the 15 day treatment period, the subjects will enter a 1
      week cocoa-free washout period followed by cross-over to the other treatment. Subjects will
      be counseled to maintain an isocaloric diet during the study. Blood pressure, insulin
      sensitivity, and insulin-mediated capillary recruitment will be assessed in each subject
      after the run-in period, after 15 days of treatment, and after completion of the cross-over.
      Blood pressure will also be measured every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday for the duration of
      the study. Insulin sensitivity will be measured using the hyperinsulinemic euglycemic glucose
      clamp technique. Insulin-stimulated capillary recruitment in forearm skeletal muscle will be
      measured by ultrasound with "microbubble" contrast during the glucose clamp studies. Peak and
      trough plasma epicatechin levels will be measured prior to each glucose clamp study using an
      HPLC assay. This study will determine if short-term oral administration of cocoa is effective
      at lowering blood pressure, improving insulin sensitivity, and restoring vascular function in
      subjects with essential hypertension. This is highly relevant to major public health problems
      such as diabetes, obesity, hypertension, and cardiovascular diseases where insulin resistance
      and vascular dysfunction are important pathophysiological components.
    
  