
    
      With the increase in life expectancy observed in the last decades, the number of aged
      patients requiring general anesthesia for major non-cardiac surgery, such as abdominal,
      pelvic, and thoracic surgeries has increased dramatically. This patient population is at
      increased risk of postoperative complications due to the presence of multiple comorbidities
      and reduced physiological reserve. One of the largest prospective studies of over 4000
      patients aged 70 years and over undergoing major non-cardiac surgery identified that 68% of
      these patients had pre-existing comorbidities. Furthermore, the 30-day postoperative
      mortality was 5% and major postoperative complications were present in 20% of patients. The
      authors concluded that strategies are needed to reduce complications and mortality in older
      surgical patients. The primary goal of hemodynamic management during the surgical procedure
      is to ensure adequate perfusion and oxygen delivery to the vital organs. In the last decade,
      technological research has expanded the application of near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) to
      allow continuous non-invasive monitoring of cerebral oxygen saturation, providing information
      on the real time status on the balance between brain oxygen supply and demand. Furthermore,
      NIRS provides extra assurance of the adequacy of global oxygen balance, particularly focusing
      on the venous side of the circulation. Moreover several studies have demonstrated that
      changes in cerebral tissue oxygenation may correlate with changes in cerebral blood flow when
      cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen and arterial blood oxygen content remain constant. With the
      current standards of monitoring that primarily focus on the left heart, i.e., oxygen supply,
      and not the imbalance between oxygen supply/demand, the vital organ ischemia may go unnoticed
      until functional organ damage becomes evident. Regional cerebral oxygen saturation (rSO2)
      provides a non-invasive alternative of adequacy of systemic oxygen balance that correlates
      well with a gold standard of mixed venous oxygen saturation. Cerebral desaturations have been
      reported in more than 20% of cases when monitoring regional cerebral oxygen saturation (rSO2)
      in elderly patients undergoing non-cardiac abdominal surgery. Low rSO2 values have been
      associated with postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD), perioperative stroke, increased
      incidence of major organ morbidity, and even 30-day and 1-year mortality after cardiac
      surgery. Furthermore, low preoperative rSO2 measurements have been associated with higher
      risk of postoperative delirium in both cardiac and non-cardiac surgical populations. The
      proposed trial will be the first large prospective randomized controlled clinical trial
      assessing the effectiveness of rSO2 restoration in reducing postoperative morbidity
      associated with end organ dysfunction after major non-cardiac surgery.
    
  