
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate recurrence-free survival (RFS) between patients randomized to receive
      post-operative adjuvant ipilimumab given at either 10 mg/kg (high dose ipilimumab; HIP) or 3
      mg/kg (low dose ipilimumab: LIP) versus those randomized to receive high-dose interferon
      alfa-2b (HDI) utilizing a hierarchical design assessing HIP versus HDI first and LIP versus
      HDI second (if the first comparison is significant).

      II. To evaluate overall survival (OS) between patients randomized to receive post-operative
      adjuvant ipilimumab given at either 10 mg/kg (HIP) or 3 mg/kg (LIP) versus those randomized
      to receive HDI utilizing a hierarchical design assessing HIP versus HDI first and LIP versus
      HDI second (if the first comparison is significant).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate safety and tolerability of post-operative adjuvant ipilimumab therapy given at
      either 10 mg/kg (HIP) or 3 mg/kg (LIP).

      II. Among patients enrolled by Clinical Community Oncology programs (CCOPs), to compare the
      global quality of life (QOL) between the ipilimumab arms versus HDI using Functional
      Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-General (G) form and to evaluate the effect of
      treatment-related side effects that may have an impact on the health-related domains of QOL
      using Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT)-diarrhea (D) and
      FACT-biological response modifiers (BRM).

      OUTLINE: Patients age >= 18 are randomized to Arms A, B, or C and patients ages 12-17 are
      randomized to Arms D, E, or F.

      ARM A: Patients receive induction high-dose ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on
      day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 4 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on week 24, patients receive maintenance
      high-dose ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 90 days for a
      maximum of 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (closed
      accrual as of 4/4/14) (adult accrual has completed to Arms A, B, and C as of 8/15/2014)

      ARM B: Patients receive induction high-dose recombinant interferon alfa-2b IV over 20 minutes
      on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, and 22-26 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients then receive maintenance high-dose recombinant interferon alfa-2b
      subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every week for 48 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (adult accrual has completed to Arms
      A, B, and C as of 8/15/2014)

      ARM C: Patients receive induction low-dose ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for a total of 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on week 24, patients receive maintenance low-dose ipilimumab
      IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 90 days for a maximum of 4 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (adult accrual has completed to
      Arms A, B, and C as of 8/15/2014)

      ARM D: Patients receive induction high-dose ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for a total of 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on week 24, patients receive maintenance high-dose
      ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 90 days for a maximum of 4
      courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM E: Patients receive induction high-dose recombinant interferon alfa-2b IV over 20 minutes
      on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, and 22-26 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Patients then receive maintenance high-dose recombinant interferon alfa-2b SC on
      days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every week for 48 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity

      ARM F: Patients receive induction low-dose ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for a total of 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on week 24, patients receive maintenance low-dose ipilimumab
      IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 90 days for a maximum of 4 courses in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 3 years, and then yearly for up to 15 years.
    
  