
    
      In the United States, the postpartum period is a critical time for both maternal and child
      health, the mortality rate is the highest among other developed, high income countries and
      more than half of all maternal deaths occur postpartum, from one day to one year after birth.
      This poor outcome is linked to the racial and ethnic disparities that disproportionately
      effect black women who are 3-4 times more likely to experience maternal mortality than white
      women. Recently, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists recognized the
      deficiencies in postpartum care and coined the term the 'fourth trimester' to mark the time
      following the birth of the infant through the first 3-months postpartum, and updated its
      recommendations to address these challenges. With impacts to health outcomes and healthcare
      costs, there is a need to holistically bridge the gap for low-income and/or ethnically
      diverse groups of women to address the physical, cultural, and knowledge barriers to
      accessing quality postpartum care.

      To improve the rate at which underserved women are disproportionately affected by maternal
      mortality and morbidity, the investigators need to engage women leading into and specifically
      during the postpartum period to identity areas of need, and to provide tools which reduce
      barriers for women to get appropriate postpartum care. Technology offers innovative solutions
      to challenges around equal information access. Pregnant women often turn to the internet to
      find out more information about their health and their developing babies health. Yet, studies
      find that mothers are not finding sufficient resources to match their postpartum needs.

      To address this gap in care, this project aims to develop a mobile tool designed to increase
      accessibility to information and practical approaches for addressing the complex needs of
      women in this 'fourth trimester'. This tool will specifically focus on underserved women who
      are at greatest risk of adverse postpartum outcomes.
    
  