
    
      The course of COPD is frequently complicated by periods of exacerbation (worsening symptoms)
      related to infections, pollution, other diseases or poor management of disease. These periods
      result in urgent visits to physician offices or emergency rooms accounting for the leading
      cause of hospitalizations. In terms of patient care, physicians lack objective measurements
      to accurately risk-stratify patients and monitor the effectiveness of interventions provided
      for their patients. Regrettably, there are no blood tests that can predict who will and will
      not get AECOPD to require hospitalization. Additionally, current therapies for COPD are only
      modestly effective in reducing exacerbations. A major challenge in COPD drug development and
      patient care is the lack of markers, surrogate or otherwise, that can be used to predict
      outcomes such as hospitalization or mortality.

      These critical barriers to drug development and improved patient care could be addressed by
      the development and clinical implementation of diagnostic and predictive AECOPD biomarkers.
      This is the aim of an already existing and related study titled "Clinical Implementation and
      Outcomes Evaluation of Blood-Based Biomarkers for COPD Management study". This study has been
      enrolling COPD patients since July 2012. The majority of the the study patients were on
      prednisone at the time of blood collection and at enrollment.

      The analyses of publicly available datasets make it abundantly clear that prednisone has
      important and wide-ranging effects on peripheral whole blood gene expression. These data are
      insufficient, however, because they cannot inform disease specific effects on gene
      expression. In addition, because these studies were carried out using a different gene
      expression platform, they cannot be used to estimate the probeset-specific prednisone
      effects.

      Therefore, the investigators need to ensure that the gene expression associated with AECOPD
      is not in fact a result of the drug effect. Conducting this study will help us answer this
      question.
    
  