
    
      Studies have shown that gut microbes can influence numerous aspects of human biology, and
      alterations in the function and composition of gut microbial flora (microbiota) play a major
      role in the pathogenesis of diverse human illnesses such as chronic inflammation, diabetes
      mellitus, and cardiovascular diseases. Gut microbes provide protection against pathogenic
      organisms, contribute to energy metabolism, serve a clear role in the development and
      modulation of the human gut immune system, and participate in nitrogen and micronutrient
      homeostasis by synthesizing amino acids and various vitamins. However, whether the
      composition of gut microbes is altered in human with renal failure has not been clearly
      demonstrated. Furthermore, whether alterations in the gut microbiota due to renal failure
      contribute to development of co-morbid conditions associated with CKD has never been
      examined. There are several lines of evidence to suggest that the gut microbiota is likely
      altered in patients with CKD. It has been established that protein assimilation in the small
      intestine is impaired in CKD .

      To examine the impact of renal failure on the composition of gut microbiota we are studying
      patients with renal failure due to polycystic kidney disease (PKD). PKD is the fourth leading
      cause of kidney failure, and is the most common genetic kidney disease. Compared to patients
      with renal failure due to diabetic nephropathy, hypertension, and glomerulonephritis,
      patients with PKD have virtually no major co-morbid medical conditions or associated medical
      interventions (i.e. antimicrobial or anti-inflammatory therapies) that could potentially
      alter the gut microbiota, and confound the interpretation of data.

      Objectives

        1. To compare the gut microbiota in fecal samples of PKD patients with different degrees of
           renal disease.

        2. To determine whether alteration in the composition of gut microbiota is linked to serum
           levels of metabolites and uremic solutes that are known to be associated with symptoms
           of uremia.
    
  