
    
      Study design: national, multi-centre, double-blind randomized controlled trial

      Duration: 6 months, with 3 visits in the hospitals (at t=0, t=3 months and t=6 months)

      Setting: Patients are recruited at out-patient asthma clinics in secondary and tertiary care
      hospitals in the Netherlands.

      Description: Three hundred ten children (6 to 17 years of age) with a doctor's diagnosis of
      asthma and uncontrolled asthma symptoms despite adherent and adequate use of ICS for at least
      three months (step 2 asthma treatment) will be recruited by secondary and tertiary care
      centers in the Netherlands. All participants are eligible for step-up asthma treatment (from
      step 2 to step 3) as assessed by the treating paediatrician/paediatric pulmonologist.
      Participants will be randomized to a genotype-guided treatment arm (n=155) or to a usual
      care, non-genotype guided arm (n=155) and followed for 6 months.

      Genotyping before start treatment During the baseline visit in the hospital, clinical data
      and biological samples (including a DNA sample) will be collected. Upon this visit, the DNA
      sample will be send to the Clinical Chemistry department of the Erasmus MC (Head: Prof. R.
      van Schaik) to perform genotyping of the ADRB2 gene within one week. The treating physician
      will adapt the treatment regime of the participant based on the treatment advice of the study
      coordinator (Table 1). For the children in the genotype-arm, this will be based on the
      genotype. The treating physician will not know (be blinded) whether the treatment advice was
      based on the genotype (intervention arm) or based on randomization (control arm). The
      participant will be followed for 6 months. If the participant is still uncontrolled at t=3
      months, treatment will be adapted. All children will be genotyped, in order to assess the
      influence of the genotype on treatment outcome in the usual arm group retrospectively. The
      children should use the same inhalation device during the study to avoid confusion on how
      they should inhale their medication.

      Furthermore, to test the hypothesis it is necessary to include enough children in the control
      group with Arg16Arg or Arg16Gly to be treated with LABA. The amount of children treated with
      LABA and ICS should be equal in the control group. Therefore children are randomized in the
      control group over doubling ICS (n=77) and adding LABA (n=77). This will lead to an estimated
      number of children with Arg16Arg or Arg16Gly of 51 who will get LABA add on. In this way the
      power is high enough to determine the effectivity of both treatment options in the three
      genotypes. The investigators find it important to define effectivity next to the question
      whether genotyping benefits children with asthma. In the control group DNA samples will be
      obtained for retrospective analysis.

      It is safe to randomise the children again who are randomised within the control arm, because
      treatment with a double dose of ICS and adding a LABA are both standard of care. A Cochrane
      review from 2009 has shown that both treatments have proven to be equally effective in both
      children and adults Randomisation in the control arm is important because it would be futile
      if the children in this arm would be treated with the same therapy by accident. Randomisation
      is necessary to make the trial as small and effective as possible. At this moment physicians
      do not have the tools to determine which therapy is the best for every child. This is why the
      investigators think it is correct to randomise in the control arm.
    
  