
    
      Fragmentation in health care and poor communication across systems adversely impact
      engagement and adherence to treatment by children with ADHD and their families. Fragmentation
      of services for ADHD impairs communication and collaboration between families and primary
      care providers, mental health providers, and educators, and leads to suboptimal outcomes for
      children. Prior studies have documented that little communication and coordination exist
      among providers across different systems despite calls for better system integration.

      Fragmentation in communication between providers has the potential to impair shared
      decision-making. To promote shared decision-making, we developed an electronic health record
      (EHR)-linked portal to collect information from parents, teachers and clinicians on
      children's ADHD symptoms and treatment-related preferences and goals. This has become
      standard of care at our institution. We also developed and pilot tested a ADHD Care Manager
      intervention which will be employed in this comparative effectiveness study.

      303 participants were recruited from 11 primary care pediatric practices. Participants were
      randomly assigned to either the EHR portal alone, or the EHR portal plus a Care Manager. For
      those assigned to the EHR portal plus Care Manager, the Care Manager met with families at the
      beginning of the study to confirm their treatment preferences and goals, provide additional
      education on ADHD treatment, and distribute handouts on common concerns among ADHD patients
      and families. The Care Manager contacted families every 3 months or more frequently if needed
      by phone, email, or in-person to assess treatment use, identify new concerns, and assist
      families with problem-solving. The Care Manager also communicated with primary care
      clinicians, mental health providers, and teachers to clarify family treatment preferences and
      goals and address emerging treatment issues. Participants completed surveys that assessed
      ADHD symptoms, goal attainment, patient-reported outcomes, patient and family engagement, and
      treatment initiation and adherence.
    
  