
    
      The objectives of this study are: to obtain data on the prevalence and incidence of
      structural heart disease in a population setting; to show the spatial distribution different
      patterns of structural heart disease through the spectrum of age and sex and between urban
      and rural; and to generate new hypotheses which might serve to healthcare research and to
      political commitment to obtain resources and support effective public health program
      implementation.

      The SALMANTICOR study is a cross-sectional descriptive population-based study of the
      prevalence of structural heart disease and their risk factors that will enroll a total of
      2400 individuals, stratifies by place of residence (rural and urban), by age and by sex, in a
      Spanish community: Salamanca. Cohort participants will undergo a basal examination visit
      between 2015 and 2018. Surviving participants are expected to return for a 5 and 10-year
      follow-up visit. Institutional review committee approval was obtained and all participants
      will provide informed consent. The SALMANTICOR study is designed to provide echocardiographic
      parameters characterizing cardiac structure and function in all individuals. Medical history,
      surveys completion, and examinations will be obtained at the subject´s primary care referral
      center and will be analyzed and interpreted centrally at University Hospital of Salamanca. A
      complete medical history, physical examination and the surveys completion checkout will be
      performed by a cardiologist in a separate office to where examinations and blood sample
      extraction will be performed. Echocardiographic measures will be initially performed.
      Participant blood pressure and VASERA measures will be taken within 30 minutes of starting
      the echocardiographic exam and after the subject will be resting for 10 minutes. ECG will be
      performed after VASERA to finalize with the blood sample extraction. A magnetic resonance
      substudy and and a details analyses in diabetic individuals will also performed. SALMANTICOR
      participants will undergo surveillance for cardiovascular events, including heart failure,
      incident coronary heart disease, and all-cause mortality.
    
  