
    
      This study is being discontinued due to issues regarding the comparator, cefepime. In Nov
      2007 FDA issued a MedWatch regarding cefepime and the trial was suspended. As of May 14, 2008
      the FDA was still evaluating the data on cefepime and final follow up is pending. There were
      no safety issues with ceftobiprole in this study based on the enrollment of 2 subjects in
      September of 2007. The study is being discontinued for administrative reasons. Ceftobiprole
      medocaril is a cephalosporin antibiotic with anti-MRSA (Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus
      Aureus) activity. Ceftobiprole is not yet approved, but undergoing regulatory review for
      treatment of skin infections. This is a randomized (patients are assigned to receive the
      different treatments under study based on chance), double-blind (neither the patient nor the
      physician knows whether the drug being investigated or the comparator agent is being taken),
      multicenter study of treatment with ceftobiprole medocaril versus treatment with a comparator
      in patients 18 years of age or older, who have fever and neutropenia after chemotherapy for
      cancer that requires intravenous therapy. Patients will be randomly assigned to receive
      either ceftobiprole medocaril or comparator. In addition, patients in the comparator group
      who are at risk of serious infections due to gram-positive pathogens (disease-causing
      bacteria) may also receive an antibiotic with MRSA activity. The study will consist of the
      following 3 phases: a prerandomization phase (includes screening and baseline assessments); a
      treatment phase, and a follow-up phase consisting of a primary efficacy visit and a late
      follow-up visit. The primary endpoint is the clinical cure rate. The total duration of of the
      study is determined by the time to resolution of fever and neutropenia and the conditions
      associated with the episode of fever and neutropenia. This is followed by the primary
      efficacy visit (7 to 10 days after the end of therapy) and the late follow-up visit (28 to 35
      days after the end of treatment). Cultures (samples of blood or other suspected sites of
      infection) will be collected during the study as well as blood samples for hematology and
      chemistry (safety assessments). All adverse events will also be reported throughout the study
      and for about 4 to 5 weeks after the last dose of study drug. Patients will be randomized to
      either ceftobiprole or comparator for approximately 7 to 14 days.
    
  