
    
      The focus of this study is to improve walking symmetry in order to optimize walking ability
      and reduce disability for Veterans with non-traumatic lower limb amputation (LLA). Over 80%
      of current LLAs are non-traumatic, resulting from complications of pathologies, such as
      diabetes mellitus and peripheral artery disease. Despite current declines in total amputation
      rate among Veterans, the population with non-traumatic LLA is growing. For example, from 2000
      to 2004 the relative amputation rate decreased by 34%. However, due to an increase in the
      number of Veterans with diabetes during the same period, the population of Veterans with
      diabetes and initial LLA increased by 23%. Following LLA, excessive gait asymmetry is common.
      Asymmetric gait characteristics are of critical importance as excessive asymmetry may
      increase the severity of disability experienced by people with non-traumatic LLA and
      contribute to secondary pain conditions (low back pain and osteoarthritis), poor gait
      efficiency, declines in physical performance, and compromised skin integrity of the residual
      limb. Compared to individuals with traumatic LLA, the poor gait performance of those with
      non-traumatic LLA is further compounded by older age, lower premorbid function, presence of
      comorbidities, frequent wound development, and delayed healing in the residual limb. While
      improving gait symmetry is a goal of conventional prosthetic rehabilitation, persistence of
      gait asymmetry for years after LLA highlights the ineffectiveness of current rehabilitation
      practices in achieving this goal. As a means of improving gait symmetry, this study aims to
      determine the efficacy of error-manipulation gait training using two approaches
      (error-augmentation and error-correction) compared to current standard-of-care in a three-arm
      randomized controlled trial. Error-manipulation gait training intervention will be delivered
      in eight training sessions (2x/week, 4 weeks) with 54 Veterans (18 per intervention group, 18
      in control group) who have non-traumatic, unilateral, transtibial LLA. It is unclear which,
      if either, form of error-manipulation gait training is efficacious for improving persistent
      gait symmetry in Veterans with non-traumatic LLA. Error-augmentation gait training is a
      promising and novel intervention that involves exaggerating an existing movement error to
      force the neuromuscular system to correct the error. While this form of gait training
      improved gait symmetry in small studies of individuals with chronic stroke or traumatic
      amputation, it has yet to be evaluated in older Veterans with non-traumatic LLA. In contrast,
      error-correction training involves reducing movement errors by overcorrecting for asymmetry.
      Both error-augmentation and error-correction gait training are based upon motor learning
      principles of distributed practice, task specificity, and feedback. Each of these
      error-manipulation interventions have potential advantages over traditional gait training
      following LLA which involves repeated bouts of walking with minimal feedback on movement
      quality and is often unsupervised. Therefore, the primary aim of this study is to determine
      the efficacy of error-manipulation gait training to improve gait symmetry. A secondary aim is
      to evaluate signals of efficacy for improved secondary measures of physical function. Lastly,
      this study will explore changes to residual limb skin health and prosthesis socket fit
      following error-manipulation gait training. The unique use of motor learning principles in
      error-manipulation gait training to improve gait symmetry addresses the problem of chronic
      gait asymmetry following non-traumatic LLA. The results of this study will advance
      rehabilitation knowledge and provide necessary evidence for the clinical translation of gait
      training protocols based in motor learning principles for the at-risk population of Veterans
      with non-traumatic LLA.
    
  