
    
      ALS is a motor neuron disease characterized by a progressive degeneration of motor neurons in
      the brain, brainstem, and spinal cord. Degeneration of the upper and lower motor neurons (UMN
      and LMN) leads to spasticity, impaired reflexes, muscle fatigue, muscle weakness and atrophy.
      PLS is a motor neuron disease involving exclusively the UMN system and Kennedy's disease is a
      genetic condition involving the LMN system. Those three different motor neuron diseases can
      lead to a dysarthria. Affected individuals with ALS vary significantly in the locus of
      disease onset, presentation at diagnosis and rate of progression. Regardless of the site of
      onset, most patients with ALS will experience bulbar motor deterioration that will lead to a
      dysarthria. According to Darley's classification of dysarthrias, dysarthria in ALS is grossly
      described as "mixed" (both spastic, due the UMN deterioration, and flaccid, due to the LMN
      deterioration). However, at the onset of bulbar signs, when the dysarthria is still mild,
      dysarthric profiles and bulbar clinical signs can vary within individuals. Perceptual and
      acoustic features of dysarthria in ALS have been studied but they have not been studied in
      dysarthric patients with PLS and KD. This study was motivated by the need to better
      understand the dysarthria in ALS and it's management in speech therapy. The goals of this
      study is to question the impact of the degeneration of the UMN system versus the LMN system
      on the speech motor system and see if the investigators can identify acoustic and perceptual
      markers related to UMN degeneration on one side and LMN degeneration on the other side. The
      investigators will compare acoustic and perceptual features between the recorded speech of
      different clinical groups. Clinical groups will be made according to clinical signs and EMG.
      The clinical signs for UMN involvement in the bulbar region are: gag reflex, jaw clonus,
      pseudobulbar features (lability). The clinical signs for LMN involvement are: lingual atrophy
      and fasciculation. The population will be composed by groups of ALS-LMN patients, ALS-UMN
      patients , PLS patients and KD patients and a control group already recruited by the LPP
      (Laboratoire de Phonétique et de Phonologie) team (CNRS...) which permitted to establish the
      standards of the "MonPaGe" tool that the investigators will use to analyse patients recorded
      speech. This tool is based on a multidimensional and quantified assessment of voice and
      speech, by a set of targeted acoustic and perceptual criteria.
    
  