
    
      Photoacoustic Computed Tomography (PACT) is a novel, non-invasive imaging technique which can
      perform deep tissue imaging with high spatial resolution and optical contrast. The system
      utilizes short-pulsed lasers to generate photoacoustic waves in biological tissues. These are
      then detected by a 512-element full-ring transducer array, which allows for high spatial
      resolution, especially in deep tissues. In addition, PACT utilizes diffuse optical
      tomography, in which the light absorption of hemoglobin at visible or near-infrared
      wavelengths, provides excellent contrast for the imaging of human vasculature.

      Prior studies of PACT imaging have evaluated this technique to image the human breast as an
      alternative modality for breast cancer screening as well as to image human extremities for
      the evaluation of vascular disease. The full-ring transducer array offers a significant
      advantage in spatial resolution, especially in deep tissues, over the standard linear arrays
      employed in the standard, widely-used handheld ultrasonic transducers. In addition, diffuse
      optical tomography allows for strong vascular contrast over a large field of view without the
      use of exogenous contrast agents.

      Flap reconstructive surgery utilizes a patient's own soft tissues to recreate structures,
      fill large soft tissue defects, provide joint coverage, or perform other reconstructive
      operations. Examples of patients who would require flap reconstructive surgery include
      patients undergoing mastectomies and patients who have suffered from trauma with significant
      tissue loss. Tissue flaps have a defined blood supply which originate from the original site
      of the tissue. The flap can be compromised if the arterial supply or venous drainage is
      jeopardized during tissue transfer. Therefore, an accurate understanding of the blood supply
      of the tissue flap is crucial for successful flap reconstructive surgery.

      Current pre-operative vascular imaging modalities for flap reconstructive surgery include
      handheld Doppler ultrasonography, magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), and the gold standard
      computed tomography angiography (CTA). Doppler ultrasonography is technician-dependent,
      inaccurate, and lacks optical contrast. MRA is expensive, requires a lengthy imaging time,
      and requires the administration of intravenous contrast. CTA is also expensive, also requires
      the administration of intravenous contrast, and requires the administration of ionizing
      radiation. PACT does not require the administration of intravenous contrast or ionizing
      radiation, and provides excellent spatial resolution and optical contrast. Therefore, PACT
      would be an optimal pre-operative vascular imaging modality for flap reconstructive surgery.
    
  