
    
      Specific Aims:

      Infants who are discharged from the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) almost invariably
      have high levels of health care needs in the first year after discharge, requiring multiple
      sub specialist visits, medications, and/or medical technology needs. Parents of NICU infants
      are often overwhelmed by the needs of their infants after they are discharged home and
      frequently have few supports to help them cope. This study will investigate the impact of
      peer to peer support through a Parent Navigation program for NICU graduates and their
      parents. The study aims will be achieved through a randomized controlled trial of Parent
      Navigation using a care resource notebook as the control intervention.

      The specific aims of this study are to:

        1. Determine if Parent Navigation increases overall parental self-efficacy and decreases
           stress among parents caring for a child with a special health care need (CSHCN) when
           measured at repeated time points during the 12 months after NICU discharge.

           Hypothesis 1a: Parent Navigation will increase parental self-efficacy, when compared
           with the control group.

           Hypothesis 1b: Parent Navigation will decrease parenting stress, when compared with the
           control group.

        2. Determine if Parent Navigation improves overall levels of anxiety and depression in
           parents of children with special health care needs when measured repeatedly during the
           12 months after NICU discharge.

           Hypothesis 2a: Parent Navigation will improve parent anxiety, compared with control
           group.

           Hypothesis 2b: Parent Navigation will lessen parent depression, compared with control
           group.

        3. Determine if Parent Navigation positively impacts on infant health outcomes during the
           12 months after NICU discharge.

      Hypothesis 3a: Parent Navigation/Intervention group will have significantly fewer
      hospitalizations when compared with control group.

      Hypothesis 3b: Parent Navigation will have significantly fewer emergency department (ED)
      visits, when compared with control group.

      Hypothesis 3c: Parent Navigation will result in improved immunization status, when compared
      with control group.

      Hypothesis 3d. By supporting parents' emotional function, infant developmental progress will
      be enhanced.

      Background :

      NICU parents experience high levels of stress, anxiety, and depression, and low levels of
      self-efficacy. Neonates comprise one of the largest groups of medically complex infants in
      the United States. Of the 4 million live births in 2012, 11.5% (~460,000) were born preterm
      at < 37 weeks gestation. The District of Columbia alone has a higher rate (12.8%) of preterm
      infants, which is 11% higher than the national average. The vast majority of infants born
      preterm and ~1% of full term infants with significant illnesses at birth (e.g., congenital
      anomalies) will require care in a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), and ~30% of infants
      being discharged from the NICU ("NICU graduates") annually (110,000 babies) require
      supplementary short -term or ongoing specialty care and have increased risk of long- term
      disability, including cerebral palsy, deafness, blindness, and neurodevelopmental impairment.
      At discharge, this large cohort of neonates and their families face tremendous challenges as
      they transition from a highly structured medical environment to a less structured home
      environment. Some challenges identified include feeling unprepared to care for their infant
      at home despite extensive teaching in the NICU setting, feeling socially isolated as the
      typical celebratory process of giving birth and going home with baby has been disrupted by a
      serious medical condition and prolonged hospital stay. Additionally, depression and anxiety
      among mothers of infants have been shown to be associated with infant feeding difficulties,
      suboptimal parenting practices, and altered health care utilization.

      Parent navigation is a unique patient -centered intervention in which parents with experience
      caring for their own child with special health care need offer peer to peer support and
      mentoring to another parent of a child with a special health care need. In 2008, Children's
      National instituted a Parent Navigation program, in which Parent Navigators (PNs), who are
      parents of children with special health care needs, are employed by CN to provide peer to
      peer support to other parents of children with special health care need . These parents
      provide their own personal experience and expertise in navigating the often confusing and
      frustrating health care systems. Although the PN model is based on self-efficacy and social
      support models, there are no published studies on the impact of PN on parental self-efficacy,
      depression, stress, and infant health outcomes. The investigators believe that neonates and
      their caregivers would benefit from peer to peer support provided by PNs after discharge.
      Currently, there are no data regarding the impact of PNs on patient and family outcomes of
      the NICU graduate.

      Preliminary Studies:

      As a first phase of this study, the investigators conducted focus groups with parents of
      recently discharged NICU infants (4 focus groups, n=18 participants), parent navigators (1
      focus group n=3), parents (n=2), NICU social workers, case managers, and nurses (1 focus
      group, n=23); NICU providers (1 focus group, n=5) and community providers (n=2). The
      investigators' intervention is informed by this data.
    
  