
    
      The current standard therapeutic strategy for RA patients is to initiate a DMARDs therapy,
      (e.g. MTX) with serious side effects. This also applies to some PSO or SNSA patients. MTX is
      however inefficient in about 40% of the cases. Other treatments (biological DMARDs) must thus
      be initiated, which have an overall similar effectiveness and side effects and an higher cost
      (around 13kEUR/year/patient). Therapeutic choices are based on symptoms and blood tests
      including markers of inflammation which are inadequate to predict disease evolution and
      response to treatments. Improving RA management requires to improve the adequacy of the
      therapeutic strategies. The earlier the disease is correctly addressed, the more likely its
      progression and irreversible damages to the joints will be limited. DNAlytics recently
      developed RheumaKit a differential diagnostic solution for UA patients. UA is a condition in
      which joint inflammation is present, but a precise diagnosis cannot be made, due to the lack
      of sensitivity of presently available diagnostic techniques. RheumaKit is a multi-gene
      expression solution that discriminates RA from other joint conditions. A diagnostic model
      train to identify patients suffering from RA, SNSA or OA. RheumaKit diagnostic accuracy is
      higher than 90%, a performance that is better than any other diagnostic solution designed
      until now, including the ACR/EULAR 2010 criteria for the diagnosis of RA. See working
      principle below. Beyond diagnosis, DNAlytics wants to make RheumaKit evolve towards treatment
      recommendation applications (theranostic applications) for patients eligible for biological
      DMARDs. On one hand, the diseases of these patients have been more and more described in
      terms of the activity of several metabolic pathways (T & B cells activation, Extra cellular
      matrix, Inteferon, TNF). On the other hand, the existing treatments also have been more and
      more described in terms of the pathways they target. The RheumaKit signature contains many
      markers that are representative of these pathways of interest. RheumaKit thus now provides a
      snapshot of the activity of seven metabolic pathways known from literature to be related to
      diseases mechanisms, or to be target of existing treatments. In this study, DNAlytics wants
      to show that based on a score defined on the RheumaKit platform, the response or non-
      response to anti-TNFs, representing the largest category of biological DMARDs, can be
      predicted before treatment initiation.
    
  