
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the complete response (CR) + near-complete response (nCR) rate of the
      bortezomib/pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride)
      regimen in patients with previously untreated, symptomatic multiple myeloma.

      II. To evaluate the toxicity of the bortezomib/pegylated liposomal doxorubicin regimen in
      patients with previously untreated, symptomatic multiple myeloma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the overall response rate, including patients with CR, nCR, and partial
      response (PR), of the bortezomib/pegylated liposomal doxorubicin regimen in patients with
      previously untreated, symptomatic multiple myeloma.

      II. To evaluate the impact of therapy with the bortezomib/pegylated liposomal doxorubicin
      regimen on the ability to collect peripheral blood stem cells in those patients going on to
      subsequent autologous stem cell transplantation.

      III. To evaluate the time to progression (TTP) in all patients receiving bortezomib/pegylated
      liposomal doxorubicin therapy, both those who go on to autologous stem cell transplantation
      and those who do not go on to transplantation.

      IV. To evaluate the value of early changes in levels of serum interleukin 6 (IL-6) and
      macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha (MIP-1α) as predictors of response to
      bortezomib/pegylated liposomal doxorubicin.

      V. To correlate pre-treatment clinical and biological characteristics with response to
      therapy and toxicity.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive bortezomib intravenously (IV) over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 and
      pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on day 4. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 weeks for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  