
    
      Background:

        -  Multiple myeloma (MM) is a malignancy of plasma cells.

        -  MM is nearly always incurable.

        -  T cells can be genetically modified to express chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that
           specifically target malignancy-associated antigens.

        -  Autologous T cells genetically modified to express CARs targeting the B-cell antigen
           CD19 have caused complete remissions in a small number of patients with leukemia or
           lymphoma. These results demonstrate that CAR-expressing T cells have anti-malignancy
           activity in humans.

        -  B-cell maturation antigen (BCMA) is a protein expressed by normal plasma cells and the
           malignant plasma cells of multiple myeloma.

        -  BCMA is not expressed by normal cells except for plasma cells and some mature B cells.

        -  We have constructed a novel anti-BCMA CAR that can specifically recognize BCMA-
           expressing target cells in vitro and eradicate BCMA-expressing tumors in mice.

        -  This CAR has an antigen-recognition domain made up of a single fully-human heavy chain
           variable region.

        -  We hypothesize that anti-BCMA-CAR-expressing T cells will specifically eliminate BCMA-
           expressing MM cells in patients

        -  Possible toxicities include cytokine-associated toxicities such as fever, hypotension,
           and neurological toxicities. Elimination of normal plasma cells and unknown toxicities
           are also possible.

      Objectives:

      Primary

      - Determine the safety and feasibility of administering T cells expressing an anti-BCMA CAR
      to patients with MM.

      Eligibility:

        -  Greater than or equal to 18 years of age and less than or equal to age 73.

        -  Patients must have measurable MM defined as a serum M-protein greater than or equal to
           1.0 g/dL or a urine M- protein greater than or equal to 200 mg/24 hours or an involved
           serum free light chain (FLC) level greater than or equal to 10 mg/dL (provided FLC ratio
           is abnormal) or a biopsy-proven plasmacytoma of 2.0 cm or more in largest dimension, or
           greater than or equal to 30% bone marrow plasma cells

        -  Patients must have previously received at least 3 different treatment regimens for MM.

        -  Patients must have prior exposure to an IMiD such as lenalidomide, and a proteasome
           inhibitor

        -  Patients must have a creatinine level of less than or equal to 1.5 mg/dL

        -  Patients must have a cardiac ejection fraction greater than or equal to 50%.

        -  An ECOG performance status of 0-2 is required.

        -  Patients on any anticoagulant medications except aspirin are not eligible.

        -  No active infections are allowed.

        -  Absolute neutrophil count greater than or equal to 1000/microliters, platelet count
           greater than or equal to 55,000/ microliters, hemoglobin greater than or equal to 8g/dL

        -  ALT and AST less than or equal to 2.5-fold higher than the upper limit of normal.

        -  At least 14 days must elapse between the time of any prior systemic treatment (including
           corticosteroids) and the required leukapheresis.

        -  At least 14 days must elapse between the time of any prior systemic treatment (including
           corticosteroids) and initiation of protocol treatment.

        -  The patient s MM will need to be assessed for BCMA expression by flow cytometry or
           immunohistochemistry performed at the NIH. The myeloma must express BCMA. If unstained,
           paraffin-embedded bone marrow or plasmacytoma sections are available from prior
           biopsies, these can be used to determine BCMA expression by immunohistochemistry;
           otherwise patients will need to come to the NIH for a bone marrow biopsy or other biopsy
           of a plasmacytoma to determine BCMA expression. The sample for BCMA expression can come
           from a biopsy obtained at any time before enrollment.

      Design:

        -  This is a phase I dose-escalation trial

        -  Patients will undergo leukapheresis

        -  T-cells obtained by leukapheresis will be genetically modified to express an anti-BCMA
           CAR

        -  Patients will receive a lymphocyte-depleting chemotherapy conditioning regimen with the
           intent of enhancing the activity of the infused anti-BCMA-CAR-expressing T cells.

        -  The chemotherapy conditioning regimen is cyclophosphamide 300 mg/m^2 daily for 3 days
           and fludarabine 30 mg/m2 daily for 3 days. Fludarabine will be given on the same days as
           the cyclophosphamide.

        -  After the chemotherapy ends, the patients will have two days with no treatments then
           receive an infusion of anti-BCMA- CAR-expressing T cells.

        -  The initial dose level will be 0.75x10^6 CAR+ T cells/kg of recipient bodyweight.

        -  The cell dose administered will be escalated until a maximum tolerated dose is
           determined.

        -  Following the T-cell infusion, there will be a mandatory 9-day minimum inpatient
           hospitalization to monitor for toxicity.

        -  Outpatient follow-up is planned for 2 weeks, and 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, and 12 months after
           the CAR T-cell infusion. Afterwards, follow-up will be every six months up to at least 5
           years.
    
  