
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      This Phase 1 clinical study will aim to determine whether therapeutically adequate dosages of
      guanabenz are safe and well tolerated in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). It will
      further provide pharmacokinetic data important for determination of optimal dosing schedule
      for possible future Phase 2 study.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      Six patients, ages between 18-55 inclusive, and diagnosis of definite multiple sclerosis by
      2010 Revised McDonald Diagnostic Criteria (Polman et al, 2010) will be enrolled. All patients
      will have been on treatment with glatiramer acetate, a Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
      approved disease-modifying therapy, for a minimum of year. Four of the patients will be
      clinically stable with no clinical relapse in the preceding year and no evidence of active
      inflammation by MRI during the 2-month screening period; 2 patients will be selected based on
      evidence of on-going, active inflammation seen by MRI during the screening period.

      DESIGN:

      In this open-label, single site, dose escalation study, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of
      guanabenz in MS patients will be determined. Patients will be screened for participation
      under the existing MS natural history study 89-N-0045. Sequential patient enrollment will be
      spaced at least 6 weeks apart. Five study drug doses will be explored: 4mg, 8mg, 16mg, 32mg
      and 64mg. Dose escalation will ensue if the preceding dose is tolerated, defined both by
      patient-reported outcomes and objective clinical and imaging assessments. Patients will be
      maintained on lower doses (4mg-16mg) for 14 days and on higher doses (32 and 64mg) for 28
      days.

      OUTCOMES:

      The primary outcome is MTD, defined as the maximum dose that produces dose-limiting toxicity
      (DLT) in at most 2 out of the 6 participants. Secondary outcomes include patient-reported
      outcomes, objective clinical and imaging assessments at 32mg and 64mg, and pharmacokinetics.
    
  