
    
      Background

      Prolonged afferent nociceptive input induces an increase in the excitability of central
      sensory neurons. The hyperexcitable neurons amplify the nociceptive signal, thereby producing
      an exaggerated pain response. This state of central hypersensitivity very likely contributes
      to pain and disability in patients, even in the presence of limited tissue damage.

      The 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 (5-HT-3) receptor is involved in spinal nociceptive transmission.
      After experimentally induced inflammation, the selective 5-HT-3 receptor antagonist
      ondansetron inhibited the electrically evoked responses of dorsal horn neurones, but had no
      effect on these responses in the absence of inflammation. Importantly, the origin of this
      pathway is a spino-brainstem-spinal loop that includes areas of the brain involved in
      emotional and affective responses to pain. This suggests that the 5-HT-3 receptors have no
      significant role under normal conditions, but are activated by peripheral inflammation and
      contribute to spinal cord hyperexcitability. Their activity could be driven by anxiety and
      fear.

      Spinal cord hyperexcitability elicited by trauma, inflammation or surgery is influenced by
      descending facilitatory and inhibitory pathways. The periaqueductal grey and endogenous
      opioid peptides play a central role in the inhibition of spinal cord neuronal responses.
      Release of enkephalin at supraspinal and spinal levels is evoked by noxious stimulation.
      Further inhibitory modulation is exerted by serotonergic and noradrenergic systems. These
      mechanisms may underlie a possible role of psychological disturbances in the spinal cord
      processing of nociceptive and non-nociceptive stimuli.

      While central hypersensitivity mechanisms have been extensively investigated in the animal,
      data in patients are sparse. In patients, direct measurements at spinal cord or brain neurons
      can not be made. Therefore, it is impossible to provide direct evidence for neuronal
      hyperexcitability. However, hypersensitivity can be investigated indirectly by quantitative
      sensory tests. Typically, hypersensitivity is detected when sensory stimulation evokes pain
      at stimulus intensities that do not induce pain in normal subjects (lower pain threshold) or
      when a standardised painful stimulus evokes stronger pain in patients than in normal
      subjects. Other methods to explore the sensory system are available, but a detailed
      description is beyond the scope of this section. Whenever pain hypersensitivity is observed
      after sensory stimulation of healthy areas, its cause must be a hyperexcitability of the
      central nervous system. Indeed, there is no evidence that peripheral mechanisms could account
      for a higher pain sensitivity at healthy tissues.

      Using the sensory tests, central hyperexcitability has been detected in different chronic
      musculoskeletal pain syndromes, such as neck pain after whiplash injury, fibromyalgia,
      osteoarthritis and temporomandibular disorders. Objective electrophysiological evidence for
      spinal cord hypersensitivity has recently been provided for patients with neck pain after
      whiplash injury and in fibromyalgia patients.

      Few attempts have been made to modulate central hypersensitivity in patients. Infiltration of
      the local anaesthetic into the painful and tender muscles of patients with chronic neck pain
      did not reduce either neck pain nor pain thresholds. This indicated that the source of pain
      was not located in the infiltrated muscles and central hypersensitivity was not maintained by
      a nociceptive input arising from these muscles, at least in the patient population
      investigated. Selective 5-HT-3 receptor antagonists have proven effective in patients with
      fibromyalgia. Because fibromyalgia is associated with central hypersensitivity, one can
      postulate an activation of the spinal 5-HT-3 system as one of the mechanisms involved in the
      pathophysiology of this pain syndrome. The facilitatory pathway mediated by this receptor
      involves parts of the brain associated with emotional and affective responses to pain. An
      effect of selective 5-HT-3 receptor antagonists on other musculoskeletal pain syndromes
      associated with central hypersensitivity, such as whiplash or osteoarthritis, can not be
      ruled out. In a recent placebo-controlled study, a single intravenous injection of the
      selective 5-HT-3 receptor antagonist Ondansetron produced pain relief in patients with
      neuropathic pain.

      Objective

      The project will address the following main hypotheses. A. Reduction in pain and central
      hypersensitivity is accomplished by administration of the 5-HT-3 antagonist tropisetron.

      B. The analgesic effect of Tropisetron is predicted in individual patients by the
      electrophysiological measurements that assess central hypersensitivity.

      Methods

      Pain intensity is assessed by the visual analogue scale (VAS). The following measures of
      central hypersensitivity will be employed: pain detection and pain tolerance threshold to
      electrical stimulation, heat and cold stimulation, spinal nociceptive reflexes, assessment of
      reflex receptive fields and temporal summation.
    
  