
    
      Nasolacrimal duct obstruction (NLDO) is a common ocular condition in the first year of life.
      Many cases will resolve spontaneously or with massage. Many studies of primary treatment of
      NLDO have been reported, however these case series have largely been retrospective,
      uncontrolled, and conducted in single centers. The substantial uncertainty regarding an
      estimate of spontaneous resolution is a primary reason for conducting the current study.

      Probing is the most widely-used initial treatment for NLDO in infancy. Our group recently
      completed a prospective observational study which found a 78% success proportion of probing
      among children aged 6 to <12 months. Other estimates of the success rate for probing vary
      between 69% and 92%.

      Two differing approaches to nasolacrimal probing have been most often been used: (1)
      immediate office probing (early probing - generally soon after 6 months of age) and (2)
      medical management (episodic antibiotic eye drops with massage of the lacrimal sac) until
      9-13 months of age followed by probing under general anesthesia or conscious sedation
      (deferred probing). The advantages of early probing are the avoidance of general anesthesia
      or conscious sedation, immediate resolution of symptoms, fewer physician visits, fewer
      antibiotic prescriptions, lesser cost per procedure, and possible prevention of fibrosis from
      inflammation in the nasolacrimal duct. The advantages of deferred probing include more
      subject comfort with the procedure and possible avoidance of a surgical procedure completely.

      The optimal approach to the management of NLDO in the first year of life remains uncertain.
      Our prospective observational data suggest a slightly reduced chance of success with
      immediate office probing (75% for office probing, 80% for facility probing), however,
      immediate office probing may be more cost-effective even if the proportion with success is
      lower. For a subject undergoing a single operation, immediate office probing is less
      expensive than deferred probing in a facility because there is no fee for anesthesia, the
      facility, or for medications prescribed during the pre-operative observation period. Some
      portion of this lower cost would be offset however by the additional cost of a second
      procedure if the initial office probing is not successful. Deferred facility probing is more
      expensive per procedure; however, the overall costs are reduced by the number of children
      whose NLDO spontaneously resolves while waiting to perform the procedure in a facility.

      The study is a randomized clinical trial which aims to determine the cost-effectiveness of
      treating NLDO using immediate office probing compared with deferred probing in a facility
      setting. As part of the primary objective, the study will determine the proportion of eyes
      experiencing spontaneous resolution among subjects randomized to the deferred probing group.
    
  