
    
      Background:

      Sedentary behavior is defined as a set of low-intensity activities involving limited body
      movement (e.g.: TV viewing, prolonged sitting). Some studies have found higher levels of
      childhood sedentary behavior predict higher body mass index (BMI) and metabolic
      abnormalities. We and others have found that interrupting sitting with short, 2-3 minute
      bouts of moderate activity (walking) can improve glucose tolerance during a single session.
      Thus, interrupting sedentary behavior may be an intervention strategy to reduce health risks.

      Objective:

      We propose to conduct a randomized pilot study to assess whether interrupting sedentary
      behavior for 6 consecutive days provides sustained improvement in carbohydrate metabolism
      without negatively impacting executive function, attention, mood, anxiety, dietary

      intake or usual physical activity.

      Design & Population:

      Using a randomized parallel group design, children, ages 7-11 years, will complete an
      assigned randomized condition of either 6 consecutive days of 3 hours of monitored sedentary
      activity (sitting) or 6 consecutive days of 3 hours of interrupted sitting (in which they
      will be prompted to walk for 3 minutes every 30 minutes).

      Outcome measures:

      Twenty-four-hour continuous glucose monitoring and postprandial insulin incremental area
      under the curve (iAUC) on post-condition oral glucose tolerance testing will be the primary
      measures. Secondary measures include: postprandial glucose iAUC, executive function,
      attention, mood, anxiety, dietary intake, and free-living physical activity.

      Impact:

      This project will investigate if consecutive daily interruption of sitting behaviors improves
      glucose tolerance, a potential negative health consequences of sedentary behavior in
      children. If repeatedly interrupting sitting with short bouts has sustained beneficial
      effects among children, interventions examining the frequency, duration, and intensity of
      such interruptions could be developed for use in the community setting. Thus, these results
      have the potential to provide insight into novel behavioral intervention targets in youth.
    
  