
    
      Background:

        -  Thyroid cancer is one of the fastest growing cancer diagnoses in the United States.

        -  Non-medullary thyroid cancer accounts for 95% of all thyroid cancer cases.

        -  Up to 8% of all non-medullary thyroid cancers are hereditary.

        -  Familial non-medullary thyroid cancer (FNMTC) is more aggressive than sporadic disease.

        -  No susceptibility gene for FNMTC has been identified.

        -  The best approach for screening at risk family members for FNMTC is unknown.

        -  This protocol is designed to determine the natural history and best screening strategy
           for FNMTC, and to identify susceptibility gene(s) for FNMTC.

      Objectives:

        -  To evaluate the natural history of FNMTC.

        -  To determine the best screening strategy for FNMTC.

        -  To identify susceptibility gene(s) for FNMTC.

      Eligibility:

      - An individual with 2 first-degree relatives who have or have had non-medullary thyroid
      cancer or a documented diagnosis of non-medullary thyroid cancer and one living relative with
      documented non-medullary thyroid cancer (Note: as this is a familial study, subjects do not
      need to present with the disease)

      Or

      Any member of an affected family.

        -  Age greater than 7 years

        -  Adults must be able to understand and sign the informed consent document

        -  Adults must be able to complete the family history questionnaire

      Design:

        -  Prospective observational study.

        -  Demographic, clinical and pathologic data will be collected from the medical record and
           patient interview for each patient participant and family members. Data will be securely
           stored in a computerized database. When possible, pathology slides and blocks will be
           obtained from all cases in the family for verification of diagnoses.

        -  Patients will be evaluated by family history pedigree, physical examination, imaging,
           and laboratory testing as indicated.

        -  Biospecimens, including peripheral blood or buccal cell samples as well as thyroid
           tissue (normal and affected by cancer), if participants have thyroidectomy, and thyroid
           cancer metastases tissue if patients undergo surgical removal of thyroid cancer
           metastases, will be collected for molecular analysis.

        -  After their initial on-study evaluation, patients who are not found to have a malignant
           thyroid tumor will be re-screened every year with non-invasive imaging studies.

        -  Treatment of patients with a thyroid neoplasm will be performed based on established
           clinical guidelines.

        -  Projected accrual will be 20 patients per year for a total of 15 years. Thus, we
           anticipate accruing 300 patients on this protocol.
    
  