
    
      OBJECTIVES

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the relative effectiveness of
      azithromycin and doxycycline in eradicating Mycoplasma genitalium and Ureaplasmas among men
      with nongonococcal urethritis (NGU).

      Secondary objectives of this study are to:

        -  determine the sensitivity of persisting organisms to azithromycin and doxycycline by
           performing minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) testing

        -  determine the relationship between persistence/recurrence of clinical signs and
           persistent/recurrent detection of M. genitalium and Ureaplasmas among men with NGU
           treated with azithromycin or doxycycline, measured by follow-up clinical exams and
           repeated assays performed on specimens collected at follow-up study visits

      STUDY DESCRIPTION

      1200 men with NGU, ages 16 and older, will be enrolled in a randomized double-blinded
      treatment trial. Urine samples, oral swabs, and urethral swabs will be obtained from each
      subject at the initial clinic visit. Urine specimens will be tested for M. genitalium and
      Ureaplasma. Study participants will be randomly assigned to receive one of two pre-packaged
      treatments: active doxycycline plus placebo azithromycin or active azithromycin plus placebo
      doxycycline. Subjects will complete a questionnaire, and will be given a simple standardized
      log in which they will be asked to keep track of adherence to the study drug, record
      solicited adverse events, note when symptoms disappear and/or reappear, and document sexual
      activity between study visits.

      Subjects who test positive for M. genitalium or Ureaplasmas at the initial clinic visit will
      be asked to return for at least two follow-up study visits: at approximately 3 and 6 weeks
      following the initial clinic visit. During follow-up visits, participants will answer a
      follow-up questionnaire and will be re-evaluated for signs of urethritis and re-tested for M.
      genitalium and Ureaplasmas. Study participants with signs and/or symptoms of urethritis or
      who test positive for M. genitalium or Ureaplasmas at the follow-up study visits will receive
      a blinded treatment packet containing the alternate medication, or will be offered open-label
      moxifloxacin if the alternate treatment regimen was administered at the prior follow-up study
      visit. If additional treatment is administered at the 6-week follow-up study visit, a fourth
      study visit will be scheduled to occur approximately 9 or 10 weeks following the initial
      clinic visit.

      Study participants who were negative for M. genitalium and Ureaplasma at enrollment will be
      asked to return for evaluation for a single follow-up study visit, approximately 3 weeks
      after the initial clinic visit. At this visit they will complete the follow-up questionnaire
      and provide specimens for future testing.
    
  