
    
      Participation in this research is entirely voluntary. Participants are required to complete a
      semi-screening assessment form which asks socio-demographic and bio-medical information. This
      form is also assess participants eligibility to take part. Then will ask participants to
      complete the Hospital and Depression Scale (HADS), Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Disease
      (SEMCD), Beck's Hopelessness Scale (BHS), Emotion Thermometer (ET), State Trait Anxiety
      Inventory (STAI) before and after (pre-post) their allocated intervention (arm). Participants
      have the right to answer as many or as few questions asked as they wish. They also have the
      right to withdraw from the study up to four weeks after they have completed the required
      psychometric measurement tools. Should they wish to withdraw then they will need to inform
      the researcher by email, quoting their unique participation identification code which will be
      generated before beginning the study using their name initials and date of birth. This will
      enable researcher to identify all the materials that needs to be deleted due to their
      withdrawal from the project. Alternatively, if they decide that they no longer want to take
      part in the study they can notify the researcher/clinician immediately and their recorded
      information (if any) will be completely erased from the study. Other than answering a number
      of demographic questions (in order to establish the characteristics of the sample),
      participants will not be directly disclosing any confidential personal information. However,
      the survey completion data will be checked for any identifying information and anonymised if
      necessary. Participants will be allocated a code number, and this will be used when quoting
      from the data-set. The data will be kept confidential and stored in a safe locked
      cabinet/storage at all times. The ethical approval is obtained from one of the Turkish
      institution where they issue ethical approval in accordance with the ethical standards of the
      Helsinki declaration.
    
  