
    
      Cluster headache (CH) is one of the most painful conditions known. CH affects 1 out 1000 and
      exists in two well-defined forms: episodic (ECH) and chronic (CCH). Ten to fifteen percent of
      patients have CCH and have less than three months of pain-free time during a year. Medical
      treatment for CH is divided into acute abortive treatment for the single attack and a
      prophylactic treatment. The most commonly used prophylactic, verapamil, decreases attack
      frequency but does not induce remission and very high doses are needed. Although most
      therapeutic options ameliorate CH, they may be problematic due to major side effects,
      unsatisfactory treatment response or availability. Thus, novel treatment options are needed.
      According to several studies, patients that self-medicate with low doses of the serotonin 2A
      receptor (5-HT2AR) agonist and psychedelic psilocybin report that this is effective as CH
      prophylaxis or even to induce remission. So far, no clinical trials to confirm this have been
      conducted, nor is there any objective measures of brain function in association with
      psilocybin intake in CH. There is, however, already some evidence from functional magnetic
      resonance (fMRI) imaging studies suggesting that CH patients have abnormal functional
      connectivity patterns involving the hypothalamus and distributed brain networks, but the
      implication of these abnormalities is unknown.

      The investigators are conducting a prospective pilot study, evaluating prophylactic effects
      of psilocybin in CCH using an open-label study design. They're also going to investigate
      psilocybin's active metabolite psilocin and brain function (fMRI) to identify possible brain
      mechanisms underlying CCH and treatment response, including the correlation of treatment
      response with psilocin levels and estimated 5-HT2AR occupancy and the extent to which brain
      network changes are affected by psilocybin and correlated with treatment response.

      Effects of psilocybin on headache frequency, duration and intensity will be assessed in a
      sample of 20 patients with CCH. Participants will fill out headache logs during the entire
      study period, in total 10 weeks. Before study inclusion, participants taking prophylactic
      medication will first go through a 2-week wash-out period to allow for elimination of the
      medicine. Inclusion is followed by a baseline observation period lasting four weeks, after
      which patients will first undergo a baseline rs fMRI scanning followed by the first dose of
      0.14 mg/kg psilocybin p.o. Blood samples will be collected during the first psilocybin
      intervention to establish psilocin plasma concentrations, which will be used for estimating
      receptor occupancy. Participants will then undergo two additional psilocybin administrations
      spaced by one-week. The last psilocybin dose will be followed by 4 weeks of observation. One
      week after the last administration of psilocybin, participants will undergo a follow-up MRI
      scan. Participants will be contacted 3, 6 and 12 months after the last psilocybin dose to
      gain information about the duration of potential remission periods. All regular acute
      treatments are permitted during the study period and a systematic record hereof has to be
      noted in the headache diary. No other prophylactic medication is allowed during the trial and
      at least a two-week washout period before inclusion is required. Prophylactics are allowed
      again after the 4 weeks follow-up, with dose and type carefully recorded. Participants will
      fill out questionnaires during the observation period, in conjunction with psilocybin
      interventions and at follow-up.
    
  