
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, inflammatory, and demyelinating disease of the central
      nervous system. It is the most common neurological disease which causes progressive gait and
      balance disorders in young adults. The previous studies have indicated that home care and
      treatment services, which accelerates the healing process and makes the one feel better, are
      more preferred by the patients. Persons with MS are commonly not able to access the
      institutional rehabilitation services because of their disability and/or home location. It
      restricts the participation of the persons with MS and their treatment benefits. In recent
      years, the telerehabilitation programs are increasing to overcome this problem. Motor imagery
      training also stands as a good option in the rehabilitation programs. Motor imagery is a
      mental process by which an individual rehearses or simulates a given action. Motor imagery
      training facilitates the neural plasticity with increasing the neuronal cortical pathways in
      the brain. Motor imagery training is an effective way in stroke survivors. However, its
      effects in persons with MS are not known. Additionally, telerehabilitation based motor
      imagery training is very rare treatment way which requires more research.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of telerehabilitation based motor imagery
      training on gait and balance performance of the persons with MS.

      The participants will be allocated into three groups, including motor imagery training group,
      control group, and healthy control group. The persons with MS will be recruited from the
      outpatient MS clinic of Dokuz Eylul University, and the healthy participants will be
      recruited from the stuff of Dokuz Eylul University.

      The inclusion and exclusion criteria assessments and the neurological examination will be
      performed by a blinded neurologist specialized in MS. The cognition, fatigue, depression, and
      quality of life assessment will be performed by a blinded neuropsychologist. The remaining
      assessments, including walking, balance, and motor imagery abilities will be assessed by a
      blinded physiotherapist. All the assessments will be performed before and after the training
      in the 8-week motor imagery training group. The participants in the control group will
      underwent the assessment with a 8-week interval. The healthy participants will be assessed
      only one.

      The motor imagery training will be designed for the individual basis with following standard
      protocols. It will be applied two times a week for 8 weeks. The first one and/or two sessions
      will be performed in the clinic, the other will be performed at the patients' home with a
      video-conference telerehabilitation technique.
    
  