
    
      Lymphoma is one of the fastest growing malignancies in the world, with an annual incidence
      rate of about 4%. In recent years, the incidence of malignant lymphoma in China has increased
      rapidly. It has risen to the ninth place among the top ten high-incidence tumors in men, and
      the female has risen to the eleventh place. In 2011, the incidence of lymphoma in the country
      has reached 6.43/100,000.

      According to the characteristics of clinicopathology, lymphoma is divided into two
      categories: Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). HL is a single disease,
      relatively rare, but the prognosis is good, and patients with limited period have no progress
      for 5 years. The survival rate was 85-95%, and the 5-year progression-free survival rate of
      advanced patients was 30-85%. NHL is highly heterogeneous and can be broadly divided into two
      major categories, B-cell lymphoma and T/NK cell lymphoma. It is composed of diseases of
      different pathological types and malignant degrees, and the prognosis is not the same.

      In recent years, immunological checkpoint inhibitors have been the focus of research in the
      field of malignant tumor treatment. In clinical trials, PD-1/PD-L1 was found to be abnormally
      expressed in various lymphomas, including T-cell lymphoma, mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma,
      classical Hodgkin's lymphoma (CHL), and large variability. Cell lymphoma. Previous studies
      have evaluated the effects of antibody-based drugs against PD-1 (such as navobizumab and
      pabuleizumab) in patients with relapsed or refractory classic Hodgkin's lymphoma, and A
      higher response rate is shown and the security feature is acceptable. The domestic ORIENT-1
      study showed that ididilimumab was highly active in patients with relapsed or refractory
      classic Hodgkin's lymphoma in China, and 80% (74/92) patients had an objective response. No
      patients died during the study. Of the 96 patients treated, 89 (93%) had treatment-related
      adverse events, including 17 (18%) patients with grade 3 or 4 treatment-related adverse
      events, and 11 patients (11%) experienced severe Adverse events, but no unexpected or
      off-target safety signals were found. Therefore, PD1 antibodies may benefit patients with
      relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      At the same time, in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, PD1 antibodies also show promising therapeutic
      prospects. Clinical studies at home and abroad have shown that PD-1 inhibitors are effective
      in relapsed or refractory extranodal NKT lymphoma. The results of the Idiliumab ORIENT-4 test
      showed that 1 year OS 82.1%, ORR 67.9%, DCR 85.7%, and PD-1 inhibitor combined with citabin
      to treat relapsed or refractory extranodal NKT is underway; PD-1 inhibitor monotherapy for
      relapsed or refractory PTCL is generally effective (ORR 33%, 4 of them CR); PD-1 inhibitor
      monotherapy is effective in treating relapsed or refractory mycosis/Sezary syndrome (ORR)
      37.5%) has been recommended by the NCCN guidelines; trials in combination with IFN γ-1b are
      underway. PD-1 inhibitor monotherapy for relapsed or refractory PMBCL or PCNSL is effective,
      and PD-1 inhibitors have been recommended by the NCCN guidelines for the former treatment.

      Therefore, we propose this research program, based on the previous research at home and
      abroad, to further clarify the role of PD-1 monoclonal antibody combined with chemotherapy in
      the treatment of relapsed and refractory NHL patients, evaluate its clinical efficacy and
      safety, and explore The best treatment strategy for patients with relapsed and refractory NHL
      in China.
    
  