
    
      Some advanced cancers have numerous standard treatment options that have proven efficacy in
      clinical trials. However, in other cancers, there may be few or no standard treatment options
      with proven efficacy as determined in a large clinical trial. This may be particularly the
      case for rare cancers in which there is a lack of clinical research. When seriously ill
      patients run out of standard treatment options, they will often consider non-standard
      treatment options (such as treatments that are currently unapproved by the regulatory agency
      for the given indication). The majority of clinicians and researchers agree that this is best
      received in a clinical trial setting as this provides ethical and clinical oversight, as well
      as addresses prospectively defined research questions which can be publicly reported. This
      allows the conclusions of the research to be available to the entire clinical and research
      community.

      In general, an access program enables patient access to a non-reimbursed therapeutic agent,
      outside of a clinical trial setting. Compassionate access is typically for therapeutics that
      are not yet approved or TGA registered, and are still considered investigational. In general,
      there is a negotiation between the pharmaceutical company and the clinician and patient
      regarding access to the therapeutic agent, as well as whether the medicine will be provided
      free of charge, or on some form of cost-sharing arrangement. In Australia, access to TGA
      non-registered medicines also requires an application via the "Special Access Scheme". For
      most cancer patients, the use falls under category A, for a patient defined as seriously ill.
      This sub-study generally pertains to compassionate access to therapeutic agents. Given the ad
      hoc nature of compassionate access for patients, there is relatively little reported data on
      clinical outcomes.

      Compassionate access is an established process with increasing demands. This study is
      designed to provide a framework for which patients treated with compassionate access
      therapeutics can register, so that some of the limitations of ad hoc compassionate access
      programs can be overcome.

      A study committee will prospectively assess each individual patient's detailed treatment
      approach in an objective and time-efficient manner. If approved, the patient may be eligible
      to register into the treatment phase of the study. The study committee is essential to
      provide a balanced approach to understanding the rationale for the study treatment, as well
      as potential safety issues that may arise. As previously reported, this is an essential
      component to improving patient oversight as well as equity
    
  