
    
      Background: Acute spinal cord injury leaves patients severely impaired and consequently,
      generates high levels of psychological distress among them and their families. This
      psychological distress can cause patients and their families to take a less active role in
      rehabilitation, which leads to lower and slower levels of functional recovery and to less
      perceived satisfaction with the results. In addition, rehabilitation professionals that deal
      with this psychological distress could ultimately experience higher stress and more risk of
      burnout. The aim of ESPELMA project is to train rehabilitation professionals in the clinical
      management of acute spinal cord injury associated psychological distress, and to measure the
      impact of this training on the patients' perceived satisfaction with treatment. It is
      hypothesized that rehabilitation professionals trained in psychological distress management
      will foster greater psychological well-being during hospitalization among acute spinal cord
      injury patients and their families, and will secure greater commitment from them to
      participate in the rehabilitation process. Thus, it is expected to lead to better and faster
      functional recovery and consequently to higher perceived satisfaction with treatment.

      Methods/Design: The study follows a pre-post control group design. Participants are a sample
      of acute spinal cord injury patients consecutively admitted to a tertiary hospital spinal
      cord injury unit, their relatives, and the spinal cord injury unit staff. All participants
      completed a baseline survey before the intervention. Training of rehabilitation professionals
      comprises biweekly 6-hour sessions followed by 6-months of optional on-demand coaching.
      Contents of the training are customized according to focus groups. Once the training sessions
      end, all participants are assessed again.

      Discussion: To our knowledge, no studies have yet evaluated the effectiveness of training
      professionals to manage psychological distress of acute spinal cord injury patients by means
      of motivational interviewing principles. If this training proves to be effective, several
      benefits could be achieved: e.g. higher job content and less burnout among professionals, as
      well as better patient compliance and satisfaction with treatment.

      Keywords Acute Spinal Cord Injury; Patient Satisfaction; Psychological Distress;
      Rehabilitation; Training Professionals; Burnout; Job Content.
    
  