
    
      Universal salt iodization (USI) is the most effective means to ensure optimal population
      iodine status and prevent iodine deficiency. In countries where USI is well implemented it is
      generally assumed that iodine requirements of infants are covered through breast milk. As
      infants wean from breast milk, at the age of 4-6 months, iodized salt programs likely
      contribute little to their iodine intakes. Home-prepared complementary foods have low native
      iodine content and pediatric guidelines recommend no extra salt be given to infants during
      the first year making the dietary sources of iodine limited. Weaning infants may therefore be
      particularly vulnerable to iodine deficiency and its effects.

      Iodine is an essential micronutrient and an integral component of the thyroid hormones,
      needed for normal growth and development, particularly of the brain. Thyroid hormones play a
      critical role for development of the central nervous system from early fetal life until well
      after birth. Thyroid hormone insufficiency during postnatal development is associated with
      sensorimotor and language deficits and hypothyroidism in infancy is associated with poorer
      language, memory skills, fine motor, auditory processing, attention and executive processing.

      In iodine deficient areas where iodized salt coverage is poor, WHO, UNICEF and the
      International Council for the Control of Iodine Deficiency Disorders (ICCIDD) recommend
      infants between 7 and 24 months be given a daily dose of 90 µg iodine (potassium iodate) or
      an annual dose of 200 mg iodine (iodised oil). The scientific evidence for this
      recommendation is weak, however, and it is uncertain under what conditions the two prevention
      strategies may be applied and which of the two is best when.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the two recommended
      intervention strategies in iodine-deficient weaning infants. The need for high-quality
      controlled studies to better understand the potential contribution and synergy of alternative
      strategies to help achieve optimal iodine nutrition in different population groups and
      settings has recently been defined as a major research priority.

      Following a cross-sectional, pilot study, we will conduct a randomized controlled trial to
      assess the efficacy of two daily doses of iodine as potassium iodate (90 µg, 100% of the WHO
      recommended dose, and 45 µg, 50% of the WHO recommended dose) and the annual dose of 200 mg
      iodine in iodised oil, via a randomized, controlled trial in weaning infants of lactating
      mothers living in an area affected by mild to moderate iodine deficiency in Zamboanga del
      Norte, Philippines, Southeast Asia.

      We will compare the efficacy of each of the iodine doses against each other, and against
      micro-nutrients given alone, estimate the optimal level of iodine for inclusion in MNPs, and
      report on the safety of these interventions in weaning infants.

      This study will provide important guidance to public health experts, governments and
      international organisations to ensure normal infant thyroid function and growth and
      development.
    
  