
    
      This two-arm, parallel design stratified cluster randomized control trial aims to assess how
      Values Clarification and Attitude Transformation (VCAT) workshops on influences service
      provision to clients seeking abortion and family planning services. The study aims to assess
      whether the experiences and quality of care of abortion clients of any age and family
      planning clients under the age of 20 change as a potential consequence of the VCAT workshop.
      A secondary aim is to measure how provider attitudes, knowledge, and behavioral intent change
      over time in relation to the VCAT workshops. This study will be conducted at socially
      franchised facilities in the Blue Star network in Ethiopia run by Marie Stopes Ethiopia. This
      study is a mixed methods study with two concurrent quantitative study designs that account
      for the need for different recruitment and data collection strategies for the two target
      populations, clients and providers, and a qualitative component for both target populations.

      The unit of randomization is the facility. Facilities will be randomized with a 1:1 ratio
      between intervention and control within strata defined by eligible client volume, using a
      disproportionate allocation by client volume. Facilities will not be blinded to treatment
      assignment group after baseline. To measure client experience of person-centered quality
      care, cross-sectional surveys with adolescent clients under 20 years old who receive family
      planning or abortion services, and with abortion clients of any age will be collected at two
      time points (before and after VCAT workshops). Clients will only be recruited from "high"
      volume facilities. Providers and promoters will be followed longitudinally for up to 6
      months. A subsample of abortion clients who participated in the survey will be interviewed.
      Using preliminary analysis of provider responses, semi-structured in-depth interviews (IDI)
      with a subset of providers who took part in the VCAT training will be conducted. Providers
      from facilities who demonstrated significant change in outcomes of interest and those who did
      not will be purposively sample.

      Additionally, service volume and referrals of abortion and family planning clients will be
      analyzed for all facilities using routine service statistics to assess whether there was a
      potential change in volumes related to the VCAT workshops.
    
  