
    
      This is an international open-label, randomised, multicentre phase II trial of temozolomide ±
      irinotecan, with or without bevacizumab, for the treatment of patients with relapsed or
      refractory neuroblastoma. The study will evaluate the safety and activity of these
      combinations.

      Patients will be registered into the trial and randomised at the same time to one of the
      following two arms (approximately 30 patients per arm):

      TTo: Temozolomide + Topotecan dBTTo: Dinuximab beta + Temozolomide + Topotecan

      Arms which have now closed to recruitment:

      dBT: Dinutuximab beat + Temozolomide Closed 28 ]Jan 2020 T: Temozolomide - Closed 28 Jan 2020
      BT: Bevacizumab + Temozolomide - Closed 7 Feb 2019 IT: Irinotecan + Temozolomide - Closed 21
      June 2018 BIT: Bevacizumab + Irinotecan + Temozolomide - Closed 21 June 2018 BTTo:
      Bevacizumab + Temozolomide + Topotecan - Closed 7 Feb 2019

      Randomisation will be via a secure on-line computer-based system at the Cancer Research
      Clinical Trial Unit (CRCTU), University of Birmingham, United Kingdom (UK) and patients will
      be allocated in a 2:1 ratio. Minimisation will be used to ensure balance across the arms for
      the important prognostic factors as described by London et al. [10]: a) relapsed, refractory
      disease, b) early (< 18 months), late relapse (≥18 months) and c) measurable versus evaluable
      disease (i.e. disease evaluated according to RECIST versus disease detectable only by MIBG
      scanning with or without bone marrow involvement as detected by local morphology) Patients
      will receive treatment for 6 courses, lasting 24 weeks.

      Patients with a response (CR, PR) or stable disease (SD) while on the BEACON-Neuroblastoma
      trial will receive 6 cycles of trial treatment. If the patient has achieved a satisfactory
      response (i.e. CR, PR or SD) with acceptable toxicity, treatment may be extended beyond 6
      cycles (up to 12 cycles) after discussion with the Sponsor and the Chief Investigator (CI).

      In addition, patients randomised to TTo may recieve an optional regimen of dinutuximab beta +
      topotecan + cyclophosphamide (up to 6 cycles).
    
  