
    
      There is a preponderance of data to support the detrimental effects of burnout on physicians'
      health and wellbeing. Physician burnout is defined as severe emotional exhaustion,
      depersonalization towards others and reduced sense of personal achievement. Burnout is often
      accompanied by feelings of moral distress, loss of interest and energy, and detachment from
      patients, colleagues and personal relatives. With the recent rapid expansion in global
      healthcare systems in response to societal changes, rates of physician burnout have been on
      the rise. It is estimated that 54% of physicians in the United States suffer from
      professional burnout, a 2-fold higher prevalence than that estimated for the general working
      population of 28%.

      Burnout has serious negative implications on the physical health and wellbeing of
      individuals. In recent studies, burnout was associated with higher incidence of coronary
      heart disease and hospitalization from cardiovascular causes. Additionally, burnout was found
      to be an independent risk factor for type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypercholesterolemia (total
      cholesterol ≥220 mg/dl). Higher incidence of musculoskeletal pain and pain-related disability
      were also reported amongst subjects with high burnout. Excessive fatigue, insomnia,
      headaches, gastrointestinal and respiratory issues were all positively correlated with
      burnout level. More strikingly, burnout was found to be a significant predictor of mortality
      in those below the age of 45-years.

      Burnout carries its repercussions on mental health as well. In a study of 2,555 dentists,
      burnout was a significant predictor of depression occurrence during the 3-year follow-up
      period. Increased psychotropic and antidepressant use was associated with high burnout, with
      a stronger correlation observed for men than women. High level of burnout was also linked to
      increased risk of anxiety, substance abuse, alcohol abuse, and even suicidal ideation.

      Burnout is a serious threat to the medical profession at large. With more than half of the US
      physicians suffering from professional burnout, its implications ripple through the entirety
      of the healthcare system. Burnout decreases both patient care quality and physician
      productivity. Increased sickness absences have been reported in high burnout. In a recent
      report, severe burnout independently accounted for 52 sickness absences in a 2-year follow-up
      period. Additionally, burnout has resulted in more physicians leaving practices or reducing
      their work hours. A healthcare system loses on average $500,000 to $1,000,000 with the
      departure of a physician, in addition to the ever-increasing workload of physicians who
      remain in practice. Most significant of all, burnout leads to major medical errors. With the
      estimated 250,000 deaths in the United States occurring due to medical errors, developing
      effective strategies to eliminate physician burnout has become an ever-present priority.

      A number of prospective studies and clinical trials have been conducted to assess the
      efficacy of different interventions on mitigating physician burnout. A major cluster of these
      studies have focused on behavioral interventions, more specifically, mindfulness-based
      approaches aimed at reducing the mental and emotional repercussions of burnout. Such
      behavioral interventions included practices of contemplation-meditation exercises,
      discussions on enhancing self-care and intensification of present-moment awareness. Efficacy
      in the latter studies was mostly assessed via quantification of change in burnout and
      stress-related scores, most notably the Maslach Burnout Inventory score, a well-established
      tool for assessment of burnout in the occupational setting. The majority of these studies
      reported favorable effects on burnout scores. However, limited to no-data exist on the
      physiological and biochemical effects of mindfulness-based interventions on physician
      burnout.

      A second cluster of studies implemented lifestyle changes, more specifically, incentivized
      exercise programs and nutritional counseling for burnout. However, studies examining the
      effects of physical activity tended to be short in duration, of small magnitude, and lacked
      adequate assessment of the physiological and biochemical effects of exercise on burnout [23].
      Additionally, a significant lack of research on nutritional and dietary interventions in
      physician burnout exist in the literature, despite the vitality of good nutrition in the
      health and wellbeing of physicians.

      Therefore, this study intends to tackle the issue of physician burnout via a wide-lens
      approach, integrating both mindfulness-based training and nutritional counseling in the
      management of professional burnout. The effects of the interventions will be evaluated
      through assessment of changes in physiological and biochemical parameters known to be
      adversely affected in burnout, in addition to the standardized Professional Fulfillment
      Inventory, at 3-6 months post-intervention.
    
  