
    
      Labour pain can be regarded as one of the most serious kinds of pain.In many countries labour
      pain is effectively treated on request of the labouring woman. In The Netherlands, labour
      pain has been traditionally approached conservatively. However, this policy is rapidly
      changing into effective treatments on request.Epidural analgesia (EA) has been proven to be
      one of the most effective methods of pain relief during labour.In addition, EA leads to
      increased patient satisfaction. Compared with other (or no) methods of pain relief, however,
      EA is associated with more use of oxytocin, a longer second stage of labour, and more
      instrumental vaginal deliveries. Other possible adverse effects in labouring women during EA
      are hypotension, motor block, urine retention, and fever. These complications and adverse
      effects are possible reasons, why EA is still not widely advised and accepted in The
      Netherlands.However, the question whether these adverse effects are caused by the EA, or that
      the observations are biased is still unanswered. The studies that have been performed to
      address these items are not applicable to the general population of women delivering a child,
      as they were all performed in women in strong need of pain relief.Generally, the need for
      pain relief is increased when progression of labour is difficult, for example in case of a
      relatively great child or ineffective contractions, especially in nulliparous women. It is
      well known that in this group of labouring women, also without EA, obstetrical problems are
      increased. On the other hand, a multivariable analysis of factors that are associated with an
      arrest of labour indicates, that women with EA have a decreased risk of arrest of labour. At
      present, randomized controlled trials that study the obstetrical consequences of EA in
      nulliparous women without strong need of pain relief are lacking. Besides that, only a few
      studies have extensively looked at the preference of women for EA. It seems that parity
      status, the fear of the side effects of EA, pain catastrophizing, the desire to have a
      pain-free childbirth, positive experiences with EA of family and friends influence the odds
      of choosing EA. So, based on the international literature, the ongoing increase in The
      Netherlands of EA's on maternal request during delivery may result in more obstetrical
      problems and increased health costs. Of course a change in pain treatment surrounding birth
      will have an impact for the women in labour, as well as for the society. On the one hand the
      costs of care are likely to increase due to EA, as EA is more expensive and might lead to an
      augmentation of medical complications, on the other hand in the EA-group women will have less
      pain while in labour as compared to the non-EA group. The question remains, whether this can
      be counteracted by a proactive policy of offering EA before explicit maternal request for
      pain relief in the absence of obstetrical problems. It is assumed, that a proactive policy
      might result in effective pain reduction and increased patient satisfaction without increased
      obstetrical problems and without increased health costs.
    
  