
    
      Background:

        -  High grade (G3) non-muscle invasive urothelial carcinoma of the bladder (stages Ta, T1,
           and carcinoma in situ (CIS) has a high rate of recurrence and progression

        -  The standard of care therapeutic agent is a single induction course of bacillus
           Calmette- Guerin (BCG)

        -  Although a second induction course can be used in patients who fail a single induction
           course of BCG, only 35% of patients who failed an initial induction course will
           experience 12 month disease-free survival after receiving a second induction course

        -  For those patients failing a second induction course, radical cystectomy with pelvic
           lymphadenectomy is the recommended treatment, although it has a high morbidity rate and
           a small but real mortality rate

        -  Therefore, there is an unmet need for localized treatment for patients who fail an
           initial induction course of BCG that can potentially improve upon the poor results of a
           second induction course of BCG

        -  Recently, a unique pox viral vector-based vaccine, PANVAC, has been shown to induce a
           cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) and cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8)
           antigen-specific immune response against the tumor-associated antigens (TAAs),
           carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and mucin-1 (MUC-1). This vaccine also contains
           transgenes for three human T cell co-stimulatory molecules that can potentially augment
           an immune response

        -  We hypothesize that the combined administration of BCG and PANVAC may augment the
           BCG-induced cytotoxic T lymphocyte response against bladder cancer cells expressing
           MUC-1 and/or CEA and potentially reverse BCG failure in patients that have failed one
           induction course of BCG

      Objectives:

      -To determine if there is an improvement in disease-free survival (DFS) with BCG + PANVAC
      compared with BCG alone in a phase II study in non-muscle invasive high-grade urothelial
      carcinoma of the bladder who have failed to respond to intravesical BCG within 1 year post
      treatment.

      Eligibility:

        -  Individuals who have failed at least one previous induction course of intravesical BCG,
           defined as histologically confirmed persistent or relapsing tumor present on post-BCG
           endoscopic evaluation. All BCG failures will be considered for inclusion into the study,
           including BCG-refractory,-resistant, and -relapsing, as defined in the Rationale and
           Background. For the purposes of the study, BCG-refractory and BCG-resistant subjects
           will be considered to have BCG-persistent disease.

        -  Patients who are not currently candidates for radical cystectomy (e.g. patient refuses
           surgery, comorbidities preclude major surgery, etc.).

        -  Normal organ function, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 0-2.

      Design:

        -  This is a randomized, open label prospective, Phase II study in subjects with non-muscle
           invasive high grade urothelial carcinoma of the bladder who have failed at least one
           induction course of intravesical BCG, randomized to one of the following arms: BCG
           intravesical live (TICE BCG) +PANVAC or TICE BCG alone. Randomization is stratified by
           BCG treatment subgroup.

        -  All subjects will receive intravesical TICE BCG (50mg) as per usual standard of care
           once weekly starting in week 3 for a total of 6 weeks.

        -  The combination arm will receive the pox viral vaccines that contain the transgenes for
           CEA and MUC-1 (both with modified human leukocyte antigen serotype within HLA-A A
           serotype group (HLA-A2) agonist epitopes) as well as 3 human T-cell costimulatory
           molecules, B7-1, intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM-1), and lymphocyte function
           associated antigen 3 (LFA-3) [rV-PANVAC (vaccinia) and rFPANVAC (fowlpox)] as follows:

             -  rV-PANVAC 2 x 10(8) pfu subcutaneous (SQ) at week 0 only.

             -  rF-PANVAC1 x 10(9) pfu SQ at weeks 3, 7, 11, and 15.

        -  For this Phase II study, we will test the hypothesis that subjects in the TICE BCG
           +PANVAC arm have better disease-free survival than subjects in the TICE BCG alone arm.

        -  Patient accrual is targeted at one patient per month during the first 6 months and 1-2
           patients per 1-2 months afterwards, and follow-up period after completing accrual will
           be 12 months post treatment.

        -  Based on a power of 84% and type 1 error (1-sided) of 0.15, a total of 49 subjects will
           need to be accrued.

        -  Allowing for a proportion of the subjects not being evaluable, a maximum of 54 subjects
           will be accrued.
    
  