
    
      BACKGROUND: The beneficial effect of prone positioning on arterial oxygenation has been well
      demonstrated in ALI/ARDS patients. Moreover prone positioning has an impact on the
      distribution of the lung densities. Finally, after a period of prone position, the
      respiratory compliance and the arterial oxygenation markedly improve compared to the
      pre-pronation values. Overall, these evidences suggests that the prone positioning may affect
      the outcome of ARDS patients. Recently we reported the effect of prone positioning on the
      outcome of ARDS patients. In this study the treatment consisted of 6 hours of pronation daily
      for the first ten days after the onset of acute respiratory failure. Although we did not find
      any difference of outcome in the general population of ARDS patients (at ten days, at
      discharge from ICU and after 6 months), a post hoc analysis identified a reduction in
      mortality at the end of the 10-days treatment period in the quartile of patients affected by
      most severe ARDS. A critical analysis of some of the methodological weaknesses of the
      previous study, together with the new information emerging from other studies, led to the
      adoption of major changes in the overall conception as well as in the operational design of
      the protocol:

        -  a substantial prolongation of the daily exposure to the prone position (from 6 up to a
           minimum of 20 hours);

        -  the abolition of a time window for the duration of treatment, which is not stopped
           except in coincidence with weaning of the patient;

        -  a predefined scheme for applying mechanical ventilation in both groups, based on the
           "lung protective strategy" concept.

      OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of prone positioning on mortality in ARDS patients,
      stratified at randomization according to predefined criteria of severity of respiratory
      failure.

      STUDY DESIGN: This is a randomized, controlled, multi-center study. The patients will be
      randomized in two groups:

        -  Controls will receive optimised standard intensive treatment, including protective
           ventilatory strategy;

        -  Treatment: extended (at least 20 hrs) daily prone positioning is added to control
           treatment.

      STUDY PROCEDURES: As soon as patients are assessed in terms of inclusion and exclusion
      criteria, they should be notified to the coordination center to be assigned to either the
      control or the treatment group according to a randomization scheme which includes
      stratification by severity of ARDS. On the basis of the respiratory failure severity at
      baseline, patients will be stratified as:

        -  Mild ARDS: 100≤PaO2/FiO2≤200 with 5≤PEEP≤10 cmH2O.

        -  Severe ARDS: PaO2/FiO2<100 with 5 cmH2O ≤ PEEP.

      The patients enrolled in both the randomization arms will be ventilated according to a
      protective strategy.

      The prone positioning will be preferentially performed with the RotoProne® bed.

      The patients assigned to the treatment group must be put in a prone position daily:

        -  for at least 20 hours (any + variation >2 hrs must be motivated in the CRF)

        -  for up to 28 days

      Major non-compliance with the randomized treatment (prone positioning for the control, and
      withdrawal for the intervention group) will be motivated in the CRF, and they are expected to
      occur only to better protect the well-being of the patients. The originally assigned
      randomized strategy must be re-established as soon as possible.

      The end of the study treatment period is at 28 days from the randomization, or at the
      extubation, whichever occurs first.

      DATA COLLECTION: The data collection forms will be sent to the Coordinating Center. The data
      should be collected at 12 hours interval (two times daily). We will perform a "Morning"
      assessment and a "Evening" assessment. The assessments should be done after at least 30
      minutes from any manoeuvre that could affect the measurement (i.g., patient rolling for
      nursing, bronchoaspiration).

        -  Controls group: both "morning" and "Evening" assessments will be done in supine position
           at 12 hours interval.

        -  Treatment group: the "Morning" assessment should be done in supine position and after at
           least 45 minutes the patient is in supine position; in the "Evening" assessment, the
           data has to be collected in prone position and after at least 60 minutes the patient is
           in that position.

      SAFETY ASPECTS AND SEVERE ADVERSE EVENTS (SAE) REPORTING: GCP rules will be strictly applied,
      including timely reporting to the study coordination within 48 hours from their occurrence of
      the SAEs not included in the efficacy end-points.

      Clinical investigators and nurses of each of the participating centers will be instructed to
      monitor specifically and to document the adverse events more likely to be associated with the
      study treatment.

      STUDY ORGANIZATION AND MONITORING: The centers which are admitted to the study have been
      selected on the basis of their previous involvement in multicenter clinical trials and the
      clinical experience in the application of prone position. These criteria will favour both the
      homogeneity and/or comparability of the standard background treatment, as well as the
      monitoring of the quality of the data.

      The overall coordination of the study is the task of an interdisciplinary group which
      assures:

        -  the initial training of the investigators

        -  the real-time monitoring of all data foreseen in the CRF, through a close feed-back with
           each center;

        -  availability of a permanent 24 hours phone help-line, to answer clinical and operational
           queries originated by the centers;

        -  the periodical organization (at least 2/yr) of meetings among the participating teams
           (investigators and nurses), to ensure an interactive discussion of emerging problems;

        -  the overall quality control and management of the study data-base.

      STATISTICAL ASPECTS: The characteristics of the trial (relative low frequency of the clinical
      condition, unavoidable concentration of the proning instrument in a limited number of
      centers, in opportunity of an excessive prolongation of the recruitment period which could
      coincide with important modifications of the way the background care develops) need to be
      considered when defining the sample size.

      The primary outcome of the study is the overall mortality at 28 days from randomisation and
      it is used for sample size calculations. The study is planned to detect a 15 percent of
      absolute decrease in 28 day mortality, at a power of 80 percent, enrolling 170 patients in
      each arms. The main analysis will be performed according to an intention-to-treat approach.

      The primary endpoint will be monitored using the sequential procedure of Peto et al. There
      will one interim analysis to assess efficacy, scheduled at approximately ½ of expected number
      of patients to be recruited. Accordingly, the corresponding significance level for evidence
      of benefit to stop the trial will be α=0.01.

      ADMINISTRATIVE, LEGAL, ETHICAL ISSUES: The Prone-Supine 2 study is sponsored by a
      collaborative group, which has been active over the last ten years in conducting clinical
      trials in intensive care (5, 10).The study has been planned and is managed independently, and
      the clinicians who take active part in the study do not receive economic incentives. The
      RotoProne® bed is provided to each center by the producer (KCI Medical Products, San Antonio,
      TX, USA), who ensures also a small financial support for the study co-ordination (50.000
      USD/years).

      The data which are produced belong to the study group, who ensures their publication and
      their availability for public authorities.

      All data related to the patients included in the study are treated in strict compliance with
      the Italian Laws related to privacy 675/1996.

      The informed consent for the patients will be administered as soon as and every time the
      clinical conditions of the same patients are compatible with the procedure, thus following
      the provisions set forth by the ICH-GCP guidelines (11), and confirmed by the most recent
      European Directive 2001/20/CE Decreto Legislativo 211 24/06/2003. It is worth recalling that
      there is no legal basis for requiring the consent to a relative of the patient.

      COMMITTEES:

      Steering Committee L. Gattinoni, G. Tognoni; Scientific and Organizing Secretariat R.
      Fumagalli, R. Latini, A. Pesenti, P.Taccone; Nursing Coordination G. Saia, W. Rositani, V.
      Del Bello.; Data and Safety Monitoring Board R. Malacrida, M.G. Valsecchi, P. Suter; Data
      Management and Analysis E. Nicolis, S. Barlera;
    
  