
    
      Escherichia coli and Klebsiella spp. are common causes of bacteraemia, and may acquire genes
      encoding extended-spectrum beta-lactamases (ESBLs) or AmpC beta-lactamases (1). ESBL or AmpC
      producers are typically resistant to third generation cephalosporins such as ceftriaxone, but
      susceptible to carbapenems (1). Observational studies have been performed evaluating
      antibiotic choices for ESBL producers (2-9). In no study has the outcome of treatment for
      serious infections for ESBL producers been significantly surpassed by carbapenems (2-9).

      Despite the potential advantages of carbapenems for treatment of ceftriaxone non-susceptible
      organisms, widespread use of carbapenems may cause selection pressure leading to
      carbapenem-resistant organisms. This is a significant issue since carbapenem-resistant
      organisms are treated with "last-line" antibiotics such as colistin. Some new beta-lactam
      antibiotics and beta-lactamase inhibitors, which are active against ESBL, AmpC and some
      carbapenemase producing organisms, are in advanced clinical development (10). However, these
      antibiotics are likely to be expensive and may best be held in reserve for infections where
      there are no alternatives. Therefore, we see a need for establishing the efficacy of a
      generically available alternative to carbapenems for serious infections.

      The susceptibility of ESBL producers and AmpC producers to piperacillin/tazobactam is less
      predictable than that of carbapenems. By definition, ESBLs are inhibited by beta-lactamase
      inhibitors such as tazobactam (1). However, E. coli or Klebsiella may produce multiple
      beta-lactamase types some of which are resistant to inhibition by tazobactam. Additionally,
      in some cases outer membrane protein loss may contribute to resistance to tazobactam. By
      definition, AmpC is not inhibited by beta-lactamase inhibitors such as tazobactam. However,
      despite these limitations, approximately 50% or more of ceftriaxone non-susceptible E. coli
      or Klebsiellae remain susceptible in vitro to piperacillin/tazobactam (1).

      No randomised controlled trials have yet been performed comparing different treatment options
      for ceftriaxone resistant Enterobacteriaceae. The largest observational study with an
      analysis by treatment outcome was published in February 2012 by Rodriguez-Bano and colleagues
      (9). They performed a post-hoc analysis of six published cohorts of patients with bacteraemia
      due to ESBL producing E. coli. Two nonmutually exclusive cohorts (empirical therapy and
      definitive therapy) were constructed and analysed separately. In both cohorts, carbapenems
      were not superior to beta-lactam/beta-lactamase inhibitor combinations (BLBLIC).
      Specifically, in the definitive therapy cohort, mortality rates at 30 days were not
      significantly different - 9.3% for those who received a BLBLIC and 16.7% for those who
      received a carbapenem (p>0.20) (9).
    
  