
    
      Sarcopenia, the loss of skeletal lean mass and muscle strength, occurs in elderly but also
      may be present in obese individuals due fat infiltration of the muscle. Loss of lean mass
      along with fat infiltration into skeletal muscle causes decreased muscle density, which
      contributes to decline in muscle function. Increases in muscle density are expected to
      improve muscle function as well as metabolic function. This study will test the effects of a
      healthy diet & walking (Controls) compared to a healthy diet, walking, and balance/strength
      exercises (Intervention) on muscle density in two populations: elderly individuals and obese
      individuals. The intervention will be 3 months in length. The Control group will walk 5 times
      per week for at least 10 minutes/day at the start of the study and build to 30 minutes/day by
      the 3-month time point. The Intervention group will walk two times per week using the same
      criteria, and in addition will do balance/strength exercises on three days per week. At 3
      months, the control group will be invited to add the balance/strength exercises.

      Study visits at baseline, at intervention completion (3 months), and at a follow-up (6 months
      -3 months after completion of the intervention) will include: questionnaires; anthropometric
      measures, body composition, muscle density and trabecular bone measures; muscle function and
      strength testing; activity measures; diet recall; metabolic measures (waist circumference,
      blood pressure, fasting blood sugar, triglyceride, HDL cholesterol); and erythrocyte
      sedimentation rate (see Outcome Measures below for detailed measures).

      Healthy Diet Education Sessions: USDA's MyPlate, was introduced in 2010, as the new
      guidelines for proper dietary nutrition. These guidelines, developed by the USDA in
      conjunction with the Department of Health and Human Services are designed to serve as the
      "cornerstone of Federal nutrition policy and nutrition education activities" (USDA Dietary
      Guidelines, 2011). Each week participants will attend a healthy diet education session based
      on MyPlate Dietary Guidelines. Dr. Holm will oversee the lessons that will be developed and
      implemented by SDSU Health and Nutritional Sciences students. Twelve lessons will be given
      and cycled over 3 month periods so that no matter when a participant enters the study, the
      same twelve sessions will be completed as they go through the study program. Focus of the
      sessions will be on topics such as portion size, reading food labels, calorie intake and
      burning, tips for grocery shopping, healthy recipes, food groups, healthy fats, carbohydrates
      and proteins, etc. Each lesson will take approximately 20 minutes with a group activity
      session to follow.

      Exercise Interventions:

      Control Group - The exercise intervention for the control group is walking. Walking will be
      expected to be completed 5 days per week and done at the participant's physical ability/pace.
      At the start of the study, the participant will complete at least 10 minutes per day or more
      according to their physical ability. By the end of the study, this is expected to increase to
      30 minutes of walking each day and can be completed in 10-minute intervals throughout the
      day. One day per week, the control group participants will be invited to do a 'group walk'
      that will be on the same day of the week following the dietary education lesson. Participants
      will keep weekly walking logs to record the time they walk each day for the purpose of
      exercise, not as part of daily activities. Weekly logs will be collected and a new one issued
      each week during the dietary education lesson. Exercise compliance will be calculated using
      these logs.

      Intervention Group - The intervention group will walk as described above, but only on two
      days per week. Three days per week, exercises focusing on strength and balance will completed
      (see Five Esslinger Exercises for Strength and Balance below). These exercises can be
      completed in one bout, or spread throughout the day. Participants will be given weekly logs
      to record their walking and exercise activities similar to the control group as described
      above. Participants will be instructed by study personnel including South Dakota State
      University Health and Nutritional Science students on how to properly do the exercises to
      their level of ability with a focus on modifications to ensure safety and prevent injuries or
      falls. One day per week, the intervention group will be invited to do a 'group exercise
      session' following the dietary education lesson. South Dakota State University Health and
      Nutritional Science students will assist in teaching the proper form and safety measured to
      perform the exercises and assist with the group sessions.
    
  