
    
      1.1.Interventions to reduce childhood obesity School based programs have also been introduced
      as interventions to assess the impact on blood pressure ant weight. In effectiveness trial
      done by Yin et al on the impact of 8 months after school physical activity programme
      demonstrated a reduction in percentage body fat, but no effect on blood pressure.(52) Schools
      have been unable to provide sufficient time and resources for students to meet all the
      objectives of standard physical education, the concept of "health-related
      PE".(13)Traditionally, the role of schools in providing and promoting physical activity has
      been during the school day (eg, PE, recess) and/or on the school campus immediately after
      school. Trial of Activity for Adolescent Girls (TAAG) is a large-scale randomized trial
      involving 36 schools at 6 study sites across the United States and sponsored by the National
      Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. This large-scale study is examining the effects of a
      school-community linked intervention on overall physical activity in middle school girls.(53)

      Physical activity and behavior of change theory The effectiveness of physical activity
      interventions would benefit from a better understanding of this behavior. (54) Theory of
      planned behavior has demonstrated usefulness in studies of health-related behavior.(55) Only
      children's intention and self-identity as a result of their cognition is related to
      participation in physical activity to some extent(56). This suggests that educational
      strategies aimed at increasing children's motivation remainan important strategy to promote
      physical activity. Physical activity interventions have been done focusing on designing
      interventions to overcome cultural, socioeconomic barriers in performing physical activity
      based on psychosocial cognitive theory.(57)

      A number of carefully designed studies incorporating health-related PE concepts and physical
      activity in PE classes have been conducted. Dietary or physical activity behavior produce a
      significant and clinically meaningful reduction in body mass index status of children and
      adolescents in preventing obesity (58, 59) Alternatively behavioral prevention and
      situational prevention elements have been combined to increase physical activity, decrease
      the consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages, and decrease time spent with screen media(60).

      Studies reporting positive outcomes implemented physical activity sessions that lasted at
      least 30 min d(-1)?. Several studies showed that children are most active in the first 10-15
      min. The existence or installation of playground markings or fixed play equipment had no
      effect, whereas the presence or addition of portable play equipment was positively correlated
      with moderate-to-vigorous physical activity.

      Role of Parents and Teachers One of the interventions in promoting healthy lifestyle in
      children is focusing on children, parents and teachers simultaneously by introducing learning
      sessions and materials for healthy lifestyle.(32, 61)Teacher training may be a key element
      for successful interventions. To overcome time constraints, a suggested solution is to
      integrate physical activity into daily routines and other areas of the preschool
      curriculum.(62)Additionally parental barriers are associated with the time that children
      spend in both active and sedentary pursuits.(63) Knowledge about risk factors for obesity and
      myocardial infarction is suboptimal in Pakistani adults(64).Only 42% adult students had a
      good level of knowledge of modifiable risk factors of heart disease among patients with acute
      myocardial infarction in Karachi.(65)Health education on physical activity and healthy diet
      using multiple level intervention is essential to be given at schools.

      1.2 Rationale Dietary behaviors, physical activity and sedentary lifestyle are independent
      predictors of overweight and higher BMI among Pakistani primary school children.(66) Your
      study does not focus on preschool children so it is better to write about school children.
      Children skipping breakfast (8%), eating fast food and snacks ≥once a week (43%) and being
      involved in sedentary lifestyle>one hour a day (49%) were significantly more likely to be
      overweight and obese while those participating in physical activity>twice a week (53%) were
      significantly less likely to be overweight and obese.(67) Approximately 85% of the students
      had a predominantly sedentary life style, due to tuitions, television viewing or internet
      surfing or indoor games like play stations in affluent schools of Karachi.(68)Most public
      sector schools do not have designated physical trainers to encourage physical activity in
      school children. Additionally unhealthy food including fast food, sugar sweetened beverages
      are commonly available in the school canteens. Furthermore the television watching and
      computers have added to physical inactivity making the children more sedentary. Most schools
      do not have any health education curriculum which could be taught to children and no such
      trial has been conducted in Pakistan A feasibility study using a similar design was done
      including 276 children, in which 60 % spent > 3 hours daily in watching TV or working on
      computer. It was conducted in four public sector schools in Karachi. However due to limited
      length of intervention of 20 weeks, clear benefits on cardiovascular outcomes like blood
      pressure could not be observed (unpublished data).Additionally incorporating 30 min physical
      activity was a challenging task and was not sustainable. Maybe this is something for the
      summary since you already have said it :Schools are probably the most pragmatic place where
      such shifts in lifestyle can be incorporated in adolescents.( figure 1) Strategies for
      promoting physical activity at school level have been tested worldwide , however not at large
      in Pakistan. Strategies need to be built in on large scale in adolescents, which can be
      incorporated within their school boundry and time limitations. A multipronged approach
      involving children, parents and teachers simultaneously is needed in school setup to make it
      more successful. Using a multilevel approach to childhood obesity prevention including staff,
      parents, and community partners is beneficial.(69) )

      1.3.Main aim The main aim of the study is to incorporate a healthy lifestyle in children in
      terms of increased physical activity, healthier dietary habits, and basic health education.
      The hypothesis is that the programme will increase the level of physical activity not only at
      school time but also at leisure time, increase the healthy dietary habits and have an effect
      on cardiovascular outcomes.

      1.4 Research Questions 1.4a. Research question I

        -  What is the effect of a 10 months school health education program in Pakistan(SHEPP): vs
           routine physical activity levels (in school, out of school, moderate to vigorous
           physical activity and sedentary time) in school children ? 1.4b. Research questions II

        -  What is the effect of a 10 months school health education program in Pakistan(SHEPP): vs
           routine on intake of fruits and vegetable, sugar sweetened beverages and snacks
           taken/day in school children ? 1.4c.Research question III

        -  What is the effect of a 10 months school health education program in Pakistan(SHEPP)vs
           routine on cardio metabolic risk factors; systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood
           pressure, body mass index and waist circumference and body fat percentage in school
           children?

      1.5. Objectives 1.5a. Objective I

        -  To compare the effect of a 10 months school health education program in Pakistan(SHEPP):
           vs routine on physical activity levels (in school, out of school, moderate to vigorous
           physical activity and sedentary time) in school children 1.5b. Objective II

        -  To compare the effect of a 10 months school health education program in Pakistan(SHEPP):
           vs routine on intake of fruits and vegetable, sugar sweetened beverage and snacks
           taken/day in school children 1.5c.Objective III

        -  To compare the effect of a 10 months school health education program in
           Pakistan(SHEPP)vs routine on cardio metabolic risk factors; systolic blood pressure,
           diastolic blood pressure, body mass index and waist circumference and body fat
           percentage in school children

           2. Methods 2.1 Study Design Study design and participants: Three schools under the Aga
           Khan Education Service in Karachi will be included in a two-arm parallel cluster
           intervention trial. All schools belong to lower to middle income class, at different
           locations, all having the same school curriculum. Baseline data will be collected from
           all three schools during a three month period by trained research staff. This would
           comprise of data on sociodemographic factors, FFQ for diet, youth physical activity
           questionnaire for physical activity, blood pressure ,weight, height and waist
           circumference, body fat percentage measurements using validated instruments. Each school
           will then be assigned to intervention or control (intervention in one school , and
           control in 2 schools). All children aged 8-11 years enrolled in these schools will be
           included. The rationale for this is that it is the period 8-11 years age where physical
           activity starts to decline mainly in girls.(70) Follow up will be done after 10 months
           of intervention. Ten months cutoff has been chosen as benefits on cardiovascular risk
           factors are more pronounced at 10 month follow-up.(39)

      2.2 Study Setting

      Schools under the Aga Khan Education Service will be selected since they are all part of Aga
      Khan Development network. These are:

        1. Aga Khan School, Kharadhar

        2. Aga Khan School, Garden

        3. Sultan Mohamed Shah Aga Khan School, Karachi The reason for selection of these school is
           that they follow a uniform curriculum across the school system. Additionally since they
           are apart of the Aga Khan Development network, it would be more practical to work with
           them. All schools are located in urban Karachi and Hyderabad. They have ample space to
           conduct physical activity sessions, auditoriums and discussion room. Each school has
           approximately 2000 students, both boys and girls. Each school comprises of 10 levels of
           classes with 3-4 sections. The study is expected to be completed in 18 months to 20
           months.

      Intervention School health education program in Pakistan(SHEPP): The health education program
      will be directed towards children, parents and teachers. The basis of designing such
      intervention is to overcome cultural, socioeconomic barriers in performing physical activity
      and is based on psychosocial cognitive theory.(57)The primary focus will be the
      children.(figure II) Children 4. Programmed physical activity 140 minutes / week will be
      targeted. i. 30 minutes twice a week will be delivered by teachers trained by expert physical
      trainers. It would comprise of warm up, moderate to vigorous physical activity and cool
      down(71).(30*2=60 min/week). These sessions will be lead by the school physical trainer under
      supervision of an expert physical trainer (trained in aerobics) Different exercises is
      introduced every month and discussions with students will be done by the research team as
      well. A manual will be built to keep uniformity in the interventions. This has been
      previously tested(71) ii. 10 minutes physical activity daily during assembly(10*5=50
      minutes/week) iii. 1 minute between class warm up. (1*6*5=30 minutes/week) Children will be
      encouraged to perform brake time physical activity by selecting leaders within a class
      group(who will facilitate such PA in brake time)

        -  Perform such PA in leisure time 4 times a week(atleast half an hour)

        -  Before class exercises(2 minutes between periods)

        -  Decrease levels of sedentary behavior(not more than hour) 5. Healthy diet teaching will
           be given to children by a trained nutritionist. Healthy diet is based on food
           pyramid.(72)There would be three sessions in all of one hour duration i. Encouragement
           to increase fruits and vegetables intake serving in a day ii. Encouragement to avoid
           sugar sweetened beverages iii. Encouragement to avoid fast food items 6. Healthy heart
           teaching will be given by a trained physician. This would comprise of total 7 sessions
           (one hour each). The study material for the children will be adapted from "my heart"
           (www.bookgroup.org.pk, Children health fund). This material has been pilot tested
           earlier in schools. It has basic information about heart. (AppendixA)

        -  Heart

        -  Blockage of arteries

        -  Riskfactors for blockage

        -  Diet

        -  Physical activity

        -  Smoking and smokeless tobacco

        -  Hand and dental Hygiene

        -  Anger mangement Parents Group health education to parents-will be done by the team of
           trained nutritionist, physician and teachers. Teachers will be trained to teach parents.
           This will be done on weekends in large class format. It would comprise of one hour each.

             1. Health problems in Pakistan

             2. Physical activity as a preventive measure

             3. Healthy diet as a preventive measure Parents will then reinforce these habits in
                their children and will ask them atleast twice a week.(Did ypu do physical activity
                at school and home?Did you have atleast one fruit or vegetable today?) Teachers The
                teachers will be trained by a team of experts including a physician, a nutritionist
                and a physical activity expert. A teachers guide will be developed.(Appendix B)This
                comprises of

        -  Heart

        -  Blockage of arteries

        -  Risk factors for blockage

        -  Diet

        -  Physical activity

        -  Smoking and smokeless tobacco

        -  Hand and dental Hygiene

        -  Anger management The teachers will then reinforce about healthy physical activity and
           diet in class once /week (did you do physical activity at home and school?How many times
           did you take fruits and vegatables?).
    
  