
    
      Stroke survivors often encounter impairments in the upper limb after stroke. Sensorimotor
      impairments are present in 67% of the stroke patients, resulting in problems with
      independency and performance of activities of daily life. In addition, the pattern of
      recovery in the brain is still a matter of ongoing debate. Although the importance of
      somatosensory function on motor performance is well described, evidence for somatosensory or
      sensorimotor therapy and brain-related changes is scares. Therefore, will conduct a
      Randomized Controlled Trial with three main objectives.

      The first objective of this project is to investigate the effect of sensorimotor therapy on
      motor function of the upper limb. To achieve this objective, a sensorimotor program will be
      developed based on the SENSE therapy. Patients will be randomly allocated to either the
      sensorimotor therapy group or the pure motor therapy group; and will receive 16 hours of
      therapy. Motor and Somatosensory assessments will be performed at three time points:
      baseline(admission to rehabilitation center), immediately after the 16 hours of therapy and
      after 4 weeks of follow-up.

      The second objective is to investigate therapy-induced brain-behavior associations with
      resting state functional connectivity. In order to achieve insights in brain-behavior
      associations, we will perform resting-state functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI)
      scans at the same time points as the clinical assessments: baseline, immediately after the 16
      hours of therapy, and four weeks after the end of the therapy. Both measurements,
      brain-imaging and clinical measurements will be combined to investigate the associations.

      This project will lead to new insights in brain-behavior associations of sensorimotor
      function of the upper limb after stroke and will provide evidence for a new therapy in upper
      limb stroke rehabilitation.
    
  