
    
      Disorders of consciousness (DOC) produced by severe traumatic brain injuries (TBI) lack
      systematic evaluation and treatment strategies. Accumulating evidence points to the important
      and general role of impaired anterior forebrain mesocircuit function following multi-focal
      brain injuries that produce widespread deafferentation or neuronal cell loss (Schiff, 2010,
      Fridman et al. 2014). Among important sources of neuromodulation of this mesocircuit,
      alteration of dopaminergic innervations as a result of impaired biosynthesis of dopamine,
      neurotransmitter release, or its direct binding to dopamine receptors is implicated as having
      a critical contribution (Fridman and Schiff, 2014, Giacino et al. 2012). Parallel deficits of
      long-range excitatory glutamatergic neurotransmission likely play an equally crucial factor
      in all DOCs (Fridman and Schiff, 2014), as shown in non-human primates where a decrease of
      cortical glutamate levels occurs following dopamine depletion of substantia nigra (SN), and
      likely the ventral tegmentum (VT) (Fan et al., 2014). In a Phase 0 clinical trial exploring
      the pharmacodynamics underlying DOC (NINDS R21-NS093268) the investigators have shown that
      chronic TBI patients have an underlying presynaptic dopamine deficit in SN and VT that is not
      reversed by blocking only dopamine reuptake but is reversed by increasing dopamine synthesis
      using the dopamine precursor L-DOPA (Fridman et al., 2018)*. No prior studies, however, have
      provided direct measurements of glutamatergic deficits in DOC. Moreover, no systematic
      evaluation of glutamatergic neurotransmission has been carried in post-TBI DOC patients
      following dopaminergic modulation. This gap in knowledge is critically important as only one
      therapeutic intervention has shown modest effectiveness in subacute and chronic stage of TBI
      (Giacino et al., 2012) targeting glutamatergic neurotransmission without addressing impaired
      dopaminergic biosynthesis (Fridman et al., 2018)*.

      Here the investigators develop a novel and systematic assessment focusing on the role of the
      integrity of dopaminergic-glutamatergic systems in DOC. The investigators approach allows for
      evaluation of the integrity of glutamatergic innervations to key neuronal populations within
      the anterior forebrain mesocircuit. Using a similar approach (i.e., molecular neuroimaging
      and pharmacological challenges), the investigators have identified that patients with DOC
      exhibit: 1) a widespread presynaptic deficit affecting the resting dopamine synaptic
      activity; 2) a widespread presynaptic deficit affecting the induced dopamine release after
      pharmacological stimulation with amphetamine; and, 3) a partial postsynaptic deficit. The
      investigators long-term goal is to understand how neuromodulation of the anterior forebrain
      mesocircuit in DOC can be optimally manipulated for diagnosis and therapy. The investigators
      working hypothesis is that patients with DOC following TBI have alterations of glutamatergic
      function that can be partially reversed by dopamine replacement. The rationale that underlies
      the proposed research is that identification of a glutamatergic down-regulation in DOC as
      well as identification of the key regulator of this down-regulation (i.e., secondary to a
      deficit in the synthesis of dopamine) will allow the development of complementary diagnostic
      methods to predict patients' responses to specific therapies and, further improve the
      efficacy of neuropharmacological treatments to induce recovery of consciousness following
      severe TBI by rational polypharmacy. The investigators will develop quantitative measurements
      to test this hypothesis under the following Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim 1a. To identify and characterize impaired glutamatergic neurotransmission
      deficits in posttraumatic DOC.

      The investigators will assess in-vivo the availability of free metabotropic glutamate
      receptor 5 (mGluR5) at rest in patients with DOC and normal volunteers (NV) following
      N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA-R) blockade with amantadine (AMT) utilizing
      [18F]FPEB-PET. The investigators working hypothesis is that patients with DOC will
      demonstrate:

      1) a glutamatergic deficit in anterior forebrain mesocircuit that is identified by a lower
      mGluR5 availability at rest; and 2) a failure to decrease mGluR5 occupancy following
      stimulation with AMT.

      Specific Aim 1b. To determine the reversibility of glutamatergic neurotransmission deficits
      in response to dopamine replacement in posttraumatic DOC.

      In DOC patients with a demonstrated glutamatergic deficit the investigators will assess the
      availability of free mGluR5 at rest and following NMDA-R blockade with AMT by means of
      [18F]FPEB-PET after premedication with L-DOPA. The investigators hypothesize that impaired
      glutamatergic neurotransmission in DOC can be partially restored by providing the dopamine
      precursor L-DOPA and thus supporting dopamine biosynthesis and subsequent release of a
      circuit- level inhibition at the level of the thalamus (mesocircuit hypothesis). Impaired
      biosynthesis is proposed to arise secondary to a posttraumatic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase
      deficiency affecting the biosynthesis of dopamine.

      The investigators expected outcomes are anticipated to identify biomarkers to better define
      future therapeutic interventions in TBI patients with DOC. These results are expected to have
      an important positive impact because the identified biomarkers are highly likely to provide
      new therapeutic targets to induce recovery and therefore decrease disability and social cost
      in this large population of severe brain injured patients.
    
  