
    
      Background Information and Study Rationale:

      An ICC comprise of a number of conditions that affect either the heart muscle
      (cardiomyopathies), or the electrical circuits of the heart (ion channelopathies). ICCs can
      result in the heart working ineffectively, dangerous arrhythmias and sudden death. The last
      decade has seen dramatic advances in understanding of the pathology of ICCs. More than 50
      ICCs have been recognised and genetics tests are increasingly available. Epidemiological
      evidence suggests a combined total prevalence for ICCs of about 340,000 in the UK.

      In response to advances in medical and genetic understanding of ICCs, ICC services have also
      grown dramatically, accompanied by commissiioning guidelines, and when an ICC is diagnosed
      there are implications not only for the patient themselves but for relatives. For families
      affected by inherited cardiac conditions, the layers of impact can be complex. When a child
      receives a positive diagnosis there can be implications for parents and siblings not only of
      living with the child's diagnosis, but also for one's own health and wellbeing. This can lead
      to uncertainty about the health of others in the family and subsequent medical investigates.

      To the researchers' knowledge, there is little published evidence which aims to understand
      the experiences of children and their siblings of the communication around their ICC
      condition. Therefore ICC services risk of relying on our own clinical intuition or the views
      of parents rather than hearing directly from children and young people themselves. This
      present study therefore proposed to explore qualitatively how families experience the
      communication of a positive diagnosis for an inherited cardiac condition for a child and will
      seek the perspectives of the child with the diagnosis, their siblings and parents.

      Participants will be recruited from a ICC service at an NHS Hospital in London. Paedaitric
      patients (who have been given an ICC diagnosis) and their siblings will be aged 8-16, and
      their Parents. Patient recruitment at a site will only commence once the trial team has
      ensured that the following approval/essential documents are in place:

        1. The main REC approval,

        2. Final sponsorship and/or R&D approval (NHS Permission),

        3. Local Site Delegation of Duties and Signature Log is completed.

      All subjects who wish to enter the study will be fully screened and consented by the Chief
      Investigator (CI), or one of the qualified clinicians involved in the study as the
      Researchers.
    
  