
    
      Rationale: Despite recent progress in gene-expression profiling studies, the underlying
      biology of the various patterns of metastasis observed in different tumour types remains
      unclear. The detection and characterization of circulating tumour cells in cancer patients
      has provided important new information about the progression of metastatic events. This
      information has important implications for cancer prognosis and therapy.

      This open label, multicenter phase II study is designed to evaluate overall tumour response
      rate in advanced breast cancer patients with HER-2 non amplified primary tumours with
      positive HER-2 or EGFR circulating tumour cells treated with the dual tyrosine kinase
      inhibitor GW572016 (Lapatinib).

      The patients will be allocated into one of the following two strata:

      Stratum 1) Italian study group: Advanced breast cancer patients with HER-2 non-amplified
      primary tumours and HER-2 positive circulating tumour cells Stratum 2) UK study group:
      Advanced breast cancer patients with HER-2 non-amplified primary tumours and EGFR positive
      circulating tumour cells.

      All of these patients will be treated with GW572016 (Lapatinib) which targets both HER-2 or
      EGFR receptors. A subgroup of patients enrolled into stratum 2 will be asked to participate
      in an additional sub-study using Positron Emission Tomography (PET) to quantify the potential
      early response to lapatinib treatment.

      Study Design:

      This study will be a multicenter open-label, phase II study to evaluate the efficacy and
      safety of daily dose of Lapatinib in advanced breast cancer patients with HER-2 non amplified
      primary tumours and positive HER-2 or EGFR circulating tumour cells.

      Patients enrolled in this study will be treated with oral Lapatinib at the dose of 1,500 mg
      daily on day 1 to 28 every 4 weeks (q 4 weeks).

      Patients will carefully be instructed on drug administration as far as Lapatinib oral intake
      is concerned. A daily dose of Lapatinib is six 250 mg tablets taken approximately at the same
      time each day. Lapatinib must be taken either at least 1 hour before or after meal.

      Dose adjustment, modification and delays are permitted according to procedures described in
      the protocol. Initially 16 patients in each stratum will be treated; if 1 to 3 responses are
      observed, 15 additional patients will be treated, up to a total of 62 subjects with 31
      subjects in each stratum.
    
  