
    
      Participants will be recruited from surgical outpatient clinics following an initial
      introduction to the trial by their clinical team. At this point, they will be provided with a
      participant information sheet. Contact details will be provided on the information sheet to
      enable potential participants to arrange a screening visit. The screening visit would entail
      a detailed description of all study elements and addressing any questions prior to gaining
      written consent. Once the patient provides written informed consent, they will undergo a full
      cardiovascular examination by a medically qualified research team member and will have a set
      of screening bloods taken.

      D2O Instructions 24 hours prior to the study day, participants will be asked to consume a
      stable isotope tracer drink (D2O) at a 3 ml/kg priming dose at home. Participants will be
      asked to provide saliva samples immediately prior to D2O consumption and a further sample
      2-hours post-consumption. Participants will be provided with written instructions, the tracer
      drinks, and collection receptacles at their screening visit or via postal delivery for them
      to collect these samples at home. Participants will also be provided with a smaller
      maintenance dose (1.5ml/kg) to maintain D2O enrichment throughout the training program. This
      will need to be consumed once per week, with saliva collected immediately prior to, and
      2-hours post-consumption each week - again, all materials and written instructions will be
      provided.

      Pre-Exercise study day Participants will attend the University of Nottingham Graduate Entry
      Medical School at the Royal Derby hospital for an assessment visit prior to the commencement
      of their training protocol. Participants will be asked to arrive starved from 03:00 of the
      day, this is to match the nil-by-mouth rules required for their surgical procedure to ensure
      that all assessments are performed on the same fed-state. On arrival, they will undergo a
      limited number of physical function assessments (including time up and go, handgrip strength,
      and the short performance physical battery test).

      Followed by the Ruffier test to provide an estimated cardiopulmonary fitness[14]. The ruffier
      test is performed by the participant resting for 5 minutes (lying down) then taking note of
      the resting heart rate. The participant then performs up to 30 standing squats within
      45seconds, with a heart rate taken immediately upon completion. The participant then lies
      back down for 2 minutes with further heart rate measurement. This allows us to calculate the
      Ruffier Dicksons index which provides an estimated cardiopulmonary fitness[15].

      Ruffier Dickson index (RDI): ((P1-70)+ 2(P2-P0))/10 Where P0 is 15 s average resting HR, in
      our case, from 3 min 45 s to 4 min, P1 is the maximum HR recorded during the first 15 s of
      recovery, and P2 is the 15 s average after the 1st minute of recovery, that is from 1 min and
      00 s and 1 min and 15 s.

      An ultrasound scan of the thigh to assess muscle architecture will then be performed.

      A muscle biopsy will be taken from the mid-belly of m. vastus lateralis using a conchotome
      biopsy technique. Biopsies will be taken by medically qualified doctors trained and
      experienced in this procedure. The procedure will be performed under aseptic conditions.
      After local anesthetic; a 5-10mm incision will be made in the skin and underlying fascia and
      a sample of muscle will be taken (approximately 150mg). Direct pressure will be applied to
      achieve hemostasis. A single absorbable suture will be placed to allow skin apposition and
      healing. A sterile dressing and compression bandage will be applied to remain in place for
      the duration of the day. The suture will dissolve around 7-10 days after the biopsy was
      taken. The biopsy sample will be assessed using an Oroboros respirometer for the primary
      endpoint of mitochondrial activity, analysed by western blotting, PCR and
      immunohistochemistry to determine cell signalling and gene expression.

      Participants will then be provided with a complimentary snack, and asked to complete quality
      of life questionnaires (EQ-5D and IPAQ). Participants will be randomly allocated to either
      the training arm of the study or to routine care at this point. The training regimen will
      then be demonstrated to them with time allowed for questions regarding the training regimen.
      This will conclude this study day.

      Training program:

      All exercise training will take place in the participants own home. With a documentation pack
      provided to participants to guide exercise and for participants to log their workouts.

      Participants will be asked to perform 3 workouts per week over the 4-week period (12 workouts
      in total) with each workout estimated to take 30 minutes maximum.

      Participants randomly allocated to the resistance group will be provided with a set of
      resistance bands to provide resistance to their workout.

      As well as the education session provided at the pre-exercise study day, participants will be
      contacted weekly via telephone or video call to provide support, encourage participation,
      answer any difficulties participants maybe experiencing, and to ensure no adverse symptoms
      are being experienced. A video will be recorded of a member of the research team performing
      the exercise regimen to enable participants to watch from home.

      For participants in the RET arm, the session will include:

      2 min warm-up jogging on the spot 2 sets of 12-15 repetitions of: Squats Hip flexion Hip
      extension Hip abduction Seated row Bench press Lateral raises 2 min jogging on the spot
      cooldown.

      Each exercise will be separated by 1-minute rest, with participants encouraged to workout to
      mild fatigue on their final repetition in each set. If able to perform more than the
      allocated maximum of 15 repetitions prior to fatigue, then participants will be informed to
      increase the resistance by using a tougher resistance band.

      For participants in the HIIT arm, the session will include:

      2 min warm-up: jogging on the spot Each of the following exercises performed for 60seconds,
      interspaced by 90 seconds rest Star jumps Standing squats On-the-spot sprints Standing squats
      Star jumps 2 min cool-down: jogging on the spot

      Our research group has conducted many similar exercise regimes of this intensity to subjects
      in the anticipated age-range without incident. Participants will be advised to terminate
      exercise training immediately if experiencing:

      Chest pain or tightness Faintness Sudden pallor Loss of co-ordination Confusion Dizziness
      Palpitations Sudden breathlessness

      Should any participant experience these effects during any session, they will be advised to
      seek urgent medical attention and will be withdrawn from the study for safety purposes.

      Day of surgery study day All participants will attend for their operations fasted as per the
      clinical teams' instructions, this is to be starved 6-hours prior to anticipated surgical
      start time, in line with anesthetic guidelines. Participants will be met by a member of the
      research team on their arrival, who will perform the following assessments during the time
      prior to their surgery. Participants will first have an ultrasound scan of the thigh to
      assess muscle architecture. Following this, participants will be asked to complete a
      quality-of-life questionnaire (EQ-5D) and a self-administered short-form international
      physical activity questionnaire (IPAQ). The sputum samples collected at home will be received
      from the participants by a researcher. Participants will then perform physical function
      assessments to determine muscle function, including the timed-up-and-go test, and the short
      performance physical battery test, and the ruffier test to provide an estimated VO2. These
      assessments will all be completed by a member of the research team prior to the participant
      being taken to theatre and will not delay a participant's surgical start time, nor will it
      require participants to arrive earlier than patients not undertaking the study.

      Once the participant has been anesthetized for their planned surgical procedure, a member of
      the research team perform venipuncture to gather samples for analysis of myokine expression,
      this will be followed by a single muscle biopsy. The muscle biopsy will be taken from the mid
      belly of m. vastus lateralis using the conchotome biopsy technique as previously described.

      Day 21-28 post-surgery Participants will be contacted by postal survey and asked to complete
      a further EQ-5D and IPAQ questionnaire, along with a study feedback questionnaire to
      ascertain participants views on the study and their exercise program.

      As detailed above, in addition to their normal treatments, patients will potentially undergo
      the following invasive or potentially harmful tests from involvement in the study (risks
      outlined in Risk section): three blood tests and 2 muscle biopsies.
    
  