
    
      *Background: During chronic HIV-1 infection the immune system is chronically hyperactivated.
      This hyperactivation is considered as the main cause of CD4+ T-cell loss. Furthermore, HIV
      replicates most efficiently in activated CD4+ T-cells. In this study we try to inhibit the
      activation of the immune system with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF). Previous studies in which
      HIV-1 infected patients have been treated with MMF in addition to antiretroviral treatment
      (ART) have not shown any additional effect, compared to ART alone. In this study MMF will be
      used without antiretroviral medication.

      *Objectives: Primary objective of the study is the evaluation of the effect of MMF on the
      chronic hyperactivation of the immune system and the decrease of the CD4+ T-cell count in
      chronically HIV-1 infected patients who are not treated with antiretroviral therapy (ART).
      Secondary objectives include the evaluation of the effect of MMF on plasma HIV-1 RNA;
      progression of disease/ reaching of indication to start ART; and the safety of treatment with
      MMF in this patient group.

      *Study Design: This is a multi center, randomized, open-label study, in which patients will
      be randomized to treatment with mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) 500 mg BID during 48 weeks versus
      no treatment. In a subgroup of 20 patients ("immunology group", the first 20 patients in the
      AMC hospital, Amsterdam, the Netherlands) a number of additional immunological measurements
      will be performed.

      The study duration is 60 weeks (48 weeks of treatments with 1 additional visit 12 weeks after
      cessation of treatment).

      *Study Population: Potential participants are adult chronically HIV-1 infected patients, who
      have never been treated with ART and who according to the present criteria do not need to be
      treated. CD4+ T lymphocyte count has to be > 250 and <= 450 * 106/L, plasma HIV-1 RNA (viral
      load) < 10.000 copies/ mL.

      *Intervention: Patients will be randomized (1:1) to mycofenolate mofetil (MMF) 500 mg BID
      versus no treatment.

      *Endpoints: Primary endpoints are change over time (baseline - week 48) in CD4+ T cell count
      and peripheral blood lymphocyte (PBMC) activation markers.

      Secondary endpoints are changes over time (baseline - week 48) in plasma HIV-1 RNA, time to
      reach indication to start ART (separated in three groups: 1. two consecutive measurements of
      CD4+ T cell count below 250 * 106 cells/ L with at least 4 weeks interval; 2. the occurrence
      of a CDC class B or C event; 3. any other reason); safety data.
    
  