
    
      The investigators have demonstrated that a normal FEurate in a nonedematous hyponatremic
      patient is highly consistent with the diagnosis of reset osmostat (RO). Since as much as 36%
      of patients with SIADH have RO, the investigators will evaluate these patients by either
      noting dilute urines in spontaneously excreted urines or after a modified water-loading test.
      The investigators have found that a normal FEurate in a nonedematous hyponatremic patient is
      highly consistent with RO.

      The investigators intend to treat euvolemic patients with hyponatremia with tolvaptan, the V2
      ADH receptor blocker, to determine the effectiveness of this form of therapy in a group of
      patients in whom correction of hyponatremia has been difficult to achieve by usual methods.

      Nonedematous hyponatremic patients with serum sodium < 135 mmol/l will be recruited from
      Winthrop-University Hospital and from our outpatient practice.

      It is anticipated that the present studies will provide valuable information on the relative
      prevalence of SIADH and C/RSW in patients with nonedematous hyponatremia. One possible
      drawback to these studies is our inability to determine total and extracellular water volumes
      in patient who are admitted to the neuro/neurosurgical ICU where the acute illnesses require
      parenteral therapy that will create a nonsteady state situation where total and extracellular
      water volumes cannot be accurately determined. This is an important possible omission because
      volume studies in this population of studies have indicated more that two thirds of patients
      having decreased volumes that were consistent with C/RSW, yet the medical literature states
      that C/RSW is rare. Studies in hyponatremics elsewhere in the hospital should shed important
      light on the methods to differentiate SIADH from C/RSW, data which can assist us in
      differentiating both syndromes in the neuro/neurosurgical ICU, where the investigators intend
      to perform FEurates.

      It is anticipated that volume studies in patients with Alzheimer's disease with normal serum
      sodium and increased FEurate will demonstrated decreased volumes and confirm our earlier
      observations that many of these patients are renal salt wasters. It would be interesting to
      test whether volume repletion with saline will improve them mentally and physically.
    
  