
    
      Despite extensive medical treatment, surgical resection is required in approximately 70% of
      the patients at some time. However, recurrence of the disease after operation occurs in the
      majority of patients and is a serious limitation of surgical management. In this setting the
      bacterial flora plays an important role as demonstrated by the benefit of a postoperative
      antibiotic therapy with either metronidazole or ornidazole or the absence of inflammation in
      patients with diverting ileostomy. However, both aforementioned antibiotic regimens have
      numerous adverse events limiting the value of this therapy in daily clinical practice.
      Ciprofloxacin suppresses the gram negative aerobic bacterial flora including E.coli strains,
      which can be found in early and chronic ileal lesions of Crohn's disease patients. A limited
      number of clinical data suggest efficacy of this drug in patients with established Crohn's
      disease. This exploratory multicenter prospective, placebo-controlled trial will analyze the
      safety and tolerability of a 6 months therapy with ciprofloxacin compared to placebo in 40
      patients (randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio) undergoing ileocecal resection (or resection of
      parts of the colon) with primary anastomosis. No other treatments for Crohn's disease will be
      permitted. The primary objective of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of a
      6 months therapy of ciprofloxacin (500 mg bid) vs. placebo tablets for prevention of
      endoscopic recurrence in postoperative Crohn's disease patients. The secondary objectives of
      this study are to evaluate the endoscopic recurrence in the neoterminal ileum and at the
      ileocolonic anastomosis as well as the extent of colonic lesions. Additionally bioptic
      samples at the anastomotic site and patient DNA samples will be collected for later analysis
      of bacterial ribosomal 19S RNA and DNA polymorphisms (such as NOD2 or IL-23). The clinical
      data generated by this study will serve as a basis for a definitive clinical trial
      investigating the effectiveness of ciprofloxacin in the prevention of endoscopic recurrence
      in postoperative Crohn's disease.
    
  