
    
      This study envisages the enrollment of subjects, to be recruited consecutively from May 2013
      to May 2015 from the staff of the laboratory of the Evaluation of Nutritional State,
      Nutrigenetics and nutrigenomics of the Human Nutrition and Diet section of the University of
      Rome Tor Vergata.

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, and approved by
      the Committee of the Ministero delle Politiche Alimentari e Forestali (MIPAAF) , Italy,
      approved by DM 06/12/2011 n° prot. 32064. All participants will be required to provide
      written informed consent for the study.

      At the time of recruitment, relevant subject data will be collected including clinical
      history, dietary habits, pharmacological therapy, smoking habit, alcohol consumption and
      level of physical activity.

      Exclusion criteria include history of coronary vascular disease, peripheral or cerebro-
      vascular disease, hepatic disease, diagnosis of diabetes mellitus, autoimmune disease,
      immunodeficiency syndrome or malignant neoplasia.

      The subjects enrolled will undergo:

        -  Anthropometric measures (body weight, height, waist, hip, abdominal, neck, arm and
           forearm circumferences).

        -  Skin fold measurements (bicipital, tricipital, subscapular, pectoral, supra iliac,
           abdominal, anterior thigh, internal thigh, supra patellar and popliteal);

        -  Blood Pressure;

        -  Body composition evaluation (bone, fat and lean mass), evaluated by DEXA (iDXA; GE

        -  Medical Systems, Milwaukee, WI) (Dual energy X-ray Absorptiometry; DPX Lunar Radiation
           Corp., Madison, Wisconsin, USA);

        -  Distribution of body fluids, evaluated by bioimpedensometry. Resistance, reactance,
           phase angle at 50 kHz will be measured using the Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis method
           (BIA 101S, by Akern/RIL System-Florence

        -  Analysis of genetic expression Participants will be randomized into groups.

      Each group will cycle through different interventions, according to a cross over study. The
      interventions are represented by different dietary plans based on different meals, consisting
      of:

        1. Standard Diet (SD) alone, and SD with functional food (40g of hazelnuts or 150 ml of
           biological red wine, or 100g of chestnuts, or 200g of wild mixed greens, or 100 g of
           olive oil, or 100 g of chocolate);

        2. High Fat diet (HF) alone, and HF with functional food (40g of hazelnuts or 150 ml of
           biological red wine, or 100g of chestnuts, or 200g of wild mixed greens, or 100 g of
           olive oil, or 100 g of chocolate).

        3. Low Carbohydrate diet (LC) alone, and LC with functional food (40g of hazelnuts or 150
           ml of biological red wine, or 100g of chestnuts, or 200g of wild mixed greens, or 100 g
           of olive oil, or 100 g of chocolate).

        4. High Protein (HP) alone, and HP with functional food (40g of hazelnuts or 150 ml of
           biological red wine, or 100g of chestnuts, or 200g of wild mixed greens, or 100 g of
           olive oil, or 100 g of chocolate).

      The duration of the experimental period is 4 weeks for each diet, with a wash-out period of 3
      weeks at the beginning of the study between one diet and the next.
    
  