
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if there is difference in the average changes of neurocognitive function
      (NCF) scores from baseline to the time of radiologic tumor progression or up to 5 years
      (whichever occurs first), between radiologically progressed and non-progressed patients.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if there is difference in the time to neurocognitive decline, as defined by
      the Reliable Change Index - Within subjects Standard Deviation (RCI-WSD), between
      radiologically progressed and non-progressed patients.

      II. To evaluate NCF during the postoperative observational period of progression-free
      survival (PFS) and after radiological progression for a total time on study of 5 years.

      III. To determine if the changes in cognitive functioning are an early warning biomarker for
      radiological progression.

      IV. To explore the effect of salvage therapy on cognitive outcomes in patients who progress
      during the study period for up to 5 years.

      V. To evaluate quality-of-life (QOL) as measured by the European Organization for Research
      and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QOL-30 and QOL brain module (BCN20) and health utilities as
      measured by the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D), for a total time on study of 5
      years.

      VI. To evaluate seizure control for a total time on study of 5 years. VII. To evaluate
      molecular correlates of QOL, NCF, seizure control, and PFS. VIII. To characterize aberrant
      molecular pathways in low-grade gliomas (LGGs) and test the hypothesis that activation of
      signaling pathways will predict worse PFS and overall survival (OS).

      IX. To explore the relationship between change in cognitive function and symptomatic
      progression (defined as worsening seizures or new or progressive neurologic deficits) or
      clinical progression (defined as initiation of treatment interventions such as radiotherapy,
      chemotherapy, or additional surgery).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo neurocognitive assessment using the CogState Test battery (the Detection
      Test (DET), the Identification Test (IDN), the One Card Learning Test (OCLT), and the Groton
      Maze Learning Test (GMLT)) at baseline* and at 12, 24, 36, 42, 48, 54, and 60 months.
      Patients also complete the EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QOL-30), the Brain
      Cancer Module-20 (BCM20), and the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D)
      questionnaires at baseline*, at 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months afterwards, and before
      undergoing any further treatment. Patients are instructed to complete a seizure and
      medication diary during study.

      Patients undergo MRI scans at baseline*, at 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months, and at the time of
      radiological, clinical, or neurological failure.

      NOTE: * 12 weeks after surgery.
    
  