
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found eligible to take part in this study, you will begin taking ruxolitinib by
      mouth 2 times every day during each 28-day cycle. You should take ruxolitinib one time in the
      morning and one time in the evening (about 12 hours apart). Ruxolitinib should be taken with
      a meal and a glass of water. If you miss a dose of ruxolitinib, you should not make up the
      dose or take any more before the next scheduled dose.

      You will also take lenalidomide by mouth one time in the morning on Days 1-21 of each cycle.
      Lenalidomide capsules should be swallowed whole, and should not be broken, chewed, or opened.
      If a dose of lenalidomide is missed, it should be taken as soon as possible on the same day.
      If it is missed for the entire day, it should not be made up.

      If your study doctor thinks it is needed or if you have side effects, your dose of
      ruxolitinib and/or lenalidomide may be stopped, lowered, or delayed for up to 8 weeks during
      the study.

      During the study, you will need to return all unused study drug to the study staff at each
      clinic visit.

      Additional Drugs:

      If your disease has not responded to the study drugs after 3 cycles and the study doctor
      thinks it is in your best interest, you may begin taking prednisone along with the study
      drugs. Prednisone is a corticosteroid that is similar to a natural hormone made by your body.
      Prednisone is often given in combination with other chemotherapy drugs. You will take
      prednisone every morning during Cycles 4 and 5, then every other day during Cycle 6. After
      Cycle 6, you will no longer take prednisone. If you forget to take a does of prednisone and
      more than 8 hours have passed, wait until the next day to take prednisone again (or 2 days
      later if you are taking it every other day during Cycle 6).

      If your doctor thinks it is needed, you may take aspirin during this study to help prevent
      blood clots from forming. If you are allergic to aspirin or cannot take aspirin, your doctor
      may recommend you take another type of drug to help prevent blood clots from forming.

      Study Drug Diary:

      You will be given a study drug diary before you begin taking the study drugs to write down
      what time you take each dose of the study drugs. You will need to bring the diary with you to
      each study visit so it can be reviewed.

      You should bring the study drug (including empty bottles) with you to all of the study
      visits. You will be asked not to take your morning dose of study drug before your visits on
      Day 15 Cycle 1 and Day 1 on Cycle 2.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 2:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and any side effects you may be
           having.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your kidney and
           liver function. This routine blood draw will include a pregnancy test if you are able to
           become pregnant.

        -  You will complete 2 questionnaires about your quality of life. The questionnaires should
           take about 10 minutes to complete. One of the questionnaires may be filled out on a
           computer. The study staff will help you use the computer.

      On Days 8 and 22 of Cycles 1 and 2:

      ° Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. This routine blood draw will
      include a pregnancy test if you are able to become pregnant.

      On Day 15 of Cycles 1 and 2:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be having.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your kidney and
           liver function. This routine blood draw will include a pregnancy test if you are able to
           become pregnant.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 3 and every 3 to 6 Cycles after that:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  You will have a review of any blood transfusions you may have had in the last 3 months.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and any side effects you may be
           having.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your kidney and
           liver function. This routine blood draw will include a pregnancy test if you are able to
           become pregnant.

        -  You will complete 2 questionnaires about your quality of life. The questionnaires should
           take about 10 minutes to complete.

      You will have a bone marrow biopsy and aspirate after Cycles 3, 6, 9, and 12, and then when
      your doctor feels it is necessary.

      Interactive Voice Response (IVR) System:

      During the first 3 cycles, you will use the Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system once a
      month to tell the study staff about any side effects you may be having. The IVR system is an
      automated calling system that will allow you to press buttons on your phone to answer
      questions about any side effects you may be having. The study staff will give you
      instructions on how to use the IVR. If you are not able to use the IVR system, a member of
      the study staff will contact you instead.

      After Cycle 3, a member of the study staff will call you at your home once a month to ask you
      about any side effects you may be having and to review the results of your blood tests.

      Length of Study:

      You may receive the study drug combination for up to 6 years. You will no longer be able to
      take the study drugs if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you
      are unable to follow study directions.

      You will be considered off study after your follow-up visit.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      You will have an end-of-study visit the day you are taken off study. The following tests and
      procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs and weight.

        -  You will have a review of any blood transfusions you may have had in the last 3 months.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and any side effects you may be
           having.

        -  Blood (about 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your kidney and
           liver function. This routine blood draw will include a pregnancy test if you are able to
           become pregnant.

        -  You will complete 2 questionnaires about your quality of life. The questionnaires should
           take about 10 minutes to complete.

        -  You will have a bone marrow biopsy and/or aspirate to check the status of the disease.

      Follow-up:

      A member of the study staff will call you 30 days and 60 days after you have stopped taking
      the study drugs to ask how you are feeling and if you have had any side effects since your
      last visit.

      This is an investigational study. Lenalidomide is not FDA-approved or commercially available
      for use in patients with MF. Ruxolitinib is FDA approved and commercially available for the
      treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis, including primary myelofibrosis,
      post-polycythemia vera (post-PV) myelofibrosis and post-essential thrombocythemia (post-ET)
      myelofibrosis. Lenalidomide is FDA-approved for the treatment of some forms of
      myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and multiple myeloma (MM). Its use in patients with MF is
      investigational.

      Up to 49 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  