
    
      This was a Phase 2/3, multicenter, randomized, double-blind (DB), placebo-controlled,
      two-arm, efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetic study designed to demonstrate the
      effectiveness of adalimumab in Japanese patients with moderate to severe Crohn's Disease
      (CD).

      All participants who had completed Study M04-729 (NCT00445939), the lead-in adalimumab
      induction therapy study, were eligible for this study. Participants who rolled over into this
      study received either DB treatment (adalimumab or placebo) or open-label (OL) treatment with
      adalimumab.

      Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI) was used to determine participants who were responders
      and participants who were in clinical remission. CDAI documents number of soft stools,
      abdominal pain, general well-being, presence of 6 signs (arthritis/arthralgia;
      iritis/uveitis; erythema nodosum/pyoderma gangrenosum/aphthous stomatitis; fissure, abscess,
      anal fistula; other cutaneous fistula; fever over 100 degrees), taking medication for
      diarrhea, abdominal mass, hematocrit, and weight loss during a 1-week assessment period. It
      yields a total score >= 0 and without upper limit. Baseline scores in the study ranged from
      221 to 448. Low score=less severe CD activity. Decrease in score indicates improvement.

      Clinical remission is a CDAI score < 150.

      Clinical response-70 (CR-70) = decrease in CDAI ≥ 70 points from lead-in study Baseline
      score.

      Clinical response-100 (CR-100) = decrease in CDAI ≥ 100 points from lead-in study Baseline
      score.

      Participants who had CR-70 response at Week 4 of the induction study were randomized into 1
      of 2 treatment groups (double-blind adalimumab 40 mg every other week or adalimumab placebo
      every other week) using 2 stratification factors - CDAI category (CDAI less than 150 and CDAI
      150 or higher) and presence/absence of fistula at Week 0 of this study. The double-blind
      treatment was to last from Week 0 to Week 52. Any time at or after Week 4 of this study, if a
      participant's disease flared (defined as a recurrence of very active disease, specifically an
      increase in CDAI when compared to Week 0 in this study of ≥ 70 points and a CDAI above 220)
      during the double-blind treatment period, the participant was allowed to move to OL
      treatment. At Week 52, all participants still receiving DB treatment were to be moved to
      open-label treatment and could continue in the study until adalimumab is approved for
      commercial use in Japan.

      Participants who did not respond by Week 4 in the induction study and participants who had
      disease flare during DB treatment of this study entered OL treatment and received adalimumab
      40 mg every other week. At or after Week 4 of this study, if a participant in the open-label
      treatment group had a disease flare or if the participant was still not responding to
      treatment, the participant was allowed to dose escalate to adalimumab 80 mg every other week.
      Participants who entered open-label treatment were to be allowed to continue on open-label
      adalimumab until adalimumab is approved for commercial use in Japan.

      The study is complete. Results of this study are reported for endpoints at Week 52 (end of
      the DB treatment period) for subjects who received DB treatment (adalimumab or placebo) or OL
      adalimumab treatment and for endpoints at Week 148 for all subjects who received at least one
      dose of adalimumab in this study.
    
  