
    
      Early parental death experienced by 4% of the children in Western countries, is considered to
      be the most stressful and potentially harmful childhood life event and the health
      consequences may depend on the nature of the bereavement (e.g. relationship with bereaved),
      as well as by interpersonal (e.g. social support), intrapersonal (e.g. age and genetics),
      appraisal and coping factors. Studies have shown that children and adolescents have a greater
      risk of getting a psychiatric diagnose as well as psychological and social problems. Despite
      of the obvious consequences of losing a parent, there is a lack of systematic studies on the
      consequences later in life as well as studies that evaluate the counseling possibilities the
      children and adolescents are offered.

      The study will investigate:

        1. Long-term health effects of experiencing parental death as a child adolescent or young
           adult. Focus will be on psychiatric outcomes including depression, severe cardiovascular
           disease, suicide, suicide attempts, psychological well-being and health related
           behavior.

        2. Long term effects of experiencing parental death as a child, adolescent or young adult
           on socioeconomic outcomes as education, employment, marital status/ cohabitation status
           and number of children/age when having children.

        3. The long-term psychosocial and behavioral impact of psychological intervention
           programmes to children, adolescents and young adults who have experienced the death of a
           parent. Focus will be on: Depressive symptoms, quality of life, posttraumatic stress
           disorder, life style, relationship functioning, grief and spirituality.

      A nationwide register based cohort of people born in Denmark will be established. Long-term
      health effects and socioeconomic outcomes of experiencing parental death will be based on
      nationwide clinical and administrative registries. Exposure is defined as experiencing the
      death of a parent before age 30. The long-term psychosocial and behavioral impact of
      psychological intervention programmes will be based on a combination of questionnaire data
      and data from registries.

      The part of the study using data from registries will be based on the nationwide cohort. The
      questionnaire based part of the study will include 3 groups selected from the nationwide
      cohort:

        1. Persons who have lost a parent and participated in intervention programmes (identified
           through counseling centers),

        2. Persons who have lost a parent, and not participated in intervention programmes
           (randomly selected matched on age and gender) and

        3. Persons who have not lost a parent (randomly selected matched on age and gender).

      An invitation letter will be send to the 3 groups (5500 persons) by mail, and they will be
      asked to complete one questionnaire online.
    
  