
    
      Dementia due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a leading public health concern in the US with
      tremendous care costs and no effective pharmacotherapy despite multiple clinical trials.
      Numerous studies have shown mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to be a precursor to AD and
      potentially amenable to nonpharmacological intervention. Transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (TMS) is a promising non-invasive therapeutic approach that has been shown to increase brain
      plasticity and enhance cognitive functions that are impaired across the AD spectrum. Yet,
      while TMS has shown benefits in normative populations, there is still a need to show efficacy
      in AD-related populations.

      Most previous neurostimulation research on AD and MCI has focused on effects of stimulation
      at one brain region, however the cognitive processes underlying successful memory are
      mediated by a complex whole-brain network. Neurostimulation affects multiple sites within a
      cortical network, but these more global effects have not been used as targets for stimulation
      because of limited knowledge about what influence of a single site on more widespread
      cortical changes. The novelty of the current proposal is that the investigators use
      information about the network control structure of the affected brain areas by considering
      the influence of neuromodulation on global changes in brain state or connectivity and the
      underlying vascular changes mediating long-term consequences for behavior. This network-based
      TMS is informed by functional connectivity and neurovascular as mediators of the behavioral
      response as a means to specifically tailor the TMS treatment to the neuropathology of each
      MCI patient, thus individualizing the treatment to achieve better therapeutic effects.

      To address this problem, the investigators will use multimodal neuroimaging and network
      modeling during an episodic memory task to demonstrate how focal neurostimulation evokes
      changes in neural function and behavior in MCI. These goals will be addressed in two specific
      aims. First, the investigators will use network-based TMS to optimize the activation of a
      memory success network (MSN) in a group of MCI patients, targeting a TMS site that focused on
      the controllability of a stimulation site to provide the maximum benefit to memory
      performance. Second, the study team will assess longitudinal change in structural and
      neurovascular factors affecting the efficacy of individualized network-based TMS across
      multiple sessions of concurrent TMS-fMRI. By creating a multimodal model of these
      neurovascular deficits related to MCI, the investigators will systematically adjust
      network-based TMS to demonstrate how the MCI brain might compensate for these neural
      deficits. The proposed work will be the first of its kind to estimate the utility of network
      controllability as a TMS target for memory enhancement in AD-related syndromes, and the first
      to assess the short-term neuroplastic effects of neuromodulation in such rich detail. The
      knowledge gained by this project may therefore lead to novel and innovative biometrics for
      gauging pharmacological and nonpharmacological treatment response or for targeted and
      enriched clinical trials in AD and related disorders.
    
  