
    
      Study hypothesis: the time to revert the intensive care unit acquired weakness is less when
      applying an early mobilization protocol or transcutaneous electro-nervous stimulation
      compared with the usual or standard rehabilitative treatment.

      Ethical considerations: The research protocol was presented and approved by both the Ethics
      Committee and the Teaching and Research Committee of our institution. The informed consent of
      each subject included in the study was obtained.

      Sample size and study power: a sample size was defined in 18 subjects (6 subjects per
      intervention group). The estimation of the sample was calculated for a one-way ANOVA where a
      minimum difference of 2 sessions was established between the treatments, assuming a standard
      deviation of 1.8 sessions, an alpha error of 5% and a power of 80%.

      Statistical methods: the numerical variables will be presented as mean and standard deviation
      or median and interquartile range according to the presented distribution. The categorical
      variables will be presented by frequency and percentage.

      For the comparison of continuous variables, Student's t test for independent samples or the
      Mann-Whitney U test will be used according to the presented distribution and for the
      categorical variables the Chi² test or the Fisher exact test will be used according to the
      conformation of the crossed table. The Shapiro-Wilk test will be used to evaluate whether the
      distribution presented by the numerical variables fits a normal distribution. Equality of
      variances was assessed by the Levene´s test.

      The comparison of the time to reach an smuscle strength scale of the MRC ≥ 48 between the
      groups with different interventions will be used the one-way ANOVA test or the Kruskal-Wallis
      test as appropriate. For post hoc analysis, the pairs-comparison test of Games-Hollew or
      Dunn's-Bonferroni will be used for ANOVA or Kruskal-Wallis, respectively, when they reach
      statistical significance.
    
  