
    
      The aim is to study is to evaluate doxycycline as a treatment for HHT with the proposed "HHT
      Clinical Trial Protocol". Rare disease presents a number of challenges in clinical trial
      design, including recruitment challenges, related power limitations and less knowledge about
      outcomes measurement. Considering these limitations, as well as the large variability in
      epistaxis measures across HHT patients, a crossover-trial design, with each subject receiving
      the study drug and placebo, and therefore serving as their own control, has been selected,
      including randomization and blinding, to limit bias in measuring this subjective outcome.

      This study will investigate doxycycline, given its demonstrated anti-angiogenic and
      anti-inflammatory properties, as well as compelling effects in arteriovenous malformation
      (AVM) models. Doxycycline also has the advantages of a proven safety track record for
      long-term use, oral administration and low cost. Doxycycline suppresses vascular endothelial
      growth factor (VEGF)-induced cerebral matric metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) activity in vivo in
      the mouse model, and has anti-inflammatory effects as well, via inhibition of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines. In human brain vascular malformation tissue, there is evidence of
      increased expression of MMP-9 and VEGF and another tetracycline, minocycline, has attenuated
      brain hemorrhage in the mouse. Recently, a small retrospective case series reported sustained
      reduction in nasal hemorrhage in seven HHT patients treated with oral doxycycline. We
      hypothesize that oral doxycycline will reduce nasal hemorrhage in HHT subjects, through
      anti-angiogenic and/or anti-inflammatory mechanisms, both of which have been implicated in
      HHT.

      This is a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled trial (N=30) of oral doxycycline (100mg
      twice daily, 6-month course) in HHT subjects with moderate-severe recurrent nasal hemorrhage.
      Drug dosing and safety monitoring will be tailored specifically to the agent studied. The
      primary outcome will be reduction of bleeding minutes per week. In addition, vascular
      malformation tissue (cutaneous) will be obtained pre and post-treatment, and stained for
      inflammatory, angiogenic and bone morphogenetic protein-9 (BMP9)-activin A receptor like
      type1(ALK1)-endoglin- Smad1/5/9 pathway markers. In addition, pre-excision, vascular
      malformations will be imaged with speckle variance optical coherence tomography (SVOCT), in
      vivo non-invasive micro-angiography to measure lesion structure, vessel volume and vessel
      density, as previously described. If the drugs studied are effective at reducing nasal
      hemorrhage, this will have important clinical implications for HHT patients, and the tissue
      and imaging may provide important insights into mechanisms.
    
  