
    
      Eligible patients will be randomized to one of the treatment arms, which will involve 5
      phone-delivered counseling sessions over a 9-week treatment phase. While enrolled in this
      research study, you will also be asked not to use any smoking cessation treatment (including
      medication or behavioral therapy) other than that which is provided to you within the context
      of this clinical study.

      The session will either be run by a study coordinator or a counselor. The study coordinator
      gathers information about you so we can understand whether or not the program is working. The
      study coordinator will be the person conducting the assessments. The counselor works with you
      to help you stop smoking.

      Study visits are described in more detail below.

      Intake

        -  Complete the study informed consent with a research staff member. You will have the
           opportunity to have your questions answered before signing the study consent form. If
           you chose not to sign this form, no procedures will be performed

        -  Complete a breath carbon monoxide (CO) assessment to measure your smoke exposure. Carbon
           monoxide is a poisonous gas that comprises less than 1% of the air we breathe and is
           also produced through smoking a cigarette. Your CO levels provide an indication of how
           much cigarette smoke you have been exposed to.

        -  Complete paper and pencil assessments of your demographics, alcohol and smoking history,
           smoking and health behaviors, and mood.

      Weeks 1,3,5,7, and 9

        -  Phone-delivered counseling session (SC or BAPS) that will last between 30-60 min to help
           prepare you for your upcoming quit attempt (Week 2, Target Quit Day)

        -  These sessions will focus on reinforcing your success and reviewing your quit plan or on
           reestablishing another quit date and restarting the smoking cessation process

      Weeks 10 and 26

        -  Assessments only, the same ones administered during the intake session

        -  If you are quit (have not smoked in the past 7 days), you will be asked to come in to
           provide a CO breath sample
    
  