
    
      Recent epidemiological studies indicate that clinically relevant PiT have a prevalence around
      1%. The Neuromed Scientific Institute for Research and Cure (IRCCS) is a third referral
      center for the diagnosis and treatment of patients with hypothalamic-pituitary disorders, and
      PiT represent the most frequent condition.

      The best known syndromic of PiT is Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia type 1 (MEN1), others are
      rare conditions, such as MEN1-like syndromes, Carney complex, Mc Cune Albright syndrome, the
      pheochromocytoma/paraganglioma/Pit syndrome. Apparently isolated familial forms of PiT (FIPA)
      have also been well characterized in the last decade.The genetics of inherited PiT is
      involving a growing number of genes.At the moment, the most frequently reported gene
      abnormalities consist of inactivating mutations of the MEN1 and Aryl hydrocarbon receptor
      Interacting Protein (AIP) genes, which are mainly observed in syndromic and isolated familial
      forms of PiT, respectively.

      On the other hand, patients affected by growth-hormone (GH)-secreting PiT
      (acromegaly/gigantism) have an increased risk of associated neoplasia, which has been mainly
      attributed to the growth-promoting effects of GH and/or Insulin-like Growth Factor 1(IGF1).
      However, a variety of neoplasia have been recently observed in patients with non-functioning
      PiT, whereas patients affected by prolactinoma - the most common PiT phenotype - have been
      poorly studied. Associations between PiT and a variety of neoplasia may represent new forms
      of systemic forms of PiT.

      The aim of the study is to evaluate the prevalence of endocrine and non-endocrine neoplasia
      in a large series of PiTpatients and to identify potential familial and syndromic forms,
      including new forms of tumor associations, in order to provide new insights in the
      epidemiology and genetics of PiT and evaluate their clinical relevance in daily practice.

      Eligible patients will receive a detailed informative form about the aim, methods and
      potential implications of the study. They will be included upon written informed consent and
      be re-assured that they may refuse to participate or withdraw from the study at any time,
      without any prejudice in their clinical management.

      Data will be collected retrospectively in patients followed-up in the last 5 years, when an
      increased awareness of systemic conditions has lead, in the respect of good clinical
      practice, to a systematic registration of familiarity for PiT and/or for associated
      neoplasia. As clinically recommended, most patients have been screened at least once for
      primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT), which is the most prevalent endocrine tumor in MEN1, and
      thyroid ultrasound, which is generally proposed as an extension of any endocrinological
      visit. Therefore, parathyroid and/or thyroid tumours should have been correctly identified in
      a large majority of patients. In contrast, except for systemic search for colonic polyps or
      tumours by coloscopy in acromegalic patients, and screening for breast and colon cancer
      performed by the patients in the setting of the Italian National Health System (NHS)
      programme since the age of 50 yr-old, no systematic search for additional tumours was
      performed and diagnoses were typically made by the general practitioner and other
      specialists.

      Any relevant clinical, biological or imaging data about PiT and extrapituitary tumours will
      be collected for each patients.

      All data will be collected anonymously in a dedicated Excel file.

      Statistical analysis will be performed with using a commercially available software - JMP
      version 11.0 distributed by Statistical Analysis Systems (SAS) (USA). The first part of the
      report will be descriptive, report all endocrine and non-endocrine neoplasia and potential
      familiarity for PiT and/or any other associated neoplasia. Then, a comparison will be made
      between groups and subgroups of PiT patients defined according to the PiT phenotype
      (functioning and nonfunctioning PiT subgroups, tumour volume and invasiveness), as well as
      gender, age and the presence of a familial setting. Based on public reports of the Italian
      registry of cancer (AIRTUM), an attempt will be made to compare the prevalence of the most
      frequent neoplasia in PiT patients with the general population. Attention will be paid to
      recognize syndromic forms of PiT, including known syndromes and new forms of associations
      between PiT and any endocrine or non-endocrine neoplasia.

      Genetic evaluation and counselling will be proposed in selected cases, based on evaluation of
      the clinical picture with the specialist in clinical genetics present in the study team. A
      specific additional consent will be necessary to proceed to the genetic step and DNA
      conservation for further studies where appropriate. Leukocyte DNA will be collected by blood
      sampling. Diagnostic genetic testing will be appropriately performed according to the
      clinical presentation. For unknown associations, this study is intended to be preliminary to
      further genetic studies aiming to identify new candidate genes.
    
  