
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) of advanced pancreatic cancer patients
      with germline BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations treated with olaparib + pembrolizumab compared to
      olaparib alone as maintenance therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability associated with the combination of olaparib +
      pembrolizumab versus (vs.) olaparib alone as maintenance therapy.

      II. To evaluate the overall survival (OS) of patients treated with olaparib + pembrolizumab
      compared to olaparib alone as maintenance therapy.

      III. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, including confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial response, of
      patients treated with olaparib + pembrolizumab compared to olaparib alone, in the subset of
      patients with measurable disease.

      IV. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) by immune RECIST, including confirmed and
      unconfirmed, complete and partial response, of patients treated with olaparib + pembrolizumab
      compared to olaparib alone, in the subset of patients with measurable disease.

      V. To evaluate the duration of response (DoR) by RECIST 1.1 in patients treated with olaparib
      + pembrolizumab compared to olaparib alone.

      BANKING OBJECTIVE:

      I. To bank tissue and blood specimens for future correlative studies.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 and pembrolizumab
      intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 18
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning in cycle 19,
      patients receive olaparib PO BID on days 1-42 and pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1.
      Cycles repeat every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive olaparib PO BID on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days and every 6 months for
      3 years from the date of randomization.
    
  