
    
      This study is designed to assess how to effectively recruit and enroll primary care providers
      into participation into an ECHO MAT learning collaborative. For study participants that
      enroll in the learning collaborative, the study team will track participation over 6 months.

      The study is designed to be implemented in two phases. Phase 1 is the recruitment phase.
      Providers will be randomized to receive recruitment letters and emails from 1 of 4
      conditions. Randomization for this phase will occur at the practice level, as determined by
      provider address.

      Participants that contact the study team and enroll in the study will begin Phase 2 of the
      study. In Phase 2 of the study participants will be randomly assigned to rewards for
      participation in ECHO MAT learning collaborative. Their participation in the learning
      collaborative will be tracked. Phase 2 of the study is a pilot.

      Recruitment:

      Primary care providers will receive recruitment letters, and may receive emails and phone
      calls based on the recruitment condition they are assigned to.

      Informed Consent:

      Since it is not possible to consent before recruitment, participants will complete the
      informed consent process at the beginning of Phase 2 of the study. The consent form will be
      shared with eligible participants when they contact the study team to enroll. Before
      enrolling in the ECHO MAT learning collaborative, participants will be asked to provide
      consent in order to enroll in the study.

      Randomization:

      Phase 1: Primary care providers will be randomized by practice to 1 of 4 study arms.
      Computerized randomization will assign practices to study arms, practices and primary care
      providers will have an equal chance of being randomized to each study arm .

      Phase 2: Eligible participants will be randomized to the Phase 2 study arm upon enrollment in
      the study. Randomization will be assigned using a predetermined randomly ordered list of
      study condition assignments. Upon enrolling in the study, the participants will be assigned
      to the condition that is next on the list. Participants will have an equal chance of being
      randomized to each study arm.

      Assessment:

      Assessment for Phase 1 will occur when participants contact study staff with interest in the
      study or to enroll. Any primary care providers that are sent letters but do not contact study
      staff will be included in study analyses as 'No' for outcomes for Phase 1.

      Assessment for Phase 2 will occur throughout the 6 months after participants enroll in the
      study. Outcomes for this study phase are related to participation in ECHO MAT learning
      collaboratives, which is tracked for each training by study staff.

      Detailed Description of the Intervention:

      Phase 1 recruitment letters are designed in a 2 (prosocial mention of need for primary care
      providers trained in opioid use disorder treatment vs. none) x 2 (mention of additional
      practice supports available for participation in training vs. none). This yields 4 study
      conditions for recruitment letters: 1) Letter including prosocial messages and additional
      mention of practice supports available for participation, 2) Letter including prosocial
      messages but no additional mention of practice support available for participation, 3) Letter
      including an additional mention of practice support available for participation but no
      prosocial messages, and 4) Recruitment as usual letter that does not include prosocial
      messages or an additional mention of practice support available for participation.

      Phase 2 examines participation in the learning community by group. Participants will be
      randomly assigned to 1 of 3 groups. At this time the investigators are not disclosing the
      Phase 2 conditions, and will disclose these at the end of the study, as approved by UNC's
      institutional review board (IRB).
    
  