
    
      Patients >18 years of age who were admitted to the Cardiovascular Intensive Care Unit of the
      Cardiology Hospital, National Medical Center, Century XXI (Mexico City) and diagnosed with ST
      segment elevation Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) and hyperfibrinogenemia within 72 h of
      symptom onset were included. Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) was diagnosed when high
      myocardial necrosis markers were found such as CPK total >150% basal value or troponin I ≥1
      ng/ml plus one of the following: ischemic precordial pain >30 min with/without dyspnea,
      diaphoresis, nausea, vomiting, or ST segment elevation >1 mm in two or more contiguous leads
      or left bundle branch block, new or presumed new. Hyperfibrinogenemia was diagnosed after
      fibrinogen concentrations reached >500 mg/dl at 72 h of evolution. All patients signed an
      informed consent form to participate in the study.

      Patients with known bezafibrate allergy, previous fibrate treatments, patients with
      cardiogenic shock, hepatic failure, renal failure, history of neoplastic disease, chronic
      inflammatory disease or active infectious process, anti-inflammatory or immunosuppressive
      therapies, fibrinolysis with streptokinase and patients with triglyceride concentrations >150
      mg/dl were excluded.

      Patients were classified into two groups: group I, patients who received a 400-mg bezafibrate
      dose every 24 h plus conventional anti-ischemic therapy; and group II, patients who only
      received conventional anti-ischemic therapy. Patients were assigned to each group using
      random numbers tables. Conventional adjunctive anti-ischemic therapy included dual
      antiplatelet therapy, antithrombotic, beta blockers, statins, angiotensin converting enzyme
      inhibitors, and others according to each case. Twelve-lead ECG was carried out daily and
      under recurrent ischemic event. Laboratory tests were also carried out including cardiac
      enzymes, lipid profile and CRP.

      Our goal was to determine if bezafibrate therapy combined with conventional anti-ischemic
      therapy reduces fibrinogen levels. Primary endpoints were recurrent ischemic event such as
      reinfarction or post-infarction angina and left ventricular failure. Secondary endpoints were
      death, need for revascularization and combined clinical endpoints that will be presented
      after randomization and before patient discharge.

      Blood samples were taken in all patients by venipuncture in an upper extremity (Vena
      basilica, cephalic or any tax): 4.5 ml of blood, collected into a 0.5 ml tube vacutainer with
      sodium citrate buffer (9: 1) 0129 M 3.8% (blue top), which is used to determine the
      coagulation time and fibrinogen; and another 7 ml, which will be collected in vacutainer
      tubes dry (red cap). The samples will be centrifuged at 2000 rpm for 10 min and the serum
      obtained will be divided into aliquots of 200 ul to keep at -70 ° C for subsequent
      biochemical determinations. This procedure will be performed on admission to the
      Cardiovascular Intensive Care Unit and on days 5, 7 and 30 of its randomizationAll patients
      after hospital discharge, will be cited by telephone at 30 days after randomization, for
      taking blood samples, as well as for clinical evaluation.Fibrinogen Determination All venous
      blood samples (4.5 ml) will be taken from an upper limb (basilic vein, cephalic vein or any
      of their tributaries) and collected in a Vacutainer (Becton Dickinson, Franklin Lakes, NJ)
      tube with 0.5 ml sodium nitrate buffer (9:1) 0.129 M 3.8% (blue top). This procedure was
      repeated at discharge or after 7 days when the patient was subjected to a long hospital stay.
      PT-Fibrinogen HS Plus kit (Beckman Coulter, Brea, CA) was used. This contains
      high-sensitivity calcium thromboplastin to determine prothrombin time and fibrinogen and to
      evaluate extrinsic pathway of coagulation in citrated human plasma using an auto-analyzer
      ACL-800 (Cobas, Roche Diagnostics, Indianapolis, IN) where fibrinogen levels are determined
      through turbidimetry. Test measure correlation was r = 0.95. Units reported for fibrinogen
      are mg/dl and the standard control is 273 mg/dl with a linearity of 700 mg/dl.

      c) Clinical evaluation For clinical follow-up evaluation after randomization, the presence of
      recurrent cardiovascular events and is regarded as secondary endpoints: events of recurrent
      ischemia either the presence of angina, reinfarction, or silent ischemia, need for procedures
      Emergency myocardial revascularization left ventricular failure, shock and death, stating the
      time from randomization to the presentation of the event, electrocardiographic or biochemical
      changes that occur time. Both during their hospital stay, as at discharge, data were obtained
      either directly by history, physical examination and laboratory, and the clinical record,
      taking into account the assessment of the treating physician and recorded in the data
      collection sheet.

      Cytokines assay Concentration of cytokines (IL-8, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-10, TNF e IL-12) were
      measured by ELISA system (Biosource), with two different monoclonal antibodies against
      different epitopes of interleukins, biotinylated detector antibodies, conjugated
      Streptavidin-HRP (SAV) buffer, chromogen substrate and stop solution. Once the plasma samples
      and the supernatants were unfroze, all the standard and samples were diluted with the
      standard dilutor assay buffer. A100μl of the standard, samples, supernatants and controls
      were added to a coated microtiter plate by duplicate test and incubated by an hour. The
      biotinylated detector antibodies were diluted in buffer and added 50μl to 100 μl to each
      well, excepted the empty chromogen, then incubated for 1 hour at 37°C. Plates were the
      washed; a 100 μl of SAV diluted with buffer, was added to each well and incubated for other
      45 min. Microtiter plate was washed again. Tetramethylbenzidine substrate was added (100 μl
      each well), incubated for 15min more in darkness at room temperature. Finally 50 to 100 μl of
      stop solution was used. Plates were read 30 min after, at 490 nm in an automated microplate
      reader.

      Statistical Analysis Continuous variables were described according to distribution (mean ±
      standard deviation, median and percentiles). Demographic characteristics of the population
      were expressed in frequency percentage. Student t-distribution was used for bivariate
      analysis of continuous variables and group comparison for those parameters with normal
      distribution and Mann-Whitney U test for those with non-normal distribution. Wilcoxon test
      was used to analyze the fibrinogen concentration difference within each group. Dichotomous
      variables were tested using X2 and Fisher's exact test depending on expected values. Relative
      risk (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated. Multivariate analysis adjusted
      for potential confounders will be performed. Calculation of the number needed to treat and
      the analysis with intention to treat will be done. Relative risks and confidence interval of
      95% will be calculated. The value p, equal or less to 0.05, will be consider significant.
      SPSS v.20.0 software will be used for data analysis

      Ethical considerations The study will be evaluated by the Research Committee and Local
      Research Ethics in Health UMAE Cardiology Hospital National Medical Center Siglo XXI, for
      approval. The study conforms to the standards set by the Declaration of Helsinki, the rules
      of the General Health Law in research in our country and the Good Clinical Practice of the
      International Conference on Harmonization.

      The study considered more than minimal risk and its main objective is to evaluate the
      additive effect of bezafibrate to conventional anti-ischemic drug therapy in patients with
      acute coronary syndrome with ST segment elevation.

      Bezafibrate is a drug that is in the institutional basic list, is used to provide treatment
      for patients with dyslipidemia, particularly in patients with hypertriglyceridemia. During
      the study, there were not changes or interventions against the standard treatment prescribed
      by the treating physician, which has proven benefits according to the Clinical Practice
      Guidelines for the treatment of patients with acute coronary syndrome with ST segment
      elevation.

      In accordance with the provisions of the Belmont Report, can be carried out in conjunction
      with the usual therapeutic practices used in these patients, since it is designed to assess
      the safety and efficacy of a therapy, however it will be subject to formal investigation in
      order to determine its safety and effectiveness for protection of those involved.

      Adverse events reported in general are rare, transient and mild to moderate intensity. The
      adverse reactions reported most frequently are loss of appetite (about 1.8%); with less
      frequency (1 case in 1,000 patients who take the bezafibrate) abdominal pain, nausea
      diarrhea, distension of the stomach, erectile dysfunction, feeling dizzy, gastrointestinal
      problems, hair loss, headaches, abnormal laboratory test results, anaphylactic reactions,
      hypersensitivity reactions, itching, kidney problems, muscle problems including muscle
      weakness, cramps, pain or tenderness, photosensitivity skin reaction, skin rash or rashes,
      urticaria. Other uncommon side effects (more than 1 in 10,000 people who take bezafibrate)
      are neuropathy of the extremities, pancreatitis, paraesthesiae. dizziness,. There are
      reported very rare, fewer than 1 in 10,000 patients receiving bezafibrate, of blood problems,
      erythema multiforme, gallstones, lung problems, rhabdomyolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome,
      toxic epidermal necrolysis, unexplained or easy bruising of the skin or mucous membranes.

      During the study, patients in addition to conventional studies of 12-lead electrocardiogram
      at rest, echocardiography, X-rays and laboratory tests, need the venous blood samples for
      serial measurements of fibrinogen, C-reactive protein and serum proinflammatory cytokines, at
      5, 7 and 30 days after randomization.

      Patients who meet the selection criteria will be included. No patients were included in
      critical condition or hemodynamic decompensation. All patients were requested to sign for
      informed consent after explaining potential risks and benefits of treatment. They were
      explained in detail, what it will be patient participation in the study, assessment processes
      and monitoring to be performed, as well as the actions to be carried out in case of any
      adverse events. The invitation to participate and signed consent application will be
      requested by a different doctor than the treating physician. It will make the clarification
      to the patient that their participation in the study is completely voluntary and if so
      manifest, may withdraw from the study at any time If the patient has an adverse drug event
      may be addressed immediately in the emergency department of the Hospital UMAE Cardiology. The
      corresponding report of any side effects will to be performed to the committee of
      pharmaco-vigilance (hospital committee), the VENCER system (Institutional system for reports
      of any adverse event, side effect and pharmacology interaction) ant to the COFEPRIS (that is
      the national Committee). The side effects are part of the study analysis for the evaluation
      of drug safety. The patient shall record in a log any side or adverse event occurring during
      the treatment time and given a telephone number to contact the physician 24 hours a day
      during the six months being treated with bezafibrate, and time duration of the study. The
      patient may also contact the physician if any questions regarding the study.

      The patient data will be handled confidentially and no personal information that could
      identify them will be used, in case of distribution and publication of results. Every patient
      is assigned a serial number according to the time of study entry to identify him in
      subsequent evaluations.

      Because the drug used is part of the basic list of the IMSS, there is no conflicts of
      interest among researchers.
    
  