
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare survival of patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer
           treated with prolonged infusion gemcitabine with vs without oxaliplatin vs standard
           infusion gemcitabine.

        -  Compare the toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the objective response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the patterns of failure and progression-free survival of patients treated with
           these regimens.

        -  Compare the reported frequency of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism among
           patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the changes in quality of life, including improved symptom control and/or
           additional side effects of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to ECOG performance
      status (0 or 1 vs 2) and disease stage (locally advanced vs metastatic). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (standard treatment): Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes once weekly
           for 7 weeks followed by 1 week of rest for course 1 only. In all subsequent courses,
           patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15, with courses
           repeating every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 150 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses
           repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 100 minutes on day 1 and oxaliplatin IV
           over 120 minutes on day 2. Courses repeat every 2 weeks in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and then at 8 and 16 weeks.

      Patients are followed for 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 789 patients (263 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 18 months.
    
  