
    
      Inclusion criteria: All adult patients (age 19 or greater) with hereditary anemias requiring
      chronic blood transfusion at St. Paul's Hospital will be invited to participate in this
      study. The majority of patients will be β-Thalassemia Major. They will be given a pamphlet
      containing the details of the study and can contact the research assistant or clinic nurse
      for more information should they be interested.

      Exclusion criteria: Patients with known Hepatitis B positive, known Hepatitis C positive,
      known HIV positive, known liver cirrhosis, known primary liver disease such as Wilson's
      disease and hereditary hemochromatosis are excluded from the study.

      Written consent will be obtained from all participants by the clinic nurse/research assistant
      prior to enrollment.

      Study procedures:

      Data to be collected retrospectively from patient charts (St. Paul's Hospital's EMR/Sunrise
      Clinical Manager and paper chart) include: baseline demographic data (age, gender,
      hematological condition), medical comorbidities and complications related to iron overload
      (Diabetes, hypothyroidism, cardiomyopathy/arrhythmia and congestive heart failure,
      hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, osteopenia and osteoporosis syndrome..etc), current
      medications including use of iron chelators such as desferrioxamine, deferasirox, deferiprone
      or combination therapy, viral hepatitis status (B and C) and date of test, liver cirrhosis
      status (stage), liver biopsy result (iron concentration) and date of procedure. Patients with
      chronic transfusion requirement usually undergo annual MRI at the beginning of the year to
      estimate hepatic iron concentration as per standard practice. This year (2013), R2 MRI
      (FerriScan) will also be available for the first time to all patients in BC as part of
      routine monitoring for iron overload. Details/results from both techniques (i.e. same images
      collected in one scan, but analyzed differently using R2 and T2* algorithms) will be
      collected.
    
  