
    
      The dosage of trametinib for oral administration is 2mg once daily. The patient is instructed
      to take the trametinib once daily dose at approximately the same time each day, by mouth with
      approximately 200 mL (almost 1 cup) of water on an empty stomach, either 1 hour before or 2
      hours after a meal.

      The patient will be provided with complete dosing instructions from his treating physician.
      If the subject is instructed that if he vomits after taking either of the medications
      provided under this program, he should not retake the dose. The patient should take the next
      dose as originally scheduled. If a dose is missed, the patient should not double the next
      regularly scheduled dose. However, the patient can take the missed dose immediately if the
      next scheduled dose is at least 12 hours later. If the next scheduled dose is due in less
      than 12 hours, the patient is instructed to skip the dose and resume dosing the next day at
      the regular time. Then to take the next dose at the usual time the subject is scheduled to
      take it. It is not known for how long the subject will remain in the program because each
      patient may respond differently to the treatment. The length of time the patient will take
      trametinib therapy will depend on his cancer status and how well he tolerates the drugs. If
      he experiences severe side effects, he is instructed to call his treating physician
      immediately. The treating physician may advise him stop compassionate used of trametinib or
      may advise him to lower the dose. Trametinib may also be stopped completely at his Treating
      Physician's discretion. The treating physician will use his/her clinical expertise
      considering the intensity of the adverse effect and/or the results of your laboratory tests
      to make his/her decision. The Treating Physician may consult with the Novartis Country Pharma
      Organization Medical Advisor/Director about dose interruptions or modifications.
    
  