
    
      STUDY DESIGN It is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled superiority trial with two
      parallel arms. Participants will be randomized to receive a single 600 µg / kg dose of
      ivermectin or placebo, and the number of patients in the treatment and placebo groups will be
      in a 2: 1 ratio for the intervention group.

      The trial statistician will generate the randomization code using blocks of four individuals
      to ensure the balance between groups. The assignment will be carried out by the main
      investigator using opaque envelopes, after obtaining informed consent and verification of
      compliance with all the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The investigational product will be
      administered by personnel who are not involved in patient care or monitoring of study
      participants.

      Participants will be followed up at their homes for a period of 28 days. A patient can
      discontinue her participation in the study at any time and for any reason. The principal
      investigator and the panel of experts that make up the safety and adverse effects committee
      may also withdraw a patient from the study if they believe it is in the best interest of the
      patient.

      Serious adverse events (SAEs) related to ivermectin will be followed until they resolve or up
      to 28 days after the participant's final visit, whichever occurs first. All other SAEs deemed
      unrelated to ivermectin will be followed up until the participant's final visit or for a
      specified period at the discretion of the principal investigator.

      The study will end when the final randomized patient has completed the study, all planned
      visits have been completed, and inconsistencies in the data have been resolved.

      OBJECTIVES Primary objective

      • To explore the efficacy and therapeutic safety of Ivermectin in patients with non-severe
      and low-risk COVID-19 in the first 72 hours after the onset of symptoms, through the
      negativization of the polymerase chain in real time. RT-PCR (nasopharyngeal swab) and
      clinical improvement on day 7 and 28 after treatment, to explore its possible use in the
      fight against the pandemic.

      Secondary objectives

        1. To evaluate the efficacy of ivermectin in reducing the SARS-CoV-2 viral load in the
           nasopharyngeal swab on day 7 after treatment.

        2. To evaluate the efficacy of ivermectin in improving the progression of symptoms in
           treated patients.

        3. Assess the proportion of seroconversions in patients treated on day 21.

        4. Evaluate the safety of ivermectin at the proposed dose.

        5. Determine the magnitude of the immune response against SARS-CoV-2

        6. Evaluate the early kinetics of immunity against SARS-CoV-2
    
  