
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of
      PI3Kbeta inhibitor AZD8186 (AZD8186) when administered in combination with docetaxel in
      patients with PTEN or PIK3CB mutated advanced solid tumors.

      II. To assess the safety and tolerability of AZD8186 when administered in combination with
      docetaxel in patients with PTEN or PIK3CB mutated advanced solid tumors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. Ia. To assess the objective response rate (ORR)
      of AZD8186 when administered in combination with docetaxel in patients with PTEN or PIK3CB
      mutated advanced solid tumors.

      Ib. To assess the clinical benefit rate at 24 weeks of AZD8186 when administered in
      combination with docetaxel in patients with PTEN or PIK3CB mutated advanced solid tumors.

      II. To investigate a drug-drug interaction between docetaxel and AZD8186 and correlate drug
      exposure with pharmacodynamics response.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Examine the pattern of co-mutated genes in PTEN or PIK3CB mutated tumors and their
      association with treatment response or resistance.

      II. Describe possible mechanisms of acquired resistance to PI3Kbeta inhibition. III.
      Evaluation of protein expression of the PTEN gene and its association with treatment response
      or resistance.

      IV. Examine isoform-specific AKT inhibition and other downstream target modulation from
      PI3Kbeta inhibition with AZD8186.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of PI3Kbeta inhibitor AZD8186.

      Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1 and PI3Kbeta inhibitor
      AZD8186 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 5 days each week. Cycles repeat every 21 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 3
      months.
    
  