
    
      Intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring is the most common neuromonitoring modality used in
      neurocritical care units (NCCU) around the world. Uncertainties remain around intracranial
      pressure monitoring both in traumatic and non-traumatic brain injury, and variation in
      clinical practice of intracranial pressure monitoring exists between neurocritical care
      units.

      The objectives of the study will explore intracranial pressure monitoring variation in
      practice to prioritise uncertainties in the clinical management of critical care patients
      with acute brain injury and support further collaborative hypotheses-based prospective
      studies.

      Sample Size: This international prospective observational study aims to recruit >2000
      patients in coma after acute traumatic and non-traumatic brain damage admitted to >200
      Intensive Care Units.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        -  Acute brain injury (ABI) admitted to ICU following:

             1. Hemorrhagic stroke, including intracerebral hematoma and subarachnoid hemorrhage,

             2. Traumatic brain injury (penetrating and non-penetrating).

        -  Age >18 years old

        -  Glasgow Coma Score with Eyes response = 1 (no eyes opening) and Motor score ≤5 (not
           following commands) at the admission to ICU or neuro-worsening within the first 48 hours
           with no eye opening and the Motor score decreased to ≤5

      Exclusion Criteria:

        -  ABI who are not admitted to ICU;

        -  ABI due to infections of the central nervous system, ischemic stroke or other causes not
           defined in the inclusion criteria

      Outcome measures:

      Glasgow Outcome Score-Extended at 6 months

      Endpoint:

      The primary endpoint is the variation in clinical practice around ICP monitoring in acute
      brain injury patients.

      Screening and recruitment: 12 weeks at each centre, or the duration required to enrol 90
      patients per centre.

      Follow-up: outcome measures will be collected at 6 months.

      Duration of study: 2 years.

      The SYNAPSE-ICU study is partly funded by ESICM (ESICM Trials Group Portfolio).
    
  