
    
      Asthma is a major noncommunicable chronic inflammatory disorder which is characterized by
      airway inflammation and related to pathological modifications of the bronchial wall structure
      so called airway remodeling. Airway remodeling seen in asthma is mainly described by
      epithelial changes, subepithelial fibrosis, increased airway smooth muscle (ASM) mass,
      decreased distance between ASM and epithelium, mucous gland and goblet cell hyperplasia,
      vascular changes and edema. Near these well known pathophysiological changes of the airways,
      the extracellular matrix (ECM) can be distinguished as a new important factor included in
      development of airway remodeling in asthma.

      ECM is a building block between airways and lung parenchyma. It plays a crucial role in the
      maintenance of pulmonary structure and functions influencing the distribution and adhesion of
      inflammatory cells, fluid balance, elasticity and can act as a resource of inflammatory
      mediators. In asthma, predominant eosinophilic airway inflammation can result the
      dysregulation of ECM, which are identified as altered quantitative and qualitative
      composition of ECM, activated molecular signaling pathways which are responsible for
      triggered ECM proteins production. The main sources of ECM proteins in lungs are pulmonary
      fibroblasts and ASM cells. In asthma, fibroblasts are responsive to many inflammatory
      cytokines which activate and promote fibroblasts proliferation, contractility and cellular
      differentiation to myofibroblasts form with up-regulated rate of matrix production. In turn,
      activated fibroblasts secrete cytokines IL-1β, IL-33, CXC, CC chemokines, various types of
      matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) as well as reactive oxygen species. These factors allow
      fibroblasts to assist in the activation and migration of resident immune cells and endow
      fibroblast roles in chemical and cell-mediated immunity, acute and chronic inflammation,
      extravasation of immune cells into connective tissue of the lungs. The ASM cells are also the
      strong contributor to the ECM protein pool in the lungs - they can produce the variety of ECM
      proteins contributing to the tissue structure and elasticity which are seen unbalanced in
      asthma. While fibroblasts and ASM cells determine ECM proteins composition, the ECM in turn
      can affect the structural cells behavior in lung tissue. The role of cell-matrix interactions
      represents an area for active investigation on the ability of lung matrix to prime the
      structural pulmonary cells.

      The excess of ECM proteins deposition is associated with activation of profibrotic factor
      transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) mediated WNT and Smad signaling pathways. Highest
      levels of TGF-β1 in airways are released by eosinophils - the main inflammatory cells in
      asthma pathogenesis. During stable asthma and especially allergen provoced acute asthma
      episodes eosinophils infiltrate into the airways, enhancing local levels of TGF-β1 and other
      various cytokines, chemokines and growth factors near the connective tissue and ASM bundles.
      However, how eosinophil-released mediators induce ECM dysregulation leading to development of
      airway remodeling are not investigated part of asthma pathogenesis.

      Asthma still cannot be cured, but appropriate management can control the disease severity.
      Better understanding in development of asthma is the main objective which must to be pursued.
      Based on this rationale the investigators aimed to investigate eosinophilic airway
      inflammation mediated production of ECM proteins and MMPs, activity for their release
      responsible molecular signaling pathways, and how dysregulated ECM affect fibroblasts and ASM
      cells proliferation, migration, differentiation and contractility in asthma. Trying to
      understand and control the development of asthma the investigators will use models of
      combined cells cultures estimating ECM homeostasis in stable and acute asthma. Blocking with
      specific inhibitors of WNT and Smad signaling pathways, potentially responsible for ECM
      proteins and MMPs production, will help to find the controlling mechanisms of ECM
      dysregulation. Therefore, evaluation of ECM proteins degradation fragments and levels of MMPs
      will help to estimate an applied value of these circulating biomarkers in asthma patients.
    
  