
    
      Roughly 1.7 million people worldwide are infected with HIV each year (UNAIDS, 2017). HIV
      pre-exposure prophylaxis (or PrEP) refers to taking a daily oral medicine to reduce the risk
      of contracting HIV. Known by the brand name Truvada or Descovy, PrEP is an effective
      additional preventative measure for reducing the risk of HIV transmission. To address low
      levels of uptake, there is a need for public health interventions to increase target
      populations' awareness and willingness for adopting PrEP.

      One potential solution may be to incorporate a network intervention, which utilizes the
      connections between individuals to facilitate health behavior. In particular, online networks
      can provide anonymous support that transcends geographical boundaries (DeAndrea, 2015).
      Stigmatized behaviors, such as the adoption of PrEP, may greatly benefit from interventions
      that utilize online networks. This project examines how online networks can influence PrEP
      adoption intentions among gay and bisexual men through a mobile app-based experiment.

      There are several ways in which online networks may influence health; however, social support
      may serve as the primary mechanism that influences PrEP adoption. In the context of HIV
      prevention, social support has generally reduced HIV-related risky behaviors (Qiao, Li, &
      Stanton, 2014). Thus, it is important to consider social support as a factor than can
      influence one's intention to adopt PrEP.

      This field experiment will randomly assign participants into a social support condition or
      information-only control, and then randomly assign them into homophilous, clustered
      six-member peer networks. Both conditions will involve an information component consisting
      messages aimed to address awareness, knowledge, and perceived barriers of PrEP adoption.
      Social support will be operationalized through an online chatting tool where participants can
      discuss topics surrounding PrEP.

      The primary objective of this study is to test the effectiveness of the mobile app
      intervention in increasing participants' knowledge/attitudes/intentions to initiate PrEP.

      The secondary objective of this study is to determine the mechanism of the intervention
      through mediation analyses.
    
  