
    
      The study was a randomized controlled training intervention study in the pre-test and
      post-test order. The population of the study consisted of nulliparous pregnant women who
      applied to the Konya Dr. Ali Kemal Belviranlı Maternity and Children Hospital Pregnancy
      School and met the criteria for inclusion in the study at time of the study. Sample size was
      calculated with G * Power 3.0.10 program with an effect size of 0.3 (medium effect level) and
      a power of 80%. A total of 180 pregnant women were identified as 90 in the intervention group
      and 90 in the control group. Considering that data will be lost due to reasons such as
      discontinuation and exclusion criteria during pregnancy 10% more of the determined number was
      included in the study and the sample size was calculated as 198 pregnant women and 252
      pregnant women were reached during the study. 36 pregnant women in the intervention group and
      35 pregnant women in the control group were excluded from the study for different reasons and
      the study was completed with 181 pregnant women (90: control: 91). The groups were determined
      by randomization. During the conduct of the study, all pregnant women who applied to the
      pregnant school and met the criteria for participation in the study were recorded in the
      pre-training registry and numbered in the order of registration. Every week because of
      differences in the number of pregnant women who attended the school participating women were
      divided into two groups using a random number table created in the program via the computer
      itself. The purpose of the study was explained to pregnant women, informed consent form and
      data collection tools of the study were collected by face to face interview technique. In the
      first interview to all pregnant women; Personal Information Form, Course Information Form,
      Pittshburg Sleep Quality Index (PUKI) and General Self-Efficacy Scale were applied. Pregnant
      women in the intervention group were given a two-session training program to improve sleep
      quality and "Sleep Guide" and "Safe Baby Sleep Conditions Brochure". Pregnant women in the
      control group were subjected to routine practice without any training given by the
      researcher. Four weeks after the completion of the sleep training, all pregnant women were
      contacted by telephone and the data collection tools were applied for the second time and the
      final test applications were completed. After completion of the data collection process made
      a new plan for training to improve the quality of sleep to pregnant women in the control
      group and the "Sleep Guide" and "Safe Baby Sleep Conditions Brochure" is given.
    
  