
    
      CMV is a common virus, which can cause blindness and death in AIDS patients. Previous studies
      demonstrate that foscarnet has been effective in both AIDS and non-AIDS patients with CMV
      infection. Although treatment with ganciclovir (DHPG) is also effective, a significant
      toxicity leading to dose-limiting neutropenia (low white blood cell count) in one third of
      treated patients has been associated with the drug. Based on the serious nature of CMV
      retinitis and the lack of alternative drug therapies for DHPG-sensitive patients, the present
      study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of intravenous (IV) foscarnet in AIDS patients
      with CMV retinitis.

      Following routine evaluation studies, patients are randomized to receive foscarnet right away
      or to delay treatment, as their retinitis has been determined not to be immediately
      sight-threatening. Patients are hospitalized for the first 3 days and may remain hospitalized
      for as many as 14 days. Foscarnet is given by vein (IV) in what is called induction therapy,
      and if the patient's retinitis stabilizes after 2 weeks of treatment, treatment with
      foscarnet is continued in maintenance therapy for another 8 weeks. During maintenance
      therapy, patients receive salt solution IV to help prevent any toxic side effect of foscarnet
      on the kidneys. Patients have regular checkups to monitor their retinitis as well as their
      general health. Patients taking zidovudine (AZT) prior to entering the study may continue
      their treatment if they are selected for the delayed treatment group; if they are selected
      for the immediate treatment group, they begin or resume AZT therapy when they enter the 2nd
      week of maintenance therapy. Patients are followed as outpatients for at least 10 weeks, with
      clinic check-ups and lab tests once every week; eye exams are done once a week for the first
      2 weeks and then every other week. If clinically indicated, a continued maintenance regimen
      may be administered after the 10th week; the total duration of therapy plus maintenance is
      not to exceed 24 weeks. Note: Patients scheduled for the delayed foscarnet treatment are
      immediately given foscarnet at the first sign that their retinitis is getting worse.
    
  