
    
      Methods Eligible patients will be contacted in advance of hospitalization for catheterized
      fenestration closure to introduce goals of study and review risks and benefits of
      participation. At the time of catheterization, the study objectives and consent forms will be
      explained, allowing sufficient time for questions. To ensure full comprehension of the study,
      the parent or guardian will be asked to describe his or her participation in the trial.

      Using the Fibroscan (Echosens, Paris, France), a transient elastography device, a liver
      stiffness measurement (LSM) will be obtained prior to the catheterization. On the
      post-catheterization day, a repeat measurement will be obtained. Transient elastography will
      be performed by trained study investigators who were certified by the manufacturer.

      To obtain an LSM, the appropriate-sized Fibroscan probe must be selected and then aimed in
      the right upper quadrant space through an intercostal space. For patients with heterotaxy or
      situs inversus, adjustments in probe positioning may be needed to obtain reliable
      measurement. Probe selection (small, medium, or large) will be directed by manufacturer
      guidelines, based on thoracic perimeter.

      The operator is guided by an image to locate an appropriate section of liver. The Fibroscan
      device transmits an elastic shear wave through the hepatic parenchyma and then measures the
      propagation of the wave through a known distance of liver tissue to calculate a transmission
      velocity. Using the shear velocity and the mass density of the liver parenchyma, the
      principles of Young's modulus are invoked to estimate the Elasticity of the tissue. The
      elasticity is summarized as a liver stiffness measurement (LSM), which is a continuous
      variable that is reported in kilopascals (kPa). Each LSM outcome value is based on a minimum
      of ten valid assessments measured in succession. The validity of each individual measurement
      is determined by the device and the interquartile range of the measurements should fall
      within 30% of the median LSM. The Fibroscan data collection method is non-invasive and
      efficient. LSM will be obtained after fasting for a minimum of three hours and without
      administration of sedating agents/anesthetics.
    
  