
    
      Normal reproductive cycles in women require the integrated function of the hypothalamus,
      pituitary and ovaries. The hypothalamic component of the reproductive system can be assessed
      directly in lower animal species by measurement of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH)
      directly from pituitary portal blood and recording of multiunit activity from the median
      eminence of the hypothalamus, providing direct information about the physiology of GnRH
      secretion and the activity of the GnRH pulse generator. However, these techniques are not
      feasible in the human. In addition, measurement of GnRH levels in peripheral blood does not
      accurately reflect hypothalamic GnRH secretion. Thus, indirect methods must be used to gain
      insight into hypothalamic function in the human.

      In the human, pulsatile luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion has been used as a mirror of
      hypothalamic GnRH secretion, citing comparative data from the rat, sheep, and non-human
      primate which indicate that pulses of LH are directly linked to antecedent pulses of GnRH. LH
      secretion thus provides an estimate of the underlying frequency of GnRH pulse generator
      activity provided that the assay is sufficiently precise, with a low coefficient of
      variation, and that blood sampling is frequent enough to accurately reflect the underlying
      frequency of episodic GnRH pulsatility. The use of pulsatile secretion of the free alpha
      subunit (FAS) of the gonadotropins has recently been proposed as an alternative and improved
      marker of GnRH secretion in the human due to a half-life of 15 minutes versus 20 to 40
      minutes for LH. Despite the dual control of FAS by GnRH and thyroid releasing hormone (TRH),
      our studies have shown that the pulsatile component of FAS secretion is driven solely by GnRH
      in euthyroid subjects. Such studies have indicated:

        1. the nearly complete concordance of pulses of FAS with those of LH in normal women, and
           in GnRH-deficient subjects undergoing GnRH replacement;

        2. the absence of pulsatile secretion of FAS in GnRH-deficient subjects; and

        3. the abolition of pulsatile FAS secretion in concert with that of LH following
           administration of a GnRH antagonist in normal and postmenopausal women.

      We have proposed that abnormalities in the pulsatile secretion of GnRH underlie many
      reproductive abnormalities and that these may explain the clinical variability, which exists
      even within a given diagnostic category. In this protocol, we have sought to define the
      specific neuroendocrine profile in patients with amenorrhea or oligomenorrhea. In some
      patients, the results of these studies can then correlated with clinical outcomes of
      ovulation induction protocols and with genotype information. We have examined the spectrum of
      abnormal patterns of LH (and by inference GnRH) secretion in women with secondary
      hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. In 73 studies in 50 women, it has been determined that the
      most common neurosecretory defect is low frequency/low amplitude followed by normal
      frequency/normal amplitude, apulsatile, and low amplitude/normal frequency. Of patients
      studied on several occasions, 75% demonstrated at least 2 different patterns of LH secretion
      and 33% reverted at least once to a normal pattern of secretion. Study of the baseline
      patterns of LH secretion in patients with acquired GnRH deficiency/acquired hypothalamic
      hypogonadism (AHH) indicates that this group of patients has either an apulsatile pattern or
      a pattern of low amplitude LH pulses in comparison with normal women in the early follicular
      phase (matched for ovarian steroid levels). In these patients, the specific LH pattern does
      not predict response to pulsatile GnRH used for ovulation induction. FAS is apulsatile in the
      majority of patients with primary amenorrhea and absent LH pulses providing further support
      for the hypothesis that the pulsatile component of FAS secretion is primarily driven by GnRH
      in euthyroid patients despite the dual control of FAS by GnRH and TRH. As in men with
      presumed GnRH deficiency, occasional patients with absent LH pulses will have FAS pulses.
      These interesting patients are being further evaluated with respect to their pattern of TSH
      secretion and the bioactivity of their LH.
    
  