
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the efficacy and short-term toxicity of intensified neoadjuvant chemotherapy
           in children with high-risk hepatoblastoma undergoing surgical resection.

        -  Increase the rate of complete surgical resection in these patients by fully implementing
           liver transplantation as a valid treatment option for tumor removal when partial liver
           resection or other surgical options remain unfeasible even after extensive preoperative
           chemotherapy.

        -  Determine, prospectively, the role of this regimen in rendering unresectable tumors
           resectable in these patients.

        -  Determine the accuracy of initial imaging in predicting the surgical options (after
           treatment with this regimen) for patients presenting with unresectable disease.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the overall survival and event-free survival of patients treated with this
           regimen (with an acceptable overall toxicity).

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine whether response to this regimen, defined by the modified RECIST criteria, can
           be used for better monitoring of response in these patients.

        -  Determine whether a fall in alpha-fetoprotein during this neoadjuvant regimen can be
           used as a prognostic factor in these patients.

        -  Determine, prospectively, radiological, surgical, and pathological characteristics of
           the tumor that might identify possible novel factors that might influence treatment
           choice and outcome in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study.

        -  Intensified neoadjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 24 hours on
           days 1, 8, 15, 29, 36, 43, 57, and 64; and doxorubicin IV over 1 hour OR over 24 hours
           on days 8, 9, 36, 37, 57, and 58. Patients determined to have resectable disease proceed
           to surgery.

      Patients determined to have unresectable disease after neoadjuvant chemotherapy receive
      additional neoadjuvant chemotherapy comprising carboplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 22
      and doxorubicin IV over 1 hour OR over 24 hours on days 1, 2, 3, 22, 23, and 24.

      Treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Surgery: Patients determined to have resectable disease undergo complete resection and
           possibly liver transplantation.

        -  Adjuvant chemotherapy*: Patients who undergo complete surgical resection receive
           carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 and doxorubicin IV over 1 hour OR over 24 hours on
           days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for a total of 3 courses.

      NOTE: *Patients who received additional neoadjuvant chemotherapy for unresectable disease do
      not receive adjuvant chemotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 2-3 months for 2 years, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every
      6 months for 2 years.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 23-57 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  