
    
      Painful bladder syndrome/interstitial cystitis (IC/PBS) is a disorder characterized by
      chronic bladder pain or discomfort. The exact underlying etiology of IC/PBS is unknown
      however several theories exist which include epithelial dysfunction, mast cell activation,
      and neurogenic inflammation. Whatever the underlying inciting factor for IC/PBS, the
      resulting phenotype is one of urinary frequency, urgency and bladder pain improved after
      voiding. Animal studies show that as the normal bladder fills, mechanoreceptors in the
      bladder wall respond to stretch through the discharge of afferent innervations or nerve
      firing. In normal humans, there is no conscious perception that the bladder is filling until
      a threshold volume is reached4. Patients with PBS/IC are thought to have substantially lower
      cystometric bladder volumes and a heightened sensitivity to bladder filling. Mechanoreceptors
      and chemoreceptors in the bladder may trigger myelinated A- delta or C-fibers found in the
      smooth muscle or in the submucosa in response to bladder distention. A- delta fibers are
      distributed mainly within the detrusor smooth muscle and are responsive to detrusor stretch
      that occurs during bladder filling. In contrast, C-type fibers seem to be more widespread and
      are distributed in the detrusor muscle, within the lamina propria and in close proximity to
      the urothelium. There is considerable interest in mechanisms underlying sensitization of
      C-fiber afferents, as these nerves are thought to play a key role in symptoms of IC/PBS. It
      has been shown that the plexus of afferent nerves is most dense in the regions of the bladder
      neck and proximal urethra. Lumbosacral afferent fibers in the pelvic and pudendal nerve, with
      cell bodies in the lumbosacral dorsal root ganglion (DRG), not only sense pain but also
      regulate continence and micturition. In laboratory animals, the pelvic nerve supply contains
      more stretch-responsive afferent fibers and appears to be important in responses to bladder
      over-distention. Neurologic changes seen after the occurrence of cystitis or other bladder
      insult suggest reorganization of reflex connections in the spinal cord and changes to the
      bladder afferents, that may suggest a greater role for the influence of the pudendal nerve on
      bladder pain than had been previously thought.

      The pudendal nerve is a peripheral nerve that is mainly composed of afferent sensory fibers
      from sacral nerve roots S1, S2, and S3 and consequently it is a major contributor to bladder
      afferent regulation and bladder function. Pudendal nerve entrapment often leads to
      significant voiding dysfunction including urinary incontinence and over active bladder
      syndrome Furthermore, because the pudendal nerve carries such a large percentage of afferent
      fibers, it has been an attractive target for neuromodulation in treating refractory
      overactive bladder and may be useful for modulating pain experienced in IC/PBS.

      No treatment has been consistently shown to provide relief in the majority of patients with
      painful bladder syndrome. Furthermore, combination treatment modalities are needed in the
      majority of patients. Cystoscopy with hydrodistention is thought to be a useful therapeutic
      tool in patients who are unresponsive to therapies like medication and pelvic floor physical
      therapy; however, its use has only been studied in a few observational studies and is
      currently listed as a third line treatment option for IC/PBS. According to the interstitial
      cystitis database study experience cystoscopy with hydrodistention is reported to be the most
      commonly used treatment modality for IC/PBS and published studies have reported improvement
      in symptoms in 70 to 80 percent of patients while other studies have reported improvement in
      only 40 percent. It has been postulated that hydrodistention works by disrupting the sensory
      nerves within the bladder that may be contributing to bladder pain and enabling the
      regeneration of afferent sensory nerves. Though the exact mechanism of action is unclear,
      there is ample evidence to suggest the efficacy of cystoscopy with hydrodistention, in a
      recent study by Chien-Ying et al, therapeutic hydrodistension was associated with an increase
      in bladder capacity and significant reduction in average O'Leary- Sant symptom and problem
      scores after treatment. In addition, Aihara et al who determined a positive therapeutic
      outcome in 71% of patients 1 month after hydrodistention have reported similar findings. The
      disadvantages of hydrodistention are that some patients experience a temporary worsening of
      their symptoms immediately following the procedure and any beneficial effect often lasts
      between 2-6 weeks. The immediate worsening of bladder symptoms immediately after
      hydrodistention and its relatively short duration of effect are often deterrents to
      recommending this therapy to patients. Given the multimodal approach to managing patients
      with IC/PBS it is imperative that the investigators explore ways to prolong the efficacy of
      available options and one approach that has been recently suggested is the use of preemptive
      analgesia.

      In 1983, Woolf proposed that persistent pain experienced after trauma or surgery is due to
      posttraumatic functional changes not only in the peripheral pain receptors but also in the
      dorsal horn of the spinal cord a property known as hyperexcitability. The hyperexcitable
      state persists long after such stimuli cease, causing the patient to perceive pain from
      stimuli normally believed to be painless a common occurrence thought to be seen in patients
      with IC/PBS. Therefore, prevention of spinal hyperexcitability by blockade of the afferent
      nerve pathway from surgical site to spinal cord may therefore decrease the amount and
      duration of postoperative pain perception. This theory has been tested in various animal
      studies and was first described by Wall in 1988. In addition, the current literature on
      preemptive analgesia in gynecology is supportive of this approach. In a study by Ismail et
      al, 130 patients undergoing posterior colporrhaphy were randomized to receive preemptive
      pudendal nerve block with either .25% bupivacaine or normal saline. Study findings
      demonstrated an average postoperative Visual Analog Scale (VAS) score of 51.1 for the
      bupivacaine group compared to 23.5 in the placebo group. The investigators postulate that
      since the pudendal nerve is an important contributor to bladder afferent regulation,
      preemptive nerve block prior to hydrodistention may block afferent impulse transmission to
      the spinal cord and decrease the initial increase in postoperative bladder pain.
    
  