
    
      "Intrapartum electronic fetal monitoring (EFM) also known as cardiotocography (CTG) is used
      for most women who give birth in the United States," as per American College of Obstetrics
      and Gynecology (ACOG) Practice Bulletin 116 - Management of Intrapartum Fetal Heart Rate
      Tracings. This document regarding recommendations of intrapartum management functions on the
      assumption that electronic fetal monitoring is being recorded, either on paper or
      electronically, to allow for interpretation of the pattern of the fetal heart rate over time.
      In the US, the widespread availability of electronic medical record systems allows continuous
      visualization of fetal heart tracings. In hospitals that have not transitioned to electronic
      recording of fetal heart rate tracings, these tracings are continuously recorded on paper.
      The guidelines put forth by ACOG in Practice Bulletin 116 define how to interpret patterns of
      fetal heart rates, and furthermore, how to manage patients based on these interpretations by
      categorizing features of tracings that are concerning vs. reassuring.

      The International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO), of which ACOG is a member,
      produced several documents in 2015 to address Consensus Guidelines for Intrapartum Fetal
      Monitoring. The document addressing CTG for an international audience provides the same
      guidelines for interpretation of fetal heart tracing patterns as ACOG, and very similar
      recommendations for management based on slightly different categorization terminology. Both
      the ACOG Practice Bulletin and the FIGO Consensus Guideline addressing intrapartum fetal
      monitoring describe fetal heart rate patterns including baseline rate, variability,
      accelerations, and decelerations. Specifically, they address the various types of
      decelerations, some of which are benign, and others which are ominous for fetal well-being,
      as well as the importance of variability in assessing fetal well-being. For example, moderate
      baseline variability reflects the oxygenation of the central nervous system and reliably
      predicts the absence of ongoing hypoxic injury and metabolic acidemia at the time it is
      observed.

      An alternative method for intrapartum fetal monitoring is via intermittent auscultation (IA).
      IA is a technique by which the fetal heart rate is appreciated by a stethoscope, fetoscope,
      or handheld Doppler to assess the fetal heart rate over established periods of time during
      different stages of labor, but does not produce a continuous numerical output of the fetal
      heart rate. As such, certain features of a fetal heart rate pattern cannot be evaluated by
      IA, including fetal heart rate variability or the different types of decelerations. According
      to the FIGO Guidelines on Intermittent Auscultation, "Based on expert opinion, IA should be
      recommended in all labors in settings where there is no access to CTG monitors or to the
      resources necessary for using them. When the resources for CTG monitoring are available,
      intermittent auscultation may be used for routine intrapartum monitoring in low-risk cases.
      However, approximately half of the panel members believe that continuous CTG should be the
      option during the second stage of labor, although there is no direct scientific evidence to
      support this." In settings where CTG is available, the conditions required to use IA are
      stringent and even preclude patients who don't deliver within 1 hour of pushing. Furthermore,
      management of abnormal findings on IA includes proceeding to CTG if it is available. These
      provisions to using IA convey the implication that it is preferred to have CTG available for
      use, if possible. It is important to note that electronic fetal monitoring without paper or
      the ability to interpret a pattern, is not the same as IA or electronic fetal monitoring as
      described above. Therefore, there is no set of guidelines to interpret and manage patients
      monitored with continuous monitoring without pattern interpretation.

      In many developing countries, hospitals have the ability to provide intrapartum electronic
      fetal monitoring. At Ayder Referral Hospital, a teaching hospital for Mekelle University,
      labor and delivery is equipped with electronic CTG monitors that display fetal heart rate in
      real time, and potentially have the ability to record on paper. Secondary to limited number
      of CTG monitors, EFM is reserved for use for patients who are considered "high risk," and IA
      is used to monitor patients who are "low risk." "High risk" patients are those who have
      maternal conditions or fetal conditions that prompt higher level of fetal monitoring, such as
      pre-eclampsia, history of prior cesarean delivery, or concerns regarding fetal well-being.
      However, at this hospital, as in many other hospitals in sub-Saharan Africa, paper strip
      supplies were depleted and have not been replenished. Thus, patients are currently monitored
      intrapartum with a live feedback of fetal heart rate, but with no ability to interpret fetal
      heart rate pattern. Management of patients in this setting is based on real-time fetal heart
      rates that are continuously observed, which is an intermediate entity of fetal monitoring for
      which there are no established recommendations for management. Neither the ACOG Bulletin nor
      the FIGO Consensus Guidelines address CTG/EFM without pattern interpretation.

      In a setting such as Ayder Referral Hospital in Mekelle, making efforts to minimize the
      cesarean delivery rate while optimizing neonatal outcomes is paramount for many reasons. In
      Mekelle, personal and socioeconomic implications of a major surgery such as cesarean delivery
      are considered seriously, and refusal of cesarean delivery is higher in many developing
      countries in comparison to resource-rich countries. Furthermore, performance of a cesarean
      delivery in a patient population that has a high aversion to cesarean delivery puts these
      patients at risk of avoiding a subsequent delivery in a hospital to avoid a repeat cesarean
      section, which can have dire consequences. Preventing adverse fetal outcome is equally as
      important as preventing unnecessary cesarean section, as resources available for neonatal
      resuscitation are limited in comparison to developed countries.

      While there is a lack of data regarding the use of EFM without pattern interpretation, the
      investigators' hypothesis is that the implementation of EFM with pattern interpretation will
      result in a decrease in cesarean delivery rates without altering neonatal outcomes. This
      hypothesis arises from anecdotal experience. Providers at Ayder Referral Hospital and the
      principal investigator's observation of the intrapartum management on Labor and Delivery
      noted that several of the cesarean deliveries that occurred may have been averted given the
      opportunity for intrauterine resuscitation.

      This prospective cohort study comparing current standard of care at Ayder Referral Hospital
      (EFM without pattern interpretation for high risk obstetric patients) with EFM as per ACOG
      and FIGO recommendations (with pattern evaluation) may reveal a change in cesarean delivery
      rate and/or neonatal outcomes.
    
  