
    
      Enrollment of 90 patients is planned at National Cerebral & Cardiovascular Center in Japan.
      Study participants are randomly assigned to either CGM-based glucose management or
      HbA1c-based glucose management.

      Eligible subjects should have CAD requiring elective PCI. HbA1c at screening should be
      between 7.0 and 10.0%.

      Non-culprit vessel with its severe tortuousty and/or calcification will be excluded. Subjects
      with baseline estimated glomerular filtration rate <40 mL/min/1.73m2 will not be eligible.

      After informed consent has been obtained, elective PCI will be conducted to treat culprit
      lesion. NIRS/IVUS imaging will be conducted to evaluate coronary atheroma.

      In the CGM-based glucose management group, CGM (FreeStyle Libre Pro®, Abbott, Chicago,
      Illinoi, the United States) and HbA1c measurement will be undertaken at baseline and 3, 6, 9
      and 12 months following PCI. In the HbA1c-based glucose management group, HbA1c will be
      measured at baseline and 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after PCI, and CGM will be used at baseline
      and 12 months in a similar fashion..

      With regard to the use of anti-diabetic drugs, in the CGM-guided glycemic control group,
      endocrinologist will select glucose lowering drugs to fulfill the following CGM-derived
      goals: (a) the frequency of hypoglycemia=0%, (b) the coefficient of variation <36% and (c)
      averaged glucose level between 70-180 mg/dl.6 If the frequency of hypoglycemia is over 10%
      and/or the averaged glucose level is more than 400 mg/dl, patients will be asked to visit
      within 1 month after CGM measurement. In the HbA1c-guided therapy group, the selection of
      glucose lowering agents will be made according to the discretion of each endocrinologist to
      achieve HbA1c <7.0%.

      At 12 months following PCI, patients will be hospitalized to take follow-up coronary
      angiography and intravascular imaging study. NIRS/IVUS imaging in the non-culprit vessel will
      be conducted again in a similar fashion.
    
  