
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or the recommended phase II dose (RP2D)
      of CX-4945 administered orally daily to skeletally-immature children with recurrent SHH
      (sonic hedgehog) medulloblastoma (Phase I) II. To describe the toxicity profile and define
      the dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of CX-4945 in skeletally-immature children with recurrent
      SHH (sonic hedgehog) medulloblastoma. (Phase I) III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of
      CX-4945 administered orally daily to skeletally-immature children with recurrent SHH (sonic
      hedgehog) medulloblastoma. (Phase I) IV. To characterize the concentrations of CX-4945 in
      tumor after administration of CX-4945 and surgical resection (Surgical Study). V. To
      establish the safety and characterize the toxicity of 1000mg BID continuous dosing of CX-4945
      in skeletally-mature patients with recurrent SHH medulloblastoma (Phase II). VI. To estimate
      the objective response rate associated with CX-4945 in skeletally-mature patients with
      recurrent SHH medulloblastoma

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To document preliminary antitumor activity of CX-4945 in skeletally-immature children with
      recurrent SHH medulloblastoma (Phase I). II. To perform a genomic analysis within the
      confines of a Phase I study to investigate correlation between response to treatment and the
      presence of specific genomic alterations. and/or specific subgroups of disease (Phase I).
      III. To explore the ability of CX-4945 at the MTD/ RP2D to inhibit CK2-mediated signaling in
      tumor (Surgical Study). IV. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of CX-4945 in
      skeletally-mature patients with recurrent SHH medulloblastoma (Phase II). V. To perform a
      genomic analysis within the confines of a Phase II study to investigate correlation between
      response to treatment and the presence of specific genomic alterations and/or specific
      subgroups of disease (Phase II).

      OUTLINE: Phase I component is a dose-escalation study. The Phase II component is to establish
      the safety of 1000mg BID given continuously.

      The study will open with a safety cohort of 3 subjects who are considered skeletally-mature.
      The initial 3 subjects will be administered CX-4945 twice a day at the adult RP2D of 1000 mg
      BID or at its BSA adjusted equivalent; however, the dose will be given continuously. If there
      are not excessive toxicities in this cohort, the study will proceed following the Phase II
      design for subjects who are skeletally-mature.

      Following the safety lead in, the Phase 1 component of this trial will be initiated.
      Skeletally-immature children with refractory or recurrent medulloblastoma of the SHH
      subgroup, will be administered CX-4945 twice a day on a continuous basis at a starting dose
      of 600mg/m2 BID which corresponds approximately to the BSA adjusted recommended Phase 2 dose
      (RP2D) of 1000mg. The Phase 1 study will escalate doses to determine the maximum tolerated
      dose skeletally-immature children.

      The surgical study will be initiated after the first 3 patients in the skeletally-mature
      cohort are treated for initial assessment of safety and did not experience excessive
      toxicity. Skeletally-mature subjects with recurrent or refractory SHH medulloblastoma will be
      eligible as soon the surgical study is initiated and will receive drug at 1000mg BID or its
      BSA adjusted equivalent depending upon age and BSA. Skeletally-immature subjects will only be
      eligible to enroll on the surgical trial once the MTD is defined in the Phase 1 component and
      will receive drug at the established MTD for this cohort.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up to 2 years.
    
  