
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare overall and disease-free survival in patients with operable
      adenocarcinoma of the breast treated with 4 courses of preoperative doxorubicin and
      cyclophosphamide (AC) alone vs 4 courses of preoperative or postoperative docetaxel (TXT)
      following 4 courses of preoperative AC. II. Evaluate whether the addition of preoperative TXT
      to preoperative AC results in improved rates of clinical and pathologic locoregional tumor
      response. III. Assess whether the addition of preoperative TXT to preoperative AC results in
      improved rates of breast conservation. IV. Assess whether postoperative TXT improves
      disease-free and overall survival in patients who receive preoperative AC, especially in
      certain subgroups of patients (e.g., those with pathologically positive nodes).

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age
      (under 50 vs 50 and over), clinical tumor size (less than 2.1 cm vs 2.1-4.0 cm vs greater
      than 4.0 cm), clinical nodal status (negative vs positive), and participating center.
      Patients are randomized to one of three treatment arms. Arm I: Patients receive doxorubicin
      IV followed by cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes to 2 hours on day 1 every 21 days for 4
      courses. Patients receive oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years, starting on day 1. After
      completion of chemotherapy, patients are offered surgery (e.g., lumpectomy with axillary node
      dissection, or modified radical mastectomy). Post-operative radiotherapy is given
      post-lumpectomy. Arm II: Patients receive doxorubicin IV followed by cyclophosphamide IV over
      30 minutes to 2 hours followed by docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 once every 21 days for 4
      courses. Patients receive oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years, starting on day 1. After the
      completion of chemotherapy, surgery is offered (as in arm I). Radiotherapy follows surgery in
      post-lumpectomy patients. Arm III: Patients receive doxorubicin IV followed by
      cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes to 2 hours on day 1 every 21 days for 4 courses. Patients
      receive oral tamoxifen daily for 5 years, starting on day 1. After completion of
      chemotherapy, surgery is offered (as in arm I). After surgical recovery, docetaxel IV is
      given over 1 hour once every 21 days for 4 courses. Radiotherapy follows docetaxel in
      post-lumpectomy patients. Chemotherapy is repeated every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients are followed every 6 months for 5
      years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 2,400 patients will be accrued for this study within 5
      years.
    
  