
    
      Background and significance:

      Currently, more that 5.3 million Americans (or 2% of the population) live with disabilities
      resulting from TBI. Among OEF/OIF Veterans, TBI incidence estimates as high as 23% have been
      reported, with mild TBI (mTBI) being the most common.1 This proposal addresses the
      recommendations of the consensus of scientific conferences by aiming to develop a biomarker
      of traumatic cerebrovascular injury (TCVI) which can be useful in clinical trials of
      therapies.

      Substantial data point to traumatic cerebrovascular injury (TCVI) underlying a significant
      portion of TBI-related disability. 2 The cerebral vasculature is a highly plastic tissue
      making TCVI an attractive target for therapeutic intervention after TBI. Preliminary studies
      indicate that PDE5 inhibitors such as sildenafil (Viagra®) show promise as treatment for
      cerebrovascular dysfunction after TBI. 3,4

      The investigators adapted MRI-Blood Oxygenation Level Dependent (BOLD) with hypercapnia
      challenge, to the portable, less expensive, office-based Near InfraRed Spectroscopy (NIRS)
      technology and incorporated hypercapnia challenge as the functional challenge with NIRS.

      MRI- BOLD BOLD (with 5% carbon dioxide (CO2) hypercapnia challenge via the Douglas Bag
      method) and fNIRS (also with 5% CO2 hypercapnia challenge via the Douglas Bag method) in
      traumatic brain injury (TBI) and healthy controls. The complementary methods give similar
      results with a high degree of correlation in TBI patients compared to healthy controls. 5
      Nitric Oxide (NO), the primary endogenous vasodilator in the brain, plays a prominent role.
      Specific PDE5 inhibitors have come into widespread use, the first is Sildenafil (Viagra®) for
      the treatment of erectile dysfunction and primary pulmonary hypertension. The beneficial
      effect of sildenafil is related to increased local CBF and enhanced neurogenesis,
      vasculogenesis, and axonal remodeling in the peri-infarct zone. 6-9 To date, there have been
      no longitudinal studies of CVR using functional NIRS from the acute to the subacute/chronic
      stages of TBI in humans.

      Objectives of this study:

        1. To measure over time brain blood flow using fNIRS (using lights on the scalp) with
           hypercapnia challenge (like breath holding for about a minute at a time) in 30 people
           who have had a brain injury, moderate and severe patients, and compare it to that of 10
           age-matched uninjured controls, starting as early as within 29 days of injury with the
           goal of within 7 days and measuring each time at approximately 1, 3 and 6 months after
           injury to better understand the extent and timing of cerebrovascular reactivity (CVR) in
           the first 6 months after TBI.

        2. To compare brain injury-related brain blood flow changes with clinical magnetic
           resonance imaging (MRI) and post-concussive symptoms measured by survey questionnaires,
           a neurologist's examination, testing to measure thinking ability, and learn about blood
           markers associated with traumatic brain injury.

        3. To measure changes in CVR longitudinally before and after a single dose administration
           of a phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitor, sildenafil citrate, up to 4 study time points (first
           29 days days and approximately 1, 3 and 6 months after TBI).

        4. To compare CVR measurements by fNIRS versus BOLD MRI with hypercapnia challenge.

        5. In conjunction with primary measurement of cerebrovascular reactivity using BOLD MRI,
           secondary measurement of cerebrovascular permeability will also be collected using DCE
           MRI.

      Study Design The proposal is a 24-month project in which the investigators will conduct a
      prospective, longitudinal, observational study of up to 40 acute TBI patients and 10 healthy
      controls.

        1. WRNMMC male and female military health care beneficiaries (active duty, veterans or
           DEERS eligible) aged 18 to 55 years, presenting with a diagnosis of moderate or severe
           (DoD criteria) traumatic brain injury (TBI) and healthy volunteers aged 18 to 55 years.

        2. Study participants at WRNMMC will be recruited from eligible military healthcare
           beneficiaries presenting to the WRNMMC ED or admitted to WRNMMC for TBI within 1 week of
           injury (most through TBI inpatient consult service and likely on trauma surgery,
           neurosurgery, orthopedics, neurology, PMR and/or internal medicine inpatient services).

      Procedures:

      Participants will sign a consent form, attend scheduled visits, and be paid $50 for each
      blood sample collected from participants at each of the up to 4 visits over a 6 month period.

      Participants will have an inverview about their injury and medical history and examination by
      a study physician, have a urine pregnancy test (if applicable), complete some questionnaires,
      have some memory and thinking tests, give a blood sample, and do some imaging.

      Imaging Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). One MRI before and after about 45 minutes of one
      dose of sildenafil 50mg. Each imaging session will use hypercapnia using a Douglas bag,
      equipped with a switch to allow rapid shifting every minute from room air to 5% CO2 mixed
      with room air over 7 minutes. This kind of imaging will be done at 2 or 3 of the visits. The
      29-day visit is optional, so if the participant's first visit is at the 30-day visit they
      will have imaging at that visit and then again at the 6-month visit. No imaging at the 90-day
      visit.

        -  Also common TBI MRI techniques will be performed (e.g. high-resolution 3D T1-weighted,
           T2, T2*, diffusion tensor imaging, arterial spin labeling), as well as the following
           sequences:

        -  Dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCE) MRI with intravenous gadolinium-based contrast agents
           (GBCAs) Participant goes to Radiology and gets heplock, etc. (pregnancy test if female)

      Structural MRI

      Participant comes out of scanner to place oral piece/noseclip for MRI-BOLD c hypercapnia.

      Quick T1 for co-registration, then MRI-BOLD c hypercapnia challenge (10-15 min) Participant
      comes out of the scanner and takes mouthpiece/nose clip off. Next,DCE sequence, the
      participant is injected with the contrast agent through a heplock/iv in the scanner and the
      sequence takes about 15 min.

      TOTAL scanner time is approximately 75-90 min.

      Functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) will be be performed twice at each study visit,
      once before and once about 45 minutes after single dose administration of sildenafil 50 mg.

      Study Medication

      The study medication is used to activate a change in brain blood flow during the observation
      and measurement of cerebrovascular reactivity.

      The study drug will be sildenafil citrate (Viagra®, Pfizer. Inc.). For this study, the
      investigators will use 50 mg tablets for the single dose administration at each visit.

      Collection of Human Biological Specimens

      Serum and plasma (5 ml each) will be collected at at each study visit (10 ml per visit or up
      to 40 ml over the 180 day course of the study).

      Length of participation in the study: Participants enrolled in the TBI Group will have up to
      four study visits over a period of approximately 6 months and be enrolled for that length of
      time. Non-TBI Control participants require only a single visit and will be discharged from
      the study after their study visit is complete and results have been recorded.

      Risks and Discomforts

      fNIRS with hypercapnia challenge

      The investigators anticipate the following non-serious adverse events (likely, with event
      rate < 5%):

        1. Slight discomfort from the NIRS band on the head

        2. Minor warmth under the band from the light emitters after ~ 30 minutes of testing

        3. Anxiety and/or panic attack during hypercapnia challenge

        4. Headache during/after hypercapnia challenge.

      However, there are well recognized adverse effects. The following lists the adverse events
      reported by at least 2% of patients taking sildenafil in flexible dose Phase 2/3 studies, and
      were more common at the 100 mg dose than at lower dose than this study will be using.

      Adverse events attributed to sildenafil in placebo-controlled randomized trials Adverse Event
      % of patients on sildenafil reporting AE (n = 734) % of patients on placebo reporting AE (n =
      725) Headache 16% 4% Flushing 10% 1% Dyspepsia 7% 2% Nasal Congestion 4% 2% Urinary Tract
      Infection 3% 2% Abnormal vision* 3% 0% Diarrhea 3% 1% Dizziness 2% 1% Rash 2% 1%

      *Abnormal Vision: Mild and transient, predominantly color tinge to vision, but increased
      sensitivity to light or blurred vision. In these studies, only one patient discontinued due
      to abnormal vision.

      Orthostatic hypotension is an infrequent adverse effect of sildenafil therapy. VIAGRA doses
      above 25 mg should not be taken within 4 hours of taking an alpha-blocker.

      Study participants will also be given the contact information for one of the study
      investigator physicians.

      Neurocognitive tests Testing is critical for studying the effect of TBI on memory, behavior
      and functioning. All testing will be performed by a trained research assistant or
      psychometrist. No serious adverse events are anticipated.

      Boredom Fatigue Frustration

      Phlebotomy

      Trained study personnel will draw 10 ml (2 teaspoons) at each study visit. Possible
      non-serious adverse events:

      Bleeding Bruising Infection

      Magnetic Resonance Imaging:

      MRI has been safely performed in millions of persons; research subjects will be screened for
      metallic foreign bodies or other contraindications, similar to all clinical patients.
      Pregnant females will also be excluded from participating in these research MRIs.

      Subjects may experience discomfort or anxiety while lying in the magnet and may communicate
      with the MRI technologist. Participants will have hearing protection.

      Gadolinium-Based Contrast Agents:

      Risks include local side effects from IV placement and contrast injection, systemic reaction
      to the MR contrast agents (less common than with CT contrast agents), and a rare but serious
      disease called nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF).

      There have been more recent descriptions of gadolinium deposition in the brain after exposure
      to MR contrast agents. The clinical significance (if any) of this discovery is currently
      unknown.

      Subject Withdrawal

      As stated in the consents, and as will be explained to the subjects, subjects may withdraw
      their participation from the study, at any time, without explanation. The procedure for
      withdrawal is stated in the consent document.

      Privacy

      All screening and enrollment procedures will be conducted in the study site clinics. All
      recruitment and subsequent study-related activities involving face-to-face interactions with
      subjects will be conducted in a private, closed-door office setting. All telephone contacts
      will be carried out in a closed room.

      Confidentiality Protection

      Each subject will be assigned a numerical code for identification purposes pertaining to data
      and biospecimens. The numberical code will contain no identifiers (numerical code only). A
      computer file linking subjects to their assigned numerical code will be safely stored as an
      encrypted file on a password protected computer. Paper records will be stored in locked
      cabinets in locked office space. Linking files will be kept for the life of the study and
      then destroyed. No subject will be identified in future publications as having taken part in
      this study.
    
  