
    
      The diagnosis of functional constipation (FC) in children leads to several diagnostic and
      therapeutic challenges. Most children respond well to standard recommended treatment, but
      there is a considerable group of patients that will continue to have symptoms. In this group,
      paediatricians sometimes presume the presence of an underlying psychopathology such as a
      developmental disorder, mood disorder, behavioural disorder. A longer treatment period has
      shown strong association with behavioural problems, suggestive for treatment resistant
      constipation.

      It is known that functional defecation disorders (FDD) can be associated with behavioural and
      developmental disorders, such as Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and Attention Deficit and
      Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), though these disorders are often initially unrecognized. Also,
      there are no clear guidelines reported regarding the timing when to search for underlying
      psychopathology in FC.

      Research using Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS) and Social Communication
      Questionnaire-Lifetime (SCQ-L), screening tools for social difficulties, did not identify ASD
      diagnosis, in children with functional constipation. At the other hand, they found a total
      increase in emotional and behavioural problems in their research group. Prior studies found
      that 28 % of children with FDD referred to a tertiary centre scored positive on ASD screening
      questionnaires. A high prevalence of behavioural problems (37 %) in children with FC has been
      described as well.

      According to the Guidelines for children with FC of the North American and European Societies
      of Paediatric Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, the diagnosis of emotional,
      behavioural and/or developmental disorders (ASD or ADHD) will be considered after an
      unsuccessful six-month standard treatment.

      We hypothesized that it could be useful to incorporate an earlier screening for emotional,
      behavioural and autism spectrum disorders into the diagnostic work-up of children with
      functional constipation referred to a tertiary care hospital. FC may have an important impact
      on the Quality of Life (QoL) in families of these children. Therefore we also measure
      parental stress and negative life-events from the child's perspective using the
      'Opvoedingsbelasting Vragenlijst' (OBVL) for measurement of parental stress and the
      'Vragenlijst Meegemaakte Gebeurtenissen' (VMG) for possible stressful life events from the
      child's perspective.

      This study includes Dutch and French-speaking children, age 4-18 years, presenting for the
      first time at KidZ Health Castle (KHC) Brussels with suspicion of functional constipation
      complaints. Children could present ambulatory or could be hospitalized and were eligible
      regardless of previously diagnosed behavioural and developmental problems and regardless of
      any previous treatment for FDD. The diagnosis of FC was made based on the Rome IV criteria.
      Given that the 2 month interval listed in the Rome IV criteria for older children may
      unfairly delay treatment in some children with constipation, children who had difficulty with
      defecation for at least 2 weeks were also included 3. Children with an underlying organic
      cause that could have contributed to the development of constipation and children with
      functional non-retentive faecal incontinence (FNRFI) will be excluded.

      The questionnaires will be given to the consenting parents and/or patients at the first visit
      and after 6 months conventional treatment along with an explanation of the research by the
      attending pediatrician, informed consent and a return envelope. Each questionnaire will be
      anonymized and provided with a code that will be linked to the name and number of the
      participant's file.

      The group within the normal range at first visit for the two screening surveys: SRS-2 and
      CBC-L will serve as a control group.

      Both groups will have to fill in the 2 questionnaires 6 months later, after initiation of
      adequate treatment. If the control results are still abnormal, participants will be directed
      to the department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry for further treatment of their
      behavioral, emotional or developmental problems.

      Participants will be seen every 2 - 3 months and outcome will be evaluated at 6 and 12 months
      after enrollment.
    
  