
    
      The Kelee and Kelee meditation (KM) were developed and founded by Ron W. Rathbun. KM is a
      unique and distinctive form of meditation that is easy to learn and requires only about 10
      minutes twice a day to perform. The goal and discipline of KM is the development of
      one-pointed stillness of mind. To better comprehend how KM is effective in reducing stress,
      anxiety, and depression, one must understand the difference between concentration and
      meditation, and the basic principles of the Kelee. Experiencing and understanding the
      distinction between brain function and mind function are of vital importance in KM. Brain
      function is associated with the tension-based, intellectual, thinking process and the five
      physical senses whereas mind function is associated with the relaxation-based, experiential,
      mental feeling process, self-awareness, and clear perception. Performing KM leads to the
      calming of brain function and opening to the experience of mind function. With continued
      practice, persistence, and patience, the practitioner can begin to learn on his own how to
      examine and understand (ie, troubleshoot) his own thoughts and feelings from a calm, clear
      internal space that is free from the negative chatter and preconception associated with the
      brain. This increases self-awareness of the presence of internalized compartments
      (misperceptions of life that exist as negative thoughts and/or feelings) and the practitioner
      begins to develop clarity of perception. Clear perception allows one to begin the process of
      detachment from internalized compartments, which occurs through the cessation of looping
      followed by the processing of compartments. As each negative compartment dissipates, the
      practitioner experiences a subtle, but cumulative, corresponding improvement in stress,
      anxiety, and depression. When the flow of the Kelee is allowed to be, there is balance
      between the thinking and the feeling process leading to overall well-being, which leads to
      improved self-efficacy and reinforces the repetition of KM.
    
  