
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safe dose of olaparib with ramucirumab, but not to exceed olaparib dose
      of 300 mg twice daily (tablet formulation). (Phase I) II. To determine the efficacy of
      olaparib plus ramucirumab as measured by the objective response rates (ORR) stratified by
      BROCA-HR biomarker status. (Phase II).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate median progression-free survival (PFS) stratified by BROCA-HR biomarker
      status.

      II. To estimate median overall survival (OS) stratified by BROCA-HR biomarker status.

      III. To measure the prevalence of the BROCA-HR biomarker in our study population.

      IV. To determine toxicity of olaparib and ramucirumab combination.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the correlation between the signature 3 status, and mutations in BROCA-HR panel.

      II. To evaluate the association between findings from BROCA-HR panel with response to
      therapy.

      III. To evaluate the association between findings from BROCA-HR panel and signature 3 results
      with response to therapy.

      IV. To determine results of immunoassay for poly-ADP-ribosylated (PAR) substrates in tumor
      tissue.

      V. To create a PDX model to study deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair in gastric tumors
      treated with PARP inhibitors (PARPi) from both pre-treatment biopsy and repeat biopsy after
      16 weeks of treatment.

      VI. Development of a novel genomic assay for BRCAness. VII. Defining T cell receptor
      diversity of gastric cancer patients +/- BRCAness.

      VIII. Biobank additional tumor tissue for future genomic analysis. IX. Biobank peripheral
      blood for future genomic analysis and assessment of circulating tumor DNA.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of olaparib followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14 and ramucirumab
      intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 14 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks and then every 6
      weeks thereafter.
    
  