
    
      Heart failure (HF) is an abnormality of cardiac structure or function leading to failure of
      the heart to deliver oxygen at the rate commensurate with the requirement of the patient or
      is able to do so only at the expense of elevated left ventricular filling pressures. European
      Society of Cardiology (ESC) 2016 guidelines defined HF as a syndrome in which patients have
      typical symptoms (e.g. breathlessness, swelling and fatigue) and signs (elevated jugular
      pressure, pulmonary crackles and displaced apex beat) resulting from an abnormality of
      cardiac structure or function. Patients with HF experience decreased exercise capacity,
      inability to perform activities of daily living, diminished quality of life, increased
      frequency of hospitalization and higher rates of mortality. HF is highly prevalent and
      affects approximately 26 million people worldwide with an estimated mortality of 50% within 5
      years of diagnosis.1, 2 It remains a major threat to the public health system since more than
      1 million patients are hospitalized with a primary diagnosis of HF annually, and, in western
      countries it is the most common cause of hospitalization in individuals >65 years of age.

      Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) using biventricular (BiV) pacing has been developed
      to restore synchrony in HF patients with delayed ventricular activation, predominantly of the
      left ventricle (LV). Studies have demonstrated that simultaneous or sequential BiV pacing
      restores the synchrony of contraction, reduces mitral regurgitation, and improves cardiac
      output. Several landmark clinical trials published in the past few years have provided
      compelling evidence that CRT can produce significant clinical benefits, including
      improvements in patients' HF symptoms, quality of life, hospitalization rates, and
      echocardiographic measures which confer a mortality benefit. Majority of patients show a
      benefit from CRT treatment however, up to 40% derive no improvement. In the MIRACLE study,
      34% of patients did not demonstrate an improvement based on a clinical composite score (CCS)
      that combined all-cause mortality, HF hospitalization, New York Heart Association (NYHA)
      class and the Minnesota Living with Heart Failure Quality of Life Score. Birnie and Tang et
      al have summarized nonresponder rates from various clinical studies and the authors suggest
      that while most studies quote non-responder rates at 20-30% the true rate may be as high as
      40-50%. They indicate that the inconsistencies might be largely due to the lack of standard
      definitions or methodologies to measure CRT response.

      The precise mechanisms determining response are yet to be fully elucidated. It is generally
      believed that success is based on minimizing electrical activation times in the LV with a
      fusion between a left ventricular wavefront from a lead placed in the coronary sinus (CS) and
      a wavefront from a lead placed in the RV or an intrinsic wavefront.

      The effects of different RV pacing sites have been varied in terms of their relationship to
      outcomes from CRT pacing. Initial smaller studies showed different outcomes between right
      ventricular apex (RVA) and outflow tract (RVOT) lead position, however further studies failed
      to demonstrate a benefit. Following this it was demonstrated that lead position initially
      believed to be septal were in fact antero-septal and that co-ordinated conduction would not
      be expected from these sites. Differing activation patterns have been demonstrated on
      Electroanatomic mapping (EAM) between intrinsic left bundle branch block (LBBB
      (circumferential)) and RV apical pacing (longitudinal). Another small study showed that RV
      lead placement at the site of latest activation during LV pacing improved acute haemodynamic
      measurements compared to standard RVA pacing, as did a true mid septal site compared to RVOT
      pacing - with the RV septum being the latest activated site during LV pacing when the CS lead
      was in the lateral vein.

      LV septal activation has been proposed as a possible contributor to a successful response to
      CRT implantation. Trans-septal activation time has been shown in an animal model to
      correspond to the presence or absence of Heart failure when an LBBB is present, and
      successful acute haemodynamic response correlated to minimal epicardial activation time, LV
      endocardial pre-excitation and shortest QRS duration. Trans-septal conduction times have also
      been theorized to account for why QRS shortening with CRT is less than expected, however the
      degree to which this contributes is unknown.

      Left ventricular total and septal scar have also been correlated to non-response to CRT. This
      would be expected to contribute to a longer trans-septal activation, as well as to local
      tissue strain measurement on echocardiography. Patterns of scar and their relationship to
      trans-septal activation times have not been documented. In the normal human heart up to three
      early endocardial sites have been documented and the location of scar relative to these sites
      and its effect is unknown. Earliest LV septal activation in LBBB heart failure patients may
      occur in mid septal regions suggesting activation of the LBB or outside of this region
      demonstrating direct trans-septal conduction, whether this correlates to CRT response is yet
      to be determined. Further evidence exists that there is a delay between electrical and
      mechanical activation of different cardiac segments (EMD), and that this is variable in the
      normal heart, as well as in the failing heart where it is further exacerbated between septal
      and lateral walls of the left ventricle. Reduction in total activation time may increase the
      total amount of myocardium recruited at any time point and that this may minimize EMD.

      This single arm, non-randomized, open-label, multi-center, clinical investigation of 20
      subjects is designed to characterize RV and LV septal activation patterns in CRT patients
      with various pacing configurations. The study will also assess the association of CRT
      response to septal activation patterns, septal scar and morphology of surface ECG.
    
  