
    
      It is becoming apparent that both type 1 and type 2 diabetes mellitus are associated with an
      increased risk for osteoporosis-associated fractures. A meta-analysis by Vestergaard showed
      that patients with type 1 DM have decreased bone mineral density and increased fracture risk.
      This study noted a 6.9 relative risk of hip fracture, when the expected relative risk of
      fracture was only 1.4 based on the BMD. This finding suggests that the increased fracture
      risk is not entirely accounted for by the lower BMD. It has been demonstrated that the
      presence of diabetic microvascular complications, including ophthalmic, nephropathic, and
      neurological, lead to a higher risk of hip fracture in patients with type 1 DM. Unlike
      patients with type 1 DM, patients with type 2 DM have an average or higher BMD than
      age-matched controls. However, several studies have demonstrated that patients with type 2 DM
      have a higher risk of hip, proximal humerus, and foot fractures. Data from the Women's Health
      Initiative Observational Study indicate that post-menopausal women with diabetes are at an
      increased risk of hip, foot, and spine fractures, and fractures overall. For a given BMD,
      diabetic bone appears to be less strong and therefore more likely to fracture. Insulin-like
      growth factor (IGF)-1, insulin, bone morphogenetic proteins and osteoprotegerin (OPG), serve
      as anabolic signals to promote bone formation. Among these anabolic mediators, liver-derived
      IGF-1 is of particular interest since profound growth retardation, small bone size, low BMD
      and osteoporosis were reported in IGF-1 and IGF-1 receptor deficiencies. Furthermore, insulin
      was found to directly induce osteogenic action by increasing cell proliferation,
      differentiation, alkaline phosphatase activity and expression of type Ⅰcollagen and
      osteocalcin in human osteoblast-like MG-63 cells. Type 1 DM featuring low circulating insulin
      and IGF-1 levels usually occurs in young children prior to peak bone mass attainment, whereas
      type 2 DM is common in adults who have already attained peak bone mass.
    
  