
    
      It is estimated that approximately 1.7 million surgical procedures are performed each year in
      Canada. Unfortunately, perioperative complications are not an uncommon occurrence and have
      substantial morbidity, mortality and costs associated with them. To date, the best strategies
      to reduce nosocomial infections are aseptic practices, timely prophylactic antibiotics and
      good surgical technique. Despite these strategies, it is estimated that at least 1 in 5 major
      vascular surgical patients will have some type of nosocomial infection within 30 days of
      their procedure. The direct and indirect mortality of infections in this population is
      difficult to estimate but nosocomial infections are estimated to contribute to at least 15%
      of the mortality in hospitalized patients.

      The primary manner in which infections contribute to patient mortality is by progression to
      sepsis. Sepsis is the tenth leading cause of death in Canadians and worldwide is increasing
      in incidence and severity. The associated mortality of sepsis varies by population and
      infection source but is usually between 30-60%. Despite significant improvements in the
      management of sepsis in the last 5 years, there is still no generally effective preventive
      medication or strategy. Although cardiovascular complications, including myocardial
      infarction and heart failure, are less common at 15% of major vascular patients, they have a
      staggering mortality of around 30-50%. Clearly, strategies or therapies to reduce these
      complications could have profound benefits. The questions are therefore whether statin drugs
      reduce sepsis, cardiovascular complications, or both and, if they do, how might they do so.

      Understanding of the pathophysiology of sepsis and acute coronary syndromes in the
      non-operative setting has led to tremendous advancements in the management. In sepsis, an
      excessive, inappropriate and misguided response in the host defense response is likely
      responsible. Massive cytokine release exacerbates endothelium dysfunction that then impacts
      coagulation, thrombolysis, inflammation, tissue repair and tissue growth. If not corrected,
      the endothelial cells either die directly or through the triggering of apoptosis. This then
      leads to multiorgan dysfunction and ultimately death. How sepsis ultimately impairs and
      damages endothelial cell function is likely multifactoral. Impairment of endothelial nitric
      oxide synthetase occurs that causes impaired perfusion and inappropriate microvasculature
      coagulation.

      In a strikingly similar manner to sepsis, key elements to acute coronary syndromes again
      appear to be inflammation and endothelial dysfunction. Rupture of coronary plaques and
      thrombosis are central. Although perioperative myocardial events are traditionally said to be
      supply-demand problems, this theory is in dispute and evidence suggests that perioperative
      problems are very similar to non-operative events. Elevated levels of various inflammatory
      markers, particularly C-Reactive Protein, are associated with adverse cardiovascular events.
      Similarly, the vascular endothelium is responsible for regulating vasomotor tone, thrombosis,
      platelet and leukocyte interactions. Dysfunction of the endothelium is also believed to be a
      central component of the development of coronary complications. Although endothelial
      dysfunction has not been extensively investigated in the perioperative setting,
      pathophysiologic similarities make it probable that perioperative endothelial dysfunction
      contributes to the occurrence of perioperative myocardial events. Thus, strategies designed
      to control perioperative inflammation, as well as to improve endothelial function and
      stabilize coronary plaque have the potential to reduce both perioperative coronary and
      infectious events.

      Although studies in both animals and humans strongly suggest that statins may both prevent
      and treat sepsis, no prospective randomized trials in humans have been conducted to
      demonstrate these effects. Although some statins have been demonstrated to directly attenuate
      replication and infectivity of microorganisms, the evidence primarily suggests that if
      statins are indeed protective it will likely be due to their anti-inflammatory and favorable
      endothelial effects. Improvement of endothelial function by statins has been suggested to
      prevent cardiac events by stabilizing coronary plaques and may even contribute to plaque
      regression. Statins restore endothelial production of endogenous nitric oxide synthetase thus
      improving organ perfusion and microvasculature thrombosis that is impaired in the setting of
      sepsis.

      The goals of the proposed trial, STAR VaS II are therefore twofold: First, it will help
      determine if statin blunts the adverse perioperative changes in inflammation and endothelial
      function in a dose-dependent fashion. Second, it will determine if patients chronically on
      lower than maximal statin dose should have their dose increased in the perioperative period.
      We will evaluate the influence of varying doses of statins on perioperative inflammation, as
      assessed by C-reactive protein, and endothelial function as assessed by brachial artery
      ultrasound. If atorvastatin, chronically administered before surgery, improves inflammatory
      changes or endothelial function in a dose dependent fashion, then it is plausible that
      patients chronically on lower statin doses should have their dose increased in the
      perioperative period. If however patients on lower doses experienced similar benefit, as
      those on higher doses, then conceivably the recommended perioperative dose could be lower
      thereby theoretically further improving the risk-benefit ratio for a statin drug. All
      patients will be assessed for infections as defined by the CDC.
    
  