
    
      The number of retrieved LNs in the N2 area after RDG is going to be calculated according to
      the pathology reports and comparative analysis to a historic group undergone open surgery for
      clinical stage II or III gastric cancer at the NCC Korea last year.

      METHODS AGAINST BIAS Minimizing selection bias: After initiation of the study, all patients
      will be screened consecutively and all eligible patients will be asked to enrol in the trial.
      The trial is designed as a prospective multi-center phase II trial. Patients are going to be
      allocated to RAG after giving signed consent after sufficient consideration time.

      Minimizing performance bias: The study is planned as a prospective single arm multi-center
      trial, as the retrospective data suggest that there is no disadvantage in lymph node
      retrieval after RAG compared to LAG. Surgery is going to be performed according to the
      guidelines of the Japanese Research Society for the Study of Gastric Cancer (3rd edition).
      Japanese randomized controlled trials have proven effectiveness of adequate D2
      lymphadenectomy in several randomized controlled trials. As number of dissected lymph nodes
      is a surrogate marker for adequate lymph node dissection, only patients with at least 25
      lymph nodes removed (as obtained from pathology report) will be definitively included in the
      data assessment. Further lymph node stations No. #7, #8a, #9, #11p, #12a for subtotal
      gastrectomy according to the Japanese Guideline have to be dissected out of the surgical
      specimen and analyzed separately in the pathologic workup. All patients in the trial are
      going to be analyzed, as success rate of LN dissection in the N2-area is the primary
      endpoint. Surgery in the trial must be performed by a board certified surgeon who has taken
      part in a trial specific training course. Potential learning curve artefacts are negligible
      because the RAG is going to be performed by surgeons who are highly trained and experienced
      in robotic gastrectomy.

      Participating surgeons should have experience as an operator of over 50 cases of open
      gastrectomy, over 50 laparoscopic gastrectomy, and over 15 cases of robotic gastrectomy.
      Furthermore, surgical quality will have to be enforced by intraoperative video documentation.
      Also, pictures of nodal dissection area after resection should be submitted to have a quality
      assurance.

      Minimizing detection bias: Patients are going to regularly undergo standardized follow-up
      visits at 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 48, 60 months to be evaluated disease status with
      abdominopelvic CT. EGD will be done on 3, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months.
    
  