
    
      Triple-negative breast cancer is named because of lack of expression of estrogen receptor,
      progesterone receptor, and proto-oncogene HER2. This type of breast cancer is highly
      heterogeneous, is more likely to recur locally and develop distant metastasis, and has high
      invasiveness and low survival rate. Because both endocrine therapy and targeted therapy are
      ineffective for triple-negative breast cancer, so the main currently available treatment is
      chemotherapy. Some patients may choose anti-angiogenic therapy. The prognosis of
      triple-negative breast cancer is worse than that of other types of breast cancer due to fewer
      treatment options. Guidelines and Specifications for Diagnosis and Treatment of Breast Cancer
      (2017 edition) compiled by Committee of Breast Cancer Society of Chinese Anti-Cancer
      Association suggest that neoadjuvant therapy should be recommended for patients with
      large-sized tumors (maximum diameter greater than 5 cm), axillary lymph node metastasis,
      human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2) positive, triple-negative breast cancer, and
      breast-conserving intention. The guidelines also suggest that neoadjuvant therapy for
      triple-negative breast cancer should apply anthracyclines and taxanes. Guidelines of Chinese
      Society of Clinical Oncology (CSCO) Breast Cancer 2018.V1 propose that the treatment regimen
      of triple-negative breast cancer should apply anthracyclines and taxanes. The treatment
      regimens of taxanes, anthracyclines, and cyclophosphamides in combination (1A) or taxanes
      combined with anthracyclines (2A) are strongly recommended. In 2015, St Gallen recommended
      anthracyclines and taxanes as the main chemotherapeutic drugs for triple-negative breast
      cancer. However, the pathologic complete remission (pCR) rate of paclitaxel combined with
      anthracycline as neoadjuvant therapy was still less than 50%. In the GALGB40603 study, the
      pCR rate of breast and axillary lymph nodes increased from 41% to 54% with carboplatin based
      on standard chemotherapeutic drugs anthracycline combined with taxanes. The Gepar Sixto-GBG
      66 study also suggested that carboplatin could increase the pCR rate in triple-negative
      breast cancer patients. Compared with other dosage forms of paclitaxel, albumin-bound
      paclitaxel can produce higher paclitaxel concentration in local tumors, and the injection
      time is shorter. At present, the drug has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration
      of the United States for adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer with metastasis or
      recurrence within 6 months that fails to respond to combined chemotherapy. However, little is
      currently reported on albumin-bound paclitaxel combined with carboplatin versus anthracycline
      combined with paclitaxel in China. A multicenter randomized controlled phase IV clinical
      trial will be conducted to investigate the efficacy of albumin-bound paclitaxel combined with
      carboplatin versus epirubicin combined with docetaxel as neoadjuvant therapy for
      triple-negative breast cancer.
    
  