
    
      A similar hormone-driven cancer akin to breast cancers is prostate cancer. These tumors are
      driven by androgen receptor signaling, and CDK4/6 has also been found to be a bona fide
      target pre-clinically for advanced prostate cancer cell models. Moreover, CDK4/6 inhibition
      can act as a radiation sensitizer through its effects on the DNA damage response and
      interactions with cell cycle pathway proteins. For example, it has been found that expression
      of DNA repair proteins can be regulated by E2F, a transcription factor necessary for the G1
      to S phase transition. Also, cyclin D1 has been found to exert a direct role in DNA repair.
      Lastly, CDK4/6 inhibition has been found to modulate the DNA damage response. These data
      support the use of CDK4/6 inhibitors as a modulator of DNA damage to enhance sensitivity to
      radiation.

      Given the role of CDK4/6 in tumor resistance to endocrine therapy, in activation of the DNA
      damage response, and in promoting radiation resistance, we hypothesize that the targeting of
      CDK4/6 with abemaciclib will enhance the cytotoxicity in combination with blockade of the
      androgen receptor pathway. Therefore, we propose a pilot phase II investigator initiated
      trial in patients with high-risk prostate cancer testing the tolerability and toxicity of
      abemaciclib in combination with ADT.

      Patients will receive ADT for 2 years and will start 3 months before radiation therapy.
      Abemaciclib will start with initiation of ADT and pause 2 weeks prior to start of radiation
      therapy. Abemaciclib will resume with the first ADT administration post-radiation, which is
      about 1 month post radiation therapy. Abemaciclib and ADT will continue for a total ADT
      period of 24 months. Patients will receive study treatment until development of toxicity or
      disease progression on treatment or any reasons of withdrawal or a maximum of 24 months of
      therapy with ADT. Patients are seen every 4 weeks with laboratory evaluation. For toxicity or
      adverse events, patients will undergo labs, physical examination and grades of toxicities
      will be determined using NCI CTCAE version 4.03.
    
  