
    
      We will be conducting a prospective open-label non-randomized controlled trial to evaluate
      patients' nutritional outcomes in units that have the Eating Matters Program available (Study
      Group A) vs. similar units that do not have this program (Control Group B), as this can
      provide useful data on the effectiveness of such programs in developing innovative prevention
      strategies to address hospital malnutrition.

      A total sample size of eighty participants (40 in each group) will be included in this study
      from Medical and Rehabilitation units at Joseph Brant Hospital. Study group A will include
      patients from the medical unit on 6S100 in addition to the Rehab units on 6N400/500. Control
      Group B will include participants from the Rehab Unit on 4N400 and the Medical unit on 6S200.
      Baseline food intake data (including breakfast, lunch and dinner) will be gathered during a
      2-day period for both Study Group A and Control Group B. Following the collection of baseline
      data, feeding assistance will then be provided to participants in the units that have the EMP
      program available (6S100 and 6N400/500). In addition, food intake will be recorded for a
      total of 6 days for both Study Group A, and Control Group B. Outcome measures including
      C-reactive protein and weight will be measured weekly. Following, a Subjective Global
      Assessment (SGA) will be completed and Hand Grip Strength will be recorded on days 1 and 18
      as the literature shows that this is an appropriate timeframe to reassess these measures
      (Flood et al., 2014; Canadian Malnutrition Task Force, 2019). Energy and protein intake will
      then be calculated using visual estimation by completion of the My Meal Intake Tool, and the
      hospital's CBORD software. Further, to evaluate the success of the feeding assistance
      program, volunteers will distribute the feedback survey to patients, staff, family members or
      friends of participants. To prevent contamination from staff working on both sides, members
      of the research team will have a discussion with staff to explain that the study and
      potential benefits should not be discussed, as this may impact the research findings.
    
  