
    
      Strengthening Family Coping Resources (SFCR) is a manualized, trauma-focused, skills-based
      intervention that uses a multi-family group format. SFCR is designed for families living in
      traumatic contexts with the goal of reducing the symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder
      (PTSD) and other trauma-related disorders in children and adult caregivers. Since most
      families living in traumatic contexts contend with on-going stressors and threats, SFCR is
      also designed to increase coping resources in children, adult caregivers, and in the family
      system to prevent relapse and re-exposure. SFCR provides trauma treatment within a family
      format. SFCR includes additional therapeutic strategies designed to improve the family's
      ability to cope with on-going stress and threats of re-exposure. Specifically, SFCR builds
      the coping resources necessary to help families boost their sense of safety, function with
      stability, regulate their emotions and behaviors, and improve communication about and
      understanding of the traumas they have experienced. The model includes family work on
      storytelling and narration, which builds to a family trauma narrative. SFCR is currently
      being implemented at University of Maryland Medical Center (UMMC), at sites that are part of
      the National Child Traumatic Stress Network (NCTSN), and at community agencies within the
      Baltimore Metro area and beyond.

      500 families will participate in a multifamily version of the intervention. Multiple groups
      of 5-6 families will be conducted with pre-post data collected in addition to information on
      the feasibility of the intervention. Prior to beginning each group, families will be assessed
      using a structured assessment. This assessment will be repeated at the end of group (all
      groups) and approximately one year following the completion of the group (for UMMC groups
      only).

      One child in each family will be designated as the research subject. The target child will be
      chosen according to age, aged 1 through 17 years old, and referral for services. If more than
      one child in the family meet these criteria, the primary caregiver will be given the option
      of how many children s/he would like to be assessed for inclusion in the study. Data on the
      parents will only be collected from mothers or female caregivers. If no female caregiver is
      available, the primary caregiver will complete the assessments.
    
  