
    
      The GEOLynch cohort study includes persons with Lynch syndrome (LS) only. Persons with LS
      carry an inherited mutation in one of the DNA mismatch repair genes MLH1, MSH2, MSH6 or PMS2
      which increases their risk of several types of cancer, especially colorectal and endometrial
      cancer. Additionally, mutations in the EPCAM gene that result in epigenetic silencing of the
      MSH2 gene cause LS. Since 2006, persons with LS are invited to participate in the GEOLynch
      cohort study via the Netherlands Foundation for the Detection of Hereditary Tumours, the
      Radboud University Medical Center Nijmegen or the University Medical Centre Groningen.
      Moreover, persons with LS can participate in the study after contacting the researcher
      themselves. Participants are asked to complete a food frequency questionnaire and
      questionnaires about dietary supplement use, physical activity, weight, height and medication
      use. A buccal swab was asked of every participant recruited between 2006 and 2008. From 2012
      on, newly recruited participants are asked to donate a blood sample instead of a buccal swab.
      Furthermore, participants who had been recruited between 2006 and 2008 were asked to complete
      the questionnaires again and to donate a blood sample too. Hence, follow-up measurements are
      available for a subset of participants. DNA has been subtracted from the buccal swabs to
      genotype SNPs of the IGF gene axis and polymorphisms of MTHFR C377T. Blood samples are
      biobanked to facilitate future analyses of biomarkers, nutrients, DNA etc. Clinical
      characteristics regarding performed colonoscopies and tumour diagnoses of all participants is
      gathered from medical records and a linkage to the nationwide network and registry of histo-
      and cytopathology in the Netherlands (PALGA Foundation ). Hazard ratios will be calculated to
      investigate the influence of genetic, environmental and other factor on tumour risk. Repeated
      measures analyses will be used if follow-up measurements are taken into account.
    
  