
    
      Alcohol use disorder (AUD) and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are highly comorbid, and
      present a clinical challenge for which existing treatments have limited efficacy. Existing
      clinical evidence suggests treatments that simultaneously address symptoms of both PTSD and
      AUD should be more efficacious than treating either disorder in isolation. The overlap in the
      neurobiological basis of PTSD and AUD (involving alterations in incentive salience,
      stress/negative affect, and executive control network functioning) suggests that there could
      be treatments that would effectively treat both disorders. However, there is no
      pharmacotherapy or psychotherapy treatment that is clearly effective for both disorders.

      Topiramate, an FDA-approved anticonvulsant with effects on GABAergic and glutamatergic
      signaling, has demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of AUD in several randomized clinical
      trials (RCTs), and has also been tested in several open-label and small RCTs for treatment of
      PTSD with some evidence of effectiveness. Positive results in one open-label trial and one
      small RCT in patients with co-occurring PTSD and AUD suggest that topiramate may have
      beneficial effects on symptoms of both PTSD and AUD in this population. Preclinical work also
      supports the efficacy of topiramate in ameliorating anxiety-like behavior and altered stress
      response in animal models of stress and chronic alcohol exposure. A recent clinical study
      demonstrated that the effects of topiramate on alcohol use were moderated by a polymorphism
      of the GRIK1 gene (coding for the kainate receptor GluK1 subunit), such that significant
      benefit was found only among rs2832407 C-allele homozygotes.

      This trial is designed to contrast acute and persisting effects of topiramate to those of
      placebo treatment in a sample of 150 participants with comorbid PTSD and moderate to severe
      AUD, and to evaluate the moderating effect of rs2832407 genotype on medication effects. Drug
      will be titrated over 8 weeks to a maximum dose of 200 mg and continued for 4 more weeks for
      a total of 12 weeks of treatment, followed by a 2-week taper. Alcohol and PTSD-related
      outcomes will be assessed at multiple time points throughout the study. Plasma biomarkers and
      neuropsychological assessments will be obtained at baseline and at week 12. In support of the
      overall aims of the center focusing on personalized medicine, the trial will serve as a
      platform for studies of topiramate's effects on brain chemistry and function as measured by
      fMRI, and EEG . Data from this clinical trial will also contribute to Overall Center Aims
      investigating the relationship of plasma biomarkers to neuroimaging markers.
    
  