
    
      The COVID-19 pandemic, declared by the World Health Organisation (WHO) on 11 March 2020, has
      managed to dramatically change all of our lives in just a few short months. Due to the
      unprecedented demand to protect the National Health service (NHS), on 23 March 2020 the
      United Kingdom (UK) government initiated a lock down, imposing wide-ranging restrictions on
      freedom of movement. Cancer services have been being particularly impacted across the
      country.

      Around 48,000 patients are newly diagnosed with lung cancer in the UK each year. Those who
      require active treatment may be offered radiotherapy, systemic anticancer therapy including
      chemotherapy, targeted therapy or immunotherapy, or a combination of both. A recent document
      published by Public Health England(PHE) has classified lung cancer patients receiving any of
      these treatments as 'extremely vulnerable.' Common co-existing comorbidities such as Chronic
      Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) also place patients into this category. Their
      vulnerability may be further amplified when considering that 44% of all new lung cancer
      diagnoses are in people aged >75 years and a significant proportion is particularly frail.
      The advice from PHE for these 'extremely vulnerable' patients was to shield, meaning they
      should not leave their homes or attend any social gatherings, even with family or friends.
      Shielding unfortunately is not without its own challenges. It may prevent many patients from
      carrying out their daily life activities independently, limit their ability to exercise and
      impact their mental further. This is particularly relevant for those patients more vulnerable
      or frail. It would therefore be expected that these patients are likely to develop some
      degree of psychological distress. The act of shielding itself may be implicated in this owing
      to increased social isolation, upset to normal routines and general anxiety regarding
      COVID-19 related or other issues. In addition any change to routine lung cancer management in
      these patients may exacerbate this distress further. Those with underlying mental health
      issues are at particular risk.

      During the COVID-19 pandemic both the lung cancer diagnosis and its subsequent management
      have been affected. These rapid changes reflected the shifting risk-benefit ratio for
      patients and diminished resources. Beyond modifications in treatment pathways, telephone
      consultations have replaced many face to face appointments in an attempt to reduce visits to
      hospital. The use of electronic Health tools and telemedicine has therefore suddenly come to
      the fore front of clinical practice.

      At the Christie NHS Foundation Trust, all lung cancer patients have been given the
      opportunity to regularly complete electronic patient reported outcome measures routinely as
      part of their clinical care since December 2018. Patients are sent a text message either on
      the day of a new patient appointment or three days before a follow-up appointment. They are
      asked to complete the electronic Patient Reported Outcome Measures specifically selected for
      each patient's diagnosis and treatment pathway including a list of symptoms based on the
      Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. The EuroQual-5D quality of life questionnaire
      is also included. This allows clinicians to review patients' symptoms before the
      consultation, allowing him/her to focus on the concerning symptoms and quality of life
      issues. Moreover, all new lung cancer patients are also screened for frailty within the
      Frailty Project through the electronic use of Rockwood Clinical Frailty Scale which is
      performed by clinicians.
    
  