
    
      At this time, there is no standard medical treatment for MF-BP or MF-AP. The investigators
      believe that the combination of ruxolitinib and DEC is a candidate approach to the treatment
      of MF-BP/MF-AP that is worthy of exploration based on both the current understanding of the
      biology of disease and emerging preclinical data. The molecular pathogenesis of MPN and
      progression to blast phase is almost certainly due to a complex combination of gene mutations
      (JAK2V617F, MPL) and epigenetic alterations (IDH1/2, IKZF1, EZH2, TET2) that culminate in the
      emergence of leukemic clones. Recent evidence indicates that the JAK2V617F protein can
      localize in the nucleus and influence global DNA methylation patterns which may lead to
      genomic instability and disease progression. The inhibition of JAK-STAT mediated cell
      proliferation and survival in conjunction with the reversal of DNA hypermethylation of tumor
      suppressor genes would be predicted to have at least an additive if not synergistic effect in
      inducing apoptosis of cells belonging to the malignant myeloid clone. Correlative studies
      conducted within a trial of Private and Confidential MPD-RC 109 Ruxolitinib + Decitabine
      combination JAK2 inhibitor and DMNT1 inhibitor in patients with MPN-BP would explore the
      effect on methylation status of various gene promoters as well as the influence on gene
      expression of chromatin related proteins and ultimately leukemic cell survival. The
      sequential administration of a JAK2 inhibitor followed by a DNMT inhibitor would also
      potentially serve to overcome the JAK2-independent effects of epigenetic lesions that lead to
      MPN-BP. In addition, a murine model of leukemic transformation has been described. In this
      model, bone marrow obtained from Tp53 null mice is retrovirally transduced with Jak2V617F,
      and transplanted into donor C56BL/6 mice. The transplanted mice develop an MPN which
      progresses to AML. In vitro drug studies utilizing bone marrow from these leukemic mice have
      demonstrated that exposure to decitabine or ruxolitinib inhibits colony formation in a
      methylcellulose colony-forming assay. Importantly, the combination of decitabine and
      ruxolitinib in this assay significantly reduces colony formation when compared to either drug
      alone (Rampal et al. ASH 2012 oral abstract 808) thus providing pre-clinical evidence for the
      combination study proposed here.
    
  