
    
      Vestibular system is one of the sensory systems used for postural control. The function of
      this system is to maintain balance during head movements and to sense the sense of position
      in the space.Information from the vestibular system goes to the neural processing center. To
      achieve or maintain postural control as a result of neural reorganization, balance is
      achieved by controlling eye movements and muscles.

      Basic symptoms in vestibular pathologies are; vertigo and dizziness. Besides these;
      vestibulo-visual symptoms (oscillopsia, decreased visual acuity, visual tilt, etc.), postural
      symptoms (feeling of falling, swaying, etc.), and symptoms of motion sickness are. The
      occurrence of these symptoms varies according to diseases and individual characteristics.

      In the treatment of vestibular diseases; there are medical treatment, vestibular
      rehabilitation, surgical interventions and psychosocial education.Medical treatments; it is
      often used to suppress or control vestibular symptoms (nausea, etc.). Surgical interventions
      are the last choice of treatment in patients with severe attacks such as disabling function
      such as labyrinthectomy or signaling the vestibular nerve. Vestibular Rehabilitation is an
      exercise based approach to maximize central nervous system compensation for vestibular
      pathology.

      In recent years, the effectiveness of the technologies that have been used in different areas
      of rehabilitation in vestibular rehabilitation has started to be investigated. In the
      researches, it is seen that virtual reality is one of the most used technologies. In terms of
      virtual reality usage, it has cost, size and portability advantages (3). However, in other
      studies, different systems apart from virtual reality are almost not found among the
      assistive technologies in vestibular rehabilitation.

      In recent years, vestibular rehabilitation methods, adaptation to changing sensory conditions
      and sensory repetition methods in compensation process have been emphasized to increase
      adaptation to vestibular losses. However, individual therapeutic programs need to be planned
      in accordance with clinical symptoms. To this end, there is a need to develop reliable
      objective and technological feedback techniques to measure the interaction of peripheral
      senses and central adjustment mechanisms.
    
  