
    
      Caffeine has been in widespread use for centuries, and is the commonest psychostimulant used
      worldwide. In Canada, estimates of mean daily intake for a 70 kg person range from 200-450
      mg. The main sources of caffeine ingestion are in beverages - depending on brewing technique
      a typical cup of drip-filtered coffee can contain between 100 and 150 mg of caffeine (gourmet
      drip coffees contain up to 300 mg and espresso preparations generally contain much less
      caffeine). Black tea contains between 30 and 50 mg, and lower amounts of caffeine are found
      in soft drinks, green teas, and chocolate. Caffeine is a substance with a well-defined effect
      and side-effect profile, and in general it is very well tolerated. Side effects can include
      irritability, insomnia, enhancement of physiologic tremor, and stomach upset. Abrupt
      withdrawal from caffeine can cause headache and excessive sleepiness. Caffeine can exacerbate
      pre-existing supraventricular tachycardia. Multiple large-scale epidemiologic studies have
      not found evidence for adverse health effects with long-term moderate use of caffeine.
      Caffeine has a T-max of approximately 1 hour and readily crosses the blood brain barrier. It
      has first order kinetics. Plasma half life estimates range from 3-6 hours, increased in the
      case of pregnancy or severe liver disease. Drug interactions are uncommon: Caffeine
      withdrawal may cause lithium toxicity, and caffeine increases clozapine levels.

      CNS effects of caffeine are mainly due to antagonism of the A1 and A2A adenosine receptors,
      (A2A predominates in the striatum). Potential effects upon motor manifestations of PD are
      predominantly related to the antagonistic action of adenosine on dopamine release in the
      striatum. Partial tolerance to CNS effects is common, and begins to occur within one week
      (tolerance is more pronounced for the A1 receptor, suggesting that motor changes may show
      less tolerance). If effective for PD, caffeine has the potential to be a very important
      advance for patient care, for numerous reasons. First of all, it has been in widespread use
      for centuries, so the long-term safety has been determined. Caffeine is widely available as
      tablets which are very inexpensive (i.e. less than 25 cents per tablet), potentially
      resulting in substantial cost savings for patients and health-care planners. Caffeine also
      has the potential (as yet unproven) to treat non-motor manifestations of PD, particularly
      excessive daytime somnolence.
    
  