
    
      Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and Learning Disability (LD) are among the
      most common neurobehavioural disorders, with prevalence rates estimated at about 5% to 9% .
      Approximately 4% of youth in the United States have a comorbid diagnosis of ADHD and a
      Learning Disability (ADHD/LD). Research has shown ADHD/LD symptoms persist into young
      adulthood, a time when many are enrolled in post-secondary education. Students with ADHD/LD
      at the post-secondary education level constitute an emergent subgroup of the ADHD and LD
      populations that have received far less attention in the literature compared to children,
      adolescents and employed adults. The actual percentage of college students with ADHD/LD is
      unknown; however, some estimates suggest that 2-8% of students attending post secondary
      education have ADHD, LD or both. Youth with the additive problems of both disorders are at
      high risk for academic failure, and poor psychosocial and occupational outcomes in adulthood.
      The "multiple deficit model" suggests that there is a common genetic and neuropsychological
      underpinning to these disorders. For example, ADHD and LD share similar features, such as
      core deficits in processing speed and working memory. ADHD and LD are each associated with
      several cognitive difficulties including poor working memory (WM) and processing speed. WM is
      a "mental workspace" that provides temporary storage and manipulation of information and is
      closely related to g, a proposed measure of general cognitive ability. In addition, WM has
      also been found to predict academic achievement. One major problem is that current
      intervention approaches for ADHD/LD do not target the underlying cognitive deficits
      fundamental to these diagnoses. Thus, interventions that address underlying cognitive
      difficulties, such as WM, are a promising avenue of additional treatment for youth with
      combined ADHD/LD.

      WM capacity has generally been thought to be a fixed trait, but recent studies have suggested
      that it can be improved by intensive and adaptive computerized training. This intervention
      approach has been evaluated in children and adolescents with ADHD, older adults, and adult
      stroke patients and shown promising results. Subjects not only improved on the trained WM
      tasks, but some of the studies suggest that improvements may generalize to non-trained WM
      activities, complex reasoning tasks, academic functioning, and behavioral symptoms of ADHD or
      working memory failure. Moreover, brain imaging studies have provided converging evidence of
      training-related improvements in working memory: specifically increased activation has been
      found in cortical regions implicated in working memory. However, no studies to date have
      investigated whether WM capacity can be improved in a population of young adults with ADHD/LD
      enrolled in post-secondary education programs. Nor have the results been replicated or
      elaborated upon using different imaging methodologies, like EEG (Electroencephalography),
      which is able to capture the millisecond time parameters of cognitive processing and so may
      provide new insights into the neural mechanism of WM and effects of WM training.

      The overall objective of the current study is to determine the effectiveness of WM training,
      as administered by community-based psychologists licensed to provide this training, for
      college students with ADHD/LD. Specific objectives are to determine whether; i)
      standard-length computerized WM training enhances WM capacity in college students with
      ADHD/LD, using behavioral as well as neuro-imaging indices of change; ii) shortened-length WM
      training would also result in improvements in WM; iii) WM training normalizes WM performance,
      as compared to typically developing peers (i.e., a healthy comparison group of college
      students); iv) improvements in WM will generalize to secondary outcome tasks, such as
      inhibitory control and planning; v) WM training will also ameliorate ADHD symptoms of
      inattention and hyperactivity; and vi) improvements will be sustained for at least a few
      months after completing the training.
    
  