
    
      Teach MHP Students about obtaining the illness story and narrative medicine. This will be
      done during the curriculum of the Medical Humanities class in the fall of 2016.

      Recruit patients on units and floors in Shands University of Florida (UF) Health that may
      potentially have patients that will be good candidates for enrollment in the patient
      narratives. These may include pediatric hematology and oncology patients, adult hematology
      and oncology patients, patients with diabetes, organ transplant patients, cystic fibrosis
      patients, and rheumatologic disorder patients. Investigators will communicate with child
      life/social workers, as well as faculty medical providers on these inpatient services to help
      identify appropriate patients for referral and recruitment. These faculty members will obtain
      authorization from the patient for the investigators to approach the patient regarding
      recruitment.

      Once a patient has been identified, a co-investigator will introduce the project to the
      patient, review examples of the types of questions to be asked by the MHP student, provide
      opportunity for questions, obtain informed consent, and provide them with the
      patient-practitioner orientation scale (PPOS) for completion.

      A MHP student will meet with the co-investigator, fill out the PPOS, and then interview the
      patient. The co-investigator will be present for the interview, but the investigator would
      like the MHP student to conduct the interview. The interview will be voice recorded with
      encryption for later transcription.

      Following the interview, a co-investigator will lead a discussion to determine patient and
      student observations/opinions about such conversations. The co-investigator will address
      differences in PPOS responses from patient vs student, without specifically revealing the
      personal answers of each, and allow for discussion of how scales can be aligned to better the
      patient-physician relationship. This discussion will be voice recorded for transcription and
      qualitative analysis by the investigators

      Following the interview, the MHP students will transcribe the patient narrative. During the
      interview, the student and patient will agree on whether the narrative is written from the
      first or third person point of view.

      The initial informed consent will have a specific series of check boxes to address whether
      the patient approves of dissemination of their story. This initial consent will specifically
      state that this narrative will not be published prior to their approval of the final product.
      The patient will also have the opportunity to declare which patient identifiers, if any, will
      be changed for the publication. The narrative will be presented to the patient, who will then
      have the opportunity to make changes and edits. If extensive edits are necessary, a
      subsequent narrative will be presented to the patient for final approval prior to
      publication. The investigators will make every effort to get the patient approval in person,
      however because of the possibility of the patient being discharged before the narrative has
      been composed, investigators will identify an acceptable method of communication with the
      patient outside of the hospital (email, phone call) for this purpose. In the case of the
      patient being discharged and needing to obtain approval, verbal approval over the phone will
      be obtained by a co-investigator and a witness, and will keep this documentation in a binder
      locked in the PI's office.

      Following the completion of the interviews, the MHP students will meet for a focus group to
      discuss as a group their observations from their patient encounters. This focus group will be
      audio recorded and transcribed by the co-investigators for qualitative analysis

      After all patient narratives have been completed, narratives may be published in an online or
      book format, following the consent that the patient provided.
    
  