
    
      High rates of asthma morbidity and mortality among inner-city African American and Hispanic
      adolescents demand urgent intervention. To address this disparity, the investigators have
      designed a culturally sensitive intervention aimed at improving adherence to daily controller
      medications for asthma, and ultimately reduce asthma exacerbation risk, that fits easily into
      adolescents' chaotic lifestyles.

      The proposed study is a behavioral randomized controlled trial that tests if a coping peer
      intervention can increase adherence to asthma controller medications among urban African
      American and Hispanic adolescents 11 to 16 years of age. To ensure the project's success, the
      principal investigator has assembled a multi-disciplinary team of researchers, including
      behavioral and social science experts. The Specific Aims propose to: (1) evaluate the impact
      of a 10-week coping peer support intervention on adherence and knowledge, compared to an
      attention control; (2) evaluate the ability of a 10-week coping peer support intervention to
      achieve sustained post-treatment improvements in adherence and knowledge, compared to an
      attention control; and (3) to develop estimates needed for the design of a subsequent R01
      behavioral controlled trial testing the efficacy of this intervention to decrease risk of
      asthma exacerbations. The study's primary outcome is adherence to daily asthma controller
      medications, measured using an objective electronic monitor. Study participants will be
      randomized to receive equal asthma supervision and music tracks plus either: (1) group
      support, coping peer group problem solving, and peer delivered asthma messages (intervention
      group); or (2) study team developed and recorded asthma health messages (attention control
      group) between music tracks, on a portable MP3 player. The group support and coping peer
      group problem solving consists of: putting subjects together in a small group to discuss
      barriers to adherence and ways to overcome these barriers; then having group members record
      messages to each other about overcoming barriers that will be played on their MP3 player,
      between music tracks, during the course of their daily routines. This effectively brings the
      coping peer support from the group into the course of the adolescents' day-to-day lives. The
      investigators hypothesize that it is the ability of the MP3 player to facilitate ongoing peer
      support that will be the basis for improved adherence. The long term goal is to apply the
      data from this research to submit an R01 grant application to conduct a behavioral randomized
      trial evaluating the effectiveness of this coping peer intervention to improve adherence, and
      ultimately reduce asthma exacerbations, in urban African American and Hispanic adolescents
      with asthma.
    
  