
    
      1. Overview of Takayasu's arteritis.

           Takayasu arteritis (TA) is a chronic inflammatory blood vessel that seriously endangers
           human health, which affects a large variety of blood vessels, characterized by vascular
           stenosis and occlusion. The clinical manifestations of TA are hypertension, renal
           failure caused by renal artery stenosis; pulseless, syncope and cerebral infarction
           caused by carotid vessels stenosis; pulmonary infarction induced by thoracic aorta
           involvement, etc. The TA usually accompanies high morbidity, high mortality, and poor
           prognosis. TA is a rare disease which is prone to occur in Asian women, especially in
           young women (20-40 years old) in the growth period. Currently, the etiology and
           pathogenesis of TA remain unclear, and the state of the disease is often repeatedly
           active and continuously progressive. Moreover, non-effective therapy exists for the
           moment.

        2. The diagnosis and activity evaluation of TA

           At present, TA is diagnosed according to the American Society of Rheumatology (ACR)
           classification criteria for Takayasu's arteritis: ① onset at age ≤40 years; ②
           claudication of an extremity; ③ decreased brachial artery pulse; ④ >10 mm Hg difference
           in systolic blood pressure between arms; ⑤ a bruit over the subclavian arteries or the
           aorta; ⑥ and arteriographic evidence of narrowing or occlusion of the entire aorta, its
           primary branches, or large arteries in the proximal upper or lower extremities.
           Participants who meet 3 or more criteria could be diagnosed with this disease posterior
           to excluding atherosclerosis, congenital muscle fiber dysplasia, etc.

           The course of TA is often manifested as chronic, repetitive activity and continuous
           progression. The evaluation standard proposed by Kerr et al. to monitor TA activity is
           widely used clinically. Two more new emerging or aggravating clinical manifestations
           indicates disease Activity: ① systemic symptom, such as fever, bones, muscle symptoms; ②
           increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR); ③characteristics of vascular ischemia or
           inflammation: such as intermittent claudication, pulse weakening or pulseless, vascular
           bruit, vascular pain, asymmetry blood pressure, etc.; ④ abnormalities in angiography.
           Although acute phase response protein such as ESR and C-reactive protein (CRP) are
           non-specific indicators for inflammation, they are still important markers to evaluate
           the disease activity. Imaging follow-up, primarily based on magnetic resonance imaging
           (MRI) and color Doppler ultrasound, is critical in assessing TA disease activity. With
           the help of Pro. Jiang Lin and Dr. Lu Peng, investigators have established an imaging
           diagnostic team in recent years and proposed the systemic MRI scoring standard in the
           international firstly. The standard has been applied to quantitatively assess the
           vascular inflammation prior and posterior to the treatment in participants with TA.
           Recently, investigators co-operated with the Department of Nuclear Medicine and
           Radiology to employ the 18F-FDG-PET/CT to evaluate the systemic vascular inflammation
           and disease activity in participants. Moreover, investigators attempted to use
           contrast-enhanced ultrasound microbubble imaging to assess the carotid artery
           inflammation and stenosis. At present, these two technologies are still being explored.
           Therefore, it is necessary to combine the clinical manifestations, acute phase response
           proteins (ESR and CRP) and imaging to judge the TA disease activity comprehensively.

        3. Treatment of arteritis

           The treatment of TA is divided into two phases: remission induction period and
           maintenance period. The drugs are divided into three categories including
           glucocorticoids, cytotoxic drugs, and biological agents targeting inflammatory
           cytokines.

           Glucocorticoids are the basic drug for TA treatment. Most TA participants receiving high
           doses of glucocorticoids treatment could be induced remission quickly, but about 17%-29%
           of refractory participants treated with standard glucocorticoids strategy could not be
           alleviated. And the recurrence rate is up to 90% with the single glucocorticoid. About
           more than 2/3 of participants would be glucocorticoid-dependent, and more than half of
           the participants need other drugs to maintain remission. Moreover, long-term high-dose
           glucocorticoids also have many adverse effects.

           Recently, targeted biological agents have been attempted to treat refractory, recurrent
           TA and glucocorticoid-dependent remission induction TA participants. Compared with
           conventional drugs, targeted biological agents work faster and could bring disease
           remissions for 70%-90% of refractory participants. However, the long-term use of
           biological agents would threaten the low-immunity participants with the risk of
           infections and cancer. Moreover, the effect on the reproductive system is unclear for
           the moment; in addition, these drugs are expensive and mainly used in refractory and
           critically ill participants.

           The combination of glucocorticoids combining with immunosuppressive agents such as
           cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil, etc. are the
           commonly used remission induction strategy clinically. However, large amounts of
           clinical evidence demonstrate that TA participants receiving glucocorticoids with the
           immunosuppressive agents would also face the histopathological activities lesions in the
           future. In the long-term follow-up, the relapse rate is much higher, and the mortality
           rate is significantly higher than that of healthy people.

           In summary, the current commonly used drugs for TA treatment could not meet the needs of
           the clinical setting, and TA participants lack a universally effective treatment
           strategy.

        4. Pregnancy of TA participants

      TA often occurs in women of childbearing age, so reducing the risk of maternal pregnancy
      caused by pregnancy in TA participants is one of the investigators' focuses in recent years.
      At present, there are no relevant guidelines for the pregnancy of TA participants, and
      doctors instruct them to take pills and monitor disease activity mainly basing on the
      doctor's clinical experience. Usually, investigators do not recommend the TA participants in
      active phase to conceive, not only because that the use of hormones and cytotoxic drugs could
      influence the development of the fetus, but also because that the stenosis or occlusion of
      the distal artery would increase the cardiac load so as to cause congestive heart failure,
      pre-eclampsia as well as fetal growth restriction and stillbirth. A case-control study in
      Brazil recruiting 89 TA and 89 healthy pregnant women discovered that the risk of gestational
      hypertension and low birth weight was much higher in TA than that in healthy controls.
      Moreover, the perinatal mortality rate is much higher in TA pregnant participants as well. A
      retrospective study in France including 96 TA pregnant women, 240 cases of pregnancy events,
      revealed that TA did not affect the pregnancy outcomes, but increased the risk of
      complications such as pregnancy hypertension with the elevating of the disease activity.
      Therefore, there is a lack of large-scale evidence-based medical proof uncovering the
      relationship between the pregnancy outcome and maternal risk in participants of TA. Here, the
      present follow-up registration also extends to the service of pregnant TA participants, which
      is designed to guide the treatment of pregnant participants and monitor maternal safety.

      This objective of this study is to record the related materials of the follow-up of TA
      participants and the pregnancy course, to direct the standardized medication, to monitor the
      changes of disease conditions, and to provide the better prognosis and pregnancy outcome for
      TA participants.
    
  