
    
      Background information:

      Repetitive seizures lead to an increase of pro-inflammatory cytokines in the peripheral
      blood. Experimentally it has been shown that activation of inflammatory cytokines by the
      peripheral administration of a toxic agents causes sickness behaviour. Pro-inflammatory
      cytokines interfere with the catabolisation of a precursor of Serotonin (Tryptophan).
      Tryptophan is catabolised to an endogen NMDA receptor agonist. NMDA (an excitatory
      neurotransmitter) can lead to neuronal damage.

      The Vagus Nerve (VN) plays an important role in the interaction between the neurotransmitter
      and immune system in which cytokines are crucial. Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) has an effect
      on various amino-acid pools in the brain. Patients who respond to VNS show significantly
      increased serotonin metabolites in their cerebrospinal fluid. VNS is also associated with
      marked peripheral increases in pro-, and anti-inflammatory circulating cytokines. Given the
      complexity of the serotonergic system and its interaction with multiple neurotransmitter
      systems in the human brain it is not surprising to find that serotonin plays a role in the
      etiology and the course of affective disorders. It is to be expected that the
      serotonin-immune pathway also plays a role in the course of epilepsy.

      Study population:

      Children (Age 4-18 years) with intractable epilepsy, and not eligible for resective surgery

      Study design:

      Clinical randomized controlled observer blinded add-on design. Additionally, and as a
      non-controlled follow-up of the study, the active control group will receive therapeutic
      stimulation parameters. In a secondary analysis both VNS groups will be compared with the
      pre-surgical period (baseline)

      Intervention: VNS The generator is implanted beneath the subcutaneous tissue in the upper
      chest region. The electrode is tunneled from the generator to the stimulation site in the
      neck. The system is programmed with a computer. The pulse width, output current, signal
      frequency and stimulation time are programmed telemetrically.

      The study group is stimulated with the following parameters: Output current 0.25 milliampere
      (to be ramped up to max. 1.75 milliampere), Pulse width 0.5 milliseconds, Frequency 30 Hz,
      Duty cycle: 30 sec on 5 min off (duty cycle 10%).

      The active control group is stimulated with: Output current 0.25 milliampere, Pulse width 0.1
      milliseconds, Frequency 1 Hz, Duty cycle: 14 sec on 60 min off (duty cycle <0.5%)

      Primary endpoint:

      Seizure frequency reduction of 50% or more.

      Main variables:

      Demographics Epilepsy specific data (Seizure frequency (diary), Medication) Biochemical and
      neuro-immunological assessments in in peripheral blood and CSF(serotonin metabolites,
      Noradrenalin, GABA, Glutamate, pro-, and anti-inflammatory cytokines).

      Neuropsychologic variables (mood, cognition, QoL )
    
  