
    
      The practice of placing vascular catheters is used many times every day at almost every
      hospital. It is a safe procedure which generally does not imply problems. Though the
      procedural optimum aren't reached. The procedure still fails some times and induce
      complications. When the catheter is placed using the traditional method the pulse is palpated
      by the operator's fingers. This is only to be done near the hand wrist. In this position the
      catheter steadiness is fragile but because the pulse can't be sensed more proximal the
      operator is forced to choose this position. This it though a problem that can be solved by
      non invasive visualization technology. Ultrasound-guidance for central vascular access is
      already well-established. However, in recent years ultrasound-guidance for peripheral
      vascular access has gained popularity too. The evidence of multiple studies demonstrates
      increased success rate and reduced complication rate with ultrasound compared to blind
      landmark technique for vascular catheter placement.

      In recent years there have been both procedural technique and technology improvements in the
      field of ultrasound. This has led to the improvement of procedural catheterisation techniques
      that now can be done by novices with higher attempt success rate than traditional method. One
      technique that is gaining success is the short-axis-out-of-plane technique (SAX-OOP) with
      dynamic-needle-tip-tracking (DNTT).Using the ultrasound machine the needle can be placed in a
      more proximal direction on the forearm and the investigators believe that by the help of the
      exposed procedure on the monitor many complications can be reduced.

      Hypothesis; Firstly the investigators hypothesize that the pain induced by the conventional
      method inclusive preoperational lidocaine injection will be the same or more intense than
      using DNTT without local anesthesia. Secondly the investigators hypothesize that the use of
      DNTT for the placement of the arterial catheter will decrease the time spend, amount of
      complications (hematoma), the number of pricks, the number of utilized catheters compared to
      the traditional palpation method. Thirdly the investigators claim that the best anatomical
      place to put the catheter isn't always corresponding with the spot chosen by palpation, which
      increase the number of failures.
    
  