
    
      There is large recovery of insulin sensibility after bariatric surgery, as the patients get
      closer to ideal weight. Diabetes reversion is more frequent after predominantly malabsorptive
      procedures (98,9% for biliopancreatic diversion or duodenal switch), followed by those
      combining malabsorption and gastric restriction (83,7% for Roux-en-Y gastric bypass).
      Glycemia normalization occurs in an early phase of the postoperative period, even before
      significant weight loss could explain it. These techniques have in common a bypass of the
      duodenum and part of the jejunum. Many peptides are released in this segments that regulate
      pancreatic beta cells (insulin producers) either in physiological state or in diabetes.
      Anatomical-functional changes in the enteroinsular axis would explain the antidiabetogenic
      role of the surgery, so this effect could be obtained in nonobese, diabetic individuals.

      In order to try this hypothesis, RUBINO and MARESCAUX (2004) studied the gastrojejunal bypass
      (duodenal exclusion)in Goto-Kakizaki mice (GK), the most used animal model of diabetes
      without obesity. In their technique the stomach volume is kept intact, maintaining the
      caloric ingestion and the weight of the animals. There was a fast improvement of diabetes,
      independent of diet and weight. The authors concluded that this procedure should be applied
      in humans for reversal of diabetes without the potential nutritional deprivations commonly
      seen in the bariatric surgery like iron and vitamin deficiency.

      The amelioration of diabetes after bariatric surgery is related to the modulation of
      production of gastrointestinal hormones relevant to the insulin production (incretin effect).

      This study will evaluate the mechanisms of amelioration of type 2 diabetes mellitus after
      duodenal exclusion surgery in human non-obese, diabetic volunteers and known insulin
      secretion capacity, by the method of standardized meal stimulus. It is expected to be
      secondary to changes in the gastrointestinal hormones that stimulate insulin secretion
      (incretins).

      The knowledge about the clinical outcomes of this technique in humans and the description of
      the secretion pattern of gastrointestinal hormones after the surgery may contribute to the
      implementation of this surgery as a new therapeutic option for overweight (non-obese)
      diabetic patients.
    
  