
    
      A liver ultrasound will be completed during the last trimester of pregnancy along with a
      questionnaire. The questionnaire includes baseline maternal characteristics, age, race,
      ethnicity, parity, blood pressure, pulse, medications, activity level, sociodemographic and
      behavioral risk factors, pregravid BMI, previous obstetric history, medical and family
      history.

      The subject will come in person to clinic two times after the subject has had her baby (at 6
      weeks postpartum, and at 6 months postpartum).

      The subject will give blood samples during the 6 weeks postpartum visit and 6 months
      postpartum visit, and an Oral Glucose Tolerance Test will be done at these visits. Blood
      samples will be drawn by putting a small needle or IV catheter (a small plastic tube) into a
      vein in the subject's arm. Blood samples will be obtained at timed intervals both before and
      after the subject is given a glucose beverage to drink, to see how well the subject's body
      deals with sugar in the blood over time. The total amount of blood to be drawn for each Oral
      Glucose Tolerance Test and research blood work will be approximately 90 ml (about 6
      tablespoons). The total volume of blood taken over the course of the study for each subject
      will be approximately 180 ml (about 12 tablespoons).

      The subject will have their blood pressure measured with a blood pressure cuff during each
      clinic visit. The height, weight and pulse rate will also be measured. This will take about
      five minutes.

      The subject will have an ultrasound of her liver at the 6 week postpartum visit and 6 month
      postpartum visit. This will take about 30 to 60 minutes each time.

      The investigator's study coordinator will call the subject to do a questionnaire over the
      phone at 3 months after the subject has had the baby. During the phone call, the study
      coordinator will ask the subject how the baby is being fed. The study coordinator will also
      update information about development of any new medical problems and medications the
      subject's doctor might have started, activity levels, and health habits. Subjects will be
      asked questionnaires to update this information during their 6 week postpartum and 6 month
      postpartum clinic visits as well.

      The subject's understanding and approval of these procedures is required if she is to
      participate in this study.
    
  