
    
      The Study aims to evaluate the efficacy of text messaging reminders in promoting influenza
      vaccination among nurses in a Hong Kong local hospital. The primary outcome is the receipt of
      influenza vaccine by end of February 2016 as reported by the participants. The secondary
      outcomes include the proportion of participants seeking out influenza vaccination and the
      proportion of participants of intervention group receptive to electronic text messaging
      communication and education. According to a study by WHO in 2005, influenza vaccines offer
      approximately 70-90% protection against clinical diseases in healthy adults. Despite the
      recommendation suggested by the CHP of Hong Kong that vaccination should be received by the
      high risks groups such as healthcare providers including nurses, vaccination rate of nurses
      is remained low with the Annual Seasonal Influenza Uptake Rate at 14.41% in 2013 in Hong
      Kong. This finding corresponded to those overseas studies that the influenza vaccine rate of
      nurses was among the lowest of all healthcare providers.

      Although numerous interventions have been employed to promote Influenza vaccination, the cost
      of these approaches are high whilst have not resulted in the large or long-lasting increase
      that has been desired. Moreover, there are factors that inhibit nurses from receiving
      vaccination. Studies showed that nurses perceived themselves low risk from influenza. Other
      reasons such as misunderstanding and myths about influenza can be acquired from the vaccine,
      concerns about the efficacy and side effects of vaccine, and lack of time or forgot.

      Nurses also perceived there is absence of an immediate threat to their health, especially for
      the younger nurses. Hence, tend not to seek out influenza vaccination. A study found that one
      of the stipulated reasons nurses for choosing to be vaccinated against influenza was their
      concern about spreading the disease to their patients if the nurses got influenza, which was
      the second highest reason other than concern about getting influenza themselves. The findings
      coherence with the caring nature of persons who entered nursing. Other findings also found
      that recall system and educational information with the emphasis on recommended vaccination
      are ranked as the second and third most effective strategies to improve or maintain
      vaccination coverage.

      Nowadays, using electronic reminder system is not new to nurses in Hong Kong. The
      implementation of Clinical Dash Board was introduced about 10 years ago and has been used to
      generate messages to alert nurses to deal with their varied unfinished clinical works as well
      as appointment of the patients under their care. At the same time, mobile technologies were
      considered by many to be the next frontier in health behaviour change because they were
      considered to be the vehicles to deliver personal and adaptive health information anywhere in
      real time. It is suggested by some researchers that electronic text messaging might hold a
      more promising result in serving as a reminder. There is a growing body of researches on text
      messaging for a range of health and mental health problems. However, none of these studies
      reported on receiving text messages in promoting vaccination uptake of nurses, the single
      largest group of healthcare providers who close encounter with people that are highly
      susceptible to influenza and other upper respiratory diseases. It is the intention of this
      study to look into the issue so as to evaluate the efficacy of text messaging reminders in
      promoting influenza vaccination among nurses.

      Subjects of the study included qualified nurses who are employed in a Hong Kong local
      hospital, owned smart phones with electronic text messaging function, and are willing to
      provide their active mobile telephone numbers. However, qualified nurses who have already
      received influenza vaccination prior the commencement of vaccination period of 2015-16, or
      who have history of allergies to egg, chicken proteins or neomycin or any component of
      vaccine, or who have history of moderate to severe reaction to influenza vaccination, or who
      have history of Guillain-Barré Syndrome will be excluded.

      As there is no randomised control trial study has been found from the literature that
      evaluate the effect of text messaging on increase influenza vaccine uptake of nurses, similar
      study with subject other than nurses was referred. With reference to other similar study, the
      overall vaccination rate among participants of both control and intervention groups ranged
      from 18.1% to 36.4% with the effect size of around 18%. Taking reference to the influenza
      vaccination uptake rate of the local hospital which this study is intended to be carried out
      was only 11.56% in the seasonal influenza period 2013-14, it is estimated that the
      vaccination rate of nurses in the intervention group of the proposed study would be 17%.
      Given α = 0.05, desired power = 0.8, by comparing two proportions, the number of subject in
      each group should be at least 247. Allowing a drop-out rate of 25%, 329 subjects in each
      group should be provided the desired power. Hence, a sample size with minimum of 658 shall be
      recruited into this study.

      Upon received the approval from the Research Ethics Committee of the Hospital, email will be
      sent to the nurse managers of each department and ward of the local hospital to introduce the
      study. Appointment will be made with the individual nurse manager regarding the appropriate
      time to brief the nurses. It is planned to carry out the briefing session during the
      recommended period where most of the nurses will be available to attend. The investigator
      will provide verbal explanation and distribute the information sheets to the participants
      prior to the commencement of data collection. Participants are encouraged to clarify any
      queries related to the study. Participation in the study will be entirely voluntary and each
      participant has the right to withdraw or refuse to give information at any time during the
      study without incurring any penalties or deprivation of services. The purpose and procedure
      of the study as well as the risks and benefits of participation will be explained. With this
      understanding, the participants are invited to sign the written consent form. Attached with
      it, a self-administered questionnaire will be given to the participants to complete. The
      completed questionnaire can be returned to the investigator at the time of briefing. For
      those who completed the post-intervention questionnaire by telephone interview, a message
      will be texted to each of these subjects which can be used for redemption of a $10 cash
      coupon from the investigator.

      This study will be conducted with the respect for the individual participant in accordance
      with the requirement of this study protocol and also the International Conference on
      Harmonisation E6 Good Clinical Practice and all applicable laws and regulations, including
      without limitation, data privacy laws, clinical trial disclosure laws, and regulations.

      Subjects will be recruited from November 2015 followed by data collection via pre and post
      questionnaires survey by March 2016. A randomizer, who will not be involved in any part of
      the study, will develop a randomised intervention allocation sequence using random block
      sizes of two, four, and six. Sequentially numbered, opaque and sealed envelopes containing
      assignment information will then be prepared and kept by the investigator who will
      responsible for participant recruitment. When informed written consent is obtained, the
      investigator will select the next envelope in the sequence to decide the intervention
      allocation.

      During the study period, four electronic text messages will be sent to intervention group
      participants. Messages contain educational information such as the fact that during epidemic,
      nurses who are in close contact with high risk patients, are more likely to get an influenza
      infection; vaccination reduces the personal risk of influenza illness and also reduces the
      risk to infect patients and family members; by reducing the chance of sick leave due to
      influenza-like illnesses, vaccination can in turn reduce work pressure; lastly it is also the
      social expectation on the professional as well as personal responsibility of nurses in
      protecting own selves and their patients from contacting influenza.

      The text messages on reinforcing the fact that influenza is dangerous for the nurses and for
      the patients will also mention. Therefore, any potential side effect is no reason for not
      being vaccinated. Vaccination cannot cause influenza infection nor reduce immunity. Influenza
      vaccine is a safe vaccine.

      The messages will be sent to the intervention group participants on a weekly basis for 4
      weeks. All communication occurred through a secure, asynchronous electronic text messages
      apps. The education information is developed with reference to promotion messages from
      Department of Health under the framework of health belief model which four constructs on
      which individuals base their perceptions, namely perceived benefit, perceived barriers,
      perceived susceptibility, and perceived seriousness of illness or threat.

      Data analysis will be started in April 2016 and by August 2016, report will be generated and
      findings will be disseminated. A research assistant, who will not be involved in participant
      recruitment and will be blinded to the participants' intervention allocation, is responsible
      for the assessment of the study outcomes. The influenza vaccination status of the
      participants will be obtained through telephone follow up by the research assistant.

      The project will be evaluated by quantitative method. All participants will be asked to
      complete the questionnaires before and after the influenza season. The questionnaires will
      include the participants' vaccination status, their perception on influenza vaccination,
      their history of contacting influenza or experiencing influenza-like illnesses, and their
      experience and perceptions of the effectiveness of the use of electronic text message
      reminder in promoting health intervention. The study analyses will be conducted using SPSS
      21.0. The significant level selected for all analyses was P ≤ 0.05. Descriptive baseline
      characteristics of the groups were tabulated as means and standard deviations or proportions.
      Differences in demographic characteristics between the intervention and control group will be
      analysed using t-test for continuous data and chi-square tests for categorical data. The
      primary concern of the study will compare the influenza vaccine uptake in the two study
      groups. For the primary outcome on influenza vaccine uptake, the investigators will calculate
      risk differences (RD) and relative risks (RR) with their corresponding 95% confidence
      intervals (95%CI). The efficacy analysis will be performed in accordance with the
      intention-to-treat principle that with missing data taken as no vaccination received.
      Differences in the facilitators will also be compared, again using chi-square test.

      To protect the privacy of the participants, the data would be handled and stored by the
      investigator in a confidential way during and after the completion of the study. All the data
      set would be handled in line with Hospital's policy in handling, storage and destruction of
      confidential records. They would be kept by the investigator in a cabinet with lock which is
      located in her office. Electronic data would be saved in secured computer in the
      investigator's office with restricted access. Access to the data would only be made with the
      approval from the Principal Investigator, hence, confidentiality and anonymity will be
      assured.
    
  