
    
      Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) has been shown in randomised controlled trials to improve
      arterial blood gases, reduce intubation and mortality rates in patients suffering from
      exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) complicated by acute
      hypercapnic respiratory failure (AHRF) [1-7]. Despite success of NIV in AHRF of COPD,
      survivors of this group of patients might suffer from further episodes of AHRF after
      discharge. It has been found in a recent study that COPD patients who survived AHRF after
      treatment with acute NIV had a high risk of readmission and life-threatening events in the
      ensuing year [8]. At one year after discharge, 80% had been readmitted for respiratory
      diagnoses, 63% had another life-threatening event and 49% had died, mainly due to respiratory
      failure. Survivors spent a median of 12% time hospitalized in the subsequent year. A
      significant proportion of survivors required repeated NIV for recurrent AHRF. Another study
      showed that in COPD patients who declined intubation for AHRF and were treated with acute
      NIV, these outcomes were even worse, with a 1-year survival of only 30% [9]. It becomes
      imperative to find ways to reduce the occurrence of life-threatening events in the survivors.

      There has been uncontrolled data to suggest that home NIV might reduce both hospital
      admissions and clinic visits in severe COPD with hypercapnic respiratory failure. In 11
      severe stable COPD patients with chronic hypercapnia who did not respond to conventional
      treatment, Jones et al put them on home NIV [10]. Hospital admissions and clinic visits were
      halved in the subsequent year, together with a sustained improvement in arterial blood gases.
      Cost saving was demonstrated with home NIV in severe COPD in another study [11]. However,
      results from randomized controlled studies (RCTs) are conflicting. Three early studies
      suggested that home NIV was not superior to standard treatment in stable severe COPD [12, 13,
      14]. On the other hand, Meecham-Jones et al found that NIV with long term oxygen therapy
      (LTOT) significantly improved daytime blood gases, nocturnal gas exchange and sleep quality
      in severe COPD [15]. A long-term RCT on home NIV in severe COPD showed that home NIV
      significantly reduced dyspnoea ratings, improved psychomotor coordination and decreased
      hospital admissions at 3 month, though reduction in hospital admissions was no longer evident
      by 12 months [16]. However, these randomized studies have been criticized for including
      chronic stable COPD patients who were not hypercapnic enough to benefit from home NIV, using
      inadequate inflation pressures, inadequate patient acclimatization time and not selecting the
      optimal outcome variables [17]. In the most recent RCT [18], home NIV with LTOT was shown to
      significantly improve gas exchange, dyspnoea score and quality of life; there was also a
      trend to reduced hospital and ICU admissions. However, the study was only powered to detect
      improvement in daytime PaCO2 in the NIV group.

      We hypothesize that continuation of NIV at home after an episode of AHRF treated by NIV in
      COPD patients would reduce the likelihood of death and recurrent AHRF requiring NIV or
      intubation. We design this study in a way that recruited COPD patients would be started on
      home NIV or sham treatment after an episode of AHRF requiring acute NIV. The patients are
      acclimatised to NIV application after a few days of acute use. We choose occurrence of
      life-threatening event (recurrent AHRF and death) as the primary endpoint.
    
  