
    
      Periodontal diseases are inflammatory conditions that affect the supporting apparatus of the
      teeth, including gingiva and alveolar bone. The bone loss resulting from periodontitis often
      is irregular and localised, giving onset to 'intrabony' or 'vertical defects' affecting one
      side of the tooth more than the other and more than on the neighbouring teeth. Periodontal
      intrabony defects have been associated with a higher risk of further progression and
      eventually tooth loss.

      The treatment of periodontitis involves a non-specific reduction of the bacterial load below
      the gingival margin. This is achieved by oral hygiene instructions (OHI) and non-surgical
      periodontal therapy (NSPT), aimed at removing calculus and disrupting the plaque biofilm from
      the affected root surfaces. Intrabony defects are considered sites requiring therapy, often
      beyond NSPT. Decades ago, intrabony defects were treated with surgical elimination of the
      defect achieved by sacrificing the adjacent healthy supportive or non-supportive bone. More
      recently periodontal regenerative procedures have been advocated for deep intrabony defects,
      which are considered amenable for guided tissue regeneration. This technique results in
      regeneration of periodontal attachment measurable histologically and radiographically and
      measurable clinically. However, this is associated with potential morbidity and high costs
      due to the use of bone graft and barrier materials and is not always predictable. The more
      recent introduction of minimally-invasive surgical therapy (MIST), modified-MIST (M-MIST) and
      single-flap approach suggested that the use of biomaterials may not be so crucial for
      obtaining periodontal regeneration.

      Retrospective studies from the investigator's group have shown that minimally invasive
      non-surgical periodontal treatment of intrabony defects results in clinical improvements
      (measured as PPD reductions and clinical attachment level-CAL- gain) but also in bone fill of
      the bony defects, measurable radiographically. The extent of the radiographic resolution of
      the defect was positively associated with initial defect depth and use of adjunctive
      antibiotics, while smoking seemed to negatively influence this outcome. A non-surgical
      minimally-invasive treatment protocol, named MINST, has been proposed along these principles.
      A more recent retrospective analysis has revealed a reduction in bony defect of nearly 3 mm
      for cases treated with minimally-invasive non-surgical therapy. The effect of MINST may be
      mediated by improved blood flow and stable blood clot in the intrabony defect. However, very
      few studies have been published on MINST and no data are available on the comparison between
      MINST and MIST.

      This is a parallel group, single centre, examiner-blind, non-inferiority randomized
      controlled trial to compare the effect of a modified minimally-invasive non-surgical therapy
      (MINST) approach to minimally invasive surgical treatment (MIST) in the healing of
      periodontal intrabony defects in 66 patients with periodontitis .
    
  