
    
      The dose level of IMD 1041 has been selected based on previous clinical trials. The dose to
      be studied, 400mg, is considered to be efficacious, and is supported by the clinical data in
      healthy subjects and type 2 diabetic patients.

      Single oral doses of 800 mg and multiple oral doses of 400 mg twice daily of IMD-1041 have
      been shown to be safe and well tolerated by healthy subjects.

      Twice daily doses of 200 mg of IMD-1041 have been shown to be safe and well tolerated when
      given to diabetic patients for 12 weeks.

      A placebo (dummy medication) arm has been selected as it is considered the most reliable
      method to minimise patient and investigator bias and current COPD guidelines suggest the most
      useful comparison would be with placebo. Exposure placebo will allow a reliable evaluation of
      IMD 1041, as well as the adverse events caused by the drug compared to those resulting from
      the COPD natural course.

      All patients will be able to remain on the current medications apart from theophylline which
      is expected to have effects on IKK beta.

      The current treatments for COPD do not include a medication of this mechanism of action,
      who's main aim is to reduce inflammatory and fibrotic changes which cause the symptoms which
      current standard COPD medications treat.

      The study will last for 12-14 weeks, including a 7 day screening period, visit 0
      baseline/randomisation visit, visit 1 and visit 3 for all study spec tests, visit 2 and
      4/follow up as either a site or telephone contact to check subject compliance and adverse
      events.

      Prior to selection the Investigator will evaluate the eligibility of patients for entry into
      the trial by reviewing the patients' medical records against the inclusion/exclusion criteria
      specified in the protocol.

      There will be a potential pre-screening visit up to 3 weeks prior to randomisation. This
      visit will only be applicable for patients who need to stop the medication theophylline which
      need to be stopped 2 weeks prior to screening. At this visit potential patients will be
      provided with the information about study activities and requirements. After signing the
      informed consent form the patient will be asked to stop the medication and return to the
      study site for screening at least 2 weeks after the visit.

      All patients will attend the clinical site for initial screening up to 7 days prior to
      randomisation. If the patient has not been 'pre-screened' as described above, they will be
      given information pertaining to study activities and requirements. After signing the informed
      consent form evaluations will be performed to confirm the patients' eligibility according to
      the study protocol. The patients' medical history, physical examination, clinical laboratory
      tests, electrocardiogram (ECG) tracing, blood pressure, pregnancy screening (women of child
      bearing potential only) will be performed. Blood will be taken for routine clinical
      laboratory testing.

      Following successful screening, patients will return to the site up to seven days (but at
      least 1 day) after the screening visit for randomisation. There will be a 50:50 chance of the
      patient being randomised to either IMD 1041 or placebo of whichever they will remain on for
      the duration of the study. The following will then happen prior to randomisation:

        -  Patient asked about current health problems, adverse events and any changes to
           concomitant medications since screening.

        -  Vitals signs

        -  Blood will be taken for clinical lab evaluations and biomarker sampling

        -  Lung functions

        -  Induced sputum for biomarker sampling

        -  2 questionnaires completed Following all of the above evaluations the patient will be
           randomised and medication dispensed. (A total of 280 tablets will be dispensed, which
           equates to 4 weeks supply, plus 56 tablets as spares in case of loss or delayed next
           visit.)

      Visit 1 will occur 4 weeks after visit 0 (+/- 2 days). At this visit the following will
      occur:

        -  Patient asked about current health problems, adverse events and any changes to
           concomitant medications since screening.

        -  vitals signs

        -  Blood will be taken for clinical lab evaluations, PK analysis and biomarker sampling

        -  Lung functions

        -  Induced sputum for biomarker sampling

        -  Medication will be dispensed. A total of either 4(224) or 8(448) weeks supply will be
           dispensed depending on whether or not you will attend the clinical site for visit 3.

      Visit 2 will occur 4 weeks after visit 1 (+/- 3 days). This visit will be either on site or
      over the telephone and will be decided by the Principal Investigator on a case-by-case basis.
      At this visit the following will occur:

        -  Patient asked about current health problems, adverse events and any changes to
           concomitant medications since screening.

        -  Medication dispensed. A total of 4 weeks supply (224 tablets) will be dispensed for
           patients who attend the site for this visit.

      Visit 3 will occur up to 4 weeks after visit 2 (+/- 3 days). At this visit the following will
      occur:

        -  Patient asked about current health problems, adverse events and any changes to
           concomitant medications since screening.

        -  vitals signs

        -  Blood will be taken for clinical lab evaluations, PK analysis and biomarker sampling

        -  Lung functions

        -  Induced sputum for biomarker sampling

        -  2 questionnaires completed

        -  All medication return and final accountability documented

      Visit 4, the follow up visit will be via telephone and will occur 2 weeks after visit 3 (+/-
      3 days). The following will occur:

        -  Patient asked about current health problems, adverse events and any changes to
           concomitant medications since screening.
    
  