
    
      The study involves four overnight stays. On the first overnight stay, sleep can occur as
      normal and the investigators will measure hormone levels during sleep. On the second
      overnight stay (which happens 1-2 weeks later), three sets of imaging over the course of the
      night are performed. The imaging is positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI). It is designed to look at brain chemistry (particularly glutamate levels in
      the brain). Participants may sleep in between scans. On the third overnight stay (1-2 weeks
      after the second night), participants will be kept awake for around 36 hours. On the last
      overnight stay (occurring right after night 3), the investigators will measure hormone levels
      again during sleep. All participants with depression enrolled in the study will be seen by a
      clinician throughout the study and offered medication at no cost after the study.

      Aim 1: Assess circadian (sleep/wake) phase in depressed and non-depressed individuals.
      Melatonin secretion is now an easily accessible circadian marker. Further, the average time
      interval between dim light melatonin onset (DLMO, the time at which melatonin rises above a
      certain threshold, "the most accurate biomarker of circadian phase position") and sleep
      midpoint (average bedtime plus half the average sleep duration) has been established as 6
      hours in non-depressed participants and likely deviates from this optimum in major depressive
      disorder (MDD). For this reason, the investigators will measure melatonin in the blood on
      overnight visit 1.

      Hypothesis 1. Average phase angle difference (DLMO - sleep midpoint) will be 6 hours
      (optimal) in healthy controls, but not depressed, participants.

      Hypothesis 2. MDD severity (assessed by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale, HDRS) will be
      correlated with deviation from optimal phase angle difference.

      Aim 2: Assess brain chemistry (specifically one of the glutamate receptors, the metabotropic
      glutamate receptor subtype 5, mGluR5) expression at 3 times: the time of DLMO, peak and nadir
      of melatonin secretion (as measured from overnight visit 1). mGluR5 availability will be
      assessed near these times to capture mGluR5 circadian rhythmicity using PET and a tracer
      specific for mGluR5, [11C]ABP688.

      Hypothesis 3. mGluR5 variation will be inverse to that of melatonin in both cohorts.

      Aim 3: Determine the effect of acute sleep deprivation on circadian rhythms. Within
      approximately one week of Aims 1 & 2, all participants will receive sleep deprivation
      therapy. Following up to 36 hours of wakefulness (shown to increase mGluR5 at a single time
      point), the investigators will measure acute effects with repeat assessments of melatonin and
      depression severity. This will thus require two overnight stays in a row- one for the sleep
      deprivation and then the next to measure melatonin again in the blood while the participant
      sleeps.

      Hypothesis 4. Sleep deprivation will be most successful in the depressed participants with
      greatest disruption in phase (Aim 1).

      Hypothesis 5: Depressed participants will experience greater changes in phase angle
      difference following sleep deprivation than non-depressed participants.

      Aim 4: To determine whether reliable estimates of [11C]ABP688 in plasma can be obtained using
      a miniPET scanner. [11C]ABP688 concentration will be measured at the wrist or leg with a
      novel synchronized PET scanner developed by Stony Brook Investigator, Dr. Paul Vaska. This
      innovative device provides estimates of plasma radioactivity simply by placing the
      participant's wrist or leg in a mini-PET scanner called versaPET. The radioactivity derived
      from this wrist or leg scanner, as well as the resulting outcome measures, will be compared
      to those estimated using blood analysis. This could make future PET studies easier by finding
      a substitute for blood sampling during the PET scan.

      Uncovering the link between mGluR5, circadian disruption and MDD could:

      (1) Identify biological underpinnings of circadian (sleep/wake) dysfunction; (2) Identify
      individuals (those with mGluR5 disruption) for whom treatments like sleep deprivation would
      be most effective; and (3) Increase use of this safe and rapid treatment.
    
  