
    
      Chronic kidney disease (CKD) consists of kidney damage and progressive and irreversible loss
      of kidney function and in its later stage (terminal phase) is called chronic kidney failure
      (CKF). Although hemodialysis (HD) substitutes some of the lost renal functions, patients
      suffer from some changes that characterize uremic syndrome, such as peripheral motor
      neuropathy, osteomalacia, cardiac and musculoskeletal myopathies, anemia, among other
      alterations.

      This study aims to verify the effects of low level laser therapy (LLLT) on functional
      capacity, DNA damage, lower limbs muscle strength, quadriceps muscle architecture, muscle
      pain and perception of lower limb fatigue, inflammatory profile, oxidative stress and quality
      of life of patients with chronic kidney failure on hemodialysis. Patients will be randomized
      into two groups: the control group and the LLLT group. The control group will only be
      evaluated and reassessed. The LLLT group in addition to the evaluations will receive LLLT
      three times a week for eight weeks during HD. The evaluations will be performed
      pre-intervention, after 4 and 8 weeks of therapy. However, the muscle architecture evaluation
      will be performed only at pre intervention and after 8 weeks.

      The evaluations carried out are: a six-minute walk test for functional capacity; alkaline
      comet assay for DNA damage; sit-and-lift test, and load cell dynamometry for evaluation of
      lower limbs muscle strength; quadriceps ultrasonography for muscle architecture and
      echogenicity; visual analogue scale for pain; subjective perception of effort by Borg scale
      for fatigue; measurement of interleukins 6 and 10, tumor necrosis factor, reative C protein
      and muscle damage markers (lactate, creatine kinase) for the inflammatory profile; protein
      carbonylation, superoxide dismutase, catalase, total sulfuric acid and dichlorofluorescein
      diacetate for oxidative stress and application of the Kidney Disease and
      Quality-of-Life-Short-Form and EQ-5D questionnaires for quality of life.

      The expected results at the end of the protocol are: greater distance covered in the walking
      test; reduction of DNA damage, increase in lower limbs strength; maintenance of muscle mass;
      reduction of pain and fatigue levels as well as the inflammatory profile and levels of
      oxidative stress, as well as improvement in the quality of life for the group LLLT.
    
  