
    
      Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has emerged as an alternative to standard
      aortic valve replacement for the treatment of patients considered to be at very high or
      prohibitive surgical risk. Nowadays the procedure is associated with a very high success rate
      (>95%) but major peri-procedural ischemic complications such as myocardial infarction (MI) or
      ischemic stroke occur in about 2% (0% to 17%) and 3% (2% to 7%) of the cases, respectively.
      The recently published PARTNER trial showed a stroke rate as high as 6.5% within the 30 days
      following TAVI, with most (77%) of these events diagnosed as major strokes. In order to avoid
      such ischemic complications full dose anticoagulation (usually intravenous heparin) is
      administered during the TAVI procedure, whereas aspirin (long-term) + clopidogrel (1 to 6
      months) have been the recommended antithrombotic treatment following the procedure. However,
      this antithrombotic regime has been recommended on an empirical basis, and no studies have as
      yet shown the efficacy of aspirin + clopidogrel vs. aspirin alone or no antithrombotic
      treatment in preventing ischemic events following TAVI procedures. Also, patients undergoing
      TAVI nowadays are usually octogenarians and very frequently exhibit comorbidities such as
      hypertension, abnormal renal function or prior cerebrovascular disease, which significantly
      increase the risk of major bleeding. Indeed, TAVI procedures can also be associated with
      major vascular complications which in turn can complicate with life-threatening or major
      bleeding. It is well know that clopidogrel on top of aspirin is associated with a higher rate
      of major bleeding complications, especially in elderly patients. It would therefore be of
      major clinical relevance to determine the risk/benefit ratio of using a dual antithrombotic
      therapy following TAVI procedures in order to recommend the most appropriate antithrombotic
      treatment in this high-risk population. The ARTE trial is a multicenter randomized study to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of aspirin/acetylsalicylic acid versus
      aspirin/acetylsalicylic acid+ clopidogrel as antithrombotic treatment after TAVI.
    
  