
    
      Effects of estrogen deficiency in women are climacteric symptoms and bone loss, which can
      efficiently be treated by substituting with estrogens (1). Unopposed estrogen treatment,
      however, increases the risk for endometrial hyperplasia and subsequent carcinoma. For example
      in the HOPE study (Women's Health, Osteoporosis, Progestin, Estrogen study (2, 3)), after two
      years of treatment with conjugated equine estrogens (0.625mg/day CEE) the rate of hyperplasia
      went up to 27,7%. When the treatment was combined with MPA (2.5 mg) the incidence of
      hyperplasia completely disappeared. Thus, the addition of progestagens is necessary for
      endometrial safety. Progestagen addition (in continuous combined estrogen plus progestin
      therapy), however, also causes negative side effects like withdrawal bleeding and an
      increased breast cancer incidence that was recently documented in the Women's Health
      Initiative (4) and Million Women Study (5).

      Tibolone is a tissue-specific compound used for treatment of climacteric complaints and
      prevention of osteoporosis and does not stimulate the endometrium like estrogens (6). It is
      converted by steroid metabolizing enzymes in the liver and intestine into three active
      metabolites: two hydroxy-metabolites: 3a-hydroxy-tibolone and 3b-hydroxy-tibolone (exerting
      estrogenic effects and in vivo present in significant amounts) and the delta-4-isomer
      (exerting progestagenic and androgenic effects, and in vivo present in circulation for a
      relatively short period of time (7)). The estrogenic metabolites are responsible for the
      effects on hot flushes, vagina and bone.

      Tibolone's effects on the endometrium have been studied by a number of investigators (8-14)
      using transvaginal ultrasound (TVUS) and histology in biopsies after long-term treatment.
      With ultrasound it was observed that after 6 years of treatment endometrial thickness was
      slightly increased (p < 0.05, (8)) in tibolone-users compared to controls. Dőren et al. (9)
      confirmed that tibolone treatment results in a slight increase in endometrial thickness,
      which was not different from estrogen + norethisterone acetate treatment (E2+NETA). Histology
      data after tibolone use for more than 3 months, show no change in 90% of the subjects and
      only in a few cases an endometrial profile was shown which was comparable to the early
      follicular phase of a normal cycle (15). Even after two years of tibolone use hyperplasia
      rarely occurs (10).

      In a double-blind, randomized controlled trial, Hammar (16) showed that the bleeding and/or
      spotting episodes in tibolone users in the first months of use were significantly lower than
      in E2+NETA users, and the authors hypothesized that this was due to a higher progestagenic
      activity of tibolone on the endometrium compared to the combined treatment. Our in vitro
      studies show indeed that tibolone can exert a progestagenic effect and that the balance
      between the progestagenic properties and the estrogenic properties of tibolone takes effect
      through a different set of genes acting in the same genetic network (17, 18).

      In order to investigate whether our cell line data on tibolone action could be confirmed in
      vivo, and because relatively short-term effects of tibolone and other hormonal treatments in
      patients have never been described, postmenopausal women were treated for 21 days with
      tibolone, estrogen-only, or estrogen together with progestagen (estrogen+progestagen). From
      these women sera were obtained and endometria were removed in order to assess the
      histological and immunohistochemical, biochemical (hormone levels) and molecular (gene
      expression) effects of relatively short-term tibolone use (21-days). The overall results may
      help us to obtain insight in the mechanism of action of tibolone on the human endometrium
      compared to reference preparations.

      Subjects:

      This study was designed as a controlled clinical trial. Patients who visited our clinics
      (Amphia Hospital Breda, Albert Schweitser Hospital Dordrecht, Erasmus University Medical
      Center Rotterdam, The Netherlands) to undergo vaginal hysterectomy for treatment of prolapse,
      were eligible to participate in this study. A description of the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria of the current experiments were documented earlier (19).

      The trial was performed in the period before the scheduled surgery. After informed consent,
      the patients were sequentially assigned to one of the following treatment groups:
      Control-group (no hormonal treatment); Tibolone-group (2.5 mg tibolone (Livial, N.V. Organon,
      Oss, The Netherlands) administered orally every day, starting 21 days prior to surgery); E2
      group (2 mg of estradiol administered orally every day, starting 21 days prior to surgery);
      E2+MPA-group (2 mg estradiol + 5 mg MPA administered orally every day, starting 21 days prior
      to surgery). The investigators were kept blinded to the patient treatments during the
      analysis. The study protocol was approved by the local ethics committees of the participating
      hospitals.

        1. van der Mooren MJ, Kenemans P. Postmenopausal Hormone Therapy: Impact on
           Menopause-Related Symptoms, Chronic Disease and Quality of Life. Drugs 2004;64:821-836.

        2. Pickar JH, Yeh I, Wheeler JE, Cunnane MF, Speroff L. Endometrial effects of lower doses
           of conjugated equine estrogens and medroxyprogesterone acetate. Journal Article.
           Multicenter Study. Randomized Controlled Trial] Fertil Steril 2001;76:25-31.

        3. Pickar JH, Yeh IT, Wheeler JE, Cunnane MF, Speroff L. Endometrial effects of lower doses
           of conjugated equine estrogens and medroxyprogesterone acetate: two-year substudy
           results. Fertil Steril 2003;80:1234-40.

        4. Anderson GL, Judd HL, Kaunitz AM, Barad DH, Beresford SA, Pettinger M, Liu J, McNeeley
           SG, Lopez AM; for the Women's Health Initiative Investigators. Effects of estrogen plus
           progestin on gynecologic cancers and associated diagnostic procedures: the Women's
           Health Initiative randomized trial. JAMA 2003;290:1739-1748.

        5. Beral V, Million Women Study Collaborators. Breast cancer and hormone- replacement
           therapy in the Million Women Study. Lancet 2003;362:419-27.

        6. Kloosterboer HJ. Tibolone: a steroid with a tissue-specific mode of action. J Steroid
           Biochem Mol Biol 2001;76:231-8.

        7. Timmer CJ, Verheul HA, Doorstam DP. Pharmacokinetics of tibolone in early and late
           postmenopausal women. Br J Clin Pharmacol 2002;54:101-6.

        8. Morris EP, Wilson PO, Robinson J, Rymer JM. Long term effects of tibolone on the genital
           tract in postmenopausal women. Br J Obstet Gynaecol 1999;106:954-9.

        9. Dőren M, Rubig A, Coelingh Bennink HJ, Holzgreve W. Impact on uterine bleeding and
           endometrial thickness: tibolone compared with continuous combined estradiol and
           norethisterone acetate replacement therapy. Menopause 1999;6:299-306.

       10. Volker W, Coelingh Bennink HJ, Helmond FA. Effects of tibolone on the endometrium.
           Climacteric 2001;4:203-8.

       11. Wender MC, Edelweiss MI, Campos LS, de Castro JA, Spritzer PM. Endometrial assessment in
           women using tibolone or placebo: 1-year randomized trial and 2-year observational study.
           Menopause 2004;11:423-9.

       12. Botsis D, Kassanos D, Kalogirou D, Antoniou G, Vitoratos N, Karakitsos P. Vaginal
           ultrasound of the endometrium in postmenopausal women with symptoms of urogenital
           atrophy on low-dose estrogen or tibolone treatment: a comparison. Maturitas
           1997;26:57-62.

       13. Egarter C, Huber J, Leikermoser R, Haidbauer R, Pusch H, Fischl F, Putz M. Tibolone
           versus conjugated estrogens and sequential progestogen in the treatment of climacteric
           complaints. Maturitas 1996;23:55-62.

       14. Rymer J, Fogelman I, Chapman MG. The incidence of vaginal bleeding with tibolone
           treatment. Br J Obstet Gynaecol 1994;101:53-6.

       15. Genazzani AR, Benedek-Jaszmann LJ, Hart DM, Andolsek L, Kicovic PM, Tax L. Org OD 14 and
           the endometrium. Maturitas 1991;13:243-51.

       16. Hammar M, Christau S, Nathorst-Boos J, Rud T, Garre K. A double-blind, randomised trial
           comparing the effects of tibolone and continuous combined hormone replacement therapy in
           postmenopausal women with menopausal symptoms.Br J Obstet Gynaecol 1998;105:904-11.

       17. Blok LJ, De Ruiter PE, Kuhne EC, Hanekamp EE, Grootegoed JA, Smid-Koopman E, Gielen SC,
           De Gooyer ME, Kloosterboer HJ, Burger CW. Progestogenic effects of tibolone on human
           endometrial cancer cells. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2003;88:2327-34.

       18. Hanifi-Moghaddam P, Gielen SCJP, Kloosterboer HJ, De Gooyer ME, Sijvers AM, van Gool AJ,
           Smid M, Morehouse M, Van Wijk FH, Burger CW, Blok LJ. Molecular portrait of the
           estrogenic and progestagenic actions of tibolone: Behavior of biological networks in
           response to tibolone. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2005;90:973-83.

       19. Klaassens AHA, Van Wijk FH, Hanifi-Moghaddam P, Sijmons B, Ewing PC, Ten Kate-Booij MJ,
           Kooi GS, Kloosterboer HJ, Blok LJ, Burger CW. Histological and immunohistochemical
           evaluation of postmenopausal endometrium after 3 weeks of treatment with tibolone,
           estrogen-only, or estrogen plus progestagen. Accepted in Fertility and Sterility, 2006
    
  