
    
      Study participants attend a pre-study meeting either individually or with several other
      potential volunteers according to their preference. The study is described in detail and
      participants are given the opportunity to ask questions. If participants agree to
      participate, they will sign the consent form. Height and weight will be measured privately.

      Food diary forms will be distributed and taught how to use. A 4ml (1 tsp) blood sample will
      be drawn for a pre-study blood chemistry, CBC and thyroid tests. Samples for all clinical
      labs done during the study will be sent to Good Samaritan Hospital, a CLIA-certified
      laboratory, on a fee-for-service basis.

      The study MD will evaluate the lab results. If the tests are abnormal as determined by the
      study MD, the participant will be excluded from the study and advised to see their doctor for
      evaluation.

      Subjects will observe dietary restrictions starting one week before Day 1 of the study and
      continuing through Day 14 (total of 3 weeks). Dietary restrictions are listed on the last
      page of the diet recall forms.

      Women with negative urine pregnancy test on the morning of Day 1 will be enrolled in the
      study. About 20 ml fasting blood will be drawn on the morning of Day 1. Breakfast will be
      provided and 3 capsules given to swallow. (One capsule will be garlic oil or garlic oil
      placebo, the other two will be BSE or BSE placebo.) No eating or drinking (except water)
      until the next blood draws at 1,3 6 hours after breakfast.

      Participants will come to the study site for the next seven days to consume the standard
      breakfast and study capsules, or we may send the breakfast and study capsules home with
      participants for the weekend. Blood will be sampled immediately before breakfast on day 7 and
      again at 1, 3, 6, 24 and 48 hours later. We will provide a standardized lunch to all
      participants on Days 1 and 7. Additional blood draws will occur at the end of week 2 (i.e. on
      day 14 of the study). The study will end after 2 weeks.

      Participants will fill out a dietary recall form three random times during the study on two
      week days and one weekend day.

      Urine will be collected on the following schedule: Day 1, 0-3 hours, 3-6 hours, 6-12
      hours,12-24 hours, 24-48 hours; Day 7, 0-3 hours, 3-6 hours, 6-12 hours, 12-24 hours, 24-48
      hours. Total urine from each interval will be collected and pooled in separate containers. We
      will provide the proper containers for urine collection. Urine may be stored at room
      temperature.
    
  