
    
      Although the pathogenesis of Rheumatoid Arthritis is multifactorial, the contribution of
      cytokines is undoubtedly pivotal in the progression of the inflammatory process. One cytokine
      gaining recognition for its importance in the inflammatory process is Macrophage migration
      inhibitory factor .

      Macrophage Migration Inhibitory Factor is a multipotent cytokine involved in a broad range of
      functions including induction of proinflammatory mediators as well as demonstrated roles in
      both innate and adaptive immunity. It was originally identified in the culture medium of
      activated T lymphocytes as a soluble factor that inhibit random migration of macrophages .

      Macrophage Migration Inhibitory Factor induces synoviocytes expression of key proinflammatory
      genes including TNF, IL-1, IL-6, IL-8. Moreover, it also regulates the function of
      endothelial cells and B cells and is implicated in the control of synoviocytes proliferation
      and apoptosis via direct effects on the expression of the tumor suppressor protein P53. In
      Rheumatoid Arthritis, increased Macrophage Migration Inhibitory Factor levels have been
      demonstrated in serum, synovial fluid and tissue correlating with disease activity.

      Hydroxyapatite 25 vitamin D3 is a hormone primarily synthesized in human skin under the
      stimulation of ultraviolet radiation. Beyond its endocrine role in bone metabolism, Vitamin
      D3 is endowed with remarkable immunomodulatory properties. The effects of Vitamin D3 on the
      immune system include the enhancement of microbicidal ability of monocytes macrophages and
      the down-modulation of inflammatory cytokines produced by T lymphocytes.

      Some epidemiological studies have reported an inverse association between serum 25(OH)vitamin
      D3 concentrations and Rheumatoid Arthritis disease activity and severity. In addition, some
      studies have reported inverse correlations between serum 25(OH)vitamin D3 and circulating
      inflammatory markers and cytokines.
    
  