
    
      Introduction Exercising postpartum is important for the health of mother [1-3] and child [4].
      However, there are physical changes postpartum which can prevent women from exercising
      postpartum. About 30% of women postpartum have problems with stress urinary incontinence [5].
      Between 20-50% of women describe that urine leakage impact their physical activity level
      [6-8]. Another concern is a remaining separation of the two parts of the rectus abdominis
      (diastasis rectus abdominis-DRA) which is present in about 30% of women one year postpartum
      [9]. There is an ongoing discussion about if the DRA is a cause for instability and it is
      controversial if a DRA is a source for low back and pelvic pain and pelvic floor dysfunction
      [9-12]. Discussions about how heavy lifting of the growing child and different exercises can
      harm or benefit the DRA [13] cause an uncertainty among women who want to exercise
      postpartum. In recent years an increasing number of women are seeking help from
      physiotherapists in primary care to get physiotherapeutic examination and advice before
      resuming exercising.

      Physiotherapists assess the pelvic floor and abdominal muscles postpartum. Their standard
      method for pelvic floor muscles evaluation is vaginal palpation using the modified oxford
      scale [14, 15]. Vaginal palpation is the only method evaluating the ability to perform a
      correct contraction described as a squeeze with lift- the pelvic floor function [15].
      However, researchers are still struggling to rate this function on a scale. The challenge is
      to rate two movements in one scale [14, 16]. Current studies often just assess the strength
      component of the contraction [14, 16] with just fair interrater reliability. Other
      researchers developed scales assessing different qualities of function [17-19] which makes
      them difficult to apply clinically while palpating at the same time. In the physiotherapeutic
      assessment the function of a muscle is important. In this study functional components like in
      the Devreese [17] or Brink scale [20] will be added to the modified oxford scale. Defining
      the values of the oxford scale more functionally creates the hypothesis that physiotherapists
      will have easier to agree in their assessments. Another question is which function in the
      pelvic floor is requested to resume exercising postpartum without leaking urine. The
      assumption that a strong pelvic floor leads to less stress urinary incontinence is discussed
      [21, 22]. However, pelvic floor training shows good effect against urinary incontinence [23],
      According to our knowledge is the correlation between function and exercising postpartum
      without leaking urine not investigated yet.

      For examination of the DRA 96 % of physiotherapists specialized in women´s health use the
      finger-width method [9, 13]. This method has weaker interrater reliability than instrumental
      measurement methods [24] and is inaccurate due to variations of finger-width [25]. Assessment
      of the DRA with a caliber shows almost equally good accuracy like ultrasound assessment [24,
      26], it allows the documentation of changes eg the recovery postpartum. However, below 2 % of
      physiotherapists are using caliper for assessment of postpartum women [13], the interrater
      reliability is not tested yet. Furthermore there is no international consensus about how to
      classify the DRA [24], and it is still discussed which width of the DRA can be associated
      with a dysfunction such as lumbopelvic pain or stress urinary incontinence [9, 10].

      The recovery of the pelvic floor and the abdominal muscles occur under the first year after
      giving birth [9, 27]. International guidelines for exercise postpartum are still scarce and
      not based on results of RCT´s; especially when it comes to exercises which put high strain on
      the pelvic floor [28-30]. If and when exercising affects the recovery of pelvic floor
      function and DRA postpartum is not yet known [6, 22, 31-35]. There are two different
      hypothesis regarding effects of physical training on the pelvic floor a) physical training is
      strengthening or b) physical training is weakening the pelvic floor [22, 36]. If physical
      training in the early postpartum period leads to a better pelvic floor function and less
      urinary incontinence needs to be investigated.

      The effects of different abdominal exercises on the recovery of the DRA is controversy
      discussed [34, 37, 38]. A review based on low quality studies suggest that all physical
      activity improves the DRA postpartum [34]. Little is known about the effects of different
      types of exercising on the recovery of the DRA and further research is needed [39, 40].

      The general aim The overall purpose of this thesis is to investigate physiotherapeutic
      examination methods postpartum and evaluate the effects of exercising in the recovery of
      pelvic floor function and DRA postpartum.

      Clinical implication:

      The knowledge gained from this thesis will help to improve our physiotherapeutic examination
      methods postpartum and be able to give more evidence based exercise advice for a safe
      resumption of an active lifestyle postpartum.

      Included studies This trial will include two studies: 1) a reliability and validity study of
      examination methods, 2) an observational study. Both studies will use the same recruitment
      process: Women will be invited to participate via posters at the Swedish antenatal centers in
      the Region Västra Götaland and social media. Women -over 18 years, ability to understand
      Swedish in spoken and written terms, gave birth to a child approximately 3 months ago via
      vaginal delivery or cesarean section will be included. Exclusion criteria will be chronic
      pain in the pelvis or back (defined as pain in pelvic or back in more than 3 months before
      pregnancy), major rupture of the pelvic floor at delivery e.g. sphincter rupture grade III/IV
      or other diseases or surgery that prevents examination of the pelvic floor or abdominal
      muscles.

      Study 1 Interrater reliability and criterion validity of physiotherapeutic examination
      methods of pelvic floor and DRA postpartum Aims: To evaluate the reliability of examination
      methods for the pelvic floor and DRA. To test the criterion validity of these two examination
      methods against the ability to exercise without/less leaking urine or experiencing
      lumbopelvic pain/ disability.

      Method:

      The data will be collected via manual examination and a questionnaire. The manual
      examinations will take place at baseline (approximately 9-12 weeks postpartum) and at three
      follow-ups.

      To evaluate the interrater reliability of manual examination methods for the pelvic floor
      function and the DRA, the participants receive a physiotherapeutic examination of their
      pelvic floor and DRA at baseline. The same examination will be conducted by the two
      physiotherapists in random order with a half hour break in between, the two physiotherapists
      will be blinded to each other's assessments. They will follow a standardized protocol .

      A questionnaire will be used after the manual examination to test the criterion validity of
      the manual examination methods and the ability to exercise without leaking urine or
      experiencing lumbopelvic pain/disability. The questionnaire includes 1) the ICIQ-UI Short
      Form which is brief questionnaire to assess the impact of symptoms of incontinence on quality
      of life, fully validated and available in Swedish [41] 2) The Oswestry disability index
      measures the subjective level of function (disability) in daily activities in patients with
      low back pain [42] 3) The Pelvic Girdle Questionnaire (PGQ) which is a self-reported
      questionnaire and has high test-retest reliability and good construct validity to test pelvic
      girdle pain in pregnancy and the postpartum period [43]. The respondents report if and which
      type of physical activity/training cause them to experience urine loss [8]. The results of
      the questionnaires will be tested against the results of the manual examinations.

      After the first examination at baseline the participants will be manually examined by one of
      the physiotherapists and fill out the above-described questionnaire in a three months
      interval (approximately at 6, 9 and 12 months postpartum).

      The data will be analyzed using the program IBM SPSS Statistics 22. For interrater
      reliability a kappa-test will be used to analyze the consistency between the results of
      manual examination of the two physiotherapists. In this study, the degree of consistency
      between the two investigators is determined by Kappa value and standard error for manual
      examination. In addition the Svensson method will be used [44]. For testing the criterion
      validity of the manual examinations and the ability to exercise without/less leaking urine or
      experiencing lumbopelvic pain/disability a Svensson MA and Gamma correlation will be used.
      Associations between pelvic floor function and DRA and urinary leakage and pain/disability
      measured via instruments (ICIQ-UI short form, Oswestry Disability Index and PGQ, physical
      activity causing leakage) will be calculated. Criterion validity will be calculated for the
      first examination at baseline, 6, 9 and 12 months postpartum in order to spread the different
      variables e g pelvic floor strength/DRA can be expected to be weak/separated at first, but
      higher at last measurement, as well as urine leakage/pain/disability.

      Study 2:

      Exercise behavior of postpartum women postpartum and its effects on the pelvic floor and
      abdominal muscle function.

      Aims: To investigate whether early return to exercise postpartum and/or specific types of
      exercises postpartum (high/low impact aerobics training, strenuous training) affects the
      recovery of pelvic floor function and DRA.

      Method: All data will be collected by the manual examinations (baseline, 6, 9 and 12 months
      postpartum), the above-described questionnaire which includes for this part of the thesis,
      two self-reported leisure -time questionnaires: 1) assessing the frequency of 14 different
      exercises in the last month [45] and 2) assessing the physical activity level according to
      the public health recommendation of the American college of Sport´s medicine (ACSM) and
      American Heart Association (AHA) [46] and questions about age, weight and length (BMI),
      further pregnancies, delivery modes, perineal tear and breastfeeding.

      Changes in the pelvic floor function and DRA at the manual examination from baseline to 6, 9
      and 12 months postpartum will be compared between the groups "early returned to exercising"
      and "not returned to exercising" via Wilcoxon rank test. For this study "early return to
      exercising" is defined as exercising more than strolling at baseline reported via
      questionnaire, and "not returned to exercising" is defined as if the only reported activity
      is strolling at 9 months postpartum. A linear regressions analysis will be used to control
      for others parameters which can influence changes of the pelvic floor function and DRA like
      age, BMI, type of delivery, number of deliveries, type of perineal tear and instrumental
      delivery (if known) and possible breastfeeding. Type of exercising will be classified in the
      questionnaire and divided in seven groups[45]. The groups will be compared regarding changes
      in the pelvic floor function and DRA between the manual examination at baseline and at 9
      months postpartum via Kruskal Wallis test. A p-value 0.05 will be considered as statistical
      significant.
    
  