
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III trial with telaprevir in
      patients with chronic Hepatitis C Virus (HCV), genotype 1, infection who failed prior
      treatment with standard treatment. Standard treatment is defined as treatment with Peg-INF
      and RBV. The trial is designed to compare the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of 2
      regimens of telaprevir (with and without delayed start) combined with standard treatment
      versus standard treatment alone. The trial will consist of a screening period of
      approximately 4 weeks, a 48-week treatment period, and a 24-week follow-up period. Patients
      will be eligible to enroll in the trial if they (1) had an undetectable HCV Ribonucleic Acid
      (RNA) level at the end of a prior course of standard treatment but did not achieve a response
      (viral relapsers), or (2) never had an undetectable HCV RNA level during or at the end of a
      prior course of standard treatment (non-responders). Approximately 650 patients (350 prior
      relapsers and 300 prior non-responders) will be randomized in a 2:2:1 ratio to one of 3
      treatment groups: Treatment group A will receive telaprevir with standard treatment for 12
      weeks; followed by placebo with standard treatment for 4 weeks; followed by standard
      treatment for 32 weeks. Treatment group B will receive placebo with standard treatment for 4
      weeks; followed by telaprevir with standard treatment for 12 weeks; followed by standard
      treatment for 32 weeks. Treatment group C will receive placebo with standard treatment for 16
      weeks; followed by standard treatment for 32 weeks. In both telaprevir regimens (A and B),
      patients will receive 12 weeks of 750 mg of telaprevir every 8 hours along with 48 weeks of
      standard treatment. Telaprevir or placebo will be given by mouth at a dose of 750 mg every 8
      hours for 16 weeks. Peg-INF will be given as an injection under the skin at a dose of 180 mcg
      once every week for 48 weeks. RBV will be given by mouth at a dose of either 1000 or 1200 mg
      (depending on your body weight) two times per day for 48 weeks.
    
  