
    
      Platelet recovery is significantly hampered following umbilical cord blood (UCB)
      transplantation. Median time to platelet engraftment (defined as the first of 7 consecutive
      days of an unsupported platelet count of at least 20,000/microliter) in a large retrospective
      study was more than 70 days and cumulative incidence of platelet recovery at 6 months was
      50.5%. In the pediatric population with acute leukemia median time to platelet engraftment
      with UCB transplantation was 59 days and cumulative incidence of platelet recovery at 6
      months was 43%-73%, depending on human leukocyte antigen (HLA) disparity and cell dose.
      Recently, in a cohort of adult patients given myeloablative conditioning followed by double
      UCB transplantation, the cumulative incidence of platelet recovery (≥ 50,000/microliter)at
      100 days was 53%. In another cohort of patients given reduced intensity conditioning regimen
      followed by single or double UCB transplantation, the median time to platelet recovery (≥
      50,000/microliter) and cumulative incidence of platelet recovery at 6 months were 49 days and
      65%, respectively. Thus, after UCB transplantations, patients are platelet
      transfusion-dependent for prolong periods of time, resulting in many drawbacks, such as
      exposure to blood transfusions hazards, higher incidence of platelet allo-reactivity and
      extended periods of bleeding diathesis and undesirable costly and long hospitalizations.

      Eltrombopag is a thrombopoietin-receptor agonist that initiates thrombopoietin-receptor
      signaling and thereby inducing proliferation and maturation of megakaryocytes.Administration
      of eltrombopag increased platelet production in volunteers with normal platelet counts,
      patients with thrombocytopenia secondary to hepatitis C virus infection and in patients with
      chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura.

      We will evaluate the safety and efficacy of eltrombopag treatment given early after UCB
      transplantation. The study is an open non-comparative study. The primary outcome will be
      cumulative incidence of partial platelet engraftment (first of 7 consecutive days of an
      unsupported platelet count of at least 20,000/microliter)at day 50 post transplantation.
      Secondary objectives are safety, tolerability and other transplantation related outcomes.
    
  