
    
      Primary objectives:

      To evaluate the effect of UCT and HE programme on children's cognitive, motor and language
      development and behaviour To evaluate the effect of adding psycho social stimulation to an
      UCT and HE program on cognitive development and behavior of young children

      Secondary objectives are:

      To measure effect of the program on:

      cost effectiveness of the intervention mothers'mental health (depression symptoms) and their
      self esteem household food security status and children's growth and domestic violence health
      care expenditure and health seeking behaviour of the families

      Introduction:

      In developing countries, an estimated 250 million children younger than 5 years in low and
      middle income countries do not reach their maximum potentiality because of poverty and
      associated risk factors. More than half of the Bangladeshi children less than 5 years are at
      risk for developmental delay due to poverty and sub-optimal home stimulation. Sometimes poor
      people become poorer due to catastrophic expenditure on health care and fall into the vicious
      cycle of poverty. Conditional and unconditional cash transfer to the poor mothers has proved
      a way of reducing poverty and improving health outcomes for mothers and children worldwide.
      Ministry of Women and Children Affairs (MoWCA),Government of Bangladesh (GoB) introduced
      maternity allowance in the fiscal year 2007-2008. This is an unconditional cash transfer
      under safety net program for the poor mothers. The mothers also receive health education
      awareness program. The overall objective of the cash and health education training program is
      to ensure safety net in terms of morbidity, mortality and welfare during pregnancy and
      lactation period for both mother and child. Adding psycho social stimulation to the program
      will benefit children's cognition, behavior and nutritional status. On the other hand the
      interventions together will address family's food security and mothers' physical and mental
      health and self esteem because receiving extra cash as well as education on health and psycho
      social stimulation will enhance mothers' capacity in many aspects.

      Psycho social stimulation alone and along with other health and nutrition programs was found
      to be effective for children's cognition and behavior [9-13]. Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT)
      alone was also found significantly effective for child development in Mexico. On the other
      hand, studies reported that UCT improved other health outcomes and nutrition, but little is
      known about the effect of unconditional cash transfer (UCT) along with health education
      program and psycho social stimulation on children's cognition and behavior. MoWCA is
      transferring cash to poor pregnant mothers along with health education training program under
      social safety net program. The present study group plan to conduct a randomized controlled
      trial to document effect of adding psycho social stimulation to the present program on
      children's cognition and behavior. 200 mother-child dyads in each arm will be enrolled when
      their child is 6-16 months old. The participants of the intervention group will receive
      psycho social stimulation fortnightly at home for 12 months.

      However, UCT and HE program is a social safety net program under the ministry of Women and
      Children Affairs of Bangladesh Government. The outcomes of this program are primarily
      maternal and child health and does not directly focus on children's cognition and behavior.
      However, social safety net programs may indirectly affect other outcomes like maternal
      depressive symptom, violence against women, children's well being, cognition and behavior and
      nutrition status for both mother and child. The researchers intend to add psycho social
      stimulation in order to trigger the outcomes in terms of children's development. But the
      program needs to be cost effective to be scale able in low resources settings. If the
      intervention is cost effective, the package may be found attractive by respective policy
      makers to improve development of poor children in those settings.

      The maternity allowance of taka 500 ($6.25) per month is distributed through commercial
      banking system. Health education awareness program is conducted monthly by some Local Non
      Government Organizations (LNGOs) and Community Based Organizations (CBOs) on a wide range of
      health and social welfare issues. The NGO,/CBOs have their own curriculum approved by MoWCA
      for the awareness program. The Local government and community leaders can play an important
      role in encouraging the eligible women to participate in the program. Home based psycho
      social stimulation will be provided by community female Play leaders having at least 12 years
      of education. So the project will build capacity of the community including the Play Leaders
      from the community.

      Study design:

      This is a cluster randomized controlled trial with 3 arms: i) Psychosocial stimulation+
      Health education program + Unconditional cash transfer ii) Health education program +
      Unconditional cash transfer and iii) Comparison arm. The comparison group will consist of
      those who are eligible to receive UCT but do not receive it due to resource constraints of
      the UCT programme.

      Recruitment:

      11 Unions have been selected randomly out of 14 Union at Ullapara, a sub district under
      Sirajgonj district in Bangladesh.The old Ward of a Union would be considered as cluster.

      Since the Government is providing UCT to 79 mothers in each Union, the research team assume
      to get approximately 26 participants in each Ward. 18 participants will be enrolled randomly
      from each cluster. Restricted randomization process will be followed. There are three old
      Wards in each Union. the each old ward (cluster) will be allocated for each arm randomly.

      For comparison arm, mother-child dyads will be enrolled from any part of the old Ward until
      the required sample size are fulfilled.The eligibility criteria of participants for the
      comparison arm would be the same as that for the UCT recipients.

      Intervention and Project Execution Plan:

      The study aims to integrate three distinct interventions: i) Maternity allowance ii) Health
      education awareness program and iii) Psychosocial stimulation.

      i) Maternity Allowance: MoWCA, GoB provides maternity allowance of taka 500 ($6.25) for each
      poor pregnant mother up to two years through banking channel under safety net program of the
      GoB.

      ii) Health Education Awareness Program: All mothers receiving maternity allowance receive
      various health education training by designated LNGOs/CBOs through MoWCA, GoB funding.

      iii) Psychosocial stimulation: The participants will receive fortnightly sessions of
      psychosocial stimulation at home by community female play leaders for one year. The
      curriculum of stimulation is based on improving the mother-child interaction, and providing
      developmentally appropriate activities for the child. The curriculum has already been used in
      several projects in Bangladesh run by Child Development Unit of icddr,b and has shown
      significant benefits to children's development[10-12, 22] and growth[11, 22].

      Training:

      When the inter observer reliability coefficient will be more than 0.8 through data collection
      training, will be considered that the trainee to be eligible to take part in the test
      procedure. Quality of data collection will be checked at the field by supervisors/master
      trainers on 10% of the assessments.

      Data collection:

      All data will be collected from all groups- Group I: UCT+HE Group II: (UCT+HE)+ Psychosocial
      stimulation and group III: Comparison. Data will be collected at baseline, end line and some
      others monthly to compare the outcome between the groups.

      Data Storage Data will be stored in databases saved on icddr,b servers.The databases will be
      password protected and only members of the study team and investigators will have access to
      the password.

      Sample size The study requires 200 mother-child dyads in each arm with 11 clusters of 18
      participants in each cluster. So in total we will have 600 participants, 33 cluster, 18
      participants in each cluster considering 90% power, 5% level of significance, an intraclass
      correlation (ICC) of 0.05 and an effect size of previous study.

      Data analysis:

      Data will be checked for normality. Appropriate measures will be taken if there are any
      abnormal distributions. Differences between groups in socioeconomic and other background
      characteristics will be analyzed using t-test for continuous variables for two groups and a
      ANOVAforthree groups. Effect of the interventions will also be measured using
      intention-to-treat analysis controlling for the clustering effect.

      .

      Cost-effectiveness Analysis:

      The objective of the study is to estimate the resources used and costs associated with
      interventions. The research team will measure direct and indirect cost of for all the groups.
      Average costs per participants will be calculated by multiplying the cost of resource items
      by their respective unit costs. The outcomes of the study will be measured. Then the
      incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) will be used in cost-effectiveness analysis.
    
  