
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To examine the effects of a dietary and exercise intervention on body weight and body
           composition in overweight or obese women who have undergone breast cancer treatment.

        -  To examine the effects of a dietary and exercise intervention on indices of
           psychological health status and biomarkers associated with disease recurrence in
           overweight or obese women who have undergone breast cancer treatment.

      Secondary

        -  To examine the relationship between change in body weight and biomarkers associated with
           disease recurrence and physiological health status, including circulating levels of
           estrogen, C-reactive protein, and interleukin-6.

        -  To examine the relationship between changes in psychological health status, circulating
           stress hormones, and indices of immune function.

        -  To examine the effects of the dietary and exercise intervention on broader
           quality-of-life dimensions.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to one of intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (lifestyle intervention): Patients undergo moderate-intensity aerobic-exercise
           sessions 3 to 5 days a week for 24 weeks. Patients not able to attend five supervised
           sessions are counseled on how they can fit an extra 1-2 home/community-based exercise
           sessions into their weekly routine. All sessions of physical activity are recorded in a
           physical activity log. Portable pedometers are used to determine the number of
           steps/distance walked each day. Patients wear heart-rate monitors throughout the
           exercise sessions. Heart rate and ratings of perceived exertion are assessed at regular
           intervals. The exercise-therapy sessions use a variety of cognitive-behavioral
           techniques for promoting exercise adherence as well as positive attitudes and
           experiences.

      Patients are also given individualized healthy-eating dietary advice and written information
      packet named ' Weight Loss On A Plate'. Patients are also counseled on how to reduce their
      dietary fat intake to 25% of total caloric intake, eating at least 5 portions of fruit and
      vegetables daily, increasing fiber intake, reducing carbohydrates, and taking moderate
      amounts of alcohol. Patients are also counseled on how to reduce their total daily calorie
      intake to 600 kcal below their calculated energy requirements. Individual energy requirements
      will be estimated from a formula of basal metabolic rate and physical activity level.
      Patients complete a 3-day diet diary prior to beginning study treatment and then weekly
      throughout the study. The diaries from pre-intervention and from weeks 6, 12, 18, and 24 are
      analyzed, looking specifically at macronutrients. Patients meet with the research assistant
      once weekly to discuss their individual diet diaries and identify ways in which they can
      further improve their nutritional intake.

        -  Arm II (normal care): Patients are provided with a general healthy-eating booklet
           entitled, "Getting the Balance Right".

      Depression, psychological stress, and quality of life are assessed at baseline and then at 12
      weeks, and 25 weeks.

      Blood samples are examined for various biomarkers including interleukin-6 by ELISA, estradiol
      by radioimmunoassay, and for lymphocyte phenotyping and NK-cell activity by flow cytometry.

      Salivary cortisol levels are measured 4 times on two consecutive days by high-sensitivity
      salivary cortisol enzyme immunoassay.
    
  