
    
      The long-term goal of this project is to study the effects of different exercise modalities
      on Parkinson's disease (PD). PD is a disorder whose primary disability stems from motor
      dysfunction including balance. Recent studies have shown that the risk of falling in the
      elderly can be reduced through the practice of the Chinese complementary and alternative
      medicine (CAM) such as T'ai Chi Chuan (TCC). This finding may be highly significant to PD.
      Although a recent report from Emory suggests PD patients can do well with aerobic (walk-run)
      exercise training (AET), it is still unclear whether the potential anti-Parkinsonian effect
      of such modalities is secondary to improved physical fitness (CRF), motor control or both.
      CAM interventions such as TCC may offer a unique opportunity to examine these fundamental
      questions.

      In PD we hypothesize that exercise training will reduce primary and secondary disability and
      that some of these changes represent adaptive reprogramming of central motor pathways. We
      will conduct a controlled double-blind, 16-week dose-response study of exercise based on
      caloric expenditure and thus on the cardiorespiratory fitness effects of exercise (CRF). The
      treatments will be Qi Gong (minimal caloric expenditure), TCC (low expenditure), and
      walk-cycle AET (moderate expenditure).

      We will examine exercise-induced change in motor control using quantitative measures of motor
      disability, including dynamic gait stability measures. We will also examine exercise effects
      on central and peripheral indices of Parkinsonian motor disability.

      A caloric "dose-response" effect of exercise would suggest CRF is a major determinant of the
      anti-Parkinsonian effects of exercise. If the Chinese modalities are as effective or superior
      to AET however, this would suggest that other mechanisms such as change in central motor
      programming may be playing a role (e.g. relaxation effects, reinforcement of central motor
      programs?). A better understanding of exercise-induced neural plasticity and motor control
      would offer a significant, and heretofore unexploited rehabilitative potential in PD.
    
  