
    
      Undiagnosed and untreated depression is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in
      low-, middle-income countries (LMIC) such as India. The rates of diagnosis and treatment of
      depression among women in rural India are disproportionately low despite a primary care based
      task-sharing model of mentalhealth treatment. Stepped care approaches support appropriate
      treatment of symptoms while reducing the burden on healthcare systems and mobile technology
      can reduce the mental health treatment gap given its reach and easy access. However, our
      preliminary study at a task-sharing care model in rural south India revealed that illiteracy
      and the practice of sharing mobile phones as a family resource present hurdles to the
      adoption of mobile mental health (mHealth) based interventions. To date, the feasibility of a
      community based multiple user mHealth application to screen depression, track symptom
      severity and support the delivery of stepped care treatment has not been tested in LMIC.

      Specific Aim 1: In phase I of this exploratory study, the investigators will adopt a user
      centered participatory approach to design and develop a multiple-user, voice-response, mobile
      application ("MITHRA"), to be used in communitybased organizations for screening, tracking
      and supporting stepped care treatment for depression, including select modules of the Healthy
      Activity Program, a brief psychological intervention based on behavioral activation. The
      application will include audio, video and enhanced touchscreen capabilities, to overcome the
      barrier of illiteracy and lack of access.

      Specific Aim 2: In phase II, using a randomized-control design, the investigators will
      examine feasibility and utility of "MITHRA" deployed at community-based organizations (n=3)
      vs enhanced usual care (n=3) in communitybased organizations (enrolling approximately 60
      women).

      Specific aim 3: Throughout the duration of the funding period the investigators will arrange
      for mentored participation of Psychiatry and Community Medicine residents from India in the
      research project with involvement in the entire spectrum of research activities from
      interview development and conduct to qualitative and quantitative data analysis and
      manuscript writing and dissemination. This mentored participation will be supported by
      regular videoconferenced didactic and case presentation sessions on research methodology.

      The grant will accomplish the goals of developing a unique mobile application that is
      scalable, examining its feasibility and building research capacity at the research site in
      India.
    
  