
    
      One-hundred-and-eighty subjects will be recruited for a placebo-controlled, double-blinded
      study of idebenone (90 mg/day, 270 mg/day) versus placebo. One-hundred-and-eighty subjects
      will be recruited based on past research and an expected 20% dropout rate. A dose of 90mg or
      270 mg is based on large number of reports at study initiation in Leber's hereditary optic
      neuropathy that demonstrated the safety of 900mg/day. Subjects are 18 to 65 years old,
      inclusive, who meet the International Classification of Headache Disorder- III (ICHD-III) for
      episodic migraine with or without aura, no over consumption of acute anti-migraine
      medication, no other prophylactic medication (washout 3 months), no serious organic or
      psychiatric disease, who are recommended to start prophylactic therapy (two to eight attacks
      per month). Written informed consent is obtained. The process of patients through the trial
      phases follows the CONSORT flow chart.

      Idebenone and placebo were provided by Qilu Pharmaceutical Company Limited, China. Placebo
      consisted of the same ingredients as verum-instead idebenone, they classify as fit for human
      consumption in the China and without any known effect on migraine.

      The design of this double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial followed the IHS
      Committee on Clinical Trials in Migraine guidelines, 8 current EU guidelines on Good Clinical
      Practice, and the Declaration of Helsinki. It was approved by Neurology Department, the
      Second Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang University. This study is supported
      by the following funding sources: the Zhejiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China
      (Grant No. LY19H090025, Grant No. LQ15H090003), the National Natural Science Foundation of
      China (Grant No. 81101157). The study is also supported by Qilu Pharmaceutical Company
      Limited, China (http://www.qilu-pharma.com); the use of idebenone in migraine, is patent
      pending in the China. Dr. Kaiming Liu do not receive honoraria from the sponsor of the study.

      Exclusion criteria includes subjects who previously failed idebenone therapy for migraine
      prophylaxis, those who previously discontinued idebenone due to adverse events, those who are
      taking idebenone or had taken idebenone within 14 days prior to enrollment, and subjects with
      continuous headaches. Subjects will be equally randomized to be treated with 90 mg/day
      idebenone, 270 mg/day idebenone, or placebo for 3 months.

      At the first visit, patients will receive placebo for a 1-month base-line. At the second
      visit, they will be randomized to be treated with 90 mg/day idebenone, 270 mg/day idebenone,
      or placebo for next 3 months if they have presented at least one migraine attack.

      The primary objective is to assess whether at least 1 dose of Idebenone is superior to
      placebo in overall mean change from baseline of 4-week migraine headache days (MHD) during
      double-blind treatment. Key secondary outcome variables will be change of migraine attack
      frequency, migraine moderate/severe headache days, the proportion of subjects with at least
      50%, at least 75%, and 100% reduction in migraine days, mean severity of migraine, acute
      treatment utilization, quality of life related to episodic migraine as measured by the The
      Role Function Physical subscale in The Migraine-Specific Quality of Life questionnaire (MSQ
      v2.1), migraine-related disability as measured by The Headache Impact Test (HIT-6), Patient
      Global Impression of Severity (PGI-S) scores, and Migraine Disability Assessment (MIDAS)
      scores from baseline of 4-week to the entire double-blind treatment phase.

      Responders for attack frequency (50% reduction) will be calculated and the
      number-needed-to-treat (NNT) determined. Patients will be interviewed about adverse events at
      each visit. Statistical analysis will be done on an intention-to-treat population applying
      the last visit carried forward method. Mann-Whitney U test will be used for differences
      between groups, 2 test for 22 contingency tables of responder rate, general linear mixed
      model for evolution over time. Significance level is p<0.05, after accounting for multiple
      comparisons. SPSS will be used.
    
  