
    
      Chemotherapy (CT) remains an integral part of treatment for many types of cancer often in
      combination with surgery and/or radiotherapy. In the year March 2011 to April 2012, 1807
      patients were referred to the Royal Marsden Hospital (RMH) Gastrointestinal Unit with a new
      gastro intestinal (GI) cancer of whom 709 were treated with chemotherapy alone or in
      combination with other long term outcome. GI symptoms are common in patients receiving
      chemotherapy. They may arise from the tumour, but may also result as a side effect of
      treatment. They include anorexia, borborygmi, bloating, constipation, diarrhoea, dysphagia,
      early satiety, frequency of defaecation, incontinence, mucus discharge, nausea, nocturnal
      defaecation, pain, reflux, regurgitation, steatorrhoea, tenesmus, urgency of defaecation,
      vomiting, weight loss and wind. Frequently, such symptoms have a significant impact on
      patients' quality of life. They may also interfere with the delivery of treatment prompting
      cessation of therapy or dose reduction resulting in sub optimal dosage with a potential
      impact on morbidity and mortality. Whilst clinicians have long focused on the management of
      vomiting and pain in cancer patients, less attention has been paid to the incidence, severity
      or optimal management of other GI symptoms. If the cause of these symptoms can be identified,
      then appropriate investigations and treatments can be prescribed. The GI Unit has
      successfully investigated and treated patients with symptoms emerging after radiotherapy.
      This experience has enabled the team to develop an algorithm for facilitating the
      investigation and treatment of cancer therapy induced symptoms. The algorithm has recently
      been shown to be effective in the management of patients with radiation induced bowel injury
      . In particular, it enables the rapid identification of required investigations and improves
      the management of symptoms that might otherwise be mislabeled as inevitable consequences of
      treatment. Five easily treatable causes for GI symptoms have so far been identified:

        -  Small bowel bacterial overgrowth

        -  Carbohydrate malabsorption

        -  Bile acid malabsorption

        -  Gastric bile reflux

        -  Pancreatic insufficiency

      It is likely that additional causes such as viral infections (eg cytomegalovirus) are more
      frequent in patients undergoing chemotherapy than currently appreciated.
    
  