
    
      Migraine headaches can be disabling and can interfere with work and a person's quality of
      life. Preventing these headaches before they start is the best option. Topiramate, an
      anti-seizure medication, has been shown to help prevent migraine headaches from occurring.
      This is an open-label study that is an extension of a previous study (CAPSS-276) of
      Topiramate in chronic migraine. It includes patients who completed the previous study or who
      stopped the study early after taking study drug for at least 4 weeks of maintenance treatment
      due to lack of efficacy. The current study will involve a 4-week Blinded Transition Phase
      during which patients will be titrated up to a daily topiramate dose of 100 milligrams (or
      the maximum tolerated dose, whichever is less). Then there will be a 12-week Open-Label
      Maintenance Phase during which the topiramate dose may be adjusted according to effectiveness
      and tolerance, but not to exceed a daily dose of 400 milligrams. After this period, patients
      will be tapered off topiramate (Taper/Exit Phase). The length of the taper/exit phase may
      vary based on the dose the patient was taking during the open label maintenance phase. While
      on topiramate, patients will record daily entries in their headache records. Patients will
      also be asked questions to help assess their quality of life. Both patients and doctors will
      be asked questions at the end of the study about their impressions of change with respect to
      the patient's migraine headaches. Patients will also have physical and neurological
      examinations and laboratory tests performed during the study. The objective of this study is
      to evaluate the long-term safety and effectiveness of topiramate for the prevention of
      chronic migraine headaches. Topiramate oral tablets, 25 milligrams per tablet, will be given
      in the morning and evening to a dose not to exceed 400 milligrams per day or to the maximum
      tolerated dose, whichever is less
    
  