
    
      In coronary heart disease (CHD), the coronary arteries become clogged with calcium and fatty
      deposits. The deposits, called plaques, narrow the arteries that carry blood to the heart
      muscle and could cause ischemic heart disease (too little blood and oxygen reaching the heart
      muscle). Coronary Artery Bypass Graft (CABG) surgery is a treatment option for ischemic heart
      disease. CABG surgery is surgery to create new routes for blood to flow around narrowed and
      blocked arteries so that the heart muscle will receive needed oxygen and nutrients. Acute
      kidney injury is a serious risk of CABG surgery while on CPB pump (heart-lung machine), which
      could result from ischemia during and following surgery. This study is a double-blind
      (neither the patient or the doctor knows whether the patient is assigned to receive study
      drug or placebo), randomized (assigned to treatment by chance), placebo-controlled (study
      drug results compared to placebo results) study to determine the effectiveness of nesiritide
      compared to placebo when given to HF patients undergoing CABG surgery requiring the use of a
      CPB pump . The study drug (nesiritide) or placebo dose being studied is 0.010 mcg/kg/min via
      continuous IV infusion. The study hypothesis is that compared to placebo, nesiritide will
      reduce kidney ischemia, preserve glomerular filtration rate (GFR),which measures the rate at
      which the kidneys filter blood, and the need for dialysis or occurrence of death in HF
      patients who have undergone heart bypass surgery requiring the use of a cardiopulmonary
      bypass machine. Safety will be assessed through the collection of adverse events, clinical
      laboratory tests, vital signs, physical examinations and electrocardiograms at various time
      points throughout the study. The patients assigned to the nesiritide group will receive a
      continuous I.V. infusion at 0.010 mcg/kg/min of nesiritide for at least 48 hours and could be
      extended to up to 96 hours. The patients assigned to the placebo group will receive matching
      placebo.
    
  