
    
      We will be conducting an evaluation of a quality improvement initiative that the San
      Francisco Health Plan (SFHP), a large Medicaid managed care plan in SF, is conducting for
      approximately 500 SFHP enrollees with diabetes who are attending 4 Community Health Network
      Clinics in San Francisco (CHNSF) over a two year period. The intervention that SFHP is
      implementing is Automated Telephone Support Management (ATSM), a health IT innovation used as
      adjunct to care management. The partnership with University of California, San Francisco-San
      Francisco General Hospital (UCSF-SFGH) researchers is based on previous work we have done in
      the CHNSF regarding using ATSM among diabetes patients to improve self-management activities
      and other health outcomes,but in the current demonstration project and evaluation, the
      recruitment of participants and implementation of the intervention will be done by the SFHP;
      UCSF will only conduct an evaluation. The Governing Board at the SFHP decided to adopt the
      ATSM model for its growing number of diabetes patients, to dedicate nursing staff to respond
      to ATSM data and engage with enrollees and their providers, to underwrite the costs of ATSM
      implementation, to randomly assign their patients to one of two types of ATSM (one that
      involves medication review/intensification vs. one that only delivers behavioral support),
      and to contact eligible SFHP members for ATSM and also to briefly describe the evaluation
      study to be carried out by UCSF. We, as UCSF researchers, will evaluate the impact of the
      interventions on patient outcomes. There will be limited contact with patients by the UCSF
      research team. UCSF research staff will only contact patients after SFHP has determined that
      their patients are interested in being contacted about the evaluation; and there will be no
      collection of personal health information by UCSF evaluators. UCSF research staff will
      conduct a telephone survey after verbal consent procedures, at baseline and 6 months (and for
      patients wait-listed, again at 12 months), for patients participating in the ATSM
      intervention. The SFHP will maintain an identification (ID) link between patients who are in
      the intervention and who are conducted about the evaluation, but they will not have
      patient-linked survey data, nor will UCSF have linked health-related data from the SFHP
      regarding patient outcomes, although de-identified data will be included in the UCSF
      evaluation. UCSF will conduct the quantitative data analyses of de-identified data provided
      to us by the SFHP at set times over the study period to examine the impact of the
      interventions on clinical outcomes. The evaluation will focus on the effects of ATSM on both
      patient-centered outcomes and on clinical outcomes through this "real-world" effectiveness
      study. The fact that recruitment and implementation will be carried out by SFHP, that SFHP
      will maintain the link to patients in the evaluation but will not have the survey data linked
      to individuals, and that only SFHP will have control over the personal health information of
      patients, has important implications for generalizability.
    
  