
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess overall response rate of nivolumab in patients with metastatic or locally
      advanced adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the progression free survival defined as time from date of first nivolumab
      infusion until date of death or evidence of progression of disease as assessed by computed
      tomography (CT) imaging every 8 weeks according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) criteria 1.1.

      II. To assess the overall survival defined as time from date of first nivolumab infusion
      until death of patients with metastatic or locally advanced ACC.

      III. To assess the safety and tolerability profile of nivolumab described by number,
      frequency, and severity of adverse events according to the National Cancer Institute Common
      Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.3 assessed every 2 weeks while
      patients are on therapy.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the overall response rate, progression free survival and overall survival
      according to tumor programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) and programmed cell death 1
      ligand 2 (PD-L2) expression.

      II. To assess the overall response rate, progression free survival and overall survival
      according to serum interleukin levels and peripheral T cell profile levels.

      III. To measure humoral and cellular responses to tumor antigens on serum samples by
      measuring the levels of cytokines (ie, interleukin [IL] -2, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-18,
      interferon [IFN] gamma and tumor necrosis factor [TNF]-alpha) and peripheral blood lymphocyte
      phenotype.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes every 2 weeks in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2
      years.
    
  