
    
      Excessive drinking (ED) and alcohol use disorders (AUD) remain one of the nation's leading
      public health problems, yet this problem is largely under-recognized and undertreated.
      Although many people with ED/AUD see a primary care physician annually, there has been
      limited research and implementation of models to treat ED/AUD in primary care. Important
      changes in the healthcare system and advances in alcohol research offer new and potentially
      transformative opportunities to integrate ED/AUD treatment into primary care practices. In
      particular, these changes have led to the development of new patient-centered, integrated
      care models that facilitate the treatment behavioral health issues in primary care. Experts
      have repeatedly called for the development of a chronic care model to treat alcohol problems
      in primary care, similar to models now used to treat other chronic illnesses, including
      depression. Yet, research to develop and test such models has been surprisingly limited. The
      primary aim of this study is to develop and test a chronic care model to treat ED/AUD in the
      patient-centered model home (PCMH) using the NIH stage model of intervention development.
      Specifically, using a mixed methods approach, this study proposes to adapt and test the
      collaborative care (CC) model for depression to treat ED/AUD in a high volume PCMH.
      Importantly, we will build the CC model onto a Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to
      Treatment (SBIRT) program that is already in place in the PCMH. Notably, this SBIRT model
      currently refers those with ED/AUD out to specialty treatment providers. The proposed study
      will be conducted in two phases. Phase I will involve initial adaptation of the CC model for
      depression. During this phase, relevant depression CC protocols and measures will be adapted
      for ED/AUD and piloted tested on participants (n = 25) recruited in a PCMH. Phase II will
      involve model refinement based on iterative cycles of patient and PCMH staff feedback and
      examination of drinking outcome data. During this phase, participants (n = 60) will be
      assessed and followed for three months. Iterative development will focus on: 1) utilizing a
      stepped-care model of treatment which will include outpatient detoxification, behavioral
      interventions, and medication intervention and management, 2) maximizing patient engagement,
      and 3) balancing the resource and expertise constraints of treating ED/AUD in a PCMH.
      Participants in Phases 1 and 2 will be followed at 1 and 3 months and primary outcome data on
      drinking outcomes will be examined.
    
  