
    
      This study is an open-label dose-escalation investigation of the safety and preliminary
      efficacy of unilateral subretinal transplantation of HuCNS-SC cells in subjects with
      Geographic Atrophy secondary to Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD). Subjects will be
      enrolled based on specific inclusion/exclusion criteria and evaluated at regular post
      transplant intervals. The investigation will be divided into two sequential cohorts. Subjects
      will be enrolled into each cohort based on best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) visual acuity
      as determined by the Electronic Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (E-ETDRS) acuity
      test. BCVA of less than or equal to 20/400 in the Study Eye will be enrolled in Cohort I.
      Subjects with BCVA of 20/320 to 20/100 in the Study Eye will be enrolled in Cohort II. Cohort
      I will consist of four subjects who will undergo transplant with 200,000 cells followed by
      four subjects who will undergo transplant with 1 million cells. Cohort II will consist of 7
      subjects who will undergo transplant with 1 million cells. An independent Data Monitoring
      Committee (DMC) will review accruing safety data for all subjects.

      HuCNS-SC cells will be transplanted by a board-certified vitreoretinal surgeon. The
      transplantation will be conducted in the eye with the inferior best-corrected visual acuity
      (BCVA) (i.e., the Study Eye). Only the Study Eye will undergo transplantation. The HuCNS-SC
      cells will be administered into the subretinal space through a standard surgical approach.

      Immunosuppressive agents will be administered orally to all subjects for a period of three
      months after surgery.

      Subjects will be monitored frequently for a total of one year after HuCNS-SC cell
      transplantation. An additional four years of monitoring will be conducted in a separate
      follow-up study that will commence with the termination visit of the Phase I/II
      investigation. The follow-up study will be conducted as a separate investigation.
    
  