
    
      Study Drug Dose Level:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of hydroxychloroquine and either sirolimus or vorinostat, based on when you joined this
      study, availability of spots for each drug combination, and what your doctor thinks is in
      your best interest. Up to 11 dose levels of the sirolimus and hydroxychloroquine combination
      and 7 dose levels of the vorinostat and hydroxychloroquine combination will be tested. Three
      (3) to 6 participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group of participants
      will receive the lowest dose level of the study drug combination. Each new group will receive
      a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will
      continue until the highest tolerable dose of each drug combination is found.

      Once the highest tolerated dose of each drug combination is found, up to 28 more participants
      (14 per combination) will be given this dose. The study doctor will decide which drug
      combination each participant is given, based on their tumor type.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each study "cycle" is 21 days.

      You will take hydroxychloroquine and either vorinostat or sirolimus by mouth, 1 time a day,
      every day. You should take the pills at about the same time each day with food and a cup (8
      ounces) of water.

      Study Visits:

      At every study visit, you will be asked about any health conditions you have, drugs you may
      be taking, and if you have had any side effects.

      Weekly During Cycle 1:

      ° Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      At the beginning of each cycle beginning with 2:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked if you have any muscle weakness or difficulty while moving.

      Every 6 weeks, you will have an x-ray, CT scan, MRI scan, and/or PET/CT to check the status
      of the disease. If the study doctor thinks it is needed, they will be performed more often.
      If you are able to become pregnant, you will have a blood (about 1 teaspoon) or urine
      pregnancy test.

      About every 3 months, you will have an eye exam.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets worse or
      intolerable side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. Sirolimus is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of patients with a kidney transplant. Vorinostat is FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Hydroxychloroquine is
      FDA approved and commercially available to treat malaria. The use of these drugs combinations
      is investigational.

      Up to 224 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  