
    
      The 60 volunteers participating in the study who meet the inclusion criteria, will be
      randomly divided into two groups:

        -  Control group (nutritional promotion): volunteers will be provided with basic
           nutritional recommendations based on a Mediterranean diet.

        -  Experimental group (Nutribiota): volunteers will be instructed to follow a dietary
           strategy similar to the control group, but including the functional foods and
           ingredients developed by the companies with the aim to promote a balanced and specific
           diet associated with improvements in the composition of the microbiota and metabolic
           parameters of the volunteers.

      The duration of the study are 8 weeks, during which 4 visits are scheduled:

        -  Recruitment: this visit will consist on an initial screening in which the volunteers
           will be informed about the characteristics of the study and will be receive the
           information sheet and the informed consent form to be signed by all those interested in
           participating in the study. Volunteers who meet the inclusion for the study will be
           asked to complete the Food Frequency Questionnaire and Physical Activity Questionnaire
           for the next visit (visit 1). In addition, each participant will be provided with a
           faecal microbiota sample collection kit which they will have to hand in with the
           corresponding sample at the next visit (visit 1).

        -  Clinical investigation day 1 (week 0):after a fasting period of at least 10 hours, the
           nursing staff will take a blood sample to analyze the biochemical parameters and
           metabolomic profile. Anthropometric measurements will be taken from each volunteer
           (weight, height, waist and hip circumference, and body composition analysis by
           bioimpedance) with the collaboration of a dietician. In addition, faecal sample and Food
           Frequency Questionnaire and Physical Activity Questionnaire will be collected.
           Volunteers randomly assigned to the experimental group will be given the dishes and
           functional ingredients designed by the companies, which they will have to incorporate
           into a balanced dietary pattern following the indications given by the dietician.

        -  Clinical investigation day 2 (week 4): In this visit, the adherence of the volunteers to
           the study will be monitored and the weight of the volunteers will be registered. In
           addition, all study volunteers will be given a faecal microbiota sample collection kit,
           which should be handed in with the corresponding sample at the final visit. Moreover,
           Food Frequency Questionnaire and Physical Activity Questionnaire will be given to each
           volunteer in order to be filled for the final visit. Volunteers who belong to the
           experimental group will be given dishes and functional ingredients.

        -  Clinical investigation day 3 (week 8): Faecal sample, Food Frequency Questionnaire and
           Physical Activity Questionnaire will be collected. The procedures in this visit will be
           the same as in visit 1, but dishes and functional ingredients will not be given to the
           volunteers.
    
  