
    
      The investigators will conduct the pilot at Public Advocates in Community Re-Entry (PACE), a
      nonprofit that provides services to individuals with felony convictions in Marion County
      Indiana. PACE has provided re-entry services in Marion County, IN for 55 years. PACE's
      services are divided into four distinct categories: transitional, employment, addiction, and
      pre-release services. It is the only former ATR agency in Marion County specializing in a
      re-entry population, and our evaluation of Indiana's program demonstrated they had
      significantly lower rates of recidivism than any other Marion County agency. In 2015, PACE
      served 1,703 new clients.

      The investigators will recruit 100 clients for participation in the pilot, half (50) will be
      assigned to SUPPORT and half (50) to treatment as usual. SUPPORT clients will be offered 12
      months of support service with a PACE recovery coach. The recovery coach will guide the
      SUPPORT client through their recovery, offering guidance and support, while coordinating
      their treatment services, including support services. The SUPPORT program will provide
      SUPPORT clients with $1,000 worth of vouchers to cover the cost of additional flexible
      support services over the 12 months of program enrollment, which will be personalized to fit
      the needs of the client. These cost vouchers will cover similar support services as the
      previous Access to Recovery (ATR) program, such as housing (permanent, transitional),
      employment services (training, placement, readiness), substance use treatment,
      transportation, childcare, educational or vocational services, or aftercare planning. The
      costs of each service is determined by the service provider. Clients will NOT be responsible
      for keeping track of their vouchers, but rather, his/her assigned recovery coach will track
      all voucher funding/spending. Further, the recovery coach will assist the client in choosing
      appropriate services and coordinating/monitoring service completion.

      Clients in the treatment as usual group will have significantly reduced choices in services
      compared to SUPPORT clients. These clients will not receive vouchers to access support
      services such as transportation and housing and will only receive standard case management,
      which is more prescriptive and less intensive than the recovery consultant services provided
      through SUPPORT.

      All PACE clients who are over the age of 18, have a SUD, are no longer incarcerated (in a
      prison, jail, or work release facility), are within 3 months from their release from prison,
      jail, or work release, and are unable to access the previously mentioned Recovery Works
      program, will be eligible for study participation. For both parolees and probationers the
      risk of recidivism is highest in the first year of release; therefore, the investigators will
      be connecting with clients during the initial months following releases. The investigators
      will also be excluding sex offenders from the pilot, as they face greater barriers to
      community integration and experience higher levels of supervision while on parole, which have
      the potential to confound results during a small-scale pilot. Once a potential client is
      released from incarceration and enrolled at PACE, if eligible, an intake worker will inform
      them of the opportunity to participate in the pilot study and describe the SUPPORT program
      services. If the client agrees to participate in the pilot, they will sign a consent form and
      be randomly assigned to either SUPPORT or a treatment as usual condition. If a participant in
      either the SUPPORT or treatment as usual group is re-incarcerated during the study period,
      the investigators will not engage them while under correctional supervision to collect data
      and the investigators will replace them with a new participant. However, if a participant is
      re-incarcerated but released back into the community during the study period, and reengages
      with PACE, they will continue to be a part of the study and the investigators will continue
      to collect data and offer them SUPPORT services. In short, for the purposes of this pilot,
      the investigators will not be collecting data from clients while incarcerated.

      Quantitative:

      PACE will hire and assign two recovery coaches to provide SUPPORT services for the pilot.
      Once hired, the recovery coaches will complete all required IRB training and receive training
      on data collection and the informed consent procedures. The names of these recovery coaches
      will be added to the IRB protocol through an IRB amendment, having completed all required
      training, before interacting with subjects.

      In addition to providing the support services, recovery coaches will 1) go over the statement
      of informed consent and Authorization form and have willing participants provide their
      signature, 2) conduct an initial interview with all clients after they have provided informed
      consent (to be included at the beginning of the electronic data collection) and have been
      assigned to the SUPPORT or comparison group, and 3) collect electronic data using REDCap
      system at the designated time points. Recovery consultants will collect data through a
      computer assisted personal interview (CAPI) (i.e., individual interviews assisted by computer
      technology.) Consultants will conduct interviews in a private room, away from other
      individuals so that others may not overhear what is discussed. Each consultant will have a
      tablet computer through which they will access the REDCap system. After the consultant has
      collected all necessary service or background data, the REDCap system will instruct them to
      hand the tablet over to the client to allow them to answer the remaining questions (regarding
      Self Determination, Treatment Motivation, Self Efficacy, Stages of Change, Substance Use, and
      Quality of Life) independently. The recovery coach will hand the tablet to the client and
      move so they cannot see their responses. Instructions will appear on the tablet telling the
      client to ask questions should they need assistance with either the tablet or answering a
      question. Should the client need assistance using the tablet or answering a question, the
      recovery coach will be available to help. During the screening process (i.e. client
      enrollment), client illiteracy will be picked up. Should a client be illiterate, they will
      still be invited to participate, but a recovery coach will read the questions rather than
      asking them to answer the questions independently.

      CAPI interviews will be conducted with all clients (SUPPORT and non-SUPPORT) at baseline and
      6 and 12 months to understand change in outcomes overtime. Consultants will also conduct a
      CAPI interview at 15 months with SUPPORT clients only to understand retention of treatment
      effects three months post discharge. Based on our previous experience conducting CAPI
      interviews, the investigators expect this process to take between 60 and 90 minutes.

      CAPI Data collection measures include: demographic and background information on all clients
      at baseline; including: date of birth, gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, housing
      history, education, employment history, and past involvement in addiction recovery and
      treatment. The investigators will also collect a number of measures, including (1)
      agency/self-determination, (2) recovery capital (i.e. treatment motivation, social
      support/networks, and self-efficacy), and (3) recovery-related outcomes (frequency of
      substance use and abstinence, incremental progress towards recovery, quality of life,
      recidivism, and administrative data on housing status, education, employment, income,
      physical and mental health status, and attendance at self-report self-help groups.)

      Additionally, IU researchers will conduct structured social network interviews within one
      week of the client's entrance in the study and at 12 months. Social support is a proven
      influential factor on recovery. Having relationships and social networks that provide
      support, friendship, love, and hope through the process of recovery improves outcomes. The
      recovery coaches that work in the SUPPORT program will work with the clients to utilize their
      recovery support services to strengthen the individual's place in the community as a
      productive community member, family member, and worker, and, ideally, improve the quality of
      clients' interpersonal relationships and likelihood of positive recovery outcomes. This study
      will measure social support as a recovery-related outcome to see if the program is able to
      positively impact the social support in clients' lives over the course of 12 months. The
      total data collection time for these interviews will be between 30 and 60 minutes depending
      on the number of individuals in the client's network. At the time of the second network
      interview, the investigators will also collect qualitative data on SUPPORT client's overall
      program experience. During these interviews, the client will be asked for the first names and
      last initial of people who provide certain types of social support in his/her life.

      Qualitative:

      IU researchers will also collect qualitative data from both group through semi-structured
      interviews. The purpose of the interviews is to develop an understanding of client's
      treatment experience and how the SUPPORT program may have assisted them in overcoming
      barriers to recovery. These interviews are expected to take between 45 and 60 minutes.
      Guiding questions for the interview include: "Describe what you liked/did not like about the
      SUPPORT program (probe: client-centeredness, self-determination)."; "How was your
      relationship with your recover consultant?"; "Overall, how has the program helped you in your
      recovery? (probe: motivation; social capital; quality of life; elimination of barriers)";
      "Are there specific things the program helped you with that you would not have been able to
      do on your own?"; "How did the program help you not return to jail (for those who did not
      recidivate)/How could the program have assisted your better so you would not have returned to
      jail (for those who did recidivate)?"; "If you experienced a relapse in the program, how did
      the program help you through that?"; "If you could change anything about SUPPORT, what would
      it be? Why?" (Attachment: Qualitative Interview Questions)

      Also, researchers will conduct focus groups with SUPPORT clients after their 15-month CAPI
      interview. The researchers will conduct between 5 and 8 focus groups with 5-10 participants
      each. The researchers will attempt to recruit all SUPPORT clients for focus groups. Focus
      groups will last between 60 and 90 minutes and will be audio recorded.
    
  