
    
      Depression is among the world's leading causes of disability. Effective pharmacological and
      psychotherapeutic treatments exist. However, only a subgroup of individuals with depressive
      symptoms receive proper treatment (Kohn, Saxena, Levav, & Saraceno, 2004). To fill the
      existing treatment gap (Kazdin, 2017), psychological online interventions (POIs) and
      Internet-based treatment, including bibliotherapy with PDF manuals (POIs), are increasingly
      recommended as they are easily accessible and deemed an initial alternative approach (i.e.,
      "foot in the door") for persons who have reservations about face-to-face psychotherapy.
      E-mental health and bilbiotherapeutic interventions have yielded promising results, but there
      remains room for improvement as effect sizes are usually in the small to medium range. The
      present trial aims to evaluate imagery rescripting, a technique developed by Smucker
      (Smucker, Dancu, Foa, & Niederee, 1995). With the help of various techniques, the approach
      aims to edit negative memories and rewrite a "happy end". Positive mental imagery strategies
      seek to hold negative mental images in check and impart the patient with a feeling of
      self-efficacy. A new meta-analysis shows that imagery rescripting yields large effects on
      anxiety and depressive symptoms across a range of disorders (Morina, Lancee, & Arntz, 2017).

      To the best of our knowledge, imagery rescripting has never been tested as a self-help
      intervention. A large sample of patients with primary or secondary depression (N = 120) will
      be recruited and randomly allocated to either the intervention group or a wait-list control
      group. The intervention group consists of two subgroups that will receive either a full or
      brief version of a manual teaching them imagery rescripting. Participants will be assessed at
      baseline and six weeks later. At post-assessment, the (full-length) manual will be made
      available to all participants. A follow-up assessment will be completed six months later. The
      primary outcome measure is the Beck Depression Inventory II. Secondary outcome measures
      include self-reported symptom measures (PHQ-9, GAF-7, Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale, Global
      item from the WHOQOL-BREF). The project may help to answer the question of whether imagery
      rescripting is effective when presented using a self-help medium.
    
  