
    
      Male patients (40) cases attending the outpatient clinic of Andrology at KASR EL-AINI
      university hospitals, all patients presented with azoospermia, age:18-43 years, complaining
      mainly of infertility or accidently discovered azoospermia during premarital check-up or
      chronic testicular pain caused by longstanding varicocele. Infertile Non Obstructive
      Azoospermia (NOA) (n=40) subjected to varicocelectomy and patients evaluated 3 months after
      varicocelectomy by semen analysis, then according to results population divided into 2
      groups: Group A (Responders): Patients with positive semen analysis for

      sperms 3 months after varicocelectomy.

      Group B (Non Responders): Patients with no sperms in semen analysis

      in 3 and/or 6 months after varicocelectomy.

      Method of Estimation of human TEX101 in semen:

      A 1 ml collected semen samples were centrifuged for 20 minutes at 1000xg at 4 o C, then
      supernatant of each sample was collected for estimation of TEX101. The human TEX101 (Testis
      expressed 101) was assayed by commercially available ELISA kit supplied by Wuhan Fine Biotech
      Co., Ltd. China.

      Principle of the procedure:

      This kit was based on sandwich enzyme-linked immune-sorbent assay technique. Anti- TEX101
      antibody was pre-coated onto 96-well plate. The biotin conjugated antibody was used as
      detection antibodies. The standards, test samples and biotin conjugated detection antibody
      were added to the wells subsequently, and washed with wash buffer.

      HRP-Streptavidin was added and unbound conjugates were washed away with wash buffer. TMB
      substrates were used to visualize HRP enzymatic reaction. TMB was catalyzed by HRP to produce
      a blue color product that changed into yellow after adding acidic stop solution. The
      intensity of yellow is proportional to the target amount of sample captured in plate.
    
  