
    
      Currently, malignant tumors are the leading cause of death. Surgery, chemotherapy, radiation
      therapy, and targeted therapy have become the four foundations of cancer treatment for many
      years. With the development of science and technology, immunotherapy has become the "fifth
      pillar" of cancer treatment. The most hot topic in immunotherapy is CAR-T therapy. The basic
      principle of CAR-T therapy (chimeric antigen receptor-T cells) is mainly to use the patient's
      own immune cells to clear cancer cells. CAR is a core component of CAR-T, conferring T cell a
      HLA-independent way to recognize tumor antigens, allowing CAR-modified T cells to recognize a
      broader target than the natural T cell surface receptor TCR. The basic design of CAR includes
      a tumor associated antigen (TAA) binding region, an extracellular hinge region, a
      transmembrane region and an intracellular signaling region. The selection of target antigens
      is a key determinant of the specificity and effectiveness of CAR and the safety of
      genetically modified T cells themselves.

      Nectin-4 is a type I transmembrane protein whose extracellular domain is composed of three
      Ig-like domains (V-C-C type), which together with cadherin participate in the formation and
      maintenance of adhesion junctions. Nectin-4 is ubiquitously expressed in human embryonic
      cells but is hardly expressed in normal adult tissues. Nectin-4 is highly expressed on the
      surface of breast cancer, bladder cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, and pancreatic cancer
      cells, and plays a key role in the occurrence, invasion and metastasis of these epithelial
      malignancies. In conclusion, Nectin-4 is one of the important targets for the diagnosis and
      treatment of many solid tumors. The antibody-conjugated drug Enfortumab Vedotin targeting
      Nectin-4 was highly effective in Phase I clinical trials in 81 advanced bladder cancers, and
      was awarded FDA breakthrough therapy in March 2018. Fibroblast activation protein (FAP)
      belongs to the serine protease family and is highly expressed on the surface of
      cancer-associat
    
  