
    
      Background and Rationale:

      In daily clinical practice, core body temperature (CBT) of infants with fever symptoms is
      monitored using sporadic rectal measurements. Because these sporadic invasive measurements
      are time consuming for the medical staff and displeasing for patients, an alternative method
      to assess CBT/fever is needed. The company greenTEG is developing a CBT algorithm which
      calculates CBT continuously form skin temperature (ST), corresponding heat flux (HF) and
      other skin-based parameters. The algorithm development will be achieved by collecting
      skin-based parameters and reference CBT values from infants having fever in a clinical
      setting.

      Objective(s):

      Develop and validate an algorithm that allows the detection of fever in infants through a
      non-invasive sensor system, which calculates CBT from ST, HF and other skin-based data
      streams, allowing a more effective patient management.

      Endpoint(s):

      ST, HF, heartrate (HR), SpO2 and CBT data are collected for 18-72 hours, depending on the
      stationary stay of the patient. ST, HF, HR and CBT values from the different measurement
      positions (lateral ribcage and foot) of the wearable prototypes, will be compared with each
      other, and to the clinical invasive method. The invasive reference method will be rectal
      temperature assessed every 8 hours (clinical standard care). For infants older than 6 months,
      ear temperature will be assessed every 4 hours with an infrared ear thermometer.

      Study Design:

      Interventional-Single Group Assignment, monocentric, open label

      Statistical Considerations:

      The measures of quality will be: 1) The mean absolute difference (MAD) between the CBT
      prediction and the reference signal where the mean is taken over the whole measurement of a
      single patient. An aggregate performance measure over a group of patients is defined by
      averaging the MAD values of each patient in the group. 2) the 2σ (standard deviation) range
      of the Bland-Altmann-Plot between the CBT prediction and the reference signal. This is
      calculated either for individual patient data or for the combined data of all patients
      together. As we have defined a group of patients for algorithm validation, the total
      improvement will be defined by comparing the above aggregate performance measures of old and
      new algorithm for the validation group. We expect the factors age, sex to influence the
      algorithmic prediction. Balancing the probability of occurrence of the factors in the
      population and the overall size of the study, a final size of 50 patients is reasonable.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Infants from two weeks after birth and due date up to 18 months of age

        -  Infants which are staying at the Nursery and the University Children's Hospital Zürich
           for more than 1 day (in-patients)

        -  Informed consent signed by parents or by its legal representative

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Acute medical contradiction against medical plaster and adhesives (e.g. skin diseases or
           allergies)

        -  Irritated or damaged skin (e.g. burn, rush, eczema)

        -  Infant with congenital anomalies (e.g. malformations of the anus)

        -  Disease or brain injury which cause a disturbance of the thermoregulation

        -  Comatose infant's

        -  Infants with implants (e.g. pacemaker, cochlear implants)

      Number of Participants:

      50 patients are planned to be included in this study. The reason to plan with 50 patients is
      that the data of 35 patients are needed to build/develop the fever detecting algorithm and
      the data of 15 additional patients will serve the purpose to validate and adjust the
      algorithm.

      Study Intervention:

      Two core body temperature sensing research prototypes will be applied to the skin of
      recruited patients. These prototypes will not interfere with clinical standard monitoring
      procedures and will measure inconspicuously without displaying any values. Furthermore,
      rectal temperature will be measured every 8 hours by medical staff using the clinically
      established method of the hospital. For infants older than 6 months, ear temperature will be
      assessed every 4 hours with an infrared ear thermometer. The measurement will be between
      18-72 hours, depending on the stationary stay of the patient.

      Control Intervention:

      Not applicable

      Study procedures:

      Infants will be recruited and screened 1 days before the measurements starts. Two research
      prototypes will be applied to the patient on the left side of the body (lateral ribcage and
      foot), after being admitted to the hospital and parents having signed the informed consent.
      For all infants rectal measurement will be asses every 8 hours, as reference temperature. For
      infants older than 6 months, in addition to rectal temperature, ear temperature will be
      assessed every 4 hours with an infrared ear thermometer. The whole measurement procedure will
      last 18-72 hours, depending on the stationary stay of the individual patient.
    
  