
    
      Context:

      Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease of children and adults
      for which there is presently no therapy. One of the hallmarks of FRDA is a deficiency of
      frataxin protein, causing dysregulation of iron metabolism, lack of detoxification, and
      increased iron bioavailability. The accumulation of iron in mitochondria leads to increased
      sensitivity to oxidative stress. A secondary inflammatory response has also been proposed to
      be present in FRDA, as revealed in autopsy studies and in the alteration of immune pathways
      in microarray analysis. Inflammation in FRDA raises the possibility of a therapeutic benefit
      from anti-inflammatory steroid treatment, as inflammation may directly underlie multiple
      complications of FRDA including cardiomyopathy. In support of this theory are clinical
      observations and patient self-reports of improvement of ataxia symptoms following the
      prescription of steroids for indications other than the primary FRDA diagnosis.

      Objectives:

      Primary: To assess the effect of oral administration of methylprednisolone on the functional
      performance scores of patients with FRDA using the Timed 25-Foot Walk (T25FW).

      Secondary: To assess the effect of methylprednisolone on neurological performance measures
      (Friedreich Ataxia Rating Scale, 9-Hole Peg Test, 1-minute walk, home-based measures of gait,
      hand function and speech assessed through smartphone application) and to assess the safety
      and tolerability of methylprednisolone in the FRDA population.

      Study Design:

      This study is an open-label clinical trial of methylprednisolone in patients with FRDA.

      Setting/Participants:

      This study will take place at the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia as an outpatient trial
      in 5 children who are at least 5 years and less than 10 years of age, and in 5 adults ages 45
      years and older, with genetically confirmed FRDA.

      See below for description of study intervention and measures.
    
  