
    
      Patients undergoing total shoulder arthroplasty commonly receive an interscalene block using
      ropivacaine to provide analgesia. To provide analgesia for up to 48 hours postoperatively, an
      indwelling catheter can be placed and a constant infusion of ropivacaine given. This is a
      safe and very effective technique for managing postoperative pain in this population. This
      procedure is associated with reduced need for narcotics and improved patient satisfaction.
      Side effects are uncommon and include catheter displacement and failure of the block. A
      consequence of this procedure is that it causes paralysis or weakness of the affected arm
      until the catheter is removed and the drug wears off.

      Liposomal bupivacaine (Exparel, Pacira Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) was approved by the FDA in
      October 2011 and is indicated for administration into a surgical site to produce postsurgical
      analgesia. The duration of analgesia from a single administration is up to 72 hours. Like the
      ropivicaine constant infusion, Exparel is associated with good patient satisfaction and
      reduced narcotics requirement. Its advantage over a continuous infusion is that it is
      technically far less challenging to administer than a catheter insertion and it does not
      cause paralysis of the affected arm.

      Investigators are unaware of any studies that compare the efficacy, patient satisfaction, and
      complication rates of these two different procedures. It is, therefore, the purpose of this
      investigation to explore these differences. Investigators aim to randomly assign 100 subjects
      in an open-labeled fashion who are scheduled to have a total shoulder arthroplasty at the
      UMROI to receive either a continuous infusion of ropivicaine via an interscalene catheter or
      a single administration of a single dose interscalene nerve block plus Exparel injected into
      the soft tissue within and around the shoulder during surgery.

      In this study, investigators plan to use an open label randomized control trial to compare
      the efficacy of a one time dose of liposomal bupivacaine vs. ropivacaine infusion over 36
      hours in providing analgesia. All patients will receive an interscalene block with
      ropivacaine for operative anesthesia. The patients will be randomized to either receive an
      indwelling interscalene catheter with a continuous infusion of 6 ml per hour of 0.2%
      ropivacaine, or surgical wound infiltration of 266 mg of 1.3% liposomal bupivacaine
      suspension. The patients will be given rescue pain medications as needed and will not be
      subjected to suffer pain if their pain is not controlled by their local anesthetic.
      Investigators plan to compare the amounts of rescue pain medications used by the individuals
      in both groups and the patient reported pain scores to help determine whether local
      infiltration of liposomal bupivacaine is as effective as a ropivacaine infusion for providing
      analgesia. If the surgical wound infiltration of liposomal bupivacaine provides the same or
      improved analgesia, this would benefit future patients and not subject them to having a
      peripheral nerve catheter placed as they would get equivalent pain relief from a single shot
      injection followed by wound infiltration with local anesthetic.
    
  