
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To define the safety, tolerability and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of lenalidomide when
      used in combination with ibrutinib in adults with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic
      leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the response rate and response duration in relapsed and refractory CLL/SLL
      patients with ibrutinib and lenalidomide.

      II. To characterize the plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) interaction between ibrutinib and
      lenalidomide.

      III. To explore whether pharmacogenetic studies can predict response, resistance or toxicity
      to ibrutinib and lenalidomide.

      IV. To explore the ability of ibrutinib to occupy its targets (Bruton's tyrosine kinase [BTK]
      in B-cells and interleukin-2 inducible kinase [ITK] in T-cells), and whether
      co-administration with lenalidomide influences this binding.

      V. To explore the early and late immunologic consequences of combining ibrutinib with
      lenalidomide in relapsed and refractory CLL.

      VI. To explore the impact of ibrutinib and lenalidomide on ras homolog family member H (RhoH)
      expression and whether baseline RhoH expression predicts outcomes with this regimen.

      VII. To explore mechanisms of resistance to ibrutinib. VIII. To explore the influence of
      traditional and new CLL/SLL clinical and laboratory prognostic factors on response to
      ibrutinib and lenalidomide.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide.

      Patients receive a run-up cycle of ibrutinib orally (PO) daily on days 1-28. Patients then
      receive ibrutinib PO and lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 12 cycles, patients who
      have achieved complete remission (CR)/CR with incomplete marrow recovery (CRi), nodular
      partial remission (PR), partial remission with persistent lymphocytosis, partial remission,
      or who have stable disease discontinue lenalidomide and continue ibrutinib.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 90 days.
    
  