
    
      Study Procedures:

      Screening visit:

      After written informed consent is obtained, initial screening will consist of a thorough
      medical history and physical examination and standing, bilateral PA, lateral and merchant
      view x-ray evaluation. Special attention will be given to inclusion and exclusion criteria as
      listed above. Only patients who meet all inclusion and exclusion criteria will be allowed to
      continue to Baseline outcomes data collection and randomization. The following subjective
      outcomes, clinical examination and quadriceps strength data will be collected at each
      session.

      Subjective Outcomes

        -  Knee Injury Outcome and Osteoarthritis Score (KOOS)

        -  Anterior knee pain rating during single-leg squat (10cm visual analog scale-VAS)

      Quadriceps strength testing

      • Maximal, normalized isometric knee extension force (N/kg)

      Randomization:

      Each subject will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive one of the treatments
      (group) described above. Randomization will be done a priori via a random number generator.
      Group assignments will be sealed in an envelope each containing a number from 001-100.
      Randomization envelope #001 will be used for the first subject, #002 for the second and so
      on.

      Blinding:

      Both examiner and patient will be blinded to treatment/ group assignment. During the
      injection procedure, we will block patients' view of the injection with the use of a physical
      screen (pillowcase, blanket, sheet, etc) in order to assure the patient is blinded to
      treatment. Patients will be "un-blinded" after the final study endpoints have been collected
      or if needed due to early withdraw or other medical emergency. To maintain blinding and avoid
      measurement bias, the injecting physician will be different from the investigators performing
      outcomes assessments.

      Medication/ Treatment Restrictions and Monitoring:

        -  Patients will be instructed to refrain from any other intra-articular treatment or
           therapy while enrolled in this study

        -  Patients will be interviewed regarding medication usage (dosage and frequency) at each
           visit.

        -  Patients will be instructed to refrain from using any medicine for pain with the
           exception of OTC Tylenol.

      Standardized Exercise prescription:

      Patients will be prescribed a standardized home-based quadriceps strengthening program.
      Patients will be educated on duration and frequency for exercises and will be provided an
      exercise log that will provide exercise descriptions and reminders as well as a method for
      exercise compliance. Subjects will return exercise books at each visit for compliance
      recording.

      Follow-up visits

        -  1 month following injection: Patients will return at 4 weeks (approx 30±7 days)
           following injection. The following outcomes will be recorded during this visit:

             -  Subjective outcomes

             -  Clinical Evaluation

             -  Quadriceps strength testing

             -  Concomitant medications

             -  Adverse Events

        -  3 months following injection: Patients will return at 12 weeks (approx 91±7 days)
           following injection. The following outcomes will be recorded during this visit:

             -  Subjective outcomes

             -  Clinical Evaluation

             -  Quadriceps strength testing

             -  Concomitant medications

             -  Adverse Events

        -  6 months following injection: Patients will return at 26 weeks (approx 182±14 days)
           following injection. The following outcomes will be recorded during this visit:

             -  Subjective outcomes

             -  Clinical Evaluation

             -  Quadriceps strength testing

             -  Concomitant medications

             -  Adverse Events
    
  