
    
      Study Participation If you agree to take part in this study, you will come to M. D. Anderson
      and use a computer to complete a series of questionnaires. You will be asked questions about
      your living situation, mood, depression, anxiety, appetite, smoking and alcohol use habits,
      social status, finances, job, physical activity, and support from family and/or friends.
      These questionnaires may take a total of about 1 hour to complete.

      After completing the questionnaires, you will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin)
      to one of two groups. One group will receive counseling (called motivational relapse
      prevention counseling), which will focus on smoking cessation. The other group will also
      receive counseling (called motivational relapse prevention plus alcohol risk reduction
      counseling), which will focus on smoking cessation as well but will also include discussion
      about at-risk alcohol use. Both groups will receive reading materials related to smoking
      cessation. The motivational relapse prevention plus alcohol risk reduction group will also
      receive reading materials related to alcohol use.

      You will receive a total of 6 counseling calls during this study. Your first counseling call
      will be to set up your quit date. You will then have 5 additional counseling calls within the
      12 weeks after your enrollment in the study. The timing of these calls will be determined
      between you and your counselor. Depending on which group you are in, you will be counseled on
      strategies for quitting smoking and/or decreasing alcohol use to help decrease your risk of
      cancer. These calls will take about 20 to 30 minutes each to complete. You will be asked to
      provide contact information for friends and/or relatives. The research staff will contact
      them only if you are unable to be contacted after multiple attempts.

      Final Visit At Week 12, you will be requested to return to M. D. Anderson to complete the
      last computerized series of questionnaires.

      Your counseling calls will be tape recorded so researchers can make sure that correct
      procedures are being followed. Only the study staff will be allowed to listen to these tapes.
      Your identity will be kept secure and confidential. These tapes will be erased when this
      study has ended.

      Study Length Your participation in this study will be over after the evaluation visit at Week
      12.
    
  