
    
      We will enroll 50 children to determine whether the PREMED method is non-inferior to the
      PREMIX method. We based our sample size on the outcome of pain and distress associated with
      the administration of IN midazolam, which will be measured using our primary outcome measure
      of the Observational Scale of Behavioral Distress-Revised (OSBD-R). The OSBD-R is an
      observational measure of distress that has been well validated in the pediatric population
      for evaluating painful and distressing procedures, and has been used in children as young as
      1 year of age [1,2]. The sample size of 50 patients was determined based on a prestated
      margin of non-inferiority (delta) of 1.8 (SD 2.25). This value was based on the minimum
      clinically significant differences used in prior studies of painful procedures in children in
      the emergency department [3,4,5]. To determine noninferiority using a delta of 1.80 (SD
      2.25), with a 1-tailed alpha of 0.025 and power of 80%, we would require 25 patients in each
      arm, for a total of 50 patients. OSBD-R scores will be determined independently by two
      blinded trained assessors who will review the videotapes of the study procedures. Interrater
      reliability of the OSBD-R between the two assessors will evaluated by determining the
      intraclass correlation coefficient. The period of administration of the midazolam alone in
      the PREMED group and the period of administration of the midazolam/lidocaine mixture in the
      PREMIX group are the two phases which will be compared to each other to determine our primary
      outcome.

      Secondary outcome measures of pain and distress associated with IN midazolam administration
      will include the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Pain Scale (CHEOPS); the
      Faces-LegsActivity-Crying-Consolability (FLACC) scale; and cry duration. These are all
      continuous measures that will be analyzed using the independent samples t-test.We will also
      evaluate parental and provider satisfaction across various domains using a 5-point Likert
      scale (see attached document for questions to be asked). Responses will be dichotomized into
      "agree" (i.e. if respondent answers "agree" or "strongly agree") or "disagree" (i.e. if
      respondent responds "undecided", "disagree", or "strongly disagree") and analyzed using the
      chi square test.
    
  