
    
      The investigators develop a multi-CT-phenotypic-feature-based classifier to predict TKI
      benefit and therapeutic resistance for stage IV EGFR-mutant non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC). The investigators also compared its prognostic and predictive efficacy with single
      features and clinicopathological risk factors. An individualized nomogram integrated the
      classifier and three clinicopathological risk factors was built for clinical use. The
      prognostic accuracy of the proposed model was evaluated in two independent validation sets.

      Nearly 500 patients will be enrolled in this clinical trial. Eligible patients were diagnosed
      with NSCLC, and stage IV according to the TNM system classification of the American Joint
      Committee on Cancer, presence of activating EGFR mutations, age 20 years or older, and no
      history of systemic anticancer therapy for advanced disease. Patients who underwent
      first-line or second-line EGFR TKIs were eligible for inclusion. All patients had to be
      capable of undergoing contrast-enhanced CT, and pretreatment CT was strictly controlled in
      two weeks before the EGFR TKIs starts. Patients who underwent resection for local advanced or
      metastatic disease were withdrawn from the study.

      Therapeutic resistance was measured by PFS, as the time from the initiation of EGFR TKIs
      therapy to the date of confirmed disease progression or death. PFS was censored at the date
      of death from other causes, or the date of the last follow-up visit for progression-free
      patients.

      The investigators will use extracted 1000 phenotypic features on the region of interest
      manually segmented by radiologists. The Lasso Cox regression model and Nomogram will be used
      to build a prognosis model for the therapeutic resistance prediction of EGFR TKIs for stage
      IV EGFR-mutant NSCLC. The Harrell's concordance index(C-index) of the proposed nomogram will
      be used to quantify the discrimination performance.
    
  