
    
      This is a double-blind placebo-controlled randomized clinical trial of vitamin D
      supplementation.

      The eligible subjects will be assigned to a specific group by random assignment in one of the
      following two groups:

        1. Group 1 who will receive placebo.

        2. Group 2 who will receive 4,000 IU vitamin D.

      Both groups will receive either the placebo pills or vitamin D supplementation everyday for
      16 weeks. At visit 1: a fasting morning urine sample will be collected. Height, weight, hip
      and waist circumferences will be measured. Automatic and manual blood pressures will be
      measured in sitting position. Approximately 80 ml of venous blood will be collected. Arterial
      stiffness will be assessed non-invasively by the SphygmoCor device. This device also measures
      the central (aortic) BP and simultaneously measures pulse wave velocity (PWV). A bottle of 30
      capsules containing either vitamin D or placebo will be given to the subjects and will be
      asked to take one capsule every day for next month till the second visit. A questionnaire to
      assess the dietary habits, tobacco use, sun exposure, physical activity, socio-economic
      status and family health history will be given to the subject. At the dental clinic, full
      mouth clinical measurements (periodontal probing) will be performed. A plaque sample will be
      taken and a gum biopsy will be taken to examine the dendritic cells. Also, a saliva sample
      will be collected.

      At visit 2: one month later, the supplements will be replenished, compliance will be
      assessed, and subjects will be examined for any potential side effects.

      At visit 3: at 8-week follow up, anthropometric measures, blood samples as well as BP and PWV
      will be measured and the subject will be assessed for clinical improvement in the
      periodontitis. All the subjects, irrespective of their group assignment will undergo
      intensive scaling and root planing (S&RP). The supplements will be replenished, compliance
      will be assessed, and subjects will be examined for any potential side effects.

      Another fasting blood draw, BP measurement and PWV will be performed approximately 24 hours
      after the S&RP. Also, the investigators will collect saliva sample during this visit.

      At visit 4: at 12-week follow up, the procedure in this visit are similar to the visit 2.

      At visit 5: at 16-week follow up, a post-test evaluation of vitamin D status, cardiovascular
      phenotypes and periodontitis will be done at the end of the study.
    
  