
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare improvement in physiologic function, in terms of exercise tolerance, in patients
           with inoperable locally advanced lung cancer undergoing chemoradiotherapy and randomized
           to pulmonary rehabilitation comprising education with vs without supervised exercise
           training.

        -  Compare the health-related quality of life, in terms of multidimensional functioning and
           patient perception of respiratory difficulties, in patients undergoing these pulmonary
           rehabilitation interventions.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to Zubrod
      performance status (0-1 vs 2); FEV_1 (≥ 70% of predicted vs < 70% of predicted); and smoking
      status* (never smoked or former smoker vs current smoker). Approximately 20 weeks into
      treatment on SWOG-S0023, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

      NOTE: * Never smoked is defined as < 100 cigarettes in a lifetime and former smoker is
      defined as no smoking for ≥ 1 year.

        -  Arm I: Patients participate in a supervised structured exercise program (i.e., walking
           on a treadmill OR using a stationary exercise bicycle) 3 times a week for 12 weeks.
           Patients also receive educational materials on how to improve breathing and conserve
           energy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive educational materials as in arm I. In both arms, patients
           undergo exercise testing using 6-minute walks to measure exercise tolerance at initial
           evaluation (after randomization but prior to intervention), 12 weeks, and then at 6 and
           9 months.

      In both arms, intervention continues in the absence of disease progression or the development
      of other medical conditions that would preclude study participation.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, 12 weeks, and then at 6 and 9 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 164 patients (82 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study.
    
  