
    
      The general objective of this study is to analyze the pattern of comorbidities and
      utilization of primary care officers and specialized attention of long-term breast cancer
      survivors and to compare it with women without history of cancer. Long-term breast cancer
      survivors are those women who survived for at least five years since de primary breast cancer
      diagnosis.The use of health care services for long-term breast cancer survivors presents new
      challenges for health systems in terms of defining the role of each health professional and
      each level of care in contact with these women during their follow-up.

      The SURBCAN Project is an observational study that includes a retrospective cohort of women
      from five Spanish areas. The study is based on Real World Data from clinical history and
      tumor registration. Women with a diagnosis of breast cancer and a survival period of ≥ 5
      years were identified, as well as those women without a cancer diagnosis and matched by age
      and area with breast cancer survivors (1:2). N= 21639 women (7241 cases /13,398 controls).
      Sociodemographic and clinical variables were included. The use of primary care and hospital
      attention and the presence of comorbidities were assessed during the follow-up period
      (2012-2016). The basal cohort, the comorbidities and the use of health services were
      described. Factors associated with use were analyzed through multi-level logistic regression
      models.

      Expected results: Nowadays there are no results of cohort analysis that focus specifically in
      long-term breast cancer survivors. The SURBCAN study will provide evidence regarding
      comorbidity patterns and follow-up characteristics. The results will guide the elaboration of
      new recommendations and the decision making by stakeholders concerned to breast cancer
      survivor's follow-up.

      This project combines the experience from experts groups in health services assessment, and
      analysis of comorbidities and chronic diseases, belonging to the REDISSEC network.
    
  