
    
      Anti-ganglioside GD2 antibody ch14.18 is a monoclonal antibody specifically recognizing the
      target antigen GD2, which is expressed on virtually all neuroblastoma tumours. This antibody
      is a chimeric protein and consists to 30% of mouse variable light and heavy chain and to 70%
      of human constant heavy and light chain. Ch 14.18 has already been tested in stage 4
      neuroblastoma patients in phase I/II clinical trials with encouraging response rates.
      Therefore, the European SIOP neuroblastoma group designed a Phase III protocol to test the
      efficacy of ch14.18 immunotherapy in a randomised trial.

      However, the ch14.18 antibody for this Phase III trial was recloned and produced in Chinese
      hamster ovary (CHO) cells in contrast to ch14.18 antibody used for previous clinical trials,
      which was produced in murine, non-secreting myeloma cells (SP2/0). Although the antibody-gene
      transfer into CHO and SP2/0 was done with exactly the same plasmid assuring an identical
      protein sequence, changes in the glycosylation of the final protein product may occur since
      the glycosylation pattern varies between different production cell lines. Glycosylation is
      important for the immunological effector function of the antibody and the pharmacokinetics in
      patients. Therefore, this change is considered to be a major change in production requiring
      the reassessment of the new product in a Phase I clinical trial.

      The primary objective of this trial is the re-evaluation of toxicity of the new ch14.18/CHO
      antibody. This is ultimately followed by the secondary objectives including the determination
      of pharmacokinetics and immunostimulation in patients receiving ch14.18/CHO therapy. This
      involves particularly the determination of activation of immune effector cells and complement
      during and after application of ch14.18/CHO. Subsequently, we will evaluate the clinical
      effect of this treatment on the course of the disease.

      The nature of this phase I trial is a bridging study for a medicinal product subjected to a
      major change in production according to the guidelines provided by the "Committee for
      Proprietary Medicinal Products" (CPMP) of the "European Agency for the Evaluation of
      Medicinal Products (EMEA) (Document Number CPMP/BWP/3207/00).
    
  