
    
      PAST PRE-CLINICAL AND CLINICAL EXPERIENCE:

      The effect of the electric fields (TTFields, TTF) has demonstrated significant activity in in
      vitro hepatocellular carcinoma pre-clinical models. In addition, TTFields have shown to
      inhibit metastatic spread of malignant melanoma in in vivo experiment.

      In pilot study, 40 patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma
      received chemotherapy with TTFields (150 kHz) applied to the abdomen. The combination was
      well tolerated and the only device-related adverse event was contact dermatitis.

      In addition, a phase III trial of Optune® (200 kHz) as monotherapy compared to active
      chemotherapy in recurrent glioblastoma patients showed TTFields to be equivalent to active
      chemotherapy in extending survival, associated with minimal toxicity, good quality of life,
      and activity within the brain (14% response rate) (Stupp R., et al., EJC 2012). Finally, a
      phase III trial of Optune® combined with maintenance temozolomide compared to maintenance
      temozolomide alone has shown that combined therapy led to a significant improvement in both
      progression free survival and overall survival in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma
      without the addition of high grade toxicity and without decline in quality of life (Stupp R.,
      et al., JAMA 2017).

      DESCRIPTION OF THE TRIAL:

      All patients included in this trial are patients with locally advanced hepatocellular
      carcinoma. In addition, all patients must meet all eligibility criteria.

      Eligible patients will be enrolled, baseline tests will be performed and the patients will be
      treated continuously with the device concomitant with sorafenib until disease progression in
      the liver.

      TTFields treatment will consist of wearing four electrically insulated electrode arrays on
      the abdomen. Electrode array placement will require shaving of the abdomen/back as necessary
      before and during the treatment. After an initial short visit to the clinic for training and
      monitoring, patients will be released to continue treatment at home where they can maintain
      their regular daily routine.

      During the trial the patient will need to return once every 4 weeks to the clinic where an
      examination by a physician and a routine laboratory examinations will be done. These routine
      visits will continue for as long as the patient's disease is not progressing in the liver. A
      routine CT or MRI scan of the abdomen will be performed at baseline and every 12 weeks
      thereafter, until disease progression in the liver. After this follow up plan, patients will
      be contacted once per month by telephone to answer basic questions about their health status.

      SCIENTIFIC BACKGROUND:

      Electric fields exert forces on electric charges similar to the way a magnet exerts forces on
      metallic particles within a magnetic field. These forces cause movement and rotation of
      electrically charged biological building blocks, much like the alignment of metallic
      particles seen along the lines of force radiating outwards from a magnet.

      Electric fields can also cause muscles to twitch and if strong enough may heat tissues.
      TTFields are alternating electric fields of low intensity. This means that they change their
      direction repetitively many times a second. Since they change direction very rapidly (150
      thousand times a second), they do not cause muscles to twitch, nor do they have any effects
      on other electrically activated tissues in the body (brain, nerves and heart). Since the
      intensities of TTFields in the body are very low, they do not cause heating.

      The breakthrough finding made by Novocure was that finely tuned alternating fields of very
      low intensity, now termed TTFields (Tumor Treating Fields), cause a significant slowing in
      the growth of cancer cells. Due to the unique geometric shape of cancer cells when they are
      multiplying, TTFields cause electrically-charged cellular components of these cells to change
      their location within the dividing cell, disrupting their normal function and ultimately
      leading to cell death. In addition, cancer cells also contain miniature building blocks which
      act as tiny motors in moving essential parts of the cells from place to place. TTFields
      interfere with the normal orientation of these tiny motors related to other cellular
      components since they are electrically-charged as well. As a result of these two effects,
      tumor cell division is slowed, results in cellular death or reverses after continuous
      exposure to TTFields.

      Other cells in the body (normal healthy tissues) are affected much less than cancer cells
      since they multiply at a much slower rate if at all. In addition TTFields can be directed to
      a certain part of the body, leaving sensitive areas out of their reach. Finally, the
      frequency of TTFields applied to each type of cancer is specific and may not damage normally
      dividing cells in healthy tissues.

      In conclusion, TTFields hold the promise of serving as a brand new treatment for
      hepatocellular carcinoma with very few side effects.
    
  