
    
      This is a randomized, partially-blinded, multi-center, parallel-group study to evaluate the
      effectiveness, PK, safety, and acceptability of Sayana® Press when injected every 4 months
      (17-18 weeks) rather than the currently prescribed 3-month (12-14 weeks) regimen.

      A total of 750 healthy, sexually active women aged 18 to 35 years with regular menstrual
      cycles and no DMPA use in the previous 12 months will be enrolled and followed for pregnancy.
      Among all enrolled, 710 will be randomized to receive injections in the abdomen or upper
      thigh in accordance with the PATH Sayana® injection instructions, which are consistent with
      prescribing information, for the primary effectiveness analysis. An additional 40 women will
      be randomized to receive injections subcutaneously in the back of the upper arm to assess
      whether differences in PK may exist which could impact the grace period for reinjections for
      that injection site.

      A single MPA serum sample will be collected from all participants at baseline. All
      participants will receive re-injections at month 4 and month 8, and complete their scheduled
      follow-up at month 12. There will be a plus 7-day grace period for re-injections, but women
      who are up to 28 days late may continue treatment if they have a negative urine pregnancy
      test. Urine pregnancy testing will be performed at month 4, at study exit and at any other
      time during the study if clinically indicated. Participants will be evaluated for injection
      site reactions and asked to provide information on adverse events, prohibited concomitant
      medication and other contraceptive use, vaginal bleeding, and method acceptability at all
      regular follow-up visits (i.e., not including the PK visits at Months 2 and 3). Serious
      adverse events and adverse events leading to product withdrawal, will be recorded throughout
      the study.
    
  