
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the mechanical strength of various staple line
      reinforcement techniques using the resected portion of stomach in patients undergoing
      laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. The specimen will be collected at the time of surgery, the
      previous staple line will be excised, and a new staple line with one of the investigatory
      reinforcement procedures will be applied. The staple line techniques to be used in this study
      include non-buttressed and non-imbricated oversewing, non-buttressed and imbricated suture
      line, buttressed stapling, and no reinforcement (see protocol for description of each). The
      specimen will then be taken to the morgue where the experimental procedure will be performed
      within 6 hours of specimen procurement. The specimen will be attached to a catheter with a
      pressure monitor and blue dye will be instilled into the specimen until leakage is seen. The
      presence of leakage indicates failure of the staple line. Detailed measurements of all
      specimens will be performed as will leak pressure and location in the specimen where leak
      occurred. The specimen will then be turned over to pathology to undergo routine pathologic
      examination.

      This experimental procedure has been used previously in published literature with animal
      samples, but never with human tissue. A possible reason for the lack of testing in the
      stomach staple line in patients after sleeve gastrectomy is that the technical aspects of
      bariatric surgery were developed using gastric bypass; a procedure where the stomach is
      divided but not excised.

      The investigators hypothesize that the specimens treated with staple line buttressing
      material will fail at a higher pressure than those without reinforcement. The investigators
      will also explore the location of the failure to determine if there is a consistent site of
      weakness. Should this study yield consistent results, it would help determine a standard
      approach for staple line reinforcement after laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. Additionally,
      should the location of the leak be consistent, this information may help drive technical
      changes that could decrease leak rate, an infrequent but potentially devastating risk of this
      and other weight loss surgeries.
    
  