
    
      Longitudinal multi-center study from November 2010 to September 2020 in two pediatric CPET
      laboratories (center 1: M3C Regional Pediatric and Congenital Cardiology Centre, Montpellier
      University Hospital, France; center 2: Pediatric Cardiology and Rehabilitation Centre,
      Institut-Saint-Pierre, Palavas-Les-Flots, France).

      Two groups will be identify: CHD group and control group. The CHD group is made up of the
      children included in the first study6. From these 496 children with CHD, children with a
      second CPET more than one year from the first referral CPET were included. If several CPETs
      were performed in the follow-up, we retain the most distant CPET from the first. The patients
      included in the initial study were aged 5-18 years old and they were referred by their
      paediatric cardiologists to one of the two CPET laboratories after their annual medical
      check-up.

      The control group consisted of children referred for a nonsevere functional symptom linked to
      exercise (murmur, palpitation or dyspnoea) or for a medical sports certificate. These
      children were classified in the control group only after a completely normal check-up,
      including physical examination, ECG, echocardiography and spirometry. Children with any
      chronic disease, medical condition (cardiac, neurological, respiratory, muscular or renal),
      or medical treatment and those requiring any further specialised medical consultation were
      not eligible. We included controlled children from 2015-2020 period who will be added to the
      controlled patients of the initial study6. These patients only had one CPET.

      The main objective was to describe the annual evolution in VO2max for patients with CHD
      compared to control children.

      Secondary obectives were :

        -  describe the annual evolution of ventilatory anaerobic threshold (VAT) for patients with
           CHD compared to control children.

        -  define the clinical determinants in relation to the annual decrease of the VO2 max.

        -  describe the population lost to follow-up in this retrospective study which represents
           current practice
    
  