
    
      Introduction:

      Patients with Diabetes Mellitus (DM) Type 2 still consistently perform worse than their
      non-diabetic counterparts especially in the setting of Percutaneous Coronary Intervention
      (PCI). The abnormal coronary microcirculation along with the higher risk of distal
      embolization of particles released from the PCI target lesion constitutes the main cause of
      peri-procedural microcirculatory damage.

      New antiplatelet agents, in particular Ticagrelor, might also play a protective role on
      microcirculation. Ticagrelor inhibits cellular uptake of adenosine, increasing the
      circulating levels of adenosine through the inhibition of its physiological clearance.
      Adenosine may protect the myocardium from both ischemic, and reperfusion injury via its
      potent vasodilatory effects and possibly by anti-inflammatory and antiplatelet properties.

      Additionally previous research have identified a more profound effect of adenosine on
      microcirculatory resistance associated to obesity and diabetes and a higher myocardial
      protective effect of Ticagrelor during PCI might be expected in this high risk subgroup of
      patients.

      The purpose of PRotective Effect on the Coronary Microcirculation of Patients With DIabetes
      by Clopidogrel or Ticagrelor (PREDICT) trial was designed to investigate the protective
      effect of Ticagrelor on microcirculation during PCI in stable diabetic patient

      Rationale:

        1. Coronary plaques at high risk for distal embolization during PCI, like the one with
           thin-cap fibroatheroma (TCFA), are more prevalent in patient with DM. Thus, this
           population is at high risk to develop myocardial injury and microcirculation impairment
           subsequent to PCI.

        2. By blocking the Adenosine transporter (ENT) 1 nucleoside cell membrane transporter,
           Ticagrelor inhibits cellular uptake of adenosine, increasing the circulating levels of
           adenosine through the inhibition of its physiological clearance. Adenosine may protect
           the myocardium from both ischemic, and reperfusion injury via its potent vasodilatory
           effects and possibly by anti-inflammatory and antiplatelet properties. This translates
           into an adenosine-mediated vasodilatory effect of ticagrelor that takes place soon after
           loading dose.

        3. Previous research from our group have identified a more profound effect of adenosine on
           microcirculatory resistance associated to obesity and diabetes and a higher myocardial
           protective effect of Ticagrelor during PCI might be expected in this high risk subgroup
           of patients. (enhanced microcirculatory response to raised adenosine levels).

      Giving these premises in diabetics or pre-diabetics patients, Ticagrelor treatment pre-PCI
      might improve microcirculatory parameters (lower resistance) compared with clopidogrel
      (secondary hypothesis). Ticagrelor might be superior to clopidogrel in providing
      microcirculatory protection during PCI procedures in the same subgroup of patients (primary
      hypothesis).
    
  