
    
      This is a 12-week, prospective, randomized clinical trial of the moderating effect of
      rs2832407 on the efficacy of topiramate in reducing HD in 200 individuals of European descent
      with DSM-5 AUD. The investigators will stratify the randomization on genotype and oversample
      rs2832407*C homozygotes, the most topiramate-responsive genotype, to ensure comparable
      numbers of subjects in the four medication x genotype groups. The investigators will compare
      the efficacy of topiramate to placebo in reducing the frequency of HDDs in subjects with AUD
      using a two-arm, parallel-groups design. Subjects will either have a goal of reducing their
      drinking to safe levels or abstinence.

      The investigators will use daily data collection to examine changes in relevant process
      variables and their interaction with genotype and medication group as predictors of HD. At
      each visit, all subjects will receive Medication Management (Pettinati, Weiss et al. 2004),
      which was developed for the COMBINE Trial and which the investigators modified to be relevant
      for both reducing heavy drinking and promoting abstinence. Random assignment to treatment
      group and double-blind conditions will be maintained throughout the study. Raters will be
      trained in the reliable use of all assessments. The investigators will use serum GGTP and
      percent disialotransferrin (%dCDT), an improved assay for carbohydrate deficient transferrin,
      to validate subject reports. Following a one-week pre-treatment assessment period, subjects
      will receive 12 weeks of treatment, after which there will be a 6-day taper period, during
      which subjects will reduce their dosage of topiramate gradually and then discontinue it
      completely. Daily reports during the treatment period will be obtained using interactive
      voice response (IVR) to identify subjective correlates of medication effects and to monitor
      medication use. Following the 12-week treatment period, subjects will be asked to return to
      the clinic for 3-month and 6-month post-treatment follow-up visits to evaluate the durability
      of treatment effects.

      Two hundred men and women of European descent will be randomized to study medication.
      Subjects will be recruited using referrals from treatment programs throughout Philadelphia;
      IRB-approved advertisements on mass transit, on local radio and television stations and in
      newspapers, social media, and broadcast email messages at institutions that offer such a
      service and by posting/distributing recruitment materials in community and college settings.
      Respondents will initially be evaluated by telephone prior to an in-person visit to the
      Treatment Research Center of the University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine. The
      investigators will select subjects based on their genotype to ensure comparable numbers of
      individuals who are rs2832407*C-allele homozygotes and A-allele carriers. The investigators
      will block randomize subjects to balance the groups on treatment goal (i.e., reduced drinking
      or abstinence).
    
  