
    
      Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a progressive atherosclerotic disease with symptoms
      ranging from intermittent claudication (IC) to critical limb ischemia (CLI). The majority of
      symptomatic PAD patients present with atherosclerotic lesions located in the femoro-popliteal
      arteries and endovascular therapy is the primary choice if the stenosis/occlusions involve
      <25 cm of the vessel. A minority of symptomatic PAD patients would present with
      infra-popliteal (distal or below-the-knee) lesions: in these patients, the endovascular
      treatment is challenging.

      Drug-coated balloons (DCB) and drug-eluting stents (DES) were developed to prevent
      neo-intimal proliferation and restenosis after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA),
      an objective which had been achieved by the local application of either cytostatic (e.g.
      paclitaxel - a cytoskeletal disruptor) or immunosuppressive (e.g. sirolimus/everolimus - both
      mTOR inhibitors) substances on the vessel wall.

      Over the past decade, a few randomized controlled trials (RCT) compared the efficacy and
      safety of drug-coated (mainly paclitaxel-coated) devices vs. that of uncoated ones, and
      demonstrated a significant reduction in restenosis rates, late lumen loss, and incidence of
      target lesion re-vascularization. However, the size of these trials was often too small to
      draw firm conclusions concerning major clinical outcomes. Moreover, substantial heterogeneity
      of the study populations and too restrictive eligibility criteria limited their external
      validity, leading to a difficult interpretation of the results of later meta-analyses.
      Indeed, these trials adopted as the primary outcome surrogate (and rather subjective)
      outcomes, such as vessel patency and target limb re-vascularization, which may be difficult
      to objectively adjudicate in the setting of an open-label trial, rather than ´hard´ objective
      clinical endpoints, such as major amputation or urgent revascularization due to critical limb
      ischemia.

      Moreover, despite the short-term effects appeared promising based on imaging outcome, tthe
      results of a recent meta-analysis of 28 trials showed an increased two-year mortality in the
      group of patients treated with paclitaxel-coated balloons. Based on these results, and after
      analysis of follow-up data from the trials that led to the approval of these products, a Food
      and Drug Administration (FDA) panel concluded that, despite the short-term benefits with
      paclitaxel-based devices, safety concerns may exist for mid-term mortality risk.

      Alternative drug candidates to paclitaxel-coated balloon catheters are the so-called
      limus-based analogs, which own cytostatic properties and are characterized by a wider
      therapeutic window. Recently, a novel balloon catheter has been CE-certified: it encapsulates
      sirolimus in phospholipid drug nanocarriers to improve adhesion properties of sirolimus and
      to provide better bioavailability. Similarly to paclitaxel-coated and uncoated devices,
      sirolimus-coated devices are currently approved for routine use in PAD and reimbursed in
      Switzerland.

      The aim of the present trial is to compare the efficacy, as defined by a composite of
      clinically relevant non-subjective ´hard´ outcomes (major amputation and target lesion
      re-vascularization for critical limb ischemia), of sirolimus-coated vs. uncoated balloon
      angioplasty for peripheral artery disease in patients scheduled for infra-inguinal
      re-vascularization and selected based on a very limited number of inclusion criteria (all
      comers) aiming at maximization of external validity.
    
  