
    
      Background: The acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is generally a severe pulmonary
      disease, whose associated mortality remains high. The most severe forms of ARDS, during which
      the hypoxemia induced by the lung involvement is the most profound, have an even more dismal
      prognosis, with a mortality rate exceeding 60%, despite resorting to exceptional adjunctive
      therapies, like NO inhalation, prone positioning of the patients, almitrine infusion or high
      frequency oscillation (HFO)-type ventilation. In these situations, certain teams propose
      establishing an extracorporeal circuit, combining a centrifuge pump and an oxygenator
      membrane, to assure total pulmonary assistance (oxygenation and CO2 removal from the blood),
      or Extra-Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO). The aim of ECMO is to minimize the trauma
      induced by mechanical ventilation and to allow the lungs to rest. Unfortunately, trials
      evaluating ECMO for this indication over the past few decades were failures because of the
      interval between the onset of the disease and the installation of assistance, the poor
      oxygenation and CO2-removal capacities of the devices used, and the high rate of
      complications linked to the apparatus (massive hemorrhages resulting from intense
      anticoagulation and the poor 'biocompatibility' of the circuits). However, over the past few
      years, decisive progress has been made in the conception and construction of ECMO circuits,
      rendering them more 'biocompatible', better performing and more resistant. Finally, the
      results of the therapeutic trial (CESAR, UK) that used the latest generation ECMO are
      promising. Thus, the investigators now have strong clinical and pathophysiological rationales
      to evaluate, through a clinical trial with sufficient statistical power, the impact of early
      ECMO installation for the most severe forms of ARDS. This project integrates into a network
      (REVA or Network for Mechanical Ventilation) program.

      Study hypothesis: ECMO, instituted early after the diagnosis of ARDS not evolving favorably
      after 3-6 hours under optimal ventilatory management and maximum medical treatment, would
      lower the morbidity and mortality associated with this disease.

      Methods: A multicenter, randomized, open trial. Twenty-three centers will participate in this
      project to be conducted within the REVA network.

      Experimental treatment arm: ECMO will be initiated as rapidly as possible by venovenous
      access. The material to be used consists of pre-heparinized cannulae and tubing, a centrifuge
      pump and a heparinized membrane oxygenator (Quadrox®, Jostra®, Maquet®). To minimize the
      trauma induced by mechanical ventilation, the following ventilator settings will be used:
      volume-assist control mode, FiO2 30-60%, PEEP ≥ 10 cm H2O, VT lowered to obtain a plateau
      pressure < 25 cm H2O, respiration rate (RR) 10-30/minute or APRV mode with high pressure
      level < 25 cm H2O and low pressure level ≥10 cm H2O.

      Control arm treatment: Standard management of ARDS, according to the modalities applied by
      the 'maximal pulmonary recruitment' group in the EXPRESS trial (1): assist-controlled
      ventilatory mode, VT set at 6 ml/kg of ideal body weight and PEEP set so as not to exceed a
      plateau pressure of 28-30 cm H2O. In the case of refractory hypoxemia, the usual adjunctive
      therapeutics can be used: NO, prone position, HFO ventilation, almitrine infusion. A
      cross-over option to ECMO will be possible in the case of refractory hypoxemia defined as
      blood arterial saturation SaO2 < 80% for > 6 hours, despite mandatory use of recruitment
      maneuvers, and inhaled NO/prostacyclin and if technically possible a test of prone position,
      and only if the patient has no irreversible multiple organ failure and if the physician in
      charge of the patient believes that this could actually change the outcome.

      Objective and judgement criteria: The primary endpoint is to achieve, with ECMO,
      significantly lower mortality on day (D) 60 (D1 is the day of randomization). Secondary
      objectives are to show: a benefit in terms of lower ICU and hospital mortality rates at D30
      and D90; lower pneumothorax frequency; shortened duration of mechanical ventilation; less
      need for hemodynamic support with catecholamines; shorter ICU and hospital stays; and more
      days, between inclusion and D60, without mechanical ventilation, without organ failure and
      without hemodynamic support.

      Statistical analyses: The high mortality rate of severe ARDS (≥ 60%) justifies combining all
      efforts to reach a rapid conclusion and thus resorting to a sequential analytical plan, with
      stopping rules based on the triangular test. Thus, with 80% power and a 5% α-risk for the
      hypothesis of ECMO achieving a 20% absolute mortality reduction, the characteristics of the
      study, calculated with a triangle test, are the following: a maximum of 331 subjects to be
      included and a 90% probability of stopping the study before 220 subjects have been included.
    
  