
    
      Background

        -  Kaposi sarcoma herpesvirus (KSHV)-associated primary effusion lymphoma (PEL) is an
           aggressive B cell neoplasm with clinicopathologic and molecular profiles distinct from
           other AIDS-related lymphomas.

        -  There are no prospective studies on these rare lymphomas. Clinical experience is
           limited; however, reported prognosis is poor, with median survival estimated at less
           than 6 months using conventional CHOP-like chemotherapy.

        -  Novel treatment is urgently needed for KSHV-associated lymphomas, and the therapeutic
           approach must take into account concurrent KSHV-associated malignancies which are
           commonly seen in this patient population

        -  Lenalidomide, an immune-modulatory derivative of thalidomide (IMiD drug) has in vitro
           direct antitumor effect in KSHV-lymphomas as well as immune modulatory and
           antiangiogenic effects that may be beneficial in treating PEL

        -  Rituximab, an anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, has recently been shown to be an active
           agent in the management of KSHV-MCD. Although PEL is a CD20-negative tumor, advances in
           the understanding the biology of KSHV-infection of B-cells, the pathobiology of IL-6
           syndromes in KSHV-MCD and KSHV-NHL, and clinical experience using rituximab in the
           treatment of KSHV-MCD, support use of rituximab in the treatment of PEL, especially in
           patients with concurrent KSHV-MCD.

        -  Modified dose-adjusted etoposide, prednisone, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, and
           doxorubicin (DA)-EPOCH is an anthracycline-based regimen that allows for personalization
           of dose-intensity showing that inclusion of etoposide and infusional administration
           decreases tumor cell resistance.

        -  The use of DA-EPOCH in combination with rituximab for the treatment of HIV associated
           diffuse large B-cell lymphoma or Burkitt lymphoma has been shown to be safe and
           effective.

        -  Given the central role of controlling HIV viremia with combination antiretroviral
           therapy (cART) in the management of KSHV-associated malignancies, as well as the likely
           contribution of uncontrolled HIV viremia to PEL pathogenesis, cART will be employed as
           an important part of the treatment regimen.

      Objectives

      Phase I

      - Evaluate safety and tolerability of lenalidomide in combination with DA-EPOCH-R and
      determine the maximum tolerated dose and/or recommended phase II dose of this regimen.

      Phase II

      - Evaluate overall survival in treatment-naive patients with primary effusion lymphoma
      treated with lenalidomide in combination with, DA-EPOCH and rituximab (DA-EPOCHR^2).

      Eligibility

        -  Adult patients greater than or equal to 18 years with pathology confirmed primary
           effusion lymphoma, including extracavitary variants, and KSHV-associated large cell
           lymphoma

        -  Lymphoma that is measurable or assessable

        -  Any HIV status

        -  Hematologic and biochemical parameters within pre-specified limits at screening

        -  Willing to use effective birth control, as defined in the full protocol

        -  Neither pregnant nor breast feeding

        -  Excluded if other serious co-morbid condition that would prohibit administration of
           planned chemotherapeutic intervention is present

      Design

        -  This is a phase I/ II study of lenalidomide in combination rituximab and modified
           DAEPOCH (EPOCH-R^2) in patients with PEL and KSHV-associated large cell lymphoma

        -  Phase I of the study will evaluate lenalidomide 25 mg days 1-10 in combination with
           modified DA-EPOCH-R to determine safety and tolerability. Dose de-escalation doses of
           lenalidomide are 20 mg and 15 mg.

        -  Patients with HIV will generally be prescribed cART.

        -  In phase I, with up to 3 dose levels, 6-18 patients will be accrued (3-6 patients per
           level).

        -  In the phase II portion of the study, 15 evaluable patients will be enrolled over 48-60
           months and 12 months follow-up after the last patient has enrolled, a 1-tailed 0.10
           alpha level test would have 80% power to determine if OS curve would demonstrate a
           1-year OS consistent with 45% or better and ruling out 20% or worse.
    
  