
    
      This is a prospective, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.

      208 pregnant women from the recruiting centers will be enrolled as follow: Women eligible to
      participate, prior informed consent, will be randomized to 2 capsules twice daily before
      breakfast and before dinner from randomization until delivery. The boxes will be given to the
      patients coded and blinded to investigators and participants, and will contain either the
      active ingredient (VIVOMIXX®, a mixture of 112 billion of eight strains for each capsule,
      namely Streptococcus thermophilus, bifidobacteria (B. breve, B. longum, B. infantis) and
      lactobacilli (L. paracasei, L. acidophilus, L. delbrueckii subsp bulgaricus, L. plantarum) or
      placebo.

      The protocol includes a screening visit (Visit 1) at 10-12 weeks, two visits during pregnancy
      (at 26-28 weeks= Visit 2, and at 36-38 weeks=Visit 3) and a postnatal visit (2-3 days after
      delivery=Visit 4).

      Eligible women should take two capsules twice daily (2 in the morning and 2 in the evening).
      Patients will be randomly assigned to the control or the VIVOMIXX® group.

      The study agent VIVOMIXX® as well as the placebo will be supplied by "Mendes SA" for the
      whole study period.

      During Visit 1 (at 10-12 weeks) written consent will be obtained, after information on
      expected benefits and possible inconveniences related to participation in the trial.
      Furthermore, eligible women will be asked to complete two questionnaires, one on dietary
      habits and one on gastrointestinal symptoms. The questionnaire on gastrointestinal symptoms
      will be submitted to the patients at each visit.

      Height will be assessed at Visit 1, while the following parameters will be measured at each
      visit: weight, waits/hip circumference ratio, arterial blood pressure, plasma hemoglobin
      (Hb), hematocrit (Ht), fasting glycemia, fasting insulin and fasting glycated hemoglobin
      (HbA1c1).

      A blood sample for the evaluation of homocysteine will be taken as well as urine and a faeces
      sample will be collected for nuclear-magnetic-resonance (NMR)-based metabolomics and
      intestinal microbiota analysis.

      Furthermore, an Arm-band will be positioned for monitoring sleep and physical activities for
      one week at each visit.

      At Visit 2 and 3 data regarding ultrasound examinations (Amniotic fluid index, abdominal
      circumference, cephalic circumference ratio) will be also collected.

      Two-three days after delivery (Visit 4) data regarding the delivery (mode of delivery,
      gestational age at delivery) as well as the newborn (Apgar score, glycemia and serum
      bilirubin) were collected.

      Moreover, a sample of colostrum (for NMR-based metabolomics, microbiota and high performance
      liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry -HPLC/MS- of vitamins analysis) and newborn faeces
      (for NMR-based metabolomics and microbiota analysis) sample will be collected.
    
  