
    
      Background:

      Despite recent advances in supportive care for patients with acute respiratory distress
      syndrome (ARDS), mortality remains >40%. Fever worsens and hypothermia mitigates animal
      models of ALI and in small non-randomized in patients with ARDS. Since hypothermia reduces
      oxygen utilization as long as shivering is blocked, TH may reduce injury in part by allowing
      lower levels of assisted ventilation. TH likely exerts additional lung protective effects by
      directly modifying temperature-dependent cellular processes in endothelium, epithelium, and
      leukocytes. Neuromuscular blockade (NMB) is the ultimate treatment to block shivering and is
      frequently used in patients with ARDS to facilitate ventilator management. Since the recently
      completed NHLBI PETAL ROSE trial showed that NMB caused conferred neither benefit nor harm in
      patients with moderate to severe ARDS, the investigators have bundled TH with NMB to reduce
      shivering. An open-label study of 8 ARDS patients showed that studying TH + NMB in patients
      with moderate to severe ARDS was feasible. Moreover, the patients treated with TH +NMB had
      more 28-day ventilator-free days (VFDs), ICU-free days (ICU-FDs) and greater hospital
      survival (75% vs. 25%; p = 0.027) than historical controls with ARDS and NMB but without TH.
      Within the limits of historical comparisons, these results support further study of TH in
      ARDS. COVID-19 is currently the most common cause of ARDS and will likely remain so for at
      least the first year of enrollment. Since patients with COVID-19 may respond differently to
      TH than those with ARDS from other causes, a randomization strategy that limits COVID-19
      patients will be used. Our overall hypothesis is that TH is lung protective in ARDS. The
      hypothesis to be tested is that induced hypothermia (core temperature 34°-35°C) with NMB to
      prevent shivering is safe and beneficial in patients with moderate to severe ARDS (PaO2/FIO2
      (P/F) ratio<200) who are receiving NMB.

      Focus of Study: We will conduct a multicenter RCT pilot of TH+NMB for 48h vs. usual
      temperature management in 340 patients with ARDS in 14 clinical sites.

      Primary and secondary objectives: The primary objective is to assess the safety and efficacy
      of 48h TH+NMB in patients with ARDS compared with a control arm receiving usual temperature
      management. Secondary objectives include: (1) generating data to inform a decision about
      whether to proceed with a subsequent civilian population Phase III clinical trial of TH to
      reduce mortality in ARDS and to direct its study design; (2) analyzing biomarker and
      physiologic data to determine the mechanism(s) through which TH+NMB might exert benefit in
      ARDS

      Study design: The CHILL trial is a multi-center RCT.

      Intervention: The study intervention is TH to core temperature 34°-35°C + NMB for 48h.
      Patients in the TH+NMB arm will receive deep sedation, treatment with a neuromuscular
      blocking agent, and mechanical ventilation for at least 48h. Decisions about transition to
      unassisted breathing, extubation, and transfer from ICU will be based on criteria in the
      CHILL study protocol.

      TH+NMB: Once sedation and NMB are confirmed, TH to 34°-35°C will be initiated using surface
      cooling. Temperature will be measured from a central probe. Once target temperature is
      reached, TH will be maintained for 48h. Patients will then be rewarmed to 35.5°C by 0.3°C/h
      and the cooling devices removed. Post-TH fever suppression is not part of the CHILL protocol
      and will be performed at the discretion of the primary ICU team. TH+NMB will be aborted for
      persistent severe bradycardia, uncontrolled bleeding, and intractable arrhythmias.

      Usual temperature management: Patients will receive light sedation (RASS 0 to -1). During the
      54h post-randomization treatment period, acetaminophen will be given for core temperature
      >38°C and surface cooling will be initiated if core temperature remains >38°C within ≥45
      minutes of receiving acetaminophen and adjusted to maintain core temperature ≤38°C. If core
      temperature ≤36°C, patients in this arm will receive surface warming to core temperature
      37°C. Following the 54h treatment period, temperature will be managed at the discretion of
      the primary ICU team.

      Concomitant Treatment: Since prone positioning independently improves survival in ARDS,
      starting and stopping rules for prone positioning have been protocolized.

      Primary and Secondary Endpoints:

      Primary endpoint: 28-day Ventilator-free days (VFDs). Decisions about ventilator weaning and
      extubation will be made based on criteria in the CHILL protocol. The 28-day VFDs will be
      calculated at day 28.

      Intermediate endpoint: The low and high core temperatures in each 2-hour period will be
      recorded for each of the first four study days. The time required to reach the target
      temperature and the percent of readings within the target range in the TH+NMB arm will be
      determined.

      Secondary endpoints:

      Clinical: (a) 28-day ICU-FDs: The 28-day ICU-FDs will be calculated at day 28; (b) baseline
      and day 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7 non-neurologic SOFA score; (c) Glasgow coma score at hospital
      discharge; (d) 60- and 90-day survival; (e) 60- and 90-day functional status. The Montreal
      Cognitive Assessment Tool (MOCA) will be administered at ICU and hospital discharge.

      Physiologic: (a) day-3 and -7 driving pressure; (b) day-3 and day-7 oxygen saturation index
      (OSI).

      Plasma Biomarker: Day 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7 plasma IL-1ß, IL-6, IL-8, IL-18, soluble-RAGE,
      surfactant protein-D, soluble ICAM-1, MMP8, and soluble TNFRI.

      Safety:

        1. For the first 54h: (a) continuous cardiac monitoring for bradycardia with associated
           hypotension requiring i.v. fluid or vasopressors; (b) every 6h blood glucose
           measurement; (c) every 12 h potassium, magnesium and phosphate; (d) significant bleeding
           event (requiring ≥3u packed red blood cells or surgical or interventional radiologic
           intervention)

        2. For the first 7 days: (a) Ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP); (b) other secondary
           infections; (c) monitor for SAEs

      Schedule of Clinical and Laboratory Evaluations:

        1. Definitions:

             1. Baseline period: 24h prior to randomization

             2. Comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP): includes basic electrolytes, BUN, creatinine,
                ALT, AST, alkaline phosphatase, bilirubin, calcium, magnesium, phosphate,
                C-reactive protein (CRP)

             3. CBC: complete blood count

             4. Driving Pressure = Plateau Pressure - PEEP with patient NOT making inspiratory
                effort (on NMB or post-NMB and observed RR at set ventilator rate)

             5. OSI = Mean airway pressure x 100 x FIO2/SpO2

        2. Clinical and Research laboratory testing: Two purple top (EDTA; 24 ml blood) tubes will
           be collected for biomarker analysis just prior to randomization and as close to 0800 as
           possible on study days 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7 . Clinical laboratory testing required for
           secondary clinical outcomes at baseline and on study days 1, 2, 3, 4, and will be
           performed as part of usual clinical care whenever possible).

        3. Day -7 to 0 (Screening and enrollment): To facilitate randomization within the inclusion
           window, we will consent and enroll based on partial fulfillment of randomization
           criteria and randomize once all criteria are met. Patients between 18 and 65 years old
           receiving mechanical ventilation for ≤7 days will be screened and those who have
           bilateral pulmonary opacities not fully explained by pleural effusions, atelectasis, or
           hydrostatic pulmonary edema for <48h will be offered enrollment even if they do not yet
           meet the P/F ratio criterion for randomization.

             1. Pregnancy testing in women of child-bearing years

             2. Obtain informed consent from patient or Legally Authorized Representative (LAR)
                depending on capacity

             3. Complete the screening and enrollment portion of the Screening, Enrollment and
                Randomization CRF.

      3. Randomization:

      a. If P/F<200 at enrollment, proceed with randomization, otherwise follow until P/F < 200 or
      patient exits the 48h ARDS or 7 day mechanical ventilation windows.

      b. Once patient meets criterion for randomization: i. Obtain baseline plasma for research
      testing. If >8h since last CBC and CMP or >24 since last CRP, send new samples to lab.

      ii. Obtain treatment assignment will be made by the automated, web-based randomization
      service provided by Cooperative Studies Program Coordinating Center (CSPCC).

      iii. If patient does not have a central temperature probe, place esophageal probe.

      iv. For TH+NMB arm, confirm adequate sedation (RASS -4) and NMB (Train of four ≤2 twitch) and
      initiate TH protocol.

      v. Complete the randomization section of the Screening, Enrollment, and Randomization CRF vi.
      Complete Baseline CRF

      4.Day 1-4:

      a. Fill out Daily CRFs b. Collect plasma for research testing. c. Measure Driving Pressure
      and OSI d. Make sure CBC and CMP sent every 12h e. Rewarming starts 48h after initially
      reaching target temperature (34°-35°C) on day 3 f. Complete Unassisted Breathing Checklist
      form if applicable g. Assess for adverse events

      5. Days 5-6:

      a. Follow for ventilator status, ICU status, survival, SAEs b. Follow CRP daily c. Complete
      Unassisted Breathing Checklist form if applicable d. Assess for adverse events

      6. Day 7:

        1. Fill out Day 7 CRF

        2. Collect plasma for research testing.

        3. Measure Driving Pressure and OSI

        4. Make sure CBC, CMP, and CRP sent

        5. Complete Unassisted Breathing Checklist form if applicable

        6. Assess for adverse events

           7. Day 8-27:

      a. Follow for ventilator status, ICU status, survival, SAEs b. Complete Unassisted Breathing
      Checklist form if applicable

      8. Day 28:

        1. Complete Day 28 CRF

        2. Calculate 28 day VFDs and ICU-FDs

           9. When patient is discharged from the ICU, complete ICU discharge CRF

           10. When patient is discharged from the hospital, complete Hospital discharge CRF.

           11. Day 60 and 90: Follow up about patient status. Complete phone follow-up CRF.

           Study population: Adult patients with moderate to severe ARDS based on Berlin criteria
           (P/F < 200 while on PEEP ≥8 cm H2O) <48h in duration.

           Data Analysis: This is a pilot trial to determine whether patients with
           COVID-19-associated patients with ARDS should be included in a multicenter trial of
           TH+NMB in patients with ARDS from all causes. The data from this pilot will not be
           merged with data from the planned multicenter trial. The primary analysis of this pilot
           study will be to determine the effectiveness of the TH+NMB protocol in maintaining
           targeted temperature and to determine whether there are any safety issues with the
           TH+NMB protocol in this patient population.

           Data Management: Data for this pilot RCT will be recorded on paper CRFs. Completion of
           all fields will be checked in real-time. The forms have been designed to be compatible
           with the electronic versions developed for the multicenter trial.

           Randomization Plan: Patients with moderate to severe ARDS for ≤48h based on the Berlin
           criteria 1 will be randomized. Because prone positioning improves survival in ARDS 37
           and patients with COVID-19 may respond differently to TH than other ARDS patients,
           randomization will be stratified by proning status, COVID-19 status, and clinical site
           and patients will be randomized within each stratum using a 1:1 assignment ratio in
           small blocks of randomly varying size. Patients without ABG data may be randomized based
           on a P/F ratio imputed from SpO2 data as described by Brown et al. 135. To facilitate
           randomization within the inclusion window, patients who meet all Berlin criteria but
           have not yet met the P/F <200 criterion will be consented, enrolled, and followed until
           the P/F ratio < 200 criterion is documented or they exit the 48 hr ARDS window. Just
           prior to randomization, a research blood sample will be drawn, an esophageal temperature
           probe will be placed if no other central temperature probe is present, and patients will
           be randomized to TH+NMB or usual temperature management. The web-based randomization
           system provided by CSPCC.

           Subject Participation Duration: The duration of intervention, TH + NMB vs. usual
           temperature management, is 48h, followed by rewarming for 3-6h in the TH group. NMB will
           be discontinued and sedation reduced when subjects are rewarmed to core temperature
           ≥35.5°C. In the control group fever and hypothermia during continuous renal replacement
           therapy (CRRT) will be treated by protocol for 54h post-randomization. Physiologic and
           clinical parameters will be collected through study day 7. In hospital follow-up up to
           90 days will include determination of 28-day VFDs and ICU-FDs, and day of hospital
           discharge. When the patient regains competence, consent for continued participation will
           be obtained

           Study Duration: Completion of enrollment is anticipated by December 1, 2023 and study
           completion by May 31, 2024.
    
  