
    
      This will be a prospective observational study of adult primary cardiac arrest patients
      presenting to Shands Emergency Department following ROSC or actively in cardiac arrest with
      subsequent ROSC after treatment in the emergency department. The study will be a single
      center pilot study to evaluate the role of the extended RUSH exam in patients following
      cardiac arrest in order to potentially diagnose the cause of their arrest. No control group
      will be included in this study due to ethical concerns of withholding a potentially
      life-saving diagnostic test. Patients will be treated with ACLS per standard of care and
      resuscitation measures given. Within two hours of return of spontaneous circulation, the RUSH
      exam will be performed by ultrasound-trained emergency department physicians with images
      saved into the Qpath system, our already existing database where all emergency ultrasound
      exams - education and diagnostic - are stored currently. The physician who performed the exam
      will fill out a checklist with their interpretation and findings based on the elements
      included in the exam. The data collected will be stored in a RedCap database. Identifying
      data will be removed from the images and reviewed by two experienced ultrasonographers who
      will give separate interpretations, and inter-observer reliability will be examined. We will
      then correlate the interpretation with that of the physicians performing the exam. The
      elements of the RUSH exam that will be performed include focused evaluation of the heart,
      inferior vena cava, abdomen and aorta with the addition of evaluation for DVT and ocular
      ultrasound. The evaluation for DVT will be an abbreviated exam with one view of each of the
      bilateral femoral veins and popliteal veins. Techniques for performing the exam are based on
      the 2012 RUSH guidelines [2]. The data will undergo statistical analysis to determine if the
      data supported the initial hypotheses. Subjects will be contacted 30 days following the
      initial study for telephone follow-up and a CPC assessment for neurologic recovery will also
      be performed at that time.
    
  