
    
      An acquired impairment in writing, also known as agraphia, is a characteristic symptom of
      aphasia, i.e., a language disorder resulting from damage to the language centers of the
      brain. Written communication via text and instant messaging, electronic mail, and various
      types of social media has become an increasingly important part of everyday life in our
      technology driven society. Consequently, difficulty with written expression can significantly
      restrict people with aphasia from participation in community life, including social,
      professional, and educational realms. Improving writing in persons with aphasia could improve
      communication, increase access to information, reduce isolation and facilitate social
      connectedness. Furthermore, delivering writing treatment via an electronic modality, such as
      texting, could be particularly advantageous given the increasing reliance on electronic
      communication. This study investigates the efficacy of T-WRITE, a computer-based writing
      treatment for aphasia that targets phrase/sentence level writing using texting. Its aims are
      to: 1) evaluate the efficacy of computer-based texting treatment for improving written
      communication in persons with aphasia and 2) assess the extent to which improvements in
      electronic written communication impact social connectedness and health-related quality of
      life (HRQOL). This will be accomplished via a randomized controlled trial across two sites
      that compares computer-based texting treatment (T-WRITE) to a control group that receives a
      hand-writing treatment (ORLA+WTG).

      The intervention is delivered via computer using state-of-the-art virtual therapist
      technology. A perceptive, life-like animated computer agent (virtual therapist), using
      visible speech, guides the participant so he or she can independently work through the set of
      choral reading and writing activities (see figure above showing a screen shot of the virtual
      therapist). The objective is to assure an optimal learning experience in the comfort of the
      participant's home by using a virtual therapist with accurate visible speech feedback. The
      virtual therapist reads aloud, speaks with accurate visible speech, highlights and repeats
      words and sentences, directs the participant to copy/write phrases or sentences, and provides
      guidance much like a real therapist. The sequence of steps in the ORLA+WTG and the T-WRITE
      treatments are identical. The output modality for participants randomized to T-WRITE is
      texting using a cellular phone whereas participants in the ORLA+WTG will hand-write their
      responses using pen and paper. Participants will practice their writing for 90 minutes a day,
      6 days a week for 4 weeks.
    
  