
    
      Background: Over 1.25 million Americans have type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM), significantly
      increasing the risk of early death from cardio-renal disease. Per the American Diabetes
      Association, only 14% of children with T1DM meet glycemic targets [Wood et al. Diabetes Care
      2013; 36:2035-37]. This is a severe and pervasive problem, as a child diagnosed with T1DM
      today is expected to live up to 17 years less than non-diabetic peers. It is established that
      time outside of goal glycemic target range increases the likelihood of developing micro- and
      macro-vascular diabetic complications including diabetic kidney disease (DKD) and
      cardiovascular disease (CVD). However, metabolic risk factors beyond glycemic control
      including insulin resistance and obesity are also increasingly recognized to contribute to
      the increased risk of DKD and CVD. Automated insulin delivery (AID) systems such as the
      hybrid closed loop artificial pancreas (HCL AP) combine use of an insulin pump, continuous
      glucose monitor (CGM), and a control algorithm to adjust background insulin delivery to
      improve time in target range. AID systems such as the predictive low glucose suspend (PLGS)
      system pause insulin delivery to try to reduce hypoglycemia. AID systems are now seeing
      markedly increased commercial use; however, the long-term effects on insulin sensitivity,
      body mass index (BMI), cardio-metabolic markers, and kidney function have not yet been
      studied. Preliminary basic science research suggests that periods of rest from insulin
      exposure provided by AID systems may have positive effects on DKD and CVD risk. In this
      proposal we intend to investigate the gap in knowledge between glycemic changes seen with AID
      systems and the impact on markers of long-term complications.

      Specific Aims and Hypotheses:

      Specific Aim 1: To examine the effects of the AID systems on glycemic control and insulin
      sensitivity as compared to traditional insulin pumps and multiple daily injections in youth
      with T1DM Hypothesis 1.1: Treatment with the AID systems improves glycemic control in youth
      with T1DM Hypothesis 1.2: Treatment with the AID systems increases insulin sensitivity and
      decreases insulin requirement in youth with T1DM

      Specific Aim 2: To examine the effects of the AID systems on kidney function and metabolic
      markers as compared to traditional insulin pumps and multiple daily injections in youth with
      T1DM Hypothesis 2.1: Treatment with the AID systems improves metabolic markers in youth with
      T1DM Hypothesis 2.2: Treatment with the AID systems improves kidney function in youth with
      T1DM

      Design: This study is a pilot study aimed at recruiting youth ages 7 to 18 years from the
      following 3 groups with T1DM: control participants on either multiple daily injections or
      conventional pump therapy, youth being transitioned to a HCL AP system, and youth being
      transitioned to a PLGS system. Exclusion criteria include non-T1DM, non-insulin blood glucose
      altering medications, pregnancy, breastfeeding, or a ketogenic diet. We plan to complete a
      physical exam with pubertal staging, collect information on recent insulin usage and dosages,
      fasting serum and urine samples, and a DXA scan before the participant transitions to either
      a HCL AP or a PLGS system, if applicable. Following 3-6 months of treatment we will then
      collect the identical data as at baseline. Outcome measures include CGM data, total daily
      insulin dose, time suspended from insulin delivery, height, weight, BMI, waist circumference,
      hip circumference, blood pressure, HbA1c, c-peptide, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL,
      triglycerides, adiponectin, and DXA scan to evaluate cardio-metabolic markers and calculate
      insulin sensitivity, as well as serum creatinine, cystatin c, copeptin, and urine
      microalbumin to evaluate kidney health and calculate GFR by Zappitelli and FAS equations.
    
  