
    
      Background: Cranial bone defects are often left following brain surgery, usually to allow
      swelling of the brain to recover before subsequently re-implanting a protective covering of
      the brain at a later time (cranioplasty). These procedures are performed anywhere over the
      cranial vault, either unilaterally or bilaterally. The original piece of bone (autologous
      bone plate = bone flap) is placed in a sterile container and stored in a refrigerator at
      temperature of -40oC.

      Weeks or months later, when the brain is relaxed, the scalp well healed and the patient's
      medical condition permits, the individual is taken back to the operating room and the bone is
      reimplanted (A procedure known as an autologous cranioplasty). The aim of the procedure is to
      restore cosmesis and protection to the underlying brain and it can sometimes also improve
      neurological symptoms by unknown mechanisms. Unfortunately these aims are not always achieved
      and whilst technically straightforward the procedure is known to be associated with a number
      of complications. Two of the most significant of these are infection (such that the bone flap
      needs to be removed and replaced) and resorption (such that the protective function is
      compromised). Overall 10% of autologous bone patients become infected, 10% require
      replacement due to resorption and 12% become significantly resorbed, then in 32% of case the
      autologous bone has failed.

      In each case of cranioplasty failure the patient requires readmission, a second operation to
      remove the bone flap, prolonged antibiotic therapy (in the case of infection), and then a new
      custom-made plate and readmission for a third surgical procedure.

      In most cases synthetic materials such as polymethylmethacrylate and titanium mesh are used
      for reconstruction. Commonly reconstruction is carried out by the surgeon using such
      materials to sculpt the cranioplasty. More recently, hydro formed titanium plates have been
      used. This entails a process of CT scanning the defect, virtual reconstruction, 3D printing
      of moulds, pressing the plate and hand finishing. Whilst highly successful in treating more
      than 150 patients, the titanium cranioplasty remains in the patient for life and, as a
      non-biological material, presents as a preferential site for infection (approximately 5% of
      cases). In addition, medical CT images for assessment and treatment of neurological
      conditions are compromised for life due to metal artefacts arising from the plates.
      Furthermore, interference with metal scanning equipment commonly used for security purposes
      also remains a life time issue. The patients with an infected titanium cranioplasty require a
      fourth admission to remove the metal or polymer plate, extended antibiotic treatment and then
      a fifth surgical procedure to reinsert a new cranioplasty.

      Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC): MSC are multipotent adult cells capable of differentiating
      down multiple mesenchymal lineages. They are adherent fibroblastoid-like cells with an
      extensive capacity for expansion. They reside within the connective tissue of most organs and
      have been isolated from bone marrow, placenta, adipose tissue, umbilical cord, amniotic
      fluid, circulating blood, various foetal tissues, skeletal muscle synovia, dental pulp,
      liver, spleen, lung and dermis. Most work has focussed on MSC derived from bone marrow,
      however, there are also some clinical reports using adipose tissue and placental derived MSC.
      MSC from different sources may not be functionally equivalent or exhibit the same
      differentiation potential. The main functions for bone marrow derived MSC with regards to the
      present study is the ability to differentiate down the osteogenic lineage. It is this ability
      to differentiate that has seen them applied to bony non-union and the treatment of critical
      size bone skeletal deficits, and in particular the reconstruction of cranial voids. In the
      current proposal Cell and Tissue Therapies W.A. at Royal Perth Hospital have extensive
      experience and have applied for an TGA (Therapeutics Goods Administration, the Australian
      Government regulatory authority) licence to manufacture and provide MSC for patient
      treatment.

      MSC are not immunogenic and escape recognition by alloreactive T cells and NK cells. They
      have low level expression of HLA class I and no expression of HLA class II. They do not
      express co-stimulatory molecules and are unable to induce T cell mediated immune response,
      and therefore can be used as universal donor cells. Allogeneic cells have been widely used in
      clinical trials in both immune modulation and tissue repair. The advantage of using
      allogeneic cells is that donor age can be controlled. The literature indicates that MSC
      harvested from donors older than 40 years are inferior. Since many of the patients being
      treated with a cranioplasty are greater than 40 years of age, the use of allogeneic cells in
      this study is preferable. Clinical human trials and animal studies support the use of
      allogeneic cells.

      Cranioplasty: The Department of Medical Engineering and Physics at Royal Perth Hospital is a
      world leader in providing custom made implants and has been supplying custom made titanium
      cranioplasties for fifteen years. The basic methodology which has been used to treat over 150
      patients includes the reconstruction of the void using advanced software based on the
      patients CT scan. Once the void has been reconstructed a female mould is created to press the
      titanium plate. The plate is then hand finished and checked for fitment on a premade defect
      model.

      Bioceramic: Resorbable bioceramics such as hydroxyapatite and beta tri-calcium phosphate have
      been used in the treatment of bony deficit for many years. For example, ChronOS (Synthes
      GmbH, Oberdorf) bone graft substitute is a fully synthetic and resorbable bone graft
      substitute consisting of beta-tricalcium phosphate with a compressive strength similar to
      that of cancellous bone. The interconnected porosity acts as an osteconductive matrix for the
      ingrowth of bone cells and blood vessels. Such materials are used for filling of bone defects
      after trauma, reconstruction or correction in non-load bearing indications and commonly these
      materials prescribe a method of perfusion of the granules in the operating room with the
      patient's own bone marrow. Resorption of the bioceramics has been shown to occur over a
      period of 6-18 months (Buser 1998).

      Polymer Scaffold: There are a myriad of polymer materials used for surgery including in the
      area of cranio-maxillofacial surgery. The most common polymer is poly(lactic acid). PLA such
      as 70:30 poly(L-lactide-co-D,L-lactide) are made from a amorphous biodegradable copolymer
      which will ultimately resorb in vivo. The bioceramics and polymer materials are approved by
      the TGA for this indication.
    
  