
    
      Emigration is a global phenomenon with a significant impact in both, host countries and
      especially on people who decide to migrate. Italy seems to be a chosen destination for
      migrants, mainly due to its geographical position, as one of the European Union's border
      countries. Italy is mentioned as the fifth European country in Europe about the number of
      migrants. Currently, there are 5 million immigrants in Italy. Recent migratory flows in Italy
      have changed the cultural background of the main communities residing in the country.
      However, several studies have pointed out that the migration phenomenon is not a comfortable
      linear process, on the contrary, there are difficulties related to migratory traveling and
      the way it is carried out. Among others, the traveling experience could leave relevant marks
      on a psychological level. Recent studies underlie the effect of migration on the development
      of psychological diseases, on the loss of hope for the future that it affected the life
      expectancy causing insecurity, isolation, and poorness, and producing modification on the
      possible existing symptomatology. Moreover, the discrimination and disorientation that
      migrants experience while traveling and in host countries seem to have a relationship with
      anxiety symptoms.

      Therefore, many investigations applied psychological intervention to treat the described
      symptomatology. The literature highlights the importance of the treatments such as
      cognitive-behavioral therapy, narrative exposure therapy, dynamic therapy, combined
      psychological treatments, and combined psychological with pharmacological treatments. Of the
      mentioned treatments, the narrative exposure treatment seems to be the less applied
      intervention, a meta-analysis suggested a fairly effective application of NET on populations
      with trauma, however, this result must be taken with caution. The NET is a trauma-focused
      therapy, based on trauma expositions in an autobiographical context. This treatment provides
      both verbal and non-verbal application, as the expressive writing-EW. Additionally,
      Pennebaker considered that expressive writing referring to the own traumatic events with
      emotional descriptions could be of help in the resolution of the own life narrations and the
      insert of own memories in life history. The expressive writing technique applies to the own
      serious traumatic events, from 3 to 5 consecutive days, for 15 minutes daily. This technique
      is more structured compare to NET which can be both written and oral and doesn't necessarily
      provide a brief exposition. The expressive writing is applied in a more extended context of
      trauma, violence, war, natural catastrophe, cancer, and torture. Currently in literature,
      there not seem to be any authoritative studies that have applied the expressive writing
      technique to the trauma of the migratory journey. The present investigation allows extending
      the acknowledgment of this treatment applied to a population of adult migrants submitted to
      forced migration.

      The aim of this study was to provide evidence of the effectiveness of expressive writing on
      mental and physical health in migrants considering the mediation role of the hope for the
      future. The hypothesis was that migrants who performed an expressive writing treatment will
      show a decrease in symptomatology in association with a greater sense of hope for the future.

      The study involved three different samples: experimental, neutral, and control group. The
      three samples were composed through a randomized controlled trial placing 22 participants for
      each sample. The random allocation of participants within the three samples was blindly
      performed.

      The non-profit association "Medihospes" located in Rome provided the migrant participants.
      Each participant was invited to read and accept the study by completing and signing the
      informed consent form. The inclusion criteria were age >18 years and the refugees' or asylum
      seekers' status. The exclusion criteria were psychiatric or neurologic diagnosis and drug
      abuse.

      The study was settled in three different times. At T0 time were administered a self-report
      questionnaires' battery composed of four measures: Beck Hopelessness Scale, BHS, Toronto
      Alexithymia Scale 20, TAS-20, Symptom Check-List Revised, SCL-90-R, Impact of Event
      Scale-Revised, IES-R.

      After this first assessment, the participants of the experimental sample received the
      expressive writing Pennebaker's treatment, the participants of the neutral sample received
      instructions of writing on a general topic of their choice and the participants of the
      control sample received no treatment or instructions.

      After one week to the treatment phase (T1) and after one month from T1 time (T2) the same
      self-report questionnaire's battery was administered to all the participants.

      Treatment Pennebaker's expressive writing was applied for three consecutive days for 20
      minutes daily. The participants of the experimental sample were asked to write about the
      traumatic traveling experience, focalizing the attention on the deeper emotions, thoughts,
      and feelings.

      The participants of the neutral sample were asked to write about different topics of their
      knowledge for three consecutive days for 20 minutes daily; the topics could relate the
      description of the city, their room, their place where they live, or easy procedure like, how
      to make a coffee (or something else), or to describe their population, trying to remain free
      from deep emotions, thoughts or feelings.
    
  