
    
      Dry eye, or keratoconjunctivitis sicca, is a chronic inflammatory condition of the ocular
      surface that may cause severe symptoms and visual impairment. The 2007 international dry eye
      workshop (DEWS) defined the disease as follows: "Dry eye is a multifactorial disease of the
      tears and ocular surface that results in symptoms of discomfort, visual disturbance, and tear
      film instability with potential damage to the ocular surface. It is accompanied by increased
      osmolarity of the tear film and inflammation of the ocular surface".

      Lubricin is a mucin-like glycoprotein originally discovered in synovial fluid, as a secreted
      product of cells that line the joint tissues, which is present at the surface of articular
      cartilage.

      In vitro studies have shown that lubricin in saline buffer acts as a lubricant between
      various surfaces, as well as in synovial fluid, providing evidence that lubricin is a
      principal lubricating protein in joints. Besides the lubricating property, lubricin has been
      shown to exert anti-adhesive action, strain energy dissipation, and a protective effect on
      underlying cells.

      Lubricin has been investigated on its roles at the ocular surface, in normal and pathologic
      conditions such as dry eye. In fact, Lubricin is a natural human protein with most potent
      lubricant and anti-adhesive properties present on the ocular surface and on meibonian gland.
      The presence of this protein at the ocular surface was first described by the team of
      Sullivan D.

      Based on the available preclinical lubricin studies may be an important barrier to the
      development of corneal and conjunctival epitheliopathies in dry eyes and its use as a novel
      lubricating and anti-adhesive eye drop is under investigation in this clinical investigation.
      This clinical investigation has been designed to demonstrate that a Lubricin 150 µg/ml eye
      drop formulation is non-inferior to the currently most-widely used ocular surface lubricant
      sodium hyaluronate 0.13% in improving signs and symptoms in patients with moderate dry eye.

      Up to now, there are no known anticipated adverse events associated with the use of lubricin,
      anyway the occurrence of side effects cannot be excluded.

      It must be considered that topical treatment with lubricin or hyaluronic acid could cause
      local irritation or allergic reactions. There are no known contraindications to the use of
      lubricin or hyaluronic acid eye drops. All examinations and assessments that will be carried
      out during this study are non-invasive, are commonly used in the management of subjects with
      dry eye and pose no risk to the subjects. There are no known contraindications to the use of
      lubricin or hyaluronic acid eye drops. No data are available about the embryo and fetal
      toxicity, therefore the experimental treatment will not be allowed to pregnant women or
      nursing mothers and women of childbearing potential not using appropriate birth control
      methods.
    
  