
    
      Participants with spinal cord injury (traumatic or non-traumatic) will be recruited over a
      9-month period from Santa Clara Valley Medical Center's (SCVMC) inpatient rehabilitation
      program before discharge as well as through the outpatient SCI clinic. Demographic data,
      weight /height, waist circumference as well as Life Satisfaction Index-A will be obtained at
      enrollment and 3-months post-enrollment. For subjects unable to return to the SCVMC clinic,
      questionnaires will be administered over the phone and they will be asked to measure their
      waist circumference by themselves and with assistance from a caregiver if needed. Each
      participant will be provided with an iPad and 4 month cellular data plan at the time of
      enrollment. iPad accessories like mouthstick will be provided if needed. Prior to initiating
      the tele-nutrition service, each participant will be instructed on how to use the iPad and
      FaceTime. Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) will provide an assessment of current
      knowledge and nutrition evaluation at enrollment in order to individualize intervention on a
      per-participant basis. Counseling twice a month over a 3 month time-period via tele-nutrition
      using iPad FaceTime will be provided for each participant. Tele-nutrition consults, via iPad
      with a food photo journal application (YouAte), would emphasize the importance of tracking
      food intake with the primary focus on healthy weight management. Nutrition education will be
      tailored according to and around each individual's cultural and behavioral practice with
      regards to food. Participants will be counseled with the goal to make incremental changes in
      current diet to better optimize energy, protein, fat, and fiber intake.

      YouAte, a food journaling application, will be installed on each iPad and will have a
      three-month membership. This app is a mindful and simple way for participants to document
      their food intake for the review of the RDN over the course of this project. Once a picture
      is taken of a meal (with assistance from a caregiver if needed), participants can choose
      whether they feel the meal is on-path or off-path, based on their goals. Participants can
      further include information about the meal in a note section if they choose to. Additional,
      one-tap choices of the app can further tailor each meal's mindful approach to why it was
      eaten, how the meal made them feel, where they ate, how it was made, and how it made them
      feel. RDN will be able to review all meals and snacks in order to further discuss choices and
      provide valuable feedback with each participant to improve intake. At the end of the 3-month
      participation in the tele-nutrition program, each participant will be asked to complete a
      satisfaction survey in addition. This app will be set up using subject identifier such as a
      set of numbers and/or alias. So, no Protected Health Information such as name or date of
      birth will be entered or used to identify the diet journaling.

      Data collected throughout the study will be used to provide preliminary evidence for the
      feasibility of the tele-nutrition program. Baseline measures will be used to characterize the
      cohort and measure changes across the intervention. Quantitative changes in weight and waist
      circumference, as well as satisfaction survey at the end of the assessment period will be
      used to measure feasibility. A combination of non-parametric statistics, most likely Wilcoxon
      Sign Ranked Tests, and clinical assessment will be used to measure whether the changes were
      significant.
    
  