
    
      Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered
      coronavirus. Most people infected with the COVID-19 virus will experience mild-to-moderate
      respiratory illness, however, some older people and those with underlying medical problems
      are more likely to develop serious illness.

      One group who are particularly vulnerable at this time is people with chronic kidney disease
      (CKD). Of this group, particularly at risk are those at the more severe end of the disease
      spectrum [end stage renal disease (ESRD], who rely on renal replacement therapy (RRT), in the
      form of dialysis, to do the job of the kidneys. The investigators currently have a programme
      of clinical research investigating the impact of home versus in-hospital RRT, using both
      qualitative (IRAS: 264200) and quantitative approaches (IRAS: 254251). A key focus of this
      work is to explore determinants of wellbeing, function and overall quality of life that are
      linked to dialysis modality.

      On Monday 23rd March, the UK Government imposed significant restrictions with regards to
      human movement, for at least three weeks (recently extended to at least 6 weeks) to try and
      reduce the risk of the COVID-19 disease spreading within the UK. These included: only
      shopping for basic necessities; one form of exercise a day, such as a walk, run or cycle;
      travel for specific medical needs; those travelling to and from work, where this is
      absolutely necessary and it cannot be done from home.

      This is an interesting time, since it is usually observed that people who dialysis at home
      (i.e. home haemodialysis) typically have more freedom to go out, as they do not have the
      thrice weekly commute to a renal clinic, which is a burden itself, to then undergo ~4 hours
      of dialysis at the unit. People who dialyse at home are now isolating entirely and in charge
      of their own treatment, resulting in very little contact with others. The Wessex Kidney
      Centre has, however, implemented remote clinics and has been trialling an application to
      assess patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) as part of its ongoing programme of
      research. Those dialysing in-centre however, continue to have contact with medical staff in
      person thrice weekly and are forced to break isolation and go into a clinical setting.

      Through the proposed study, the research team will capture patients' experience during this
      unique and unprecedented time, in order to guide practice moving forwards and identify
      potential areas for intervention. More specifically, the purpose of this study is to
      understand the impact of COVID-19 restrictions on the wellbeing, quality of life and physical
      activity of people with end-stage renal disease, currently dialysing in-centre versus at home
      in the UK and their experience of telemedicine. This information may be used to help us
      better support individuals in the future and investigate the feasibility of telemedicine in
      routine clinical practice.
    
  