
    
      There are now >500 million adult humans in the world who are overweight [body mass index
      (BMI) of 25.0-29.9 kg/m2] and 250 million who are obese (BMI 30 kg/m2). This growing epidemic
      threatens both industrialized and developing countries and has been accompanied by worldwide
      increases in obesity-related disorders, including type II diabetes, hypertension,
      cardiovascular pathology, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. In the United States, 64% of
      adults are overweight or obese, prompting the Surgeon General to designate this condition as
      the most important public health challenge of our time.

      The worldwide obesity epidemic is stimulating efforts to identify host and environmental
      factors that affect energy balance. The Human gut contains an immense number of
      microorganisms, collectively known as the microbiota. This community consists of at least
      1013 citizens, is dominated by anaerobic bacteria, and includes 500-1,000 species whose
      collective genomes are estimated to contain 100 times more genes than our own human genome.
      The microbiota can be viewed as a metabolic "organ" exquisitely tuned to our physiology that
      performs functions that we have not had to evolve on our own. These functions include the
      ability to process otherwise indigestible components of our diet, such as plant
      polysaccharides, and therefore may have an impact on our energy balance.

      Comparisons of the distal gut microbiota of genetically obese mice and their lean
      littermates, as well as those of obese and lean human volunteers have revealed that obesity
      is associated with changes in the relative abundance of two dominant bacterial divisions, the
      Bacteroidetes and the Firmicutes. Turnbaugh et al demonstrated through metagenomic and
      biochemical analyses that these changes affect the metabolic potential of the mouse gut
      microbiota. Furthermore, this trait is transmissible: colonization of germ-free mice with an
      'obese microbiota' results in a significantly greater increase in total body fat than
      colonization with a 'lean microbiota'. These results identify the gut microbiota as an
      additional contributing factor to the pathophysiology of obesity. It has been suggested,
      therefore, that the obese microbiome has an increased capacity to harvest energy from the
      diet.
    
  