
    
      This study will employ a randomized, parallel group design with delayed intervention in the
      control group. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned using a random number
      generator. The PTSD Checklist (PCL) - Military (measuring PTSD symptoms) will be administered
      to each participant at week 0 and week 6. Permissions have been obtained for the use of the
      survey.

      Surveys will be identified by randomized number only, to maintain confidentiality.
      Participants will be assigned a unique identifier. A list of participant's initials and their
      random assigned numbers will be kept in a locked secure file by the investigator. In this way
      the participants confidentially will be protected.

      The participants assigned to the intervention group will complete the Equine Assisted
      Psychotherapy (EAP) program that will be performed at an Equine Assisted Growth and Learning
      Association (EAGALA) certified facility. The participants will be going through a 6 week
      program. The researcher will not be conducting the therapy. An EAGALA certified and licensed
      Occupational Therapist will be running the therapy as well as a professional Horse Handler
      for safety. In the event that a participant is in need of additional therapy as a result of
      this research, a psychotherapist will be on call. Participation will not include riding the
      horses. "The basis of the EAGALA Model is a belief that all clients have the best solutions
      for themselves when given the opportunity to discover them. Rather than instructing or
      directing solutions, [the instructor] allow [their] clients to experiment, problem-solve,
      take risks, employ creativity, and find their own solutions that work best for them. No
      horseback riding is involved. Instead, effective and deliberate techniques are utilized where
      the horses are metaphors in specific ground-based experiences."
      (http://www.eagala.org/Information/What_Is_EAGALA_Model) All horse based activities involve
      inherent risk. The facility and the horses that the participants will be using are used daily
      for Hippotherapy involving disabled individuals. All safety procedures and precautions
      outlined by the EAGALA certifications and the therapy facility will be strictly maintained.
      The participants may decline to do any of the therapy activities and or survey questions at
      any time. If the certified therapist senses a problem, they will stop the therapy and consult
      with a psychotherapist.

      The participants assigned to the control group will have no intervention related to the
      research but may continue any preexisting therapy. They will be asked to not initiate any new
      therapy programs. The participants will be however given the option of delayed EAP after the
      completion of the 6 week program.
    
  