
    
      The drug being tested in this study is called sapanisertib (MLN0128). Sapanisertib is being
      tested to assess its safety and tolerability when administered alone or in combination with
      paclitaxel in people who have nonhematologic malignancies. Sapanisertib is also being tested
      to characterize its PK properties (how is processed by the body) when administered with a
      high-fat meal compared to on an empty stomach. This study will look at side effects and lab
      results in people who take sapanisertib with or without paclitaxel.

      This open label study enrolled 61 patients. Participants receiving only sapanisertib will
      participate in a 6-day PK Run-In Period where sapanisertib 4 mg capsules are administered
      under fasted conditions on Days 1 and 4, and with a high-fat breakfast on Day 3. The main
      treatment period will begin within 14 days from Day 6 of the PK Run-In Period. In the main
      treatment period participants will receive sapanisertib 4 mg daily in a 28-day Cycle for up
      to 12 cycles. Participants in the treatment arm receiving sapanisertib and paclitaxel will
      not have a PK Run-In Period and will receive sapanisertib 6 mg daily on Days 2-4, 9-11,
      16-18, and 23-25 in a 28-day Cycle for up to 12 cycles and paclitaxel 80 mg/m^2 intravenously
      (IV) on Days 1, 8, and 15 in 28-day Cycle, for up to 12 cycles. The dose of sapanisertib may
      be modified based on safety and tolerability during each 28-day cycle in either treatment
      arm.

      This multi-centre trial will be conducted in the United States. The overall time to
      participate in this study is up to 15 months. Participants in the sapanisertib only arm will
      make up to 32 visits to the clinic and participants in the sapanisertib and paclitaxel arm
      will make up to 26 visits to the clinic. All participants will make a final visit to the
      clinic 30 days after the last dose of study drug for a follow-up assessment.
    
  