
    
      CMV infection results in a unique population of highly effective ADCC effector cells (g-NK)
      in more than 50% of individuals. Unlike most NK cells, g-NK cells are long-lived and persist
      for years following primary infection. The g-NK population enlarges following antibody
      binding through their Fc receptors (FcR) and target engagement by the antibody. The addition
      of rituximab and other monoclonal antibodies directed against B lymphocyte targets to
      remission-induction therapy has improved the depth and durability of response for patients
      with B cell lymphoproliferative diseases, such as Non-hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The effects of rituximab and other monoclonal anti-cancer
      antibodies are at least partially mediated through ADCC mechanisms.

      The purpose of this study is to examine the clinically relevant aspects of g-NK biology
      during antibody-containing therapy of lymphoproliferative diseases including whether the
      presence of g-NK might correlate with improved treatment responses.

      Up to 160 patients with either B cell NHL or CLL will be enrolled in this study.

      The study enrollment will occur over approximately 2 years. Patients will only be involved in
      this study until their blood samples are collected at the time point described below.

      The following data will be abstracted from the clinical record over the course of the study:

        -  Age (at beginning of remission-induction therapy)

        -  Gender

        -  Weight and height

        -  Pathological diagnosis including subtype and genetic testing when available.

        -  Stage at diagnosis

        -  Prognostic index score (IPI or FLIPI as appropriate)

        -  Date that remission-induction therapy begins

        -  Chemotherapy used for remission-induction.

        -  Dose of anti-CD20 antibody administered during remission-induction

        -  Remission status after 3 cycles of remission-induction therapy (if available)

        -  Details of maintenance therapy (drug, dose, schedule)

        -  Date of progression or relapse.
    
  