
    
      Introduction: Neuroendocrine tumors (NET) present receptors to somatostatin. This feature is
      utilized therapeutically in patients with metastatic NET. Monthly injection of Somatostatin
      was shown to lengthen overall survival (compared to placebo) in these patients. From
      histological studies it is known that advanced prostate cancer often shows neuroendocrine
      differentiation (NED). This is considered one of the mechanisms of "escape" of tumor cells
      from androgen deprivation therapy. Recently the investigatros initiated a research project
      investigating the uptake of the radiotracer 68Ga-DOTATET (a marker of neuroendocrine
      tumors-NET) in PET/CT in patients with castrate resistance prostate cancer. In 4/8 patients
      studied thus far, uptake of the tracer in bone metastases was found.

      Purpose: The purpose of the current project is to examine the ability of LAR Somatostatin to
      stabilize or possibly reverse metastases in patients with castrate resistance prostate cancer
      that express high level of somatostatin receptors.

      The aims of the study are:

        1. To detect biochemical response (PSA and chromogranin A)

        2. To detect PET response (in repeated PET/CT, 68Ga-DOTATET).

        3. To detect clinical response (QOL 30 questioner).

        4. To detect adverse response.

      Materials and Methods:

        1. Eligible patients will be evaluated by: serum levels of PSA, chromogranin A, Pro GRP and
           possibly other non-genetic markers and by QOL 30 questioner

        2. Treatment with monthly injections of Sandoatatin LAR - 30mg will be initiated.

        3. Evaluation will be done after 4 injections and will include: blood tests for PSA and
           chromogranin A, Pro GRP and possibly other non-genetic markers and by QOL 30 questioner
           and by PET/CT with 68Ga-DOTATET. Similar evaluation will be done after 12 injections.
           Responding patients (stabilization or decrease in the number and SUV of metastases) will
           be subjected to continued therapy until progression.
    
  