
    
      For years, the ceramo-metal restoration has been the gold standard in crown and bridge
      procedures .They have been used for many years and studied extensively. Studies have
      demonstrated a 94% success rate over a 10-year period and good long-term clinical
      reliability. Although chipping of veneering porcelain is a possible complication, fracture of
      the metal framework is uncommon . They require sufficient tooth reduction to allow space for
      at least 0.3 mm of metal coping and 0.7 mm of veneering porcelain, and a minimum facial
      reduction of 1.2 mm according to Hobo and Shillingburg. When comparing ceramo-metallic crowns
      to zirconia crowns, several points are noteworthy. Laboratory testing has determined that the
      fracture strength of a ceramo-metallic crown using 1.5 mm reduction is similar to zirconia
      crowns with only 1 mm of reduction5. Some manufacturers have even suggested a 0.6 mm minimum
      reduction for posterior zircona crowns. Which has led some dentists to prescribe all-zirconia
      restorations to preserve tooth structure6 Zirconia became popular in dentistry because of the
      material's excellent mechanical properties which include high strength, fracture toughness
      and biocompatibility.New monolithic CAD/CAM restorative materials are designed to improve the
      optical and mechanical properties of the avoid veneering failure .To increase translucency
      and aesthetics of full-contour zirconia ,some modifications ,such as sintering temperature
      ,fabrication processes and addition of colouring liquids have been applied. These
      modifications may affect the mechanical and autocatalytic surface-transformation
      ((low-temperature degradation (LTD)) properties of zirconia.) The primary etiologic factor of
      gingival inflammation is a plaque, and by inadequate crown shape its accumulation can be
      facilitated . A single crown can cause inflammation of the periodontal tissue, if the
      hygienic principles have not been observed during its production. If the finish line of the
      artificial crown disrupts the biologic width and is placed in the connective tissue
      attachment area, the inflammation may occur. Even with increased hygiene, the gingival
      inflammation can occur, if the crown preparation margin is located deeply subgingivally
      Taking care of the periodontal tissue health the precision of the preparation margin,
      tightness of proximal contacts, conformity of the tooth crown anatomic shape, occlusal
      morphology and surface smoothness must be checked . The contact of the crown and the tooth
      must be tight and uniform .

      While choosing material for crown production it must be taken into account that the bacterial
      adhesive capacity of the prosthetic material is affected by the surface roughness
      .asperities, free energy of the surface and composition of materials (it is the lowest for
      ceramic, but the highest for acrylates).Early-colonizing bacteria play a pivotal role for the
      subsequent adhesion of cariogenic microorganisms such as Streptococcus mutans and periodontal
      pathogens such as Tannerella forsythensis, Porphyromonas gingivalis and Aggregatibacter
      actinomycetemcomitans, which may induce gingival and periodontal inflammation Periodontal
      diagnosis generally requires measurement of periodontal tissue destruction (e.g., probing
      pocket depth [PPD] and clinical attachment level [CAL]) and gingival inflammation (e.g.,
      bleeding on probing [BOP] and gingival index [GI]). Although the techniques used are
      straightforward and noninvasive. These parameters are static and thus reflect disease history
      and not present disease activity .Therefore, it is necessary to develop diagnostic tests that
      can identify active periodontal sites, predict future disease progression, and assess
      response to periodontal treatment. Periodontopathic bacteria increase the risk of
      periodontitis, and immune responses against bacterial products and subsequent secretion of
      proinflammatory cytokines are crucial in periodontal tissue destruction .Interleukin-1β
      (IL-1β) is an important mediator of inflammatory response and is involved in cell
      proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis, and in the pathophysiology of periodontitis.
    
  