
    
      The calculation of the size of the population sample was performed for the worst case
      comparison of different outcome variables, so for a final ratio of 8% people taking hypnotics
      in IG versus 37% in the CG, with significance level of 5% and a statistical power of 80%,
      previewing a 20% loss to follow-up and a ratio of 1 control per case, we need 50 individuals
      in the CG and 50 individuals in the IG.

      Regarding to the attendance to primary care centers, was categorized as "improved" and "not
      improved or remains the same." "Improvement" is when the number of visits decrease over the
      previous year, comparing baseline data with respect 12 months. Also, improvement in the use
      of psychotropic medication is when intakes fall in the previous year by comparing baseline
      data with respect 12 months. When no data were available at 12 months, the comparison was
      made with data collected at 4 months.

      Patients in IG were recruited from primary care center Sant Andreu, while the CG were
      enrolled in the primary care center in Martorell. The selection of the two groups in separate
      centers was determined to avoid the possible effects of contamination bias of the CBT-REBT.
      In the IG, each physician systematically derived patients with inclusion criteria to the
      social worker. In the CG, the physician made ordinary care task. In both groups, the number
      of visits to primary care centers and consumption of psychotropic drugs were extracted from
      the medical record and other information was obtained through interviews at baseline, 4 and
      12 months.

      All patients signed informed consent at baseline. In order to recruit homogeneous cases,
      clearly diagnosed and ensure comparability training for all recruiters was conducted.
      Collection forms and the database did not include confidential information to ensure
      confidentiality and anonymity, keeping a separately single list with relation to the number
      of each case.

      Access data base was used to systematize the registration data collection and handling errors
      by different professionals. Previous comparison of baseline data between completers and
      dropouts, as well as between the IG and CG was performed by Chi-square and mean comparison. A
      descriptive analysis of baseline variables as frequencies, means, and dispersion measures was
      carried out. For the analysis of post-intervention improvement in outcome parameters in one
      group compared with another, only data from the baseline and 12 months were taken into
      account. Bivariate and multivariate analysis was performed using logistic regression to
      control for confounding factors. Values less than 0.05 were considered significant. The SPSS
      18 software was used.
    
  