
    
      Embryo implantation depends on quality of the embryo, endometrial receptivity and
      embryo/endometrial interaction. It is estimated that two third of implantation failure is a
      result of defects in endometrial receptivity. A variety of genes working together with
      ovarian hormones conducts and precisely control the process of endometrial receptivity and
      implantation.

      Leukemia inhibitory factor and αvβ3 integrin are two markers of implantation with at most
      importance. Reports have emphasized that these important bio-markers have a great role during
      the process of embryonic implantation . Both are expressed in the epithelial cells during the
      mid-secretory phase of the menstrual cycle in healthy fertile women and their absence is
      associated with infertility and recurrent pregnancy loss .

      Leukemia inhibitory factor is a class of cytokines which plays a key role in the process of
      implantation in both human and animals . Studies suggest that absence of leukemia inhibitory
      factor in the endometrium has a negative impact on embryo implantation .

      αvβ3 integrin is one of the adhesion molecules which has a critical role in blastocyst
      apposition and attachment. Many studies have demonstrated that abnormal expression of αvβ3
      integrin is associated with poor reproductive outcomes . Other studies haven't found a strong
      relation between αvβ3 integrin expression and reproductive outcomes.

      Letrozole is an aromatase inhibitor which has been used in controlled ovarian stimulation
      especially in women with PCOS . Data suggests that letrozole addition to gonadotropins during
      ovarian stimulation protocols improve the response of the ovaries to FSH in low responders
      and increase the number of preovulatory follicles without adversely affect the outcomes.

      The study by Miller and his colleagues suggested that letrozole might improve αvβ3 integrin
      expression with possible increase in pregnancy and implantation rate. They suggested that,
      this drug may be a useful adjunct therapy during IVF protocols .
    
  