
    
      This will be an open-label, multicenter study of the safety, biological activity and clinical
      outcomes of an active implantable VNS device in patients with active refractory CD.

      Patients will sign informed consent prior to screening and will undergo all screening and
      baseline assessment procedures including endoscopy and endoscopic biopsy prior to planned VNS
      implantation date. Those who meet all of the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion
      criteria will be considered enrolled and will be implanted.

      After a minimum of 14 days following the implantation, patients will have their first
      in-clinic visit (Week 0 Visit), during which they will begin self-delivered once-daily
      stimulation using the VNS device.

      Patients will return for weekly visits between Weeks 1-4, at which time outcomes and safety
      assessments will be taken. At each visit between weeks 1 and 4, an attempt will be made to
      increase the output current to the maximum level tolerated. At the Week 4 Visit, another
      attempt to increase the output current will be made and the daily stimulation time will in
      addition be incremented by 60 seconds to 2 minutes total.

      At the Week 6 Visit safety and outcomes assessments will be taken and another attempt to
      increase the output current will be made, and the daily stimulation time will in addition be
      incremented to 5 minutes total.

      Patients will return at Week 8, at which time safety and outcomes assessments will be taken.
      If the patient has not achieved a clinical remission by CDAI, the frequency of stimulations
      will increase from once daily to 4 times daily.

      At Week 12, the patient will return for safety and outcomes assessments. The final study
      visit will be at the Week 16 Visit, at which time patients will have final primary endpoint
      safety and outcomes assessments, including a follow-up endoscopy with endoscopic biopsy. If
      patients terminate the study prior to week 16, every effort will be made to perform all Week
      16 Visit procedures during an Early Termination Visit.

      Patients who complete the study will have the option to enroll in a long-term extension
      study. If they do not wish to participate in the extension study they can opt to either have
      their device permanently inactivated and left in place or have the device surgically
      explanted.
    
  