
    
      1. Background and study aims During the last decades, the prevalence of (pre)diabetes but
           also of chronic heart failure (CHF) has increased dramatically. Somehow, both conditions
           are linked, but the mechanisms involved have not been completely clarified yet. It is
           clear that the presence of (pre)diabetes in CHF patients affects morbidity and
           mortality. Although feasibility, safety and beneficial effects of exercise training in
           CHF are generally acknowledged, its effects on insulin resistance are not well
           understood. Therefore, the presented study aims to investigate the effect of ET on
           insulin resistance and the possible link with cardiac function, exercise tolerance,
           muscle strength and body composition in CHF patients.

        2. What does the study involve?

           A randomized controlled study (n=30) will be performed over a period of 12 weeks.
           Following study inclusion, baseline measurements will be performed in 1 week. They
           include:

             -  a maximal exercise test on a bicycle ergometer to assess exercise tolerance,

             -  two oral glucose tolerance tests to assess fasting and post-exercise insulin
                resistance,

             -  a venous blood sample to determine HbA1c, blood lipids, BNP,

             -  a muscle strength measurement on a isokinetic dynamometer,

             -  assessment of body composition via dual energy x-ray absorptiometry,

             -  cardiac echography,

             -  questionnaires to assess health-related quality of life,

             -  a questionnaire (IPAQ) and a pedometer (3 days) to assess physical activity.
                Following baseline measurements, subjects will be randomized to a control group
                (CON, n=10) and an exercise intervention group (EX, n=20), matching for gender and
                reduced/preserved ejection fraction and glucose tolerance. Hereafter, CON will
                receive usual care and will be advised to maintain their normal lifestyle, EX
                subjects will be enrolled in a 12-week training program. Following 6 (MID) and 12
                (POST) weeks of exercise training including progressive training load adaptations,
                baseline measurements will be repeated in all patients.

        3. What are the possible benefits and risks of participating?

             -  Benefits: patients receive a free training program with personal and professional
                supervision. After completing the study, they receive a report with personal
                results and evaluation of training effects.

             -  Risks: the usual risks of exercise tolerance testing and exercise training in a CHF
                population are limited because training sessions are held in the supervised
                conditions of the Jessa hospital and because training characteristics are according
                to guidelines of the European Society of Cardiology. Exposure to x-rays during body
                composition assessment is very low, almost negligible.
    
  