
    
      Although highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has been successful in suppressing
      plasma HIV RNA levels and providing significant clinical benefit in infected patients, it
      does not eradicate HIV infection. It is now clear that virus replication persists despite
      undetectable plasma viremia in individuals receiving HAART. In this regard, withdrawing
      HAART, even after prolonged periods of virus suppression, leads almost invariably to a rapid
      rebound of plasma viremia. It is also now clear that prolonged, continuous HAART carries a
      risk of significant toxicity and side effects. In addition, the monetary cost of HAART is
      prohibitive for many individuals and countries. In terms of cost, 95 percent of the
      HIV-infected individuals in the world are beyond the reach of therapy as a direct consequence
      of the cost of therapy. These observations may argue for a different approach to HAART with
      the goals of: 1) durable suppression of virus replication, without an attempt at eradication,
      2) minimization of toxicity and side effects and improvement in patient life-style, and 3) a
      reduction in cost. Preliminary data from a pilot study conducted at the National Institutes
      of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, USA, have demonstrated that short cycle structured
      intermittent therapy, 7 days HAART drug followed by 7 days off HAART has maintained
      suppression of plasma HIV RNA while preserving CD4+ T cell counts for up to 80 weeks. In
      addition, there was no evidence for increased HIV in reservoir sites; nor was there evidence
      for the development of resistance to antiretroviral drugs. Finally, there was a decrease in
      parameters of toxicity. This approach may have particular applicability for the treatment of
      HIV in the Southern Hemisphere. Therefore, we propose to study the virologic and immunologic
      effects of short cycle intermittent versus continuous HAART in HIV-infected individuals from
      the JCRC (Kampala, Uganda) in a randomized, controlled, intent-to-treat trial. We shall
      evaluate both the 7 days on-HAART/7 days off-HAART as well as a 2 days off-HAART/5 days
      on-HAART approach. In December, 2004, the 7/7 arm was discontinued.
    
  