
    
      Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) malaria remains responsible for an intolerable burden of morbidity
      worldwide and an effective vaccine is sorely needed to aid control efforts. Before candidate
      malaria vaccines can enter full-scale (phase IIb) field trials in endemic areas, they must
      first be tested under controlled circumstances in (phase IIa) Controlled Human Malaria
      Infection (CHMI) studies. Since Pf isolates display a wide genetic diversity across the
      globe, phase IIa challenge infections should be conducted with both homologous and
      heterologous strains.

      Since 1998 a highly successful Controlled Human Malaria Infection model at the UMC St
      Radboud, Nijmegen, The Netherlands, has been employed both to test candidate vaccines and to
      answer fundamental questions about pathophysiological and immunological mechanisms during
      early Pf infection in human volunteers. To date largely the NF54 strain of P. falciparum has
      been used in this Nijmegen model, with which extensive experience has meanwhile been
      acquired. In order to increase the portfolio of Pf strains available for future phase IIa
      studies, we recently compared NF54 to the novel candidate strains NF135.C10 and NF166.C8 with
      regards to parasitological, clinical and immunological characteristics during a Controlled
      Human Malaria Infection (TIP3 study, NCT01627951). The pre-patent period in all NF135- and
      NF166-infected subjects was markedly shorter than in NF54-infected subjects, following the
      bites of 5 infected mosquitoes on each subject. The current study will therefore assess
      whether NF135 and NF166 infections can still reliably be induced with fewer than 5 infected
      bites per subject. This will envisionably increase the tolerability of NF135 and NF166
      infections and render their dynamics more similar to those of NF54 infections, for better
      comparison in future heterologous challenge studies.
    
  