
    
      OSA is defined by total or partial intermittent collapse of the upper airway, resulting in
      nocturnal hypoxemia and arousals from sleep. OSA is incredible common and has important
      cardiovascular (e.g. hypertension, coronary artery disease, stroke, atrial fibrillation) and
      neurocognitive consequences (e.g. depression, motor vehicle accidents). Thus, OSA results in
      significant morbidity and mortality and a substantial economic burden. The best studied
      treatment of OSA is continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), which effectively stents the
      upper airway open, however, many patients are not able to tolerate it. Other treatments are
      available, such as oral appliances or upper airway surgery, however these are much more
      variable in their effectiveness.

      Although other factors are important, the most important factor in OSA pathogenesis is upper
      airway collapsibility. The upper airway collapsibility can be determined during sleep when
      patients with OSA are on CPAP. The CPAP level is decreased until flow limitation and finally
      collapse is achieved. The pressure at which the airway collapses is called the pharyngeal
      critical closing pressure, or Pcrit. When measured in research laboratories, the Pcrit
      correlates with OSA severity. Subjects with a high Pcrit (e.g. 5cm of water pressure)
      typically have severe OSA, while those with a lower Pcrit (e.g. 2cm of water pressure) have
      mild OSA, and those with a negative Pcrit (e.g. -4cm of water, the airway must be sucked
      closed to collapse) typically have no disease. The Pcrit may also have important implications
      for treatment. For example, patients with OSA and a very high Pcrit may require CPAP,
      however, those with a lower or slightly negative Pcrit might be successfully treated by an
      oral appliance. Thus, knowledge of the Pcrit might be useful in clinical practice, but it is
      rarely measured outside of the research lab.

      To measure Pcrit, patients sleep with a mask over their nose or nose and mouth, and CPAP is
      applied using a custom made machine that can rapidly change mask pressures. The idea is that
      rapid changes in airway pressure produce a clear step change in airflow that will be observed
      quickly. In contrast, during clinical titrations, the CPAP machines change pressure much more
      slowly to help promote patient comfort. The goal of this research is to determine whether
      these slower pressure changes could still be used to gather useful information about upper
      airway collapsibility.
    
  