
    
      BACKGROUND Sunitinib, SUTENT, is a promising multi-target TKI in the treatment of metastatic
      renal cell carcinoma after cytokine failure. In previous phase II studies, ORR is 40% and TTP
      = 8,7 months. A phase III randomized trial of Sunitinib versus interferon alpha as first-line
      therapy for patients with mRCC showed a significantly longer PFS in the Sunitinib group (11
      months) than in the interferon group (5 months), hazard ratio of 0.42 (95% CI, 0.32 to 0.54,
      p < 0.001). Initial approval in second line treatment of mRCC was extended to first line
      therapy on 11-01-2007.

      Mechanisms of action involved in the therapeutic effects of antiangiogenic compounds are not
      fully elucidated. As of today, there are no validated biomarkers or imaging markers to
      predict and monitor the activity of this type of compound.

      Recent findings in the field of cancer biology, tumor angiogenesis, immunology and imaging
      provide several biomarker candidates that can be assessed in metastatic renal cell carcinoma.

      BASIC RESEARCH Biomarkers It seems interesting to measure the different biological markers
      that could be modulated by this antiangiogenic therapeutic. Some of them are known as
      prognostic factors in the metastatic renal carcinoma, others are directly linked to the
      mechanism of action of Sunitinib. Due to the biopsy prior to treatment initiation and
      nephrectomy after treatment initiation, it will be possible to evaluate biomarkers
      modification and to assess the potential link with the tumour response.

      VHL gene alterations (mutations, deletions, and hypermethylations) are observed at high
      frequencies of up to 80% in cases of clear-cell renal cell carcinoma. The molecular
      mechanisms involved in angiogenesis in the presence of such genetic alterations are not yet
      well known. The functions of the pVHL/aHIF/VEGF/angiogenesis pathway will be investigated in
      all the renal cell carcinoma obtained from the biopsy and nephrectomy. Molecular markers
      defined by VHL status, expression and proteomic profiling may be helpful in predicting the
      responders.

      Sunitinib is a potent inhibitor of the tyrosine kinase activity of several receptors:
      VEGFR-2, the main receptor responsible for mediating the proangiogenic effects of vascular
      endothelial growth factor (VEGF), expressed by vascular endothelial cells; PDGFR, the
      receptor for the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), expressed in pericytes which serve as
      structural supporting cells for endothelial cells. Consistent with its biochemical activity,
      Sunitinib inhibits the in vitro mitogenic response of human umbilical vein endothelial cells
      (HUVECs) stimulated by VEGF or bFGF (basic fibrosblast growth factor), another proangiogenic
      factor.

      VEGF gene polymorphisms In physiologic and pathologic conditions, important variations in
      VEGF blood levels have been reported to correlate with constitutional VEGF-A gene
      polymorphisms located in intronic regions. Moreover, VEGF-A polymorphisms have been described
      as predisposition and prognostic factors in several human malignancies such as bladder,
      breast, melanoma, prostate and head and neck carcinomas. Hence, it is interesting to see
      whether these polymorphisms could affect tumor and clinical presentation and correlate with
      VEGF-levels and response to antiangiogenic treatment with sunitinib.

      Immunology Tumor angiogenesis can impact immune response in renal cell carcinoma patients. A
      naturally occurring CD4+ T cell subset, regulatory CD4+CD25+ T cells, has emerged as the
      dominant T cell population governing peripheral self- tolerance by inhibiting effector T
      cell. The ability of anti-angiogenic therapy to block VEGF may allow better maturation of
      dendritic cells and a reduction of the number of regulatory CD4+CD25+T cells.

      The aim of this project will be to test whether the administration of Sunitinib modulates the
      concentrations of regulatory CD4+CD25+T cells, and if a correlation between the immunology
      parameters and the response can be observed.

      Imaging Radiological evaluation of tumor response is also challenging with anti-angiogenic
      drugs. Criteria based solely on size may be inadequate for evaluation of anti-angiogenic
      therapy efficacy. The unbridled expansion of tumor vessels leads to development of abnormal
      vessels, with distinct microvascular characteristics: high perfusion (blood flow), and porous
      walls leaking molecules into the interstitium (permeability).

      New imaging techniques as dynamic contrast-enhanced CT are being developed to quantify and
      characterize these unique properties, and may be used as markers of response to angiogenesis
      inhibitors. Imaging assays of angiogenic status therefore offer the potential to clinically
      measure anti angiogenic effects of drugs on the tumor vessels themselves, effects that may
      not be reflected in changing tumor dimensions. These effects may be detectable hours or days
      from time of treatment initiation, rather than in weeks or months needed typically to detect
      a change in tumor size. Exploration of local tumor vascular architecture can help to
      understand mechanism of action of Sunitinib. This vasculature seems to be of poor
      functionality and tumor vascularization cannot be adequately assessed only by global index
      such as global tumor blood flow. In addition, exploration of renal tumor vascularization with
      contrast-enhanced US will be performed to compare blood flow determined by CT and US.
    
  