
    
      Suicide and suicidal behaviors among youth in the United States represents a significant
      public health problem. Youth involved in the juvenile justice system have a greater burden of
      risk factors associated with suicide ideation and behaviors as compared to their non-justice
      involved peers, placing these youth at greater risk for suicide. Thus, the overall goal of
      this Mentored Patient-Oriented Research Career Development Award (K23) is to support the
      applicant in developing the skills to launch an independent research program focused on the
      dissemination and implementation of evidence-based interventions for court-involved
      non-incarcerated (CINI) youth involved in the juvenile justice system to reduce psychiatric
      morbidity. Specific training goals are: (1) engage in intensive clinical and research
      training to increase my expertise in conducting brief interventions for adolescent suicide,
      (2) develop expertise in dissemination and implementation strategies and research in the
      juvenile justice system, (3) achieve skills in mixed-method research methodology including
      design and analysis of studies to support causal inference when randomization is not
      possible. The applicant will pursue these goals through a combination of mentoring,
      didactics, and practical experience. Specific training goals for this 5-year-period will be
      achieved under the mentorship of Drs. Anthony Spirito (Brown University), Marina Tolou-Shams
      (UCSF), Gina Vincent (UMASS Medical School), and Peter Friedmann (Baystate Health). The
      objective of the proposed research study is to 1) identify individual-, administrative-, and
      system-level factors that promote or hinder uptake of a brief suicide intervention conducted
      by front-line juvenile justice staff with CINI youth and 2) implement an evidence-based brief
      intervention, safety planning, for suicidal CINI youth and evaluate its utility with these
      youth. In the Treatment Adaptation phase, 12 juvenile justice stakeholders will be
      interviewed pre- and post-intervention implementation, as well as 24 youth and 24 caregivers
      3-months post-intervention, about the acceptability of the brief intervention in the juvenile
      court setting. In the Treatment Trial phase, we will examine the effectiveness of a safety
      planning intervention for indicated suicidal youth in reducing suicidal ideation, in reducing
      suicidal events (suicide attempts as well as emergency evaluations and psychiatric
      hospitalizations for suicidality), increased engagement in outpatient mental health
      treatment, and improved youth motivation for treatment. CINI juveniles, ages 12-17, (N=100
      for baseline (historical control) cohort; N=100 for efficacy trial; N=100 for alternative
      causal design) and a caregiver will be recruited from the juvenile court to participate in
      the current study. CINI juveniles in the efficacy trial will receive the evidenced-based
      brief suicide intervention as part of standard of care and will be compared to historical
      control and alternative causal design. Baseline data will be collected as part of routine
      care. Youth and a caregiver will be re-assessed at 3 months subsequent to the juvenile's
      initial court appointment.
    
  