
    
      Retention in care and re-engagement in care is a primary concern in HIV treatment today and a
      major obstacle in the US to reach the UNAIDS 90-90-90 goal [1]. The U.S. CDC supports the use
      of HIV surveillance data to identify not-in-care (NIC) patients and re-link them to care
      (Data-to-Care). The optimal strategy for identifying patients for Data-to-Care is unknown. It
      has been postulated that by increasing follow up of high-risk patients not meeting the
      retention in care measures, the number of people living with HIV being retained in care may
      be increased by 10%.

      Multiple HIV clinics within the AHF organization in the US are eligible for study
      participation. "Primary" HIV provider will be defined as the primary physician or advanced
      care practitioner following a patient, as recorded in their respective EHRs and identified
      through CHORUS, a CDSS developed by Epividian. The CDSS will track patient case status as
      active or inactive (loss to follow-up, transferred medical care, or deceased). Providers will
      be informed of the study and sites will be contracted to participate in this collaborative
      research study.

      The CDSS will generate alerts to the providers warning of suboptimal patient attendance among
      the population. The alerts will be generated using the following four criteria of at-risk of
      loss to follow-up:

        -  At Risk #1: No visit in the previous 4 months and no scheduled appointment in the
           subsequent 2 months.

        -  High Risk #2: Single appointment in the previous year, a missed appointment in the
           previous month and no scheduled appointment in the next 2 months.

        -  High Risk #3: Those with 2 missed sequential appointments, and no scheduled appointment
           in the subsequent 7 days.

        -  High Risk #4: Those with an attended appointment >3 months ago and their most recent
           viral load >1000 copies/ml.
    
  