
    
      Functional Endoscopic Sinus Surgery (FESS) is a minimally invasive technique used to restore
      sinus ventilation and function in patients with recurrent acute or chronic infective
      sinusitis in whom medical therapy has failed. The term FESS is used to draw attention to the
      potential for reestablishing natural mucociliary clearance mechanism, drainage and aeration
      of sinuses, and maintaining as much of the normal anatomy as possible. Over last few years
      this technique has become popular worldwide due to its minimally invasive nature and
      preservation of mucosa(1) .

      Intraoperative bleeding presents a larger obstacle to endoscopic visualization. Blood
      obscures the anatomy of the surgical field and dirties the endoscope lens leading to great
      difficulty in visualization (2). Continued bleeding into the surgical field during FESS not
      only impairs endoscopic vision , but also can lead to complications including : brain injury,
      orbital or optic nerve injury, and catastrophic bleeding from major vessels (e.g., internal
      carotid artery) (2,3).

      Endoscopic reconstruction with vascularized tissue is desirable to facilitate rapid
      healing(4).

      Various approaches have been used to secure a dry operating field , among them : conventional
      anesthesia , total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) has been previously reported to result in
      reduced blood loss when used for FESS .

      However, few recent studies point out that (TIVA) may not significantly reduce blood loss.
      (5,6)

      One way to achieve this goal "reduction of bleeding" is to induce controlled hypotension For
      half a century, controlled hypotension has been used to reduce bleeding and need for blood
      transfusions and provide a satisfactory bloodless surgical field . Controlled hypotension is
      defined as a reduction of the systolic blood pressure to 80-90mm Hg,a reduction of mean
      arterial pressure "MAP" to 50-65mmHg or a 30% reduction of baseline "MAP"(7). Pharmacological
      agents used include those agents , that can be used successfully alone and those that are
      used adjunctively to limit dosage requirements and therefore , The adverse effects of the
      other agents . Agents used successfully alone include inhalation anesthetics , sodium
      Nitroprusside , nitroglycerin , trimethaphon camsilate , alprostadil (prostaglandin E1) ,
      adenosine , remifentanil and agents used in spinal anesthesia.Agents that can be used alone
      or in combination include :Calcium Channel antagonists ( e.g nicardipine) , beta adrenoceptor
      - antagonists ( beta-blockers ) e.g bisoprolol , propranolol , esmolol ) and fenoldopam.
      Agents that are mainly used adjunctively include ACE Inhibitors , and clonidine . The
      definition of the ideal hypotensive agent is : It must be easy to administer , have a short
      onset time , an effect that disappears quickly when administration is discontinued , a rapid
      elimination without toxic metabolites , negligible effects on vital organs and a predictable
      and dose dependent effect. New agents and techniques have been recently evaluated for their
      ability to induce effective hypotension without impairing the perfusion of vital organs
      .(7,8,9)

      Calcium channel blockers are drugs that block the entry of calcium into the muscle cells of
      the heart and arteries. Thus, by blocking the entry of calcium, calcium channel blockers
      reduce electrical conduction within the heart, decrease the force of contraction (work) of
      the muscle cells, and dilate arteries which reduces blood pressure and thereby the effort the
      heart must exert to pump blood(10) .

      Although calcium channel blockers have a similar mechanism of action, they differ in their
      ability to affect heart muscle vs. arteries, and they differ in their ability to affect heart
      rate and contraction. For example; verapamil (Covera-HS, Verelan PM, Calan , Isoptin) and
      diltiazim( cardizem , dilacor , tiazac , diltiaxl ), reduces the strength and rate of the
      heart's contraction and are used in treating abnormal heart rhythms(10
    
  