
    
      For almost 30 years, annual mammograms for women over 40 have been a cornerstone of the US
      strategy to reduce mortality from breast cancer. A number of advances in the understanding of
      breast cancer biology, and screening in general, have led to calls to revise and improve
      national screening strategies (Esserman et al., 2014). In 2009, the US Preventive Services
      Task Force (USPSTF) introduced changes to screening guidelines, recommending that annual
      mammograms for all women 40-75 be replaced by biennial screening for women ages 50-75, and
      that screening in the 40's should be individualized by taking patient context into account,
      including the patient's values regarding specific benefits and harms. Despite being based on
      a thorough review of the scientific literature, these recommendations continue to spark
      debate and scientific opinion on the effectiveness of annual screening is greatly divided. On
      one hand the radiology and obstetrics/gynecology community argues that annual mammograms
      starting at 40 reduce the rate of interval cancers. On the other hand, primary care
      physicians and other specialists believe that annual screening results in more
      false-positives and unnecessary treatment and that a more targeted approach could result in
      fewer false-positives and less over-diagnosis without increasing the number of interval
      cancers. In fact it has been estimated that half of women will receive a false-positive
      recall over 10 years of annual screening and that as many as 20% of all breast cancers might
      be overdiagnosed. Since 2009 this debate has intensified, paralyzing the system and thwarting
      any efforts to change or improve screening. The end result is that women are frustrated and
      confused, and some have stopped screening altogether.

      Despite a vastly improved understanding of breast cancer risk, the only criteria used to
      establish a woman's screening recommendations is her age (and BRCA status if known), but
      there are risk models available that incorporate personal and family history of breast
      disease, endocrine exposures and breast density to assess breast cancer risk (Constantino, et
      al., 1999; Parmigiani, et al., 1998; Tyrer, et al., 2004; Claus, et al., 2001; Ozanne, et
      al., 2003). Most recently certain genetic mutations and common genetic variants (single
      nucleotide polymorphisms or SNPs) have been confirmed predictors as well (Darabi, et al.,
      2012). Therefore, advances in this understanding of breast cancer biology, risk assessment,
      and imaging have enabled the creation of better tools and sufficient knowledge to replace the
      one-size-fits-all approach to screening and to implement a new, personalized model; one that
      provides recommendations on when to start, when to stop, and how often to screen that depend
      upon well characterized measures of risk.

      The investigators propose to test a transformational evidence-based approach to breast
      screening that educates women about their actual risk, and tailors screening recommendations
      to them as individuals. Within the Athena Breast Health Network, the study will compare
      comprehensive, patient-centered risk-based screening to annual screening for women starting
      at age 40. The comprehensive risk assessment is based on a widely accepted risk model, the
      Breast Cancer Surveillance Consortium model, that includes endocrine exposures, family
      history and breast density, with additional genomic risk factors that include rare and
      uncommon major breast cancer susceptibility alleles as well as more common and recently
      validated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that can, cumulatively, contribute
      significantly to a woman's individual risk. The study's personalized approach will recommend
      an age to start and stop screening as well as a frequency based upon individual risk. Women
      of highest risk will receive greater surveillance than those of lowest risk where the lower
      bound is the USPSTF recommended guidelines. In this manner, the study will focus the most
      effort on those most likely to develop the disease.

      In close collaboration with patient advocates, the study has been designed as a 5-year,
      preference-tolerant, 65,000 patient, randomized controlled trial of risk-based versus annual
      screening. Individuals uncomfortable with the potential to be assigned to a particular arm in
      the randomized cohort can participate in the self-assigned observational cohort, an example
      of the pragmatic approach taken. Total accrual is anticipated to be 100,000 women across both
      cohorts. A broad group of stakeholders have participated in crafting this approach, including
      advocates, payers, the entire range of medical specialists and primary care providers and
      researchers involved with breast cancer screening across the entire Athena Network,
      technology partners, the Office of the President at the University of California, and
      policy-making organizations.

      The study hypothesizes that risk-based screening will be an improvement over annual screening
      because it will be as safe, less morbid, enable more cancer prevention, less stressful and
      more readily accepted by women as a result of an improved understanding of their personal
      risk.

      The Athena Breast Health Network was established across the 5 University of California
      medical centers to develop a new, harmonized approach to breast cancer prevention, screening
      and treatment. Athena is among the few centers in North America to use technology to
      integrate risk assessment into breast screening. The investigators have developed a cadre of
      "breast health specialists" who provide women with counseling and support around risk and
      prevention. There are currently 100,000 registered Athena participants, with 30,000 new
      patients per year and growing with the addition of Sanford Health, one of the largest rural
      health networks in the country. The primary research mission of Athena is to address issues
      requiring a population-based approach and translate solutions to clinical practice. Athena is
      uniquely positioned to address the screening controversy and provide women with renewed
      confidence in decisions about their breast health. Risk-based screening for breast cancer is
      exactly the advanced, evidence-based approach to medicine described in the NIH and FDA's
      "Path to Personalized Medicine". If these hypotheses prove to be correct, this study will be
      able to establish a clear justification for its use, and provide a framework for widespread
      implementation that will benefit women across the country.
    
  