
    
      Previous studies have shown that interleukin-2, when given under the skin, results in CD4+
      cell count increases, and may impact upon disease progression. A Phase III trial is the next
      step in the development of these efficacy trials. One question, however, has not been
      addressed in previous IL-2 studies: whether it is both safe and reasonable to allow
      prospective IL-2 recipients the autonomy of choosing whether or not to take antiretrovirals
      in addition to their cytokine therapy. This trial addresses that concern.

      In this open-label study, 36 patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment groups of 12
      patients each:

      Group I: IL-2 every 12 hours for 5 days every 8 weeks. Group II: IL-2 every 12 hours for 5
      days every 8 weeks (higher IL-2 dose). Group III: Control group receiving no therapy.
      Patients must complete a minimum of 3 8-week cycles of treatment. Twelve patients are
      randomized to each arm. Following study completion, Group I and II patients may elect to
      continue receiving IL-2 during follow-up or as part of an additional protocol based on the
      results of this study.

      [AS PER AMENDMENT 2/12/99: Patients who have received study medication and/or routine
      protocol visits and procedures for at least 6 months with acceptable compliance are eligible
      for continued follow-up in an extension phase. The extension phase will continue for at least
      1 year from the date when the last patient has been enrolled in the extension phase. Patients
      originally randomized to IL-2 may continue to receive IL-2 during the extension period, with
      IL-2 therapy guided on an individual basis. Patients originally randomized to no therapy may
      continue to receive no therapy during the extension phase.] [AS PER AMENDMENT 7/11/00:
      Patients demonstrating acceptable compliance with routine visits and procedures during the
      initial treatment phase and/or extension phase may participate in the long-term follow-up
      phase which requires follow-up visits at least every 4 months for approximately 5 years.
      Patients originally randomized to Group 1 or 2 may continue to receive IL-2, with IL-2
      therapy guided on an individual basis, during the long-term follow-up phase. Patients
      originally randomized to Group 3 may continue to receive no therapy during the long-term
      follow-up phase.]
    
  