
    
      In patients presenting to the emergency department with acute chest pain, the observation of
      ischemic changes in the electrocardiogram or troponin elevation prompts hospitalisation and,
      generally, invasive management. However, decision on admission or discharge is uncertain in
      the remaining patients. The spectrum of these patients spans from individuals without
      coronary artery disease to some with high risk unstable angina. An early exercise test is
      usually performed with the aim of guiding the decision. However, the exercise test is not
      available 24 hours per day/ 7 days per week, around 40% of the patients show contraindication
      to exercise and there are inconclusive as well as false-positive results. The limitations of
      the exercise test can lead to unnecessary hospitalisations. Therefore, there is room for
      alternative tools. Our objective was to compare a new strategy combining clinical history and
      NT-proBNP levels versus the usual care, consisting of early exercise testing, for decision
      making in these patients.

      We will randomly compare a new strategy combining a previously published and validated
      clinical risk score (number of points according to pain characteristics and risk factors)
      along with NT-proBNP levels, versus the usual strategy using exercise test, for the
      management of patients presenting to the emergency department with acute chest pain, without
      ischemia in the electrocardiogram and with normal troponin. In the new strategy, high risk
      patients (clinical risk score =>3 points) as well as low risk patients (clinical risk score
      <3 points) but with NT-proBNP >110 ng/L, will be hospitalised; on the other hand, low risk
      patients (clinical risk score <3 points) with NT-proBNP <110 ng/L will be discharged. In the
      usual strategy, all patients will be allocated to early exercise test; patients will be
      hospitalised in case of a positive result, inconclusive result <7 METS or contraindication to
      exercise, whereas they will be discharged in case of a negative result or inconclusive result
      with >7 METS without ischemia induction. The primary endpoint will be hospitalisation during
      the index episode and the secondary endpoints 6-12 months death or acute myocardial
      infarction, and 6-12month death, myocardial infarction, postdischarge revascularization or
      readmission by unstable angina.
    
  