
    
      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a disease state characterized by airflow that
      is not fully reversible. Besides problems in physiological functioning, the patient also can
      experience symptoms, functional impairment and a diminished quality of life (see Vercoulen et
      al., 2008). Problems in the three latter domains of health status are hardly recognized in
      usual care, and remain untreated until escalated. This is mainly caused by two phenomena:
      doctor delay and patient delay. Doctor delay: the physician does not directly identify
      symptoms, functional impairment, and problems in quality of life. Patient delay: the patient
      does not report problems in these health status domains.

      What is necessary is a screening instrument that can be used in routine care and identifies
      patients with problems in the four domains of health status. If clinically relevant problems
      exists, and additional treatment is recommended, an intervention by the pulmonary nurse is
      indicated. This intervention is directed at increasing awareness of existing problems and
      motivating the patient for additional treatment. By means of the screening and intervention,
      problems in health status are detected and treated early, before escalation. Treatment is
      patient-tailored, based on the existing problems in the four domains of health status,
      eventually leading to an improved health status.

      A randomized controlled trial is conducted to test the hypothesis described above. Based on
      the independent clinical interpretation of the PatientProfileChart (see Peters et al., 2009)
      by three professionals, patients are assigned to one of the following groups: 1. Patients
      with no clinically relevant problems in health status (group I), and 2. Patients with
      clinically relevant problems in health status (group II/III). Patients with clinically
      relevant problems in health status are randomized to a control group (group II: usual care as
      delivered by the outpatient clinic) and the experimental group (group III: intervention
      conducted by a pulmonary nurse, directed at increasing awareness of problems in health
      status, increasing motivation to engage in additional treatment, and improving health
      status).
    
  