
    
      This is a phase III, open label, multicenter randomized study where it is considered
      appropriate to delay taxane-based chemotherapy.

      The study aims at evaluating the superiority of 177Lu-PSMA-617 over a change of ARDT
      treatment in prolonging rPFS. The primary endpoint of rPFS will be assessed via blinded
      independent centralized review of radiographic images provided by the treating physician and
      as outlined in PCWG3 Guidelines.

      The study will also evaluate whether 177Lu-PSMA-617 improves the overall survival (OS) in
      participants with progressive PSMA-positive mCRPC compared to participants treated with a
      change in ARDT treatment. OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any
      cause.

      Treatment duration: approximately 43 months.

      Screening period At screening, the participants will be assessed for eligibility and will
      undergo a 68Ga-PSMA-11 positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scan to
      evaluate PSMA positivity. Only participants with PSMA positive cancer and confirmed
      eligibility criteria will be randomized.

      Randomization period The participants will be randomized 1:1 to receive 177Lu-PSMA-617 or a
      change of the ARDT treatment. The ARDT change will include approved Androgen Receptor (AR)
      axis targeted therapy (abiraterone or enzalutamide). Supportive care will be allowed in both
      arms at the discretion of the investigator and includes available care for the eligible
      participant according to best institutional practice for mCRPC treatment, including androgen
      deprivation therapy (ADT). Investigational agents, cytotoxic chemotherapy, other systemic
      radioisotopes (e.g. radium-223), Poly (adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase (PARP)
      inhibitors or hemi-body radiotherapy treatment must not be administered during the study
      treatment period. ARDT must not be administered concomitantly with 177Lu-PSMA-617.

      Treatment period • 177Lu-PSMA-617 treatment arm Participants randomized to the
      investigational arm will receive 7.4 GBq +/- 10% of 177Lu-PSMA-617 once every 6 weeks for 6
      cycles. Best supportive care, including ADT, may be used.

      After the last day of study treatment period of 177Lu-PSMA-617 (i.e. after completion of 6
      cycles of treatment OR treatment discontinuation for any reason), the participants must have
      an End of Treatment (EOT) visit and enter the Post-treatment Follow-up.

      • ARDT treatment arm For participants randomized to the ARDT treatment arm, the change of
      ARDT treatment for each participant will be selected by the treating physician prior to
      randomization and will be administered per the physician's orders. Best supportive care,
      including ADT, may be used. After the last day of study treatment (treatment discontinuation
      for any reason) or upon radiographic progression as assessed by blinded centralized review,
      the participants must have an End of Treatment (EOT) and enter the Post-treatment Follow-up.

      End of Treatment

      Randomized treatment may be discontinued if:

        -  The participant chooses to discontinue treatment

        -  Toxicity

        -  Completion of the 6 cycles of 177Lu-PSMA-617

        -  Serious non-compliance to the protocol

        -  BICR-determined progression

        -  Unequivocal clinical progression

      It is important that the scheduled imaging assessments continue until BICR-determined
      progression. PSA progression is strongly discouraged as a criterion for initiation of a new
      neoplastic therapy prior to BICR-determined progression. PCWG3 guidelines should be followed
      to guide discontinuation of treatment.

      End of Treatment visit must be performed ≤ 7 days after the last day of study treatment
      period. EOT is to occur before the participant is to enter the post-treatment Follow-up
      period of the study and before the initiation of any subsequent anticancer treatment, outside
      of what is allowed in the study.

      If a participant withdraws consent for the treatment period of the study, an EOT must be done
      and the participant will enter the Post-treatment Follow-up unless he specifically withdraws
      post-treatment Follow-up.

      Crossover period Upon confirmation of rPFS by BICR, participants randomized to the ARDT arm
      will either be allowed to crossover to receive 177Lu-PSMA-617 or may continue to receive any
      other therapy per the discretion of the treating physician in the Post-treatment Follow-up.

      In order for a participant randomized to the change in ARDT arm to cross over to receive
      177Lu-PSMA-617, he must meet the following criteria:

        -  Confirmed radiographical progression as assessed by BICR

        -  No intervening antineoplastic therapy is administered after the randomized treatment

        -  Any unresolved toxicity from prior therapy should be controlled and must be no greater
           than CTCAE grade 1 at the time of starting 177Lu-PSMA-617.

        -  ECOG performance status 0-1 at the time of crossover

        -  Adequate organ function at the time of crossover:

        -  Agreement to continue with the study visit schedule

      If the patient has not undergone specific assessments defined below within 7 days prior to
      commencing treatment of crossover, they must complete the following assessments in order to
      ensure the above criteria are met prior initiation of 177Lu-PSMA-617:

        -  ECOG-PS

        -  Vital signs

        -  Hematology and biochemistry

        -  Adverse events assessment

      A participant, who is deemed to have disease progression per investigator assessment, but not
      by BICR, is not eligible to crossover at that time. Such participant should continue to
      receive randomized study treatment until progression determined by BICR.

      If crossover to 177Lu-PSMA-617 is selected, then 177Lu-PSMA-617 will be administered with the
      same dose/schedule as for participants who were initially randomized to receive
      177Lu-PSMA-617.

      After the last day of study treatment period of 177Lu-PSMA-617 or upon second radiographic
      progression (rPFS2), the participants must have a second End of Treatment (EOT2) and enter
      the Post-treatment Follow-up. The participant can receive any other therapy per the
      discretion of the treating physician in the Post-treatment Follow-up.

      Post-treatment Follow-up period

        -  30 day Safety Follow-up All randomized and/or treated participants should have a safety
           follow-up conducted approximately 30 days after the EOT visit.

        -  Long term follow-up Long term follow-up starts after the 30 Days Safety follow-up and
           lasts until the accrual of events for the planned OS-based analysis (key secondary
           endpoint).

      In long term follow-up safety and efficacy information will be collected:

        -  Safety: all medically significant adverse events (all SAEs) deemed to be related to
           177Lu-PSMA-617. This will include potential late onset radiation toxicity.

        -  Efficacy: In any participant entering long term follow-up discontinuing for reasons
           other than BICR-determined radiographic progression, tumor assessments must be performed
           every 8 weeks after first dose of study treatment for the first 24 weeks (week 8, 16,
           24) and then every 12 weeks (week 36, 48, etc) until confirmation of radiographic
           progression by BICR

      The long-term follow-up period will also include the collection of survival information and
      other assessments.

      Other: Other data collected during long-term follow-up includes blood sampling for
      hematology, chemistry testing, coagulation, DNA and tumor samples for biomarkers. The visits
      will be carried out every 12 weeks (± 28 days) until death, lost to follow-up, withdrawal of
      consent or accrual of the number of events required for the planned analyses for OS for the
      study, whichever occurs first.

      This follow-up will allow to collect information on medically significant long-term
      toxicities such as long-term radiotoxicity.

      Duration of long term follow-up is expected to continue till end of study.

      If the participant withdraws consent for the collection of blood samples and imaging
      assessments during the long-term follow-up, information on survival, SAEs related to study
      treatment and post-treatment antineoplastic therapy will be collected.
    
  