
    
      Accumulating evidence suggests that repeatedly breathing low oxygen levels for brief periods
      (termed intermittent hypoxia) is a safe and effective treatment strategy to promote
      meaningful functional recovery in persons with chronic spinal cord injury. Repetitive
      exposure to mild hypoxia triggers a cascade of events in the spinal cord, including new
      protein synthesis and increased sensitivity in the circuitry necessary for breathing and
      walking. Recently, the investigators demonstrated that daily (5 consecutive days) of
      intermittent hypoxia stimulated walking enhancement in persons with chronic spinal cord
      injury.

      Despite these exciting findings, important clinical questions remain. For example, the
      investigators do not know if prolonged, but less intense intermittent hypoxia induces
      longer-lasting motor recovery as has been shown in rat models. The investigators hypothesize
      that repetitive exposures to modest bouts of low oxygen will enhance and prolong walking
      recovery in persons with chronic spinal cord injury. The investigators anticipate
      intermittent hypoxia-induced improvements in overground walking ability, likely due to
      greater balance in excitatory and inhibitory neural transmission. Whereas excitatory inputs
      drive walking, inhibitory inputs sculpt and coordinate muscle activity; yet so often remain
      compromised after chronic injury. Thus, the investigators also predict that repetitive
      exposures to intermittent hypoxia will result in improved inhibition and subsequently enhance
      muscle coordination during walking. The investigators will use multiple experimental
      approaches, including muscle electromyography, measurements of walking dynamics and stretch
      reflexes. Finally, it is critical to assure that repetitive exposures to intermittent hypoxia
      do not elicit pathologies characteristic of more severe, chronic hypoxia experienced by
      individuals with obstructive sleep apnea. The investigators will confirm that repetitive
      exposure to mild bouts of intermittent hypoxia is safe.
    
  