
    
      Hypertension, cardiovascular disease, strokes, diabetes and their complications including
      renal failure and neuropathy are major contributors to healthcare costs1. Metabolic Syndrome,
      a widespread genetic trait refers to a group of factors that increase risk for these
      diseases. Progression of the components of the metabolic syndrome can be significantly
      reduced by dietary manipulation and exercise.

      The aging population, with both metabolic syndrome and muscular weakness, is going to result
      in an enormous social and financial burden not only for medical care but also for families
      caring for such patients. Existing knowledge would suggest that dietary modification and
      exercise training would substantially reduce the costs and complications of these medical
      conditions.

      The Canadian Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of cardiometabolic risk identify
      patients with metabolic syndrome who have an increased risk of cardiac and vascular disease
      and diabetes but the application of these results to prevent disease has been a dismal
      failure in general and in particular, in our country.

      The current model of advice about preventive care is through family doctors (FD) in the
      primary care setting. FDs tend not to advise their patients about diet and exercise for a
      variety of reasons including a lack of education about these modalities, a lack of support
      from professionals qualified to assess and advise about diet and exercise, the belief that
      drugs are better, lack of time and a lack of reimbursement in addition to patient barriers to
      adoption. Although other factors, such has smoking, hypercoagulability and increased
      expression of proinflammatory cytokines increase cardiometabolic risk, these changes are
      closely related to the metabolic syndrome. "Health behavior interventions" are identified as
      critical to preventing the occurrence of cardiovascular disease and diabetes. These
      interventions can be associated with appropriate pharmacotherapy where required. The
      guidelines recommend a multidisciplinary team to manage these interventions. In addition it
      is also recommended that ethnicity be considered in these interventions.

      The various traits associated with the metabolic syndrome are strongly influenced by genetic
      factors, i.e. the heritability of abdominal obesity and insulin resistance are estimated to
      be as high as 70%. Accordingly, the investigators propose to examine numerous genetic
      polymorphisms (also referred to as markers) that have been linked to the various traits
      associated with metabolic syndrome in a sub study. It is hypothesized that these markers can
      be used as a means to better predict the variable responses observed in individuals following
      a lifestyle intervention. Several companies have begun to commercialize direct-to-consumer
      genetic-testing to provide nutritional counseling to individuals based on the analysis of a
      small subset of polymorphisms11; however, there is an absence of scientific research to
      either support or refute the value of genetic markers for predicting an individual's
      response. Considering common genetic markers in a lifestyle intervention study will enable us
      to assess their value for predicting response.
    
  