
    
      Using near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) to monitor intraoperative and postoperative tissue
      oxygen saturation and to investigate the correlation with postoperative complications.

      Intraoperative hemodynamic parameters were monitored by Mostcare(PRAM, Vygon Health, Padua,
      Italy) including cardiac index, systemic vascular resistance index, stroke volume index, the
      maximal slope of systolic upstroke, cardiac cycle efficiency.

      SrtO2 was monitored using a tissue near-infrared spectroscopy (FORE-SIGHT ELITE tissue
      oximeter, CASMED, Branford, Connecticut, USA; now acquired by Edwards Lifesciences, Irvine,
      California, USA). A biophotonic sensor was placed on the left flank at the level of T10-L2 to
      monitor SrtO2. The tissue oximeter generated a new SrtO2 data every 2 seconds. All these data
      were exported from the monitor as the end of surgery. As this is an observational study, the
      SrtO2 data were only used for research purpose, not for clinical decision making. The
      function of tissue oximeter was checked by a dedicated research personnel in the operating
      room. The infant was dropped from the study if the SrtO2 measurements were not available for
      more than 5 min during surgery. The baseline SrtO2 was defined as the median value of the
      5-minute measurements which were measured following anesthesia induction and during the
      period when the cardiac index ≥2.5 L/min/m2. Renal desaturation was defined as a decrease of
      SrtO2 measurement from the baseline value for more than 20% lasting for more than 60 s.

      The electronic data streams from the NIRS and other patient monitors will be collected into a
      study computer. Data collection will initiate at pre-induction of anesthesia in the operating
      room. Only the NIRS values will be blinded from clinical use. Blood samples for determining
      biomarkers of ischemic tissue injury will be taken at defined intervals. No other
      modifications to clinical practice will occur while conducting the study and the NIRS
      monitoring is non-invasive.

      The primary outcome was the incidence of AKI within 3 days after surgery according to the
      Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) criteria. Secondary outcomes including
      different stages of AKI, duration of postoperative mechanical ventilation, duration of
      intensive care unit (ICU) and hospital stay, and in-hospital mortality.
    
  