
    
      Oronasal fistulae (particularly those of the anterior palate) are often difficult to close
      because the buccal cavity is narrow and the palatal mucosa is not extensible.

      Historically, skin flaps (forehead or nasolabial skin flaps) were first used to close such
      defects. but they leave a conspicuous scar. Mucosal flaps, which were empirically harvested
      from the cheek mucosa have also been used occasionally, but unpredictable results discouraged
      further attempts. A more accurate description of the vascularization of the buccal mucosal
      has allowed the design of axial-pattern flaps. The buccinator musculomucosal flap was first
      introduced as an island flap supported by the facial pedicle, and was then used successfully
      as an axial pattern flap that was vascularized by the buccal artery according to Bozola et
      al. or the facial artery according to Carstens et al.

      The FAMM (facial artery musculomucosal) flap was introduced by Pribaz et al. in 1992 and its
      main advantage is its long rotational arc that allows closure of defects of the anterior
      palate that were formerly a reconstructive challenge. Pribaz et al. gave an accurate
      description of the dissection of the flap, but variations in the course of the facial artery
      sometimes preclude its use. Previous studies involving FAMM flap were applied to oronasal
      fistula repair either recurrent or as first attempt were described in repair of alveolar
      clefts, anterior palatal fistulae and in recurrent fistulae after palatoplasty in cleft
      patients either superior or inferior pediceled flap. In cases of hypovascular bed, it
      increases the chances for failure of other techniques of closure. The palatal pedilced flap
      was reported in the literature as one of the regional flaps for closure of oronasal fistulae.
      The previous studies included case series, with no any randomized clinical trial.

      This study compares using FAMM flap versus Palatal Pedicled flap in a randomized clinical
      trial in closure of recurrent oronasal fistulae.

      Aim of the study To evaluate the effect of using FAMM for closure of recurrent small and
      medium sized oronasal fistula on patient's satisfaction versus using the palatal pedicled
      flap.
    
  