
    
      A total of 80 Patients who meet these conditions will enter the study and be divided into two
      groups based on randomized tables.

      To prepare the endometrium,

      Group A : 40 women are given oral estradiol valerate tablets 2mg 6-8 hourly from the day 2-14
      of the cycle to prepare the endometrium

      Group B : 40 women are give sildenafil citrate 25mg vaginally every 6 hours (a half of 50 mg
      tablet is crushed and dissolved in 2cc of distilled water and injected in to vagina) starting
      from day 2-14 of the cycle, in addition to oral 2mg of estradiol valerat 6-8 hourly from the
      day 2-14 of the menstrual cycle . Estrogen and progesterone (prontogest 400mg pessaries ) are
      given 3 days prior to embryo transfer. Sildenafil is discontinued 48-72 hours prior to the
      embryo transfe due sildenafil may have some detrimental effects on endometrium in the
      implantation window.

      For assessing endometrial vascularity (on day 14 of cycle), two dimension power Doppler
      characteristics as normal quality of color, color gain-3.4, pulse repetition frequency of
      600Hz and wall motion filter of 50Hz are applied in all examinations. By following
      Applebaum's zones of vascularity for categorizing endometrial vasculaity: Zone 1
      vascularity-When blood vessls reach the hypoechoic endometrio-myometria junction, Zone 2
      vascularity when the vessels reach the outer hyperechoic line of en-dometrium, Zone 3
      vascularity when it reach the intervening hypoechoic area, Zone 4 vascularity when the
      vessels are seen reaching the central echogenic line .

      After 5 days when the endometrial pattern is triple line pattern (trilaminar) and endometrial
      thickness is more than 8mm,embryos will be transferred. All patients have a luteal phase
      support by giving a daily doses of estradiol valerat 2mg oral daily and 100mg progesterone
      (prontogest 100mg ampoule ) as an intramuscular which will be continued two weeks after the
      em-bryos transfer. In case BHCG is tested and proved to be positive, estradiol valerat and
      progesterone are continueed until the 11th week of pregnancy. Then, four weeks after the
      embryo transfer, the number of gestational sacs are determined by vaginal ultrasound.
    
  