
    
      Although physicians typically counsel for other risk factors of CVD, they are less likely to
      counsel for increasing levels of physical activity. This is surprising for two reasons:
      First, physical activity has been identified as an independent modifiable risk factor for
      CVD. Second, there is a high prevalence of physical inactivity among Canadians. The purpose
      of the current study is to examine interventions that are designed to promote adoption and
      maintenance of physical activity through physician recommendations and counseling. The
      primary outcome measures include possible differences in levels of self-reported physical
      activity. In addition, several behavioral predictors typically associated with physical
      activity will be assessed (e.g., self-efficacy, social support, anticipated benefits &
      enjoyment, and barriers). There are several unique aspects to this research including: 1) the
      fact that it compares two types of delivery systems 2) the examination of physical activity
      patterns over an extended period of time has not been done previously with this type of
      intervention, and as such, also forms another unique feature of this proposal 3) physician
      intervention for physical activity has not been done in Canada previously. If the
      intervention is found effective, the program will add significant value to health services in
      Saskatchewan and Canada. For instance, the program will enhance the role of physicians in
      promoting physical activity without increasing the cost of health-care delivery, and with a
      minimal investment of time required by the physician and his/her staff.

      Comparison: To assess the efficacy of the interventions, a quasi experimental design will
      compare an intervention with a standard control condition. All physicians will be trained to
      use a standardized protocol to deliver PACE exercise counseling to sedentary patients during
      one office visit. In the intervention condition, patients will be randomly assigned to
      receive reminder calls from a research assistant who will provide suggestions as to possible
      physical activity resources in the community that could be used.
    
  