
    
      The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends referral to behavioral weight loss programs
      to help obese adults achieve a clinically meaningful weight loss of 8-10% of starting body
      weight. However, approximately half of participants are unable to achieve this goal. Despite
      this, a"one size fits all" approach is the norm, a major drawback because those who do not
      respond can in fact be detected early. This gap in weight loss intervention science calls for
      an adaptive intervention approach that could provide the "right treatment at the right time
      for the right person". Adaptive interventions individualize treatment through
      empirically-supported decision rules advising when and how treatments should unfold over time
      to maximize effectiveness. Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomized Trials (SMART),
      developed explicitly to build the best adaptive interventions, use experimental design
      principles to develop these decision rules. The investigators will use a SMART to
      systematically evaluate therapeutic approach and timing differences for intervening with
      those who do not respond to a behavioral weight loss program. Self-regulation challenges have
      been identified as a major adherence barrier. Two attractive options to address
      self-regulation difficulties are: 1) supplementing behavioral treatment with Meal
      Replacements (MR) which decreases the need for self-regulation; and 2) switching therapeutic
      approaches by using an enhanced version of behavioral weight loss therapy that teaches
      acceptance based behavioral skills which boost capacity for self-regulation. Additionally,
      two time points for intervening with non-responders will be evaluated: 1) 3 weeks, based on
      current weight loss trial evidence; and 2) 7 weeks, based on average time used in the
      existing stepped care literature. Adults (n=500) will be recruited and will receive
      individual behavioral weight loss treatment (BWL). Participants will be randomized to either:
      1) treatment response assessment at 3 weeks or 2) treatment response assessment at 7 weeks.
      Subjects who have lost the expected amount of weight at their assessment point, will continue
      with traditional behavioral weight loss therapy. For those who have not lost the expected
      amount of weight, we will re-randomize them to either meal replacements in addition to the
      traditional weight loss therapy or to the enhanced version of behavioral weight loss therapy.
    
  