
    
      This study will assess anthropometry, cardio metabolic profiles, cognitive and emotional
      domains between adult survivors of severe acute malnutrition (SAM) in childhood and healthy
      controls from similar communities, pre and post a six month intervention of supervised
      aerobic exercise and omega-3 supplementation.

      Recruitment: The cases will include adult SAM survivors admitted to the University Hospital
      of the West Indies (UHWI) now between 20 and 55 years. They have been identified from UHWI
      records and traced using last known addresses by experienced field workers. Community
      controls will be recruited from the same communities, one per case and matched for sex, and
      age (within 5 years).

      Sample Size Calculations: These are based on assessing differences in cognitive function
      using the NIH (National Institutes of Health) Toolbox Cognitive battery as the primary
      outcome measure between SAM survivors and community controls, and between pre-and
      post-intervention groups.

      Using a test at the 5% level of statistical significance we will have 80% power to detect a
      difference of 2.8 √(2/n) standard deviations between cases and controls, where n=number of
      cases.

      Therefore, at n=50, difference= 2.8 √ (2/50) = 0.56 SD

      For the NIH Toolbox, raw scores are converted to a normalized score, where 100 is equivalent
      to the normative mean for the relevant age/education stratification, and 15 units corresponds
      to 1 standard deviation (SD).

      For n=50, 0.56 x 15 = 8.4 units. So, using a test at the 5% level of statistical significance
      we will have 80% power to detect a difference of 8.4 units between the two groups.
      Meta-analyses on intervention studies of cognitive changes with aerobic exercise have shown a
      medium effect size of approximately 0.48-0.57, (154) which corresponds to 7.2-8.5 units.
      Hence, using 50 subjects per group will provide an adequate sample size.

      Standard Operating Procedures:

      After obtaining informed written consent, all baseline data will be collected by one of two
      trained researchers over one to two visits. These tests will be repeated after the six-month
      intervention.

      Details of Methods to be used:

      Anthropometry: Height and weight will be measured with subjects without shoes and in light
      clothing to calculate body mass index (BMI, kg/m2). Weight will be measured to the nearest
      0.1kg. Height will be measured to the nearest 0.1cm.

      Dual-energy X-ray absorption (DXA) (Model General Electric Lunar Prodigy) will be used to
      measure total and regional percent (%) body fat, fat mass, lean tissue mass, and bone mineral
      content.

      Blood Pressure: Participants will be rested for >10 minutes seated in a temperature
      controlled environment. Blood pressure will be measured three times on the right arm using an
      automatic blood pressure monitor with at least 30 seconds in between each reading. The three
      measurements will be averaged for analysis. The mid upper arm circumference will be measured
      to determine the appropriate sized blood pressure cuff.

      Fitness Testing: Subjects will exercise to voluntary exhaustion during a treadmill test using
      a modified Bruce protocol. Oxygen consumption, carbon dioxide production, and minute
      ventilation will be measured breath-by-breath using a metabolic cart and the average of the
      final three 20 second values of oxygen consumption will be the maximum rate of oxygen
      consumption.

      Cognitive Tests: The NIH Toolbox, a computerised, neurocognitive test battery will be used to
      assess cognitive and emotion domains. In the cognitive domain, this study will assess
      executive function, cognitive flexibility, inhibitory control, attention, episodic memory,
      working memory and processing speed.

      For the emotion domain, we will use a self-report battery and test four central subdomains
      including psychological well-being, social relationships, stress and self-efficacy and
      negative affect.

      Blood Tests: 30 millilitres of blood will be taken in the fasted state for assessment of
      plasma levels of insulin and glucose, lipids, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, insulin-like
      growth factor and omega-3 fatty acid profile in erythrocytes. A full oral glucose tolerance
      test will be done with samples for glucose and insulin at 30 minutes, 60 minutes, 90 minutes
      and 120 minutes after 75 grams glucose orally.

      Data Analysis:

      Descriptive data will be provided calculated for all variables. Multiple linear regression
      analysis will be used to determine if there are any differences in outcome variables between
      survivors and controls. These analyses will be controlled for potential confounding variables
      such as age, sex and socio-economic status. The size of effects will be assessed as the
      regression coefficient for a binary treatment variable. Change in cognitive outcomes will be
      assessed by including the baseline measure of cognitive function as a predictor. Interaction
      tests will be used to assess whether any treatment effect differs by baseline cognitive
      function, age, sex and socio-economic status.
    
  