
    
      HBV infection is a global problem, and China has a heavy disease burden with approximately 86
      million people infected with HBV. According to the epidemiological survey of nearly 230,000
      people in Northeast China in 2010-2013, the positive rate of HBsAg reached 6.1%, of which
      10.7% had cirrhosis.

      According to the latest authoritative guidelines, including the guidelines published in 2018
      by American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) and in 2017 by European
      Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (EASL), entecavir (ETV) and tenofovir diisopropyl
      (TDF) are recommended as first-line antiviral drugs. ETV is a guanosine nucleoside analog
      that inhibits HBV polymerase and inhibits the synthesis of HBV DNA. TDF is a cyclic
      nucleoside phosphorylated diester structural analog of adenosine monophosphate, and its
      hydrolysis and phosphorylation products can inhibit the activity of HBV reverse transcriptase
      and also inhibit the synthesis of HBV DNA. In 2005, ETV was listed in China Mainland and TDF
      was listed in 2014. Over the years, clinical studies have shown that both have good antiviral
      effects and low drug resistance rates, so they are chosen as first-line antiviral drugs.

      HBV infection is one of the risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Previous studies
      based on the Chinese patients have shown that antiviral therapy (such as ETV) can
      significantly reduce the incidence of HCC in patients with cirrhosis (the 4-year cumulative
      incidence of HCC decreased from 17.5% to 9.4%). However, a study from South Korea published
      online in September 2018 in JAMA Oncology showed that TDF significantly reduced the incidence
      of HCC compared to ETV (HR 0.68, 95% CI 0.46-0.99) . In contrast, another multicenter study
      in Korea, published in March 2019 in The JOURNAL OF HEPATOLOGY showed no significant
      difference between ETV and TDF (HR 0.975, p=0.852) [4]. In the latter study, there was a
      problem with the small sample size, and the sample size was not sufficient to test the
      difference between the two antiviral drugs, and the sample size needed to be expanded to
      verify the result.

      Compared with Koreans, the incidence of HCC in Chinese is significantly lower (in patients
      with cirrhosis, the 5-year cumulative incidence of HCC is about: China vs Korea: 12% vs 20%),
      showing the differences between countries. There is at present no similar study based on
      Chinese patients, especially in patients with cirrhosis to compare the effects of ETV and TDF
      on the incidence of HCC.

      China has a huge disease burden and a high incidence of HCC. The ETV and TDF both have
      generic drugs marketing in China Mainland which through quality consistency evaluation and
      entering the 4+7 drug procurement (the centralized drug procurement in "4+7 Cities": Beijing,
      Tianjin, Shanghai, Chongqing, Shenyang, Dalian, Xiamen, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Chengdu and
      Xian), bringing good antiviral effect to patients at preferential prices. If we can detect
      the difference in the occurrence of HCC between ETV and TDF, rational selection of drugs will
      reduce the incidence of HCC in Chinese patients with chronic hepatitis B (Korean studies
      showed that cumulative HCC patients can reduce 32% in 5 years), greatly reducing the burden
      on Chinese patients and health care.

      This research is a real-world, multi-center, retrospective, and observational study.

      Patient data are collected from 5-10 research centers in mainland China, including basic
      demographic information, antiviral regimen, time of stating antivirus, endpoint event, time
      of endpoint event, last follow-up time, important testing data, etc.

      Patients with the time of last follow-up (or the time of the endpoint event) between 2013-1-1
      and 2019-12-31 are included in this study.

      Based on the data we collect, the Propensity Score Matching and Inverse Probability Multiple
      Weighted methods and the Competing Risk Model are utilized to correct the confounding factors
      to calculate the impact of TDF and ETV on HCC events.
    
  