
    
      -  The dose of vaccine will depend upon how many of the participant's own tumor cells are
           available and at which point they join study. This Phase I trial is a "dose escalation"
           study. This means that participants will be enrolled in groups. Group 2 will receive a
           larger dose than Group 1. Group 3 will receive a larger dose than Group 2.

        -  The vaccine is administered in injections under and into the skin six times.
           Participants will receive vaccination shots once weekly for 3 vaccines, then every other
           week for 3 vaccines.

        -  After the first and fifth vaccinations, a small amount of the participants own lymphoma
           cells (killed) will be injected under the skin to see if their immune system will react
           against it and cause redness and swelling. A punch skin biopsy will also be performed at
           these injection locations.

        -  During the course of the study, we will also be drawing blood to evaluate immune cells
           and the effect that the vaccinations have on the participants immune system. During all
           treatment cycles a physical exam and questions about the participants general health
           will be performed.

        -  After the final treatment (approximately week 10) the participant will undergo
           "re-staging" to assess the status of their disease. If after completion of six vaccines,
           evaluation of the participant's disease reveals that it is stable or responding to the
           vaccine, and there is still vaccine available, they may be eligible to continue to
           receive the vaccines every two weeks until their supply runs out.

        -  After completion of the vaccinations, participants will come back for physical exams and
           blood tests every 3 months for 1 year and then once a year for fifteen years to monitor
           the effects of the vaccine.
    
  