
    
      There will be up to two lab visits for participants, all of which will be completed in the
      Physical Activity and Health Lab at University of Massachusetts Amherst (consent, physical
      examination and entire research protocol, 2.5-3.5 hrs for all participants).

      The first visit will consist of an orientation session. This orientation will begin with
      screening questions to determine eligibility and obtaining informed consent (45 min),
      followed by a physical exam and resting ECG for all participants (30 min):

      Screening Questions: Participants will self-report their diagnosis of type 2 diabetes and
      year of diagnosis. Medication used for controlling diabetes will be determined by
      participants bringing their medication bottle or a photo of its label. Participants will
      answer additional questions (documentation attached) in an interview-style format with
      research staff to determine eligibility (15 min). These questions will be derived from the
      American Heart Association's (AHA) risk stratification found in the 2013 edition of the
      American College of Sports Medicine's (ACSM's) Resource for The Health Fitness Specialist.
      According to this screening, all participants with type 2 diabetes are considered high risk
      but the additional cardiac, pulmonary, and metabolic disease-related questions will be used
      for descriptive purposes. Given the low impact of this protocol, the volunteer's personal
      physician does not need to provide clearance. The PI, who is a physician, will be available
      to review individual circumstances prior to testing.

      Informed Consent: Research staff will present an orientation slideshow to participants
      regarding the study purpose, study procedures, and rights as a participant (slideshow
      attached). Participants will then review and sign informed consent documents. (30 min)

      Physical Exam: A physical exam will be conducted by study staff under the guidance of the
      medical director (Stuart Chipkin, MD) to assess for medical conditions that may interfere
      with the exercise protocol and ensure participant safety. In addition, the medical director
      will conduct tests for diabetic neuropathy with the neuropathy symptom and change (NSC)
      score, neuropathy impairment score (NIS). The NSC consists of a series of questions about
      neuropathy-related pain and numbness, maneuvers that relieve symptoms, and arousal from
      sleep. The NIS is a battery of tests that assess the ankle reflex as well as vibration,
      pin-prick, and temperature sensation in the great toes. (15 min)

      Electrocardiogram (ECG). A resting 12-lead electrocardiogram will be performed and reviewed
      by the medical director prior to the exercise protocol (15 min).

      Metabolic testing will then occur during the same session or a second study visit. All
      testing will be overseen by trained study staff with an MS or PhD in Exercise
      Science/Physiology or BS in Kinesiology as well as the medical director. These accommodations
      meet the ACSM and AHA criteria for exercise protocols. Because responses to exercise are
      affected by 4 hr pre-exercise food intake participants will have fasted for 4 hrs prior to
      testing. The metabolic testing session will be comprised of anthropometric and demographic
      information collection, instrument attachment, blood glucose measurement, and treadmill
      walking:

      Anthropometrics and demographic information collection: Measures will be taken of height,
      seating height, body mass, body fat percentage, BMI, and waist circumference. Questions will
      be asked to ascertain date of birth, gender, and race/ethnicity.

      Instrument attachment: Non-invasive pedometers and accelerometers will be worn by
      participants to measure/monitor movement during treadmill testing. The purpose of attaching
      these devices is to test the criterion-validity of step-counting wearable devices during
      treadmill walking in adults with T2DM, and compare the results to those observed with healthy
      adults. This is a secondary aim of the study. Participants will also be fitted with a mobile
      indirect calorimeter (facemask and back harness) and chest strap heart-rate monitor for
      measuring oxygen consumption and heart-rate.

      Blood glucose measurements: The medical investigator will check fingerstick glucose values
      using a standard FDA-approved glucose meter before and 30 minutes after completion of
      treadmill testing. Following guidelines from the American Diabetes Association (Colberg SR et
      al; Diabetes Care 2016; 39:2065-2079. DOI: 10.2337/dc16-1728), any subject with a pre-test
      blood glucose < 70 mg/dl will be given 15-20 grams of carbohydrate. For glucose values
      between 70-150 mg/dl, study staff will administer 0.5 grams of carbohydrate per kg body mass.
      In addition, the medical investigator will test glucose values at any point during the
      protocol that a participant reports symptoms of hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) such as
      feeling sweaty, shaky, or weak. Subjects will be given a light snack after the testing
      session and informed about the potential for low blood sugars following exercise. The light
      snack will consist of 15-20g of simple carbohydrates or glucose.

      Treadmill walking: Throughout the treadmill walking protocol, ambulatory monitoring of ECG
      and blood pressure will be conducted for ensuring participant safety Participants will
      complete a series of 5-min bouts of treadmill walking. The first bout will be performed at
      0.5 mph, with concurrent bouts increasing in 0.5 mph increments, and the test will be
      terminated upon participant or researcher volition or completion of the first bout when the
      participant 1) naturally selects to run instead of walk, 2) achieved 75% of their predicted
      maximum heart rate, or 3) reported a Borg Rate of Perceived Exertion Scale (see attachment
      document ) > 13, or 4) reaches a speed of 6.0 mph. Each bout will be separated by 2-5min of
      standing rest on the stopped treadmill. Participants will not be seated during the resting
      period, as this is a submaximal protocol and fatigue preventing its continuation and
      requiring seated rest would be an indication to end the test.

      During treadmill testing, cadence (steps/min) will be assessed by the number of
      directly-observed steps divided by bout duration. Redundant video recording of the
      participant's feet will be conducted during the entirety of treadmill testing as a back-up
      method to confirm step counts. Indirect calorimetry will concurrently be used to measure
      oxygen uptake.
    
  