
    
      Brain injury can be devastating for both patients and family members and can result in
      chronic difficulties in vocational, social, financial, as well as physical functioning. The
      occurrence of emotional and neurobehavioral challenges in individuals with brain injury is
      also common with research consistently showing links between these challenges and a person's
      overall rehabilitation outcome. Additionally, family functioning and caregiver well-being has
      been shown to influence rehabilitation outcome for a survivor after brain injury. In fact,
      individuals with families and caregivers who receive support and services, as well as learn
      adaptive coping strategies, are less likely to exhibit these marked levels of psychological
      distress.

      In order to provide patients and caregivers greater support and teach adaptive coping
      strategies, the authors of this grant designed and studied a coping skills group specifically
      for brain injury survivors and their caregivers at the Rehabilitation Hospital of Indiana
      (RHI) called the Brain Injury Coping Skills group (BICS). BICS is a 12 session (one session
      per week), manualized, cognitive-behavioral treatment group designed to provide support,
      coping skills, and psychoeducation aimed to improve perceived self-efficacy (PSE) and
      emotional functioning. Perceived self-efficacy is the belief or confidence in one's ability
      to deal with the challenges related to a specific situation (e.g., brain injury). PSE has
      been found to be strongly linked to social participation, increased positive regard toward
      the caregiving role, and was found to be the greatest contributing factor to predicting life
      satisfaction. Cicerone and Azulay found that the greatest contribution to predicting life
      satisfaction was the person's PSE for managing their cognitive challenges.

      Telemedicine is one possible option for rural patients. With increases in the availability of
      internet and electronic communication, patients now have immediate access to experts and
      treatment providers who specialize in brain injury. In fact, results from a needs assessment
      from Ricker and colleagues in 2002 identified telemedicine as a desired need of the brain
      injury community. To date, several studies have used telemedicine as an avenue to address
      brain injury rehabilitation for rural patients and caregivers.

      For phase II, the objective is to compare the effectiveness of BICS-T with the
      well-established BICS in-person group. Information gained from phase I (the feasibility
      study) was used to make necessary changes to the BICS-T protocol.
    
  