
    
      This study will be a 2-part, open-label, single-center relative bioavailability and food
      effect randomized crossover study of new granule and capsule formulations of selumetinib. A
      total of 24 healthy male participants aged between 18 to 45 years (inclusive), will be
      included to ensure at least 20 evaluable participants. The study is divided in 2 study parts;
      the same participants will participate in both parts of the study.

      Part 1 of the study is designed to investigate the PK of the selumetinib granule compared to
      the PK of selumetinib capsule, when administered with water under the fasted conditions. Part
      2 of the study is designed to investigate the PK of selumetinib granule and capsule under fed
      conditions. Participants will consume a low-fat, low-calorie meal. Thirty minutes after the
      start of the meal, selumetinib will be administered to the participants. In all treatment
      periods, participants will also receive a single 500 mg dose of acetaminophen at the same
      time as selumetinib administration where it will act as a marker for gastric emptying. The
      study will also assess the palatability of the selumetinib granule in both parts of the
      study.

      Each participant will receive the following treatments:

        -  Treatment A: 25 mg granule, fasted state

        -  Treatment B: 50 mg capsule, fasted state

        -  Treatment C: 25 mg granule, fed state

        -  Treatment D: 50 mg capsule, fed state Participant will be randomly assigned to 1 of 4
           treatment sequences. In all cases the treatments in Part 1 will be administered before
           the treatments in Part 2. The study will comprise of a screening period of maximum 28
           days. Four treatment periods during which participants will be resident from the day
           before dosing (Day -1) until at least 48 hours after dosing; discharged on the morning
           of Day 3. A follow-up visit, will be within 7 to 10 days after the last dose of
           investigational medicinal product (IMP). There will be a minimum washout period of at
           least 5 days between each IMP administration. Each participant will be involved in the
           study for approximately 8 to 9 weeks.
    
  