
    
      Colorectal cancer is the fourth most commonly diagnosed malignant disease worldwide, with an
      estimated 1,023,000 new cases and 529,000 deaths each year. The liver is the most frequent
      site of metastatic spread from colorectal cancer, 25% of colorectal cancer patients will have
      liver metastases at the time of initial colorectal resection and more than 50% of colorectal
      cancer patients will develop liver metastases during the course of the disease.

      The current standard of care and only potential curative therapy for colorectal liver
      metastases is liver resection of the metastatic lesions. Surgical resection provides long
      term survival in patients with colorectal carcinoma (CRC) liver metastases. In a report of
      1001 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer from Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center
      in NY, USA, surgical resection of liver metastases resulted in 3- and 5-year survival rates
      of 37% and 22%, respectively. Advances in pre- and intra-operative imaging and chemotherapy
      during recent years have increased overall survival up to 60% at 5 years after liver
      resection. However, 80-90% of liver metastases are unresectable at the time of diagnosis
      usually due to tumor location, multifocality, inadequate functional hepatic reserve or the
      patient's overall condition. For those patients, harboring unresectable liver metastases,
      alternative treatment approaches include neoadjuvant chemotherapy, local ablation therapy and
      stereotactic radiation therapy.

      The recent availability of neoadjuvant chemotherapeutic agents has increased the response
      rates and doubled the median overall survival time for metastatic colorectal cancer from 10
      to 20 months. Recent studies have demonstrated that neoadjuvant therapy allows 12.5% of
      patients with unresectable CRC liver metastases to be significantly downstaged and eligible
      for hepatic resection.

      For unresectable CRC liver metastases, local ablative therapies are widely applied. Local
      ablative treatment refers to a variety of intervention techniques that specifically target
      tumors to directly destroy them. Numerous methods of ablation have been developed including
      cryoablation, percutaneous ethanol injection, radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and stereotactic
      radiation therapy. The most widely employed non-radiation based local ablative treatment is
      RFA which induces thermal ablation by passing high-frequency alternating current through the
      tumor utilizing electrodes that are placed within the tumor and surrounding tissue. RFA can
      be applied percutaneously under ultrasonic guidance or directly during laparoscopy or open
      laparotomy. Local recurrence rates of 44.4% at 18 months were reported by Solbiati et al. for
      CRC liver metastases with a median diameter of 2.6 cm. For tumors greater than 4 cm the local
      recurrence rate was 68%. RFA has an overall 3-year survival rate of 28-46% and a 5-year
      survival rate of 25%. However, patients with advanced hepatic decompensation, large tumors (3
      to 5 cm), or multifocal tumors are generally considered poor candidates for RFA.

      Conventional radiation therapy has been shown useful for palliation of hepatic capsular pain,
      but historically it has played a minor role in the treatment of patients with unresectable
      liver metastases. This can be attributed chiefly to the low tolerance of the whole liver to
      radiation. The liver was thought to be a relatively radiosensitive organ and with whole liver
      irradiation, it was difficult to achieve the radiation doses necessary to eradicate gross
      tumors without causing radiation induced liver disease. Partial liver irradiation has shown
      some promise. Limiting irradiation to only one-third of the liver through three-dimensional
      (3D) conformal radiotherapy techniques, including intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT),
      several studies have shown that partial liver irradiation is safe with doses up to 50-72.6
      Gy. However, further dose escalation with conventional radiation therapy techniques risks
      injury to adjacent abdominal organs.

      Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) has emerged as a novel approach for the local
      ablation of liver metastases. SBRT provides a conformal isodose distribution with a steep
      radiation dose gradient allowing much higher doses of radiation than conventional radiation
      therapy and conformal radiotherapy techniques to be delivered safely with high precision to
      focal liver metastases while minimizing the radiation dose to normal liver and adjacent
      organs. To achieve this, precise localization of the target during treatment is required
      which necessitates accounting for tumor motion. SBRT technology utilizes a number of
      techniques to accommodate for tumor and respiratory motion including motion-restrictive
      techniques such as frames and abdominal compression, as well as motion-compensating
      techniques such as active breathing control and tumor tracking. The motion-restrictive
      techniques can be difficult for some patients to withstand, limiting those patients from
      being able to receive treatment. The motion-restrictive techniques can also necessitate the
      use of wide margins. Rusthoven et al. found a gross tumor volume (GTV) to planning target
      volume (PTV) expansion of up to 15 mm necessary in the craniocaudal direction. Wide margins
      can result in irradiation of a substantial volume of normal liver, potentially increasing the
      risk of radiation-induced injury. Some studies suggest the motion-compensating approach of
      active breathing control can aid in reducing the margins required by motion-restrictive
      approaches, however, Korreman et al. suggest those reductions may only be applicable with the
      use of image-guidance between and within sessions.

      The CyberKnife robotic radiosurgery system (Accuray Incorporated, Sunnyvale, CA) an advanced
      platform to deliver SBRT, provides a therapeutic solution to this problem by continuously
      tracking the tumor during treatment while it accounts for organ motion due to respiratory
      movement, using the Synchrony respiratory tracking system (Accuray Incorporated, Sunnyvale,
      CA). Utilizing continuous tumor tracking, margin expansion to account for motion uncertainty
      can be reduced, having the potential to make this a safe and effective treatment. The
      frameless nature of the CyberKnife and its continuous image guidance system eliminates the
      need of motion-restriction techniques increasing the comfort and availability of the
      treatment to patients.
    
  