
    
      A. Background Dysphagia, a devastating swallowing disorder affecting more than 18M adults and
      millions more children in the U.S. [1,2], is associated with increased mortality and
      morbidity, including malnutrition, dehydration, pulmonary complications, and reduced quality
      of life [3,4]. Dysphagia often causes thin liquids (e.g., water, coffee) to be aspirated or
      misdirected into the pulmonary-rather than to the digestive-system during swallowing,
      significantly increasing the risk of aspiration pneumonia [5,6]. Radiographic methods used in
      >80% of U.S. hospitals to diagnose dysphagia involve standardized fluids with specific
      rheological characteristics (e.g., apparent viscosity, flow properties) [7]. Thickened
      beverages are the most commonly recommended intervention after dysphagia diagnosis [8].
      Perplexingly, currently available dietary beverages differ from the rheological
      characteristics of standardized diagnostic fluids, causing a critical disconnect between
      diagnosis and treatment [9]. A rheologic study of commercially available thickened beverages
      and diagnostic fluids found that some commercial nectar products, while approaching the
      target apparent viscosity (n ) for the diagnostic standard (Varibar® Nectar, n 30=300 cP),
      differed in other rheological parameters such as flow index (n), consistency (K), and yield
      stress. o commercial thin-honey consistency products matched the diagnostic standard for any
      of these rheological parameters. This disconnect frequently causes the bolus to flow toward
      the airway, increasing the risk of negative health sequelae.

      Swallow Solutions, LLC will build on the successful completion of our Phase I project to
      continue to bridge the gap between clinical need and existing products. Based on insights
      from our Phase I results, investigators will develop a complete product line (tentatively
      branded as SwallowSAFE Thickened Beverages) to meet the unique-currently unmet-needs of
      dysphagic patients. This novel thickened beverage line will provide hydration and nutrition,
      thus circumventing potentially life-threatening and costly health problems associated with
      dysphagia. The investigators propose to accomplish the following specific aims.

      Specific Aims

      Aim 1. Complete a full complement of prototype ready-to-drink, thickened, and
      nutritionally-enhanced medical liquids that are shelf-stable and appealing, with
      pre-determined rheological and nutritional properties. T

      Aim 2. Demonstrate improved patient safety resulting from novel, biophysically designed
      thickened beverages (full product line) compared to currently available thickened beverage
      options.

      Aim 3. Develop production for the full SwallowSAFE product line of ready-to-drink, thickened
      beverages (with and without nutritional enrichment) at 2 target viscosities (nectar and
      thin-honey) in 1-3 flavors each.

      B. Study Design: Clinical Research (Aim 2)

      Dysphagic patients (n=200) will swallow prototype beverages (with 10% added barium) and also
      thickened beverages that are currently on the market (with 10% added barium) during a
      videofluoroscopic (radiographic) evaluation of swallowing that is part of their standard
      clinical care. The investigators will use established, quantified, objective safety measures
      of a) airway invasion (Penetration/Aspiration Scale) [13,14] and b) oropharyngeal residue
      [15]. Potential subjects will be adults (age >55 years) with suspected dysphagia based on
      referral for the diagnostic evaluation. The study will include patients with a variety of
      medical etiologies to allow for greater generalizability of results. Each consenting subject
      will complete a videofluoroscopic swallowing assessment lasting ~45 min per standard clinical
      care. Data will be collected from 200 subjects from two large acute-care hospitals.
    
  