
    
      Squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck is the sixth most common cancer in the world.
      More than 50% of patients diagnosed with advanced regional disease will relapse locally or at
      distant sites. Initial therapeutic options include irradiation, surgery and chemotherapy. The
      most commonly used agents are cisplatin and carboplatin, generally in combination with 5-FU
      or a taxane. Erbitux has recently been approved for use in first-line with radiation and in
      second-line as monotherapy. Only about a third of the patients will respond to first-line
      platinum-based therapy and the median overall survival is 6-9 months.

      Preliminary assessment of a Phase 1 study being conducted in the UK investigating the
      combination of REOLYSIN®, carboplatin and paclitaxel suggested that patients with head and
      neck carcinomas may represent a group of patients in whom this treatment combination is
      active.

      This Phase 2 study is designed to characterize the efficacy and safety of REOLYSIN® given
      intravenously in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin every 3 weeks in patients with
      squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

      Response is a primary endpoint of this trial. Patients will be clinically evaluated after
      each course of treatment and radiologically every other cycle. A complete or partial response
      must be confirmed at least 4 weeks after the first assessment that documents such a response
      and every two cycles thereafter.

      The safety of the paclitaxel, carboplatin and REOLYSIN® combination will be assessed by the
      evaluation of the type, frequency and severity of adverse events, changes in clinical
      laboratory tests, immunogenicity and physical examination.

      Patients may continue to receive therapy under this protocol, provided they have not
      experienced either progressive disease or unacceptable drug-related toxicity that does not
      respond to either supportive care or dose reduction.
    
  