
    
      Uterovaginal prolapse is a common disease. Sacrocolpopexy is essentially invented to manage
      prolapse of the vault following hysterectomy. Due to high failure rate that occur following
      vaginal hysterectomy, sacrocolpopexy is investigated by many resarchers to manage
      uterovaginal prolapse in non-hystrectomized women. The main drawback of sacrocolpopexy is the
      risk of mesh erosion. The incidence of mesh erosion is 0-5% at follow up of 1 year and 0.5%
      at follow up of 7 years. After total hysterectomy, the mesh is sutured to the vaginal wall
      using non-absorbable sutures. Sutures that span the whole thickness of vaginal and involve
      the vaginal skin was considered the probable factor that result in mesh erosion. After
      subtotal hysterectomy, the mesh is fixed to the anterior and the posterior cervical surfaces.
      The cervix has thick wall and the risk associated with "deep" stiches does not exist.

      In this study the investigator will compare the result of total versus subtotal hysterectomy
      at the time of sacrocolpopexy.

      Patients and methods

      Study design:

      Randomized controlled trial

      Patients:

      Data will be collected from the patients admitted to the obstetrics and gynecology
      department, Qen faculty of medicine, South Valley University, Egypt from the 1st of January
      2019 until 30th of December 2019. Follow up data will be collected until 30th of December
      2020. Written consent will be obtained at time of recruitment. The Inclusion criteria are
      nonhystrectomized patients who will undergo sacrocolpopexy. Exclusion criteria were (1) women
      age less than 40; (2) desire to retain the uterus; (3) women who are unfit for lengthy
      surgery. Randomization will be through closed envelop method.

      Intervention Group A will have total abdominal hysterectomy Group B will have subtotal
      abdominal hysterectomy Sacrocolpopexy will be done using Polypropylene mesh. Both groups will
      be done by the same surgeon using the following technique: dissection of the vesicovaginal
      and the rectovaginal spaces to prepare for the site of mesh placement. Dissection will be
      continued in the rectovaginal septum using sharp and blunt dissection until reaching the
      level of the levator ani (the length of the posterior vaginal mesh arm is nearly equal to the
      total vaginal length). The limit of the dissection in the vesicovaginal plane is down to the
      bladder neck (known by palpation of the Foley's catheter balloon) after lateralization of the
      ureters. The mesh is sutured to the anterior and the posterior vaginal wall the mesh using
      non-absorbable sutures. In women with subtotal hysterectomy, the mesh will be also sutured to
      the cervix. The mesh is then sutured to the anterior longitudinal ligament on the anterior
      surface of the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacral promontory using non-absorbable sutures.
      Suturing of the peritoneum over the mesh will be done.

      Outcomes:

      The primary outcome will be mesh erosion. Secondary outcomes will be complications including
      recurrence
    
  