
    
      Patients with OHCA and meeting the criteria for initiating extracorporeal membrane
      oxygenation (ECMO) criteria will be checked for eligibility for the study during CPR by the
      emergency physicians or staff at the scene. Informed consent will be asked as well. The
      standard V-A circuit for ECMO will be applied to the patients as soon as they arriving ER
      following the standard operation procedure of the hospital. The necessary testing and
      procedures will be applied to check the eligibility of the patients. Eligible subjects and/or
      their legal representatives will be further confirmed for the consent of experimental
      selective cerebral hypothermia. Systemic hypothermia at 33.5+/-0.5°C (33-34°C) for 48 hours
      will be performed to all eligible subjects.

      For subjects who consent to receive selective cerebral hypothermia, they will be transferred
      to the catheterization lab for the blood flow controlling and cooling system settlement.
      Subjects then will be transferred to ICU for the 12-hour selective cerebral hypothermia
      procedure. Cooling will be initiated and targeted to reach ipsilateral nasal temperature of
      27+/-2°C for 12 hours, followed by controlled rewarming. Both ipsilateral and contralateral
      nasal temperature will be monitored throughout. Activated clotting time (ACT) monitoring
      should be performed every 2 hours till stable and then every 12 hours during the whole
      cooling procedure. Also, subjects will receive systemic hypothermia via ECMO at 33.5+/-0.5°C
      (33-34°C) for 48 hours at the same time.

      Subjects will stay and be observed in ICU until subject's condition is stable and can be
      transferred to general ward by investigator's judgment. The weaning of ECMO will be judged by
      investigator based on the subject's condition.

      For subjects who do not agree to receive selective cerebral hypothermia, only the systemic
      hypothermia via ECMO will be applied. Subjects will receive systemic hypothermia at
      33.5+/-0.5°C (33-34°C) for 48 hours via ECMO following the standard operative procedure.

      Subject weaned from ECMO will be transferred to ward and will be followed until 6 months
      after the event. Outcome improvement and safety will be evaluated following scheduled
      timeline.

      The study intends to enroll 20 subjects and is expected that 10 among the 20 enrolled
      subjects will receive selective cerebral hypothermia. The data from subjects who do not
      receive the experimental procedure will be used as the control group when data analyzing for
      the efficacy and safety of selective cerebral hypothermia.
    
  