
    
      This is a feasibility randomised controlled trial which aims to answer practicability and
      feasibility questions required to ensure a large scale trial is successful. The specific
      questions are:

        1. Can the investigators develop and implement a successful and safe rehabilitation support
           worker (RSW) training programme?

        2. Can the investigators recruit participants at a sufficient rate across multiple sites?
           Will potential participants consent? Do randomisation systems work?

        3. Can the investigators deliver the intervention across sites? Can the investigators
           tailor the intervention? Do the components work together?

        4. Can the intervention be undertaken at home?

        5. Is the intervention acceptable, tolerated and adhered to? How many withdraw?

        6. What level of supervision intensity is required for the main trial that will enable
           engagement at a level likely to be effective at preventing falls? Or whether, in
           practice, level of supervision can be matched to individual participant characteristics.

        7. What proportion continue to adhere during 24 months follow-up?

        8. Are there unexpected or adverse consequences?

        9. Can the investigators collect trial health status and falls data at baseline and
           follow-up? Does blinding work? Is the assessment schedule too burdensome?

       10. Are our sample size assumptions correct? The feasibility trial will act as an external
           pilot trial. The investigators have chosen a randomised controlled trial design to
           minimise researcher bias during the allocation to groups and to enable differences at
           follow up to be attributed to the therapy rather than the characteristics of the
           participants involved. A control arm has been included of standard falls prevention, as
           requested by the NIHR.

      Participants will either be recruited through Memory Clinics (the initial discussion about
      the study will be by the nurse or doctor in the clinic), or through the 'Join Dementia
      Research' dementia research volunteer register. If the patient is interested in taking part
      in the research, a researcher will visit them in their own home at a convenient time, assess
      their capacity to consent (The investigators will only recruit patients who have capacity to
      give informed consent), ensure they meet the eligibility criteria and then take informed
      consent. The investigators will collect information about participants in an interview
      conducted in their own home.

      Baseline assessment

      Those agreeing to take part will be screened for suitability and a baseline assessment
      undertaken at home or in a clinic setting. This will include:

        1. demographic and contact details, carer demographic and contact details

        2. Medical and falls history, including previous fractures, recent hospitalisation, and
           drugs taken

        3. falls risk factors, including vision and lying and standing blood pressure

        4. CANTAB neuro-psychological assessment

        5. outcome variables (DAD activities of daily living scale, Nottingham Extended ADL Scale,
           IPAQ activity questionnaire, EQ5D and DEMQol quality of life scales (participant and
           proxy), short FES-I falls efficacy (fear of falling) scale, Hospital Anxiety and
           depression scale (HADS), muscle strength, Berg balance scale, Timed Up and Go test,
           SHARE frailty instrument) .

        6. Motivation and adherence factors - Self-Reported Habit Index, BREQ-3 regulations in
           exercise questionnaire, Basic Psychological Need Satisfaction and Frustration Scale,
           Participants perceptions of healthcare providers motivation communication style,
           healthcare providers (clinicians) perceptions of their own motivational communication
           style.

        7. Clinician's work motivation (Work Extrinsic and Intrinsic Motivation Scale) and Basic
           Psychological Need Satisfaction and Frustration Scale.

        8. Carer strain (caregiver strain index).

        9. Participant and carer service use (CSRI).

      Following the baseline assessment, participants will be individually randomised, stratified
      by site, co-resident carer and history of previous falls, using an allocation algorithm
      accessed by a secure web portal to the system held at the clinical trials unit NWORTH, in
      Bangor University. The randomisation system will be maintained by a statistician independent
      of the analysis and research teams to ensure blinding of analysis. Clinical researchers will
      inform the participant about the treatment and follow-up plan and arrange the clinical
      assessments (allowing masking of the RAs to treatment arm). Access to the study website will
      be password protected and only accessible by authorised individuals.

      Due to the nature of the intervention, blinding of intervention is impossible for
      participants and therapists administering it. Outcome assessment and statistical analysis
      will be blind to allocation.

      Once randomised, the participant will start one of the activity programmes (see below).

      The intervention will be for 12-months. Follow up will be at 12 months, with persistence (and
      hospitalisation) for 24 months. Participants will be asked to keep a detailed daily diary
      including activities and exercises undertaken. Participants will be telephoned monthly to
      prompt return of this diary. Health and social care services received will be collected
      monthly and data on habit formation will be collected alternate months throughout the trial
      period by telephone. Data on participant's perceptions of motivation communication will be
      collected by telephone at months 1, 3, 6. The investigators will pilot and refine the
      measures to be used in the full assessment battery, including cognition and quality of life.
      The investigators will measure withdrawal, outcome measures, simple fitness, strength and
      balance variables, and acceptability of the intervention and research interview schedule. The
      investigators will consider the impact of patient characteristics (whether they live alone,
      severity and type of cognitive impairment, co-morbidity) on likelihood of completing
      self-directed or carer-supported exercise.

      The investigators will ascertain falls by diary or calendar, supervised by the carer or
      prompted by weekly SMS text messages or telephone calls, and data from GPs, hospitals and
      ambulance service, blind to allocation. The investigators will ensure that falls
      ascertainment is appropriate for a population with cognitive impairment, and is not biased
      across intervention arms (e.g. by therapists or RSWs prompting recall of falls).

      Researchers will visit participants at home after 12 months (+/- 2 weeks) to complete the
      Disability Assessment for Dementia (DAD) ADL scale,, the Nottingham Extended ADL Scale, IPAQ
      activity questionnaire, and 3-item CANTAB cognitive tests, short falls efficacy scale (fear
      of falling, FES-I), DEMQoL and EQ5D quality of life questionnaires, muscle strength
      (Lafayette dynamometer), single- and dual-task Timed Up and Go (TUG) test, Hospital Anxiety
      and Dementia Scale (HADS), SHARE frailty instrument and the Berg Balance Scale, resting and
      post-exercise pulse rate. The investigators will ask participants to wear pedometers in weeks
      1, 26 and 50 as an objective measure of activity. The investigators will ascertain health and
      social care use, in particular injurious falls, and hospital admissions using electronic
      healthcare records and the Client Service Receipt Inventory (CSRI). The investigators will
      use an interviewer-delivered questionnaire (which will be piloted) to ask about the
      acceptability and ease of adherence with the programme. Researchers collecting follow up data
      will be blind to allocation.

      Participants will be sent a brief questionnaire at 18 and 24 months asking about persistence
      with exercise and advice. The nominated carer will be notified and asked to supervise
      completion, or support to complete it offered by telephone or home visit. Hospital visits up
      to 24 months will be ascertained from hospital electronic administration records.
    
  