
    
      Kidney transplantation confers a significant survival advantage over remaining on dialysis,
      but CVD remains the leading cause of death for RTRs and of graft loss. Acute myocardial
      infarction accounts for 15-20% of CVD-related deaths in RTRs, but sudden cardiac death, or
      death from fatal arrhythmia account for at least double this number, suggesting classical
      atheromatous coronary artery disease driven by traditional cardiometabolic risk factors, is
      not the dominant driving force of CVD in RTRs. Non-traditional cardiometabolic risk factors
      including endothelial dysfunction, systemic inflammation, acute rejection, anaemia and
      deranged bone-mineral metabolism are of at least equal importance in the pathogenesis of CVD
      in RTRs and drive pathological changes in cardiovascular structure and function that
      associate strongly with mortality. This is further illustrated by the fact that traditional
      CVD risk-stratification tools dramatically underestimate cardiovascular risk in patients with
      CKD, coronary revascularization does not improve outcomes for RTRs as it does in the general
      population and cardiac events are more likely to be fatal in RTRs than the general
      population. Immunosuppressive agents are well known to drive traditional CVD risk factors,
      but also drive non-traditional cardiometabolic risk factors. Cost-effective, deliverable
      interventions are needed to address the burden of CVD in RTRs by targeting traditional and
      non-traditional risk factors. Supervised exercise interventions in RTRs improve
      cardiorespiratory fitness and a variety of traditional and non-traditional risk factors for
      CVD, including metabolic profile, vascular stiffening, central adiposity and inflammatory
      cell and cytokine profiles, but are not realistically deliverable in the current financial
      climate. Home-based exercise training programs have been shown to be deliverable in patients
      on dialysis and patients undergoing cardiac rehabilitation, but the effectiveness and
      deliverability of home-based exercise interventions are largely untested in RTRs. It cannot
      be assumed such programs will be acceptable to RTRs, whose home-lives, social and
      occupational circumstances are significantly different to dialysis and cardiac patients. Many
      RTRs have had enforced sedentary lifestyles prior to transplantation as dialysis patients and
      their goals for rehabilitation as well as the disease processes at work are different to both
      dialysis and cardiac patients.

      There are limited data on whether exercise-induced improvements in cardiometabolic risk
      translate into improvements in cardiovascular structure and function in RTRs. CMR is able to
      measure multiple clinically pertinent aspects of CVD processes in RTRs that relate closely to
      outcome with great accuracy, including:

        -  left ventricular hypertrophy

        -  myocardial fibrosis

        -  aortic stiffness

        -  coronary artery function

        -  myocardial steatosis

        -  subclinical systolic and diastolic dysfunction

      This pilot randomised clinical trial will assess the deliverability of a combined aerobic and
      resistance, home-based, exercise intervention in RTRs. It will define recruitment and dropout
      rates from this newly designed, home-based, intervention and baseline values for CMR measures
      that assess prognostically important aspects of CVD in RTRs for the first time. Furthermore,
      it will test the effects of the intervention on traditional and novel CMR outcome measures
      that assess prognostically important aspects of CVD that relate directly to cardiovascular
      outcomes for the first time, providing estimates of effect-sizes on outcome measures. These
      data will be used to inform the design of a future, definitive study. This study will further
      the investigator's ability to make objective measures of cardiovascular health in RTRs, with
      the opportunity to compare CMR measures with traditional measures of cardiovascular fitness.
      The qualitative component of this study will refine the exercise intervention to maximize
      uptake in future studies and adoption into clinical practice.
    
  