
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Preliminary findings already have shown that, in contrast to women with low scores on the
      Cook and Medley Hostility (Ho) scale, women with high Ho scores exhibit greater
      cardiovascular changes to harassment. Additional findings have suggested that oral
      contraceptive (0C) use may also be associated with increased behaviorally-induced
      physiological changes, especially in low Ho women. Similarly, higher levels of total serum
      cholesterol (TSC) have been positively associated with greater stress-induced neurohormonal
      changes in middle-aged men with high Ho scores.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Assessment of autonomic activity took place in the laboratory and during a 24 hour ambulatory
      measurement period. Hostility was measured with the Cook and Medley Hostility scale. The
      laboratory assessment helped to determine if high hostility women responded to harassment
      with greater cardiovascular and neurohormonal changes than low hostility women, and if this
      relationship was altered by 0C use, lipids, and age. The ambulatory assessment of autonomic
      activity allowed an exploration of the responses of high and low hostility subjects to
      daily-life stressors. Several hypothesis were explored: 1) Did harassment produce
      neuroendocrine as well as cardiovascular hyperreactivity in young women, and did this
      hyperreactivity generalize from laboratory to real-life? 2) Were the harassment-induced
      cardiovascular and neuroendocrine changes in young women also present in middle-aged women?
      3) To what extent did 0C use modulate the cardiovascular and neuroendocrine responses to
      harassment in young women, and was 0C use also altering the hostility--related associations
      between lipids and reactivity? 4) Were the differential lipid-reactivity associations
      observed in middle-aged men as a function of high and low hostility scores present in women,
      and, if so, were they modulated by age?

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  