
    
      The ovaries and the adrenal glands contribute to the daily production of 300 micrograms of
      testosterone in healthy, menstruating women. The physiologic role of testosterone in women,
      however, remains poorly understood. Previous studies of testosterone supplementation, largely
      in surgically or naturally menopausal women, have reported improvements in subjective
      measures of sexual function, sense of well being, and variable changes in markers of bone
      formation and resorption. However, many of these previous studies used supraphysiologic doses
      of testosterone, and insensitive assays for the measurement of total and free testosterone
      levels that lacked precision and accuracy in the low range prevalent in women. The effects of
      testosterone in women on body composition, muscle performance and physical function have not
      been studied. Therefore, the clinical significance of androgen deficiency in women remains
      unclear. Thus, we do not know whether physiologic testosterone replacement of women with
      androgen deficiency can produce clinically meaningful improvements in sexual and cognitive
      functions, fat-free mass, and muscle performance, without virilizing side effects.

      Women with hypopituitarism represent an excellent model to study the effects of physiologic
      replacement as these patients have severely diminished androgen production from both the
      adrenal glands and the ovaries. Estrogen administration, by increasing sex hormone binding
      globulin (SHBG) in these women leads to further reduction in free testosterone
      concentrations. In fact, a recent study demonstrated very low levels of total and free
      testosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), its parent steroid
      dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), and androstenedione in women with hypopituitarism. Therefore,
      it is postulated that many women with hypopituitarism suffer from decreased libido, altered
      body composition, and impaired quality of life, symptoms possibly related to androgen
      deficiency. However, these parameters have not been properly studied in a well-defined group
      of women with hypopituitarism. These baseline studies are needed prior to undertaking a study
      on treating women with hypopituitarism with a testosterone preparation.

      Prior to investigating testosterone replacement in a large study of women with
      hypopituitarism, we must first determine in this pilot study the amount and interval of
      testosterone administration.

      Currently, the only FDA-approved drug for testosterone in women is Estratest, which contains
      methyl testosterone, a compound that when given orally is associated with liver toxicity in
      animals and humans. Until recently, most hypogonadal men received biweekly intramuscular
      injections of testosterone. This regimen gives variable serum testosterone levels depending
      on the time of the blood sampling compared to the time of injection. Many male hypogonadal
      patients now receive their testosterone replacement via either transdermal testosterone gel
      or patch, with much more uniform serum testosterone levels. We have chosen transdermal
      testosterone gel for use in this study for several reasons:

        1. Recent studies have shown that stable, reproducible levels of serum testosterone can be
           obtained irrespective of application site in hypogonadal men. No skin irritation (which
           can be problematic with the testosterone patch) was observed.

        2. Graded Double-blinded dosing can easily be implemented.

      Thus, we will use transdermal testosterone gel as it provides predictable and physiologic
      levels of testosterone.
    
  