
    
      This study will not utilize a survey or questionnaire. Data will be collected via chart
      review and direct subject and/or guardian interviews.

      Electronic medical records will be accessed only by approved clinical and research personnel
      to retrieve clinical and laboratory data.

      At the initial visit, the following will be performed and collected on all subjects: Body
      Mass Index; age at thelarche; age at menarche; Tanner staging for breast and pubic hair;
      oncologic diagnosis; date of oncologic diagnosis; chemoradiation therapy treatment regimen;
      date of initiation of chemoradiation therapy; pre-treatment ovarian function blood tests;
      date GnRHa therapy initiated; a pelvic ultrasound will be performed to assess ovarian volumes
      and antral follicle count.

      The subject will receive GnRHa 11.25 mg every 2 months until completion of chemotherapy,
      which is consistent with current clinical care at the University of Kentucky Medical Center
      (UKMC).

      Study blood tests to evaluate ovarian function and pelvic ultrasound will be performed at
      three time points: immediately prior to initiation of GnRHa therapy and 6 and 12 months after
      chemoradiation therapy is completed.

      The subject/guardian will be contacted by the study team at regular intervals to assess her
      progress and plan timing of study visits.

      At subsequent visits, the investigator will record the date chemoradiation therapy treatment
      ended; date and reason GnRHa therapy discontinued; presence of breakthrough bleeding (BTB);
      timing of BTB in relation to most recent GnRHa injection. In order to document bleeding
      patterns, subjects will be asked to fill out the pictorial assessment of bleeding chart every
      month that they are in the study.

      Six months after completion of chemoradiation therapy, the investigator will assess
      post-treatment ovarian function blood test levels and performed a pelvic U/S to assess
      ovarian volumes and antral follicle count. Investigator will as assess the resumption of
      spontaneous menses, parity, date of subject demise, if applicable.

      Twelve months after completion of chemotherapy, we will assess post-treatment ovarian
      function blood test levels; and performed a pelvic U/S to assess ovarian volumes and antral
      follicle count. Investigator will as assess the resumption of spontaneous menses, parity,
      date of subject demise, if applicable.
    
  