
    
      This proposal is predicated on cumulative data revealing a major role for genetic factors in
      PBC and the recent positional cloning of genes for Crohn's disease, type 2 diabetes and
      rheumatoid as well as psoriatic arthritis data provide the "proof-of-principle" that
      susceptibility genes for multigenic diseases can be identified by linkage and association
      strategies. Our group has access to >600 patients with PBC and these individuals plus family
      members provide an excellent resource for PBC gene discovery. Moreover, an International PBC
      Consortium we have initiated will serve not only to validate our findings but also to serve
      as a source for additional patient accrual should we be searching for genes with very small
      effects. Thanks to the remarkable advances in genotyping technology and sequence data
      emanating from the Human Genome Project, patient populations such as ours can now be fully
      mined so as to identify susceptibility genes for common multigenic diseases. By combining the
      patient resources of our group and that of other Canadian centers with available knowledge of
      the full genome sequence and the extensive information on SNPs within this sequence, as well
      as our expertise in high throughput genotyping and rapid computational approaches of genetic
      data, we are very well positioned to begin delineating the susceptibility alleles for PBC. As
      such alleles are identified, the information will then be used to define the molecular
      pathophysiology of this disease, to determine whether genetic markers can be used to predict
      risk and/or stratify patients in relation to prognosis and drug responsiveness, and
      ultimately, to identify novel targets for improved therapeutic intervention.

      For the purposes of this study only patients with a definite diagnosis of PBC will be
      recruited ie:- those that had an elevated serum alkaline phosphatase level and positive AMA
      by ELISA or immunofluorescence (>1/40 titer) at the time of their initial diagnosis and who
      have had a liver biopsy which confirmed the diagnosis of PBC. After signing the consent form
      the patients will complete a questionnaire. With the patient's permission the coordinator
      will contact the patient's parents and siblings that are either affected or unaffected by PBC
      to ask them to participate in the study. A total of five tubes of blood will be taken from
      each participant in the study. The blood samples will be used to study the liver
      biochemistries and to study the inherited genetic material (DNA) in order to find out what
      causes PBC. In addition we are going to review the medical records for all the patients with
      PBC from TWH recruited to this study using the records held in Misys to examine and verify
      their medical and surgical history, past physical exams, laboratory tests and treatments.
      Each patient will also be asked to recruit unrelated (usually spouses) household members or
      friends who live locally to act as controls. They will then be treated similarly with regard
      to the consent form, questionnaire and blood work.

      The plan is to have approximately 600 patients with PBC along with approximately 1800 of
      their relatives and other unrelated healthy volunteers to take part in this study - this is a
      multicentre study - sites being Toronto, London and Halifax.

      Statistical Analyses/Power Calculations: The use of association analysis to identify
      susceptibility alleles is highly dependent on linkage disequilibrium (LD) between the SNP
      markers and the disease loci. To demonstrate the extent to which LD can be used to delineate
      PBC loci, our collaborator Dr. C. Amos has carried out calculations of the power to detect
      significant effects (at the p ≤ 0.05 level) in a case-control analysis assuming different
      amount of LD. Dr. Amos directs a statistical genetics group at MD Anderson Cancer Centre and
      is a longstanding collaborator of K. Siminovitch. He and his group members are also the
      statistical advisors to several disease-mapping consortia, such as NARAC, a US-based
      consortium for discovery of rheumatoid arthritis genes. To estimate the power of an
      association study to identify PBC susceptibility alleles, Dr. Amos used data from Talwalkar
      and Lindor, estimating PBC prevalence at 0.05% among adult females and a 15 fold increased
      risk for PBC among first-degree relatives of affected individuals. Assuming that mutation
      frequency for disease causation is 0.1% and also that PBC is caused by a single gene, then
      this level of risk among affected first-degree relatives implies the penetrance among
      carriers of PBC susceptibility alleles to be 6% and among non-carriers to be 0.4%. A single
      gene model for PBC, however, is simplistic and not consistent with available epidemiologic
      data. If instead, an assumption of 4 disease causative loci is made and risk is thus assigned
      to each one of these loci, then the genotype-specific risk would be 2.6%, the locus-specific
      relative risk would be a more modest 3.75, and the disease allelic frequency in carriers
      would be 10%. In the studies proposed here, we will begin by studying 300 cases and 300
      controls for PBC association with specific candidate genes discussed above. The power to
      detect association in any case-control study is highly dependent upon the LD between the
      disease mutation and the SNPs at closely linked loci as well as the number of genes studied
      (about 40). If we assume a high level of disequilibrium, the disequilibrium coefficient (D')
      being 0.9 and, to be conservative, apply Bonferroni's correction for the simultaneous
      evaluation of 40 loci, then achieving 5% power in this study will require obtaining a single
      SNP test p-value of 0.00125. Based on a disease allele frequency of 10% (as calculated
      above), and the analysis of 300 cases and 300 controls, the power to detect a SNP
      marker-disease association would then be 84%. The study can be further powered by increasing
      numbers of cases and/or controls. Thus, to conserve resources, genotyping will be initially
      carried out using 300 cases and 300 controls, but an additional 300 controls will be further
      genotyped for any markers showing significant results at the p=0.01 level. Genome-wide
      association analyses will also be carried out initially on the 300 cases and controls.
      However, because a genome-wide screen is likely to yield many false positive loci-disease
      associations, any loci showing association at the 5% level will be confirmed using a
      replicate set of 300 cases and controls and/or trio families, once 200 such families are
      available.
    
  