
    
      This is a multicenter, international, assessor and patient blinded clinical RCT with two
      groups (primary aim). the HIPARTI Study with The design of this trial conforms to the SPIRIT
      guidelines.

      All patients with hip pain eligible for hip arthroscopy in our routine care pathways will be
      identified in our outpatient clinics. Consultant orthopedic surgeons will determine a
      patient's eligibility for the study (based on inclusion and exclusion criteria for the study)
      and members of their team introduce the study to the patients and refer them to the research
      coordinators for further information. Patients will be provided with oral and written
      information about the study and be introduced to our consent form. If interest continues the
      patient will be provided with further information and arrangements will be made for a
      baseline appointment for assessment and consenting.

      The baseline assessment appointments will occur within one month of the initial approach. At
      the baseline appointment patients will meet with the research coordinator and the independent
      research assistant/tester (physical therapist) who will be the blinded tester. Patients will
      return their signed informed consent form and baseline questions completed. Those who are not
      willing to participate in the RCT (HIPARTI Study), will be asked if interested in being
      included in a prospective longitudinal cohort study including similar baseline and follow-up
      tests as those in the RCT (this will be the HARP Study with separate papers published). All
      patients in the HARP Study will undergo hip arthroscopy surgery. The Australian site will
      include most of their patients in the HARP Study, since the majority of orthopedic surgeons
      working privately will not participate in the HIPARTI Study. Data collection will be
      performed electronically for both the HIPARTI and the HARP Studies entering all data in the
      approved Checkware system (www.checkware.no).

      Each collaborating center will apply to the ethical committee and the Data Inspectorate in
      each country/institution. Approval was confirmed for Oslo University Hospital (HIPARTI) and
      Australia (HARP Study) in January 2016.

      Randomization (HIPARTI) will occur prior to surgery, after final eligibility is confirmed.
      Randomizations will be performed centrally using an automated computer generated system.
      Block randomization and stratification for each center will be performed.

      All patients will undergo imaging (which may include CT scan or at least 1.5 Tesla magnetic
      resonance imaging MRI) prior to the surgical assessment as part of routine care. All patients
      will also undergo standardized radiographs of the hips and pelvis also as part of routine
      care. Plain radiographs will be examined for evidence of osteoarthritis as joint space
      narrowing, osteophytes, cysts and subchondral hypertrophy. Several radiographic measurements
      will be performed among them: the alpha angle and lateral center-edge angle will be
      determined for the presence of FAI. Radiographs will also be part of follow-ups.

      Participating orthopedic surgeons will be asked to coordinate their waiting lists to ensure
      the hip arthroscopy patients are called for surgery in accordance with the study protocol.
      Ideally, patients will complete their baseline assessment as close to the randomized
      treatment as possible (within 1 months). In the event that surgery cannot be performed within
      1 month after baseline assessment, the same questions and assessments completed at baseline
      will be completed again. The standard followed-ups at the 6 months and 1 year include primary
      and secondary outcomes. One year is the primary end point where randomization code will be
      broken according to a predefined published statistical protocol (HIPARTI).

      At all follow-ups the research coordinator/independent tester will attend. At the 6 month
      follow-up an independent orthopedic surgeon will attend regularly and take care of patients
      who are not satisfied. The aim is to use the following criteria as subjective complaint:
      equal or worse than 10 points for the IHOT-33 score compared to baseline. All patients can
      withdraw without giving a reason at any time (stated in the consent form that all patients
      need to sign). An unblinded orthopedic surgeon will of course be able to have access to the
      medical record regarding performed procedures at any time if need for the health of the
      patient.

      All patients (in both groups in the RCT (HIPARTI) as well as in the HARP study) will undergo
      a postoperative rehabilitation program based on the best available evidence. Each patient
      will be treated by physical therapists who will be trained and proficient in post-hip
      arthroscopy rehabilitation. Rehabilitation will be delivered a minimum of 8 sessions over
      3-months and then once a month for the following three months. Details of rehabilitation are
      outlined in Appendix Rehabilitation. This contains a treatment algorithm to guide clinical
      reasoning and progression of treatment (manual therapy, exercises and education) through
      weeks 1-12.

      Long term follow-ups will be performed at 2, 5 and 10 years Due to lack of studies published
      within this field: clinical relevant differences as well as changes within groups and SD are
      difficult to estimate. Our sample size calculations are based on primary outcome iHOT 33 at 1
      year: estimated effect-size to 0.6 and a power of 90, will give 60 in each group, and with
      expected 15% dropout will give 138 patients in total. Electronic randomization lists will be
      generated, and estimations of inclusion rates per site are included. Statistical analysis
      procedures will be published and analysis performed prior to opening the group allocation
      when all patients are included and followed through to the 1 year follow-up (main outcome).
    
  