
    
      PTSD is characterized by recurrent intrusion of trauma-related memories and images that cause
      significant distress and impairment to the affected individuals. The long-term objective is
      to develop an effective cognitive treatment program that can reduce such intrusive cognitions
      observed among individuals who have been exposed to a significant trauma. The specific
      objective is to examine whether computerized emotional working memory training (eWMT) can
      help improve working memory capabilities and reduce trauma-related emotional symptoms among
      individuals with elevated trauma-related symptoms. eWMT is designed to improve the
      individual's ability to stay focused on the target and filter out irrelevant information from
      their working memory, which is expected to improve trauma-related emotional symptoms via the
      improvement of working memory functioning.

      Individuals who display elevated trauma symptoms will be randomly assigned to one of two eWMT
      conditions: (a) adjustable n-back training (i.e., potent working memory training program),
      and (b) fixed 1-back training (i.e., training that delivers a limited dose). Participants
      will be blinded to ensure objective assessment of the intervention effects. Before and after
      the eWMT intervention, all participants will undergo an assessment session that aims to
      assess each individual's emotional symptoms and working memory-related cognitive performance.
      Further, following completion of procedure, participants will be invited for a follow-up
      assessment to assess the long-term effect of training.

      The eWMT intervention will be delivered via Internet. Thus, the current intervention is a
      home-based Internet intervention, which provides an important context for testing and
      developing a cost-efficient, accessible, and effective intervention program for many
      individuals suffering from exposure to traumas. Each training session will take about 20
      minutes, and all participants in both conditions will receive a total of 15 training
      sessions. Participants will be guided to complete an average of 3 training sessions every
      week for a total duration of approximately 5 weeks.

      Investigators hypothesize that individuals who undergo the active eWMT will display a greater
      improvement in overall working memory performance and a greater reduction in trauma-related
      symptoms, compared to individuals who undergo the less effective control training program.
      Pending successful outcomes, this study will provide important knowledge that will guide the
      future efforts to develop an effective, accessible, and cost-efficient intervention program
      that can reach out to many individuals who suffer from exposure to traumas.
    
  