
    
      While the Social Security Administration (SSA) no longer provides benefits for individuals
      disabled by drug abuse per se, approximately 50% of recipients have a concomitant substance
      abuse disorder. Supported by disability payments, this substance abuse impedes
      recovery/remission from the comorbid mental disorder. Money management is widely implemented
      in dual diagnosis treatment - in patients assigned payees to manage their funds and in
      patients receiving case management - but whether money management reduces substance abuse is
      unproven. If shown to be effective, money management-based therapy can be logically
      integrated into these existing arrangements. There is no specific substance abuse focus to
      standard payee and case management arrangements.

      We have developed a money management-based therapy called Advisor-Teller money manager (the
      bank-like acronym is ATM). ATM involves having a patient voluntarily allow a therapist/money
      manager to limit the patients' access to his/her funds, thus preventing unrestricted access
      to cash from cueing substance use. Patients meet with therapist/money managers at least
      weekly. Meetings begin with a review of the previous week's expenditures, including
      expenditures for drugs and alcohol, and an on-site urine toxicology test and breathalyzer.
      Patients then plan a budget that is incompatible with drug use by budgeting funds for direct
      payment of expenses (such as rent), abstinence-compatible activities and long-term goals.
      Budgeting and planning will develop patients' skills at managing their funds. Dispensing
      procedures build upon the principles of therapeutic contracting. Patients contract to receive
      their funds for specific expenditures and then review the next week whether the funds were
      spent as planned.

      We are conducting a Stage 2 randomized clinical trial in which 120 patients will be randomly
      assigned to 36-weeks of either ATM or Finance Instruction Therapy (FIT), a low intensity
      intervention in which patients are given basic financial instruction to determine the
      efficacy of ATM in reducing substance use.
    
  