
    
      Obesity, defined as a body mass index (BMI) over 30 kg / m², has now affected more than 14%
      of the French population. This condition is associated with several co-morbidities, and
      increased mortality, mainly due to cardiovascular disease and some cancers. These risks are
      much higher when obesity is associated with metabolic syndrome.

      Conventional medical care for metabolic syndrome, even conducted by multidisciplinary teams
      combining dietary advice, physical activity and psychological treatment offers only limited
      results, both in weight reduction and comorbidities. Bariatric surgery allows however a
      significant and sustained weight loss in the majority of cases, and a decrease in the
      frequency and severity of co-morbidities, including type 2 diabetes, and decreased mortality
      including cardiovascular. Considered too invasive by many practitioners and patients, surgery
      is therefore proposed to a small proportion of patients who could theoretically benefit.

      The results of surgery have, however, validated the principle of the interventional treatment
      of obesity and its metabolic complications.

      Different techniques that may replace surgery are currently being developed. Among these new
      approaches, the most successful is the device "endoluminal liner ENDOBARRIER®" (GI Dynamics
      ™, Boston, USA). The ENDOBARRIER® device could represent a major innovation in the
      non-surgical management of obesity. The benefits of installing the device on the morbidity
      associated with obesity are reported in the literature: impact on hypertension, diabetes,
      dyslipidemia and metabolic syndrome as such.

      This trial will compare in a randomized study the results, tolerance and cost of the
      interventional therapy with the device ENDOBARRIER® over conventional therapy in French
      patients with obesity and metabolic syndrome, with or without diabetes. The evaluation of the
      cost-effectiveness of this device will clarify its role in the strategy for the management of
      obesity and its comorbidities.
    
  