
    
      Objectives of the study:

      Primary :

        1. To compare seroconversion for OPV types P1 and P3 when administered alone versus when
           administered with OCV on day 28 and 56 after vaccination.

        2. To compare vibriocidal antibody response (based on a ≥ 4-fold rise) to OCV when
           administered alone versus when co-administered with OPV on day 28 and day 56 after
           vaccination.

           Secondary:

        3. To determine safety of co-administration of OPV with OCV compared to OPV or OCV alone.

      Hypothesis:

      Co-administration of oral polio vaccine (OPV) and oral cholera vaccine (OCV) will not
      decrease immunogenicity of either vaccine among children 1 - 3 years old.

      Research Design and Methods :

      We propose to conduct an open-label, randomized controlled study in Dhaka, Bangladesh, among
      healthy children aged 1 - 3 years old who have received either no dose or only one dose of
      OPV ( 0 - 1 dose) and has not received any dose of IPV or OCV at any time before enrolment
      based upon immunization card record or history from parents after full informed consent.
      Participants will be randomized to one of three groups ; (i) OPV only, (ii) OCV only, or
      (iii) co-administered OPV and OCV.

      Schedule and description of observations and visits:

      Participants will be randomized to one of three arms. First one is OPV only group, second one
      is OCV only and the last arm is Co-administration of OPV and OCV group. Each arm contains
      same number of participants (193). In each arm there will be three visits and blood
      collection. In case of OPV only group visit 1 will be considered as Day 0, Visit 2 will be
      considered as Day 28 (range 25th to 35th Day) and Visit 3 will be considered as Day 56 (range
      50th to 70th Day).

      In case of Shanchol only group visit, 1 will be considered as Day 0, Visit 2 will be
      considered as Day 28 (range 25th to 35th Day). As this participant misses his/her OPV, the
      plan has been taken to vaccinate them with OPV. For these children visit 3 will be considered
      as Day 56 (range 50th to 70th Day) and will get OPV only. For catch up, doses Visit 4 will be
      considered as Day 84 (range 75th to 105th) and Visit 5 will be considered as Day 112 (range
      100th to 140th Day) and will get bivalent oral polio vaccine (bOPV) and inactivated polio
      vaccine (IPV).

      In case Co-administration of OPV and OCV group, visit 1 will be considered as Day 0, Visit 2
      will be considered as Day 28 (range 25th to 35th Day). Participants will get bOPV and
      Shanchol simultaneously in these 2 different day visits. Visit 3 will be considered as Day 56
      (range 50th to 70th Day) and will get bOPV and IPV.

      Study Area Recruitment will occur in urban slums in Hazaribagh, Kamrangirchar and Rayerbazar
      in Southern Dhaka.

      Inclusion criteria

        -  Apparently healthy children aged 1 to 3 years of age.

        -  Family able to understand and comply with planned study procedures and consents to be in
           the study

        -  Have received either no dose or only one dose of OPV ( 0 - 1 dose) and has not received
           any dose of IPV or OCV at any time before enrollment based upon immunization card record
           or history from parents.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Parents and children who are unable/unwilling to participate in the full length of the
           study for any reason.

        -  Child/family planning on moving away from the study area during the study period

        -  A diagnosis, suspicion of, or clinical condition consistent with an immunodeficiency
           disorder (either in the child or in a member of the immediate family).

        -  A suspicion or known history of bleeding disorder that would contraindicate
           venipuncture.

        -  Acute diarrhea, infection or illness at the time of the first visit that would require
           the child's admission to a hospital or would contraindicate provision of OPV per country
           guidelines.

        -  History of severe allergic reaction to a component of the study vaccine

        -  Acute vomiting or diarrhea within 24 hours before the first visit.

        -  Severely malnourished children( Z score <-3 )

        -  Previously received 3 doses of OPV or a single dose of IPV or OCV at any time before
           enrollment based upon immunization card record.

      Study Intervention

      Description of vaccines Three different vaccines will be used in this study: bOPV, IPV and
      OCV.

        1. Bivalent oral polio vaccine (bOPV)

        2. Inactivated polio vaccine (IPV)

        3. Inactivated Oral cholera vaccine (OCV)

      Outcome measures/variables:

      Primary

        1. Anti-poliovirus antibodies type 1 and type 3 microneutralization titer when OPV and OCV
           are administered separately, and when given together.

        2. Vibriocidal antibody response to V. cholerae O1, serotype Ogawa and Inaba when OPV and
           OCV are administered separately and when given together.

      Secondary

      1. Number of adverse events and serious adverse events between OPV and OCV when given alone
      versus when given concomitantly.

      Assessment after vaccination

      Monitoring for adverse events After administration of each vaccine dose, all study
      participants will be observed for 30 minutes to monitor for potential allergic reactions to
      the vaccine. A short interview will also be conducted to identify if side effects including
      diarrhea (3 or more loose stools over 24 hours), nausea, vomiting or rash were experienced
      with prior vaccine administration. For OCV recipients, the participant adverse event
      follow-up period will be 14 days after each dose. For OPV and IPV adverse event follow up
      will be 30 minutes after receiving the vaccine, as per national guidelines.

      Reporting Procedures for Serious Adverse Events (SAEs):

      All SAEs that occur during the study will be reported by the study PI or designee within 24
      hours of learning about the incident to the ethical review committee (ERC) and the data
      safety monitoring board (DSMB). The SAE form will always be completed as thoroughly as
      possible with all available details of the event, signed by the principal investigator. If
      the investigator does not have all the information regarding an SAE, he/she will not wait to
      receive additional information before submitting the report.

      The study physicians/medical officers will follow-up the participants with SAEs until the
      event has: resolved, subsided, stabilized or disappeared or the event is otherwise explained,
      or the participant is lost to follow-up.

      Data Collection and Management Procedures

      Data management:

      Study personnel will directly collect data through tabloid PC except for adverse event (AE)
      data. Adverse Event data will be collected in hard-copies and will be double-entered into
      computers in a dedicated area located at icddr,b, using data entry programs.

      Methods for specimen collection, storage and processing

      Specimen Collection:

      Approximately 2-3 ml of blood will be collected before administration of the first study
      vaccine (Day 0), before the second study vaccine administration (Day 28) and before catch-up
      vaccine administration (Day 56).

      Specimen Testing:

      Sera collected before and after each of the 3 doses of study vaccines will be examined for
      the presence (detectable) or absence of neutralizing antibodies to all three poliovirus
      serotypes and to cholera following a standard protocol. Laboratory testing will be conducted
      to determine antibody responses to OPV at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
      (CDC), Atlanta and antibody response to OCV at icddr,b.

      Specimen shipment To evaluate vaccine immunogenicity serum specimens will be processed at
      icddr,b's Mucosal Immunology & Vaccinology Laboratory. Research specimens collected for the
      immunogenicity time points will be separated into aliquots by the icddr,b Mucosal Immunology
      & Vaccinology Laboratory per study specific procedures and stored for immunological analysis
      and for potential shipment to the Enterovirus Laboratory at the Division of Viral Diseases,
      CDC in Atlanta, United States by following International Air Transport Association (IATA)
      guidelines.

      Data Analysis The primary analysis will be to compare seroconversion (defined as a change of
      status from seronegative to seropositive titers, or a ≥4-fold rise in antibody titer) for
      OPV1 and OPV 3 antibodies between Arm A and Arm C, to determine whether seroconversion to
      bOPV, when administered with Shanchol, is non-inferior to seroconversion to bOPV when bOPV is
      administered alone.

      The second objective will be to compare vibriocidal antibody seroconversion (also, the
      ≥4-fold rise in antibody titers) to Shanchol when co-administered with OPV or when Shanchol
      is administered alone, Arm B compared to Arm C Statistical Analysis Primary Analytical
      Approach The primary analytical approach will be an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis, which
      will include all participants originally enrolled in the study.

      Secondary Analytical Approach We will also perform a per-protocol (PP) analysis, which will
      include only those children who adhered to the study protocol (e.g. received all 3 planned
      vaccine doses at the adequate intervals ± 3 days and have testable blood samples).
    
  