
    
      PTSD is a complex psychiatric disease characterized by a deficit in fear extinction,
      hyperarousal, emotional numbing, and intrusive symptoms that cause the patient to
      persistently re-experience a traumatic event over a period longer than a month. PTSD is
      considered chronic when symptoms are present for at least six months. MDMA-assisted
      psychotherapy is an innovative experimental mode of treatment that combines psychotherapeutic
      techniques with the administration of MDMA. It may amplify certain aspects of psychotherapy,
      as the pharmacological action of MDMA is thought to act as an adjunct to psychotherapy. With
      positive results in two studies and ongoing Phase 2 clinical studies it is important to
      further characterize the psychotherapeutic processes that occur during treatment sessions
      conducted according to the manualized method of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy. Changes in
      physiological status or brain activity that are associated with improvement or recovery in
      people with chronic PTSD may offer a means of assessing treatment response that relies less
      on self-report. This may be particularly important in studies with MDMA-assisted
      psychotherapy where blinding is difficult due to the psychoactive nature of the
      investigational product. This study is also interested in identifying and categorizing
      psychotherapeutic processes taking place during MDMA-assisted psychotherapy. The sub-study
      will also examine elements of the experience with a self-report measure of self-compassion.

      This exploratory sub-study will identify psychotherapeutic processes occurring during MDMA-
      assisted psychotherapy in people with chronic PTSD and assess the feasibility of exploring
      physiological correlates of clinical outcomes in subjects enrolled in the ongoing clinical
      trial of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy, NCT #: NCT01211405. The sub-study will be conducted in
      collaboration with researchers at the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC), Smith
      College and the New School for Social Research.

      To support the clinical outcomes measured by CAPS from the MP-8 study, the sponsor is
      interested in correlations of outcomes with treatment-related changes in potential biological
      markers of PTSD, measured by HRV and fMRI. Brain activity while listening to neutral and
      personalized trauma-related scripts will take place at baseline and after experimental
      MDMA-assisted psychotherapy with low or medium or full dose MDMA. The fMRI scan will be
      followed by a Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) scan. After each scanning session, pulse
      measurements will be extracted as a digital data file from which HRV will be calculated. FMRI
      scans and HRV measurements will occur at baseline for participants in all conditions, one
      month after the second experimental session and again after a final experimental session for
      participants in the low or medium dose condition, and two months after the final experimental
      session for participants in the full dose condition. Participants will complete the
      Self-Compassion Scale, a self-report measure of self-compassion at Baseline and after the
      final MDMA-assisted psychotherapy session. Psychotherapeutic processes will be assessed via
      observing psychotherapy and sorting a set of 100 therapy-related items as a means of
      describing the interactions. Trained coders will observe at least one pre-drug psychotherapy
      session, one experimental (drug-assisted psychotherapy) session and one post-drug
      psychotherapy session.
    
  