
    
      Adult patients with myelodysplasia, leukemia, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma can be cured by
      allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). This curative effect has until now been
      ascribed to the intense chemoradiotherapy used to condition the recipient for
      transplantation. The assumption that the curative effect of allogeneic transplantation rests
      in the ability to deliver very high doses of chemoradiotherapy has led to the restriction of
      allogeneic transplantation to those recipient patients whose overall status would permit the
      use of such intense conditioning. As a result, HIV positivity has generally appeared as an
      exclusion criteria to allogeneic transplantation for hematologic malignancies. Additionally,
      early studies of allogeneic BMT in HIV patients suggested no benefit in controlling the
      progression to AIDS.

      Several in vitro studies have demonstrated the existence of donor derived CD4 and CD8
      positive lymphocytes with specific reactivity to recipient leukemia providing a potent graft
      versus leukemia (GVL) effect, and this GVL effect is area of intense interest both at the NIH
      and elsewhere. In fact, early attempts to decrease treatment related mortality in chronic
      myelogenous leukemia (CML) patients undergoing allogeneic BMT by T-cell depletion of the
      graft resulted in an unacceptably high rate of relapse suggesting that alloreactivity in the
      donor graft accounted for a significant portion of the cure rate in this disease. This GVL
      effect is most dramatically demonstrated among relapsed allogeneic bone marrow transplant
      recipients transplanted for CML in whom a simple infusion of donor lymphocytes can induce a
      complete and durable remission.

      Non-myeloablative allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplants are currently being
      investigated for engraftment efficacy and toxicity in a number of transplant centers.
      Preliminary data including our own experience with 13 patients undergoing this type of
      procedure have shown a high rate of complete donor engraftment, low toxicity, and
      preservation of the GVL effect. Two recent published studies investigating non-myeloablative
      allo-transplantation in standard risk patients revealed an extremely low rate of transplant
      related complications and mortality.

      The decreased risk of transplant related complications associated with non-myeloablative
      transplants expands the eligibility of transplant candidates and may allow successful
      application in patients infected with HIV. In this study, we will assess the safety and
      efficacy of nonmyeloablative transplantation in patients with HIV infection. Moreover, the
      introduction of an HIV resistance vector into a portion of the allogeneic graft provides a
      unique opportunity to test the in vivo efficacy of introducing resistance to HIV through the
      self renewing stem cell.

      The end points of this study are engraftment, degree of donor-host chimerism, incidence of
      acute and chronic GVHD, transplant related morbidity and mortality, disease free survival, as
      well as overall survival, and overall level and persistence of progeny of gene modified
      cells.
    
  