
    
      32 volunteers who applied to the Department of Chest Diseases of Istanbul University
      Cerrahpaşa Medical Faculty Hospital, who were diagnosed with mild and moderate obstructive
      sleep apnea syndrome and who meet the inclusion criteria, will be included in the study. For
      randomization, the patients will be randomly allocated into two groups of 16 people by
      selecting envelopes prepared with numbers 1-32 using the randomization program
      (www.random.org). A group will implement a 45-minute training program at home, 7 days a week,
      3 times a day, consisting of 5 minutes of Ujjayi pranayama, 5 minutes of Nadi-Shodhana
      pranayama and 5 minutes of Sukha pranayama. In addition, he will perform a 15-minute session
      once a week, under the supervision of a physiotherapist, in the hospital. No intervention
      will be made to the other group. The techniques that will be applied to the patients in the
      training group will be taught by the physiotherapist before starting the training. In
      addition, a video will be taken by the physiotherapist to explain how the techniques are
      performed and will be sent to the patients as a Watsapp message and e-mail in order to guide
      the patients while applying these techniques at home. This video will be printed and given as
      CD and flash memory to patients who do not use Watsapp and mail. Training diaries will be
      provided to the patients and the patients will mark these diaries that they are practicing
      pranayama techniques daily. These diaries will be checked by the physiotherapist every week.
      The training program will last 8 weeks. Evaluation of the patients will be made before the
      training program and 8 weeks after the training. In the first evaluation, demographic
      information and clinical characteristics of the patients will be noted. The functional
      exercise capacity of the patients before and after the training will be determined by the
      6-minute walking test (6MWT) and the 30-second stand up test. Percentage values of the
      parameters VC, TLC, FVC, FEV1, FEV1 / FVC, PEF, FEF (25-75%) will be recorded according to
      the measured and expected value by performing a respiratory function test. Dyspnea feeling
      Modified Borg, quality of life Short Form-36 (SF-36), anxiety and depression status Hospital
      Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD), cognitive function Montreal Cognitive Assessment Scale
      (MOCA), daily living activities London Chest Activities of Daily Living Scale, Physical
      activity level will be assessed by the International Physical Activity Questionnaire-Short
      form (IPAQ-S), daytime sleepiness Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), sleep quality Pittsburgh
      Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), fatigue status will be evaluated by the Fatigue Severity Scale
      (FSS). Maximum inspiratory pressure (MIP) and maximum expiratory pressure (MEP) values will
      be recorded by measuring respiratory muscle strength.
    
  